8 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION The progress we made during 2015 is summarised below: 1 2 3 4 People Continual research Efficient high-quality Global customer creating strong market manufacturing support positions with innovative products Description Renishaws people are central Renishaw is well known for its Renishaw is a highly vertically Renishaw is founded on the sector-leading investment in integrated organisation belief that excellent customer to the success of its business.
Our innovative, hard-working R&D and engineering.
with significant in-house support delivers success.
Our customers can be global, and loyal employees make Apply innovation is a way of Renishaw the business With high-quality manufacturing with an order being placed life for Renishaw employees, plants located in the UK, in one country, the product success that it is.
Many of not just a strap-line.
We have them have worked in the Group Ireland, India, Germany, USA shipped to another and the continued to protect our core and France, we are able to eventual end-user often for two or three decades, businesses with exciting creating a wealth of specialised deliver robust and reliable located on a different continent.
new patented technology products tested to our exacting By having local global support engineering expertise.
and process developments, In addition, Renishaw has standards.
Our efficiencies, through our wholly-owned whilst also diversifying into through in-house automation subsidiary network, we are actively focusedon the newproduct and market areas.
ongoing recruitment and and the use of our own latest able to assure customers that training of many bright product developments, enable whatever their needs, we are and enthusiastic young us to be competitive with the able to support and assist them, graduates, apprentices and highest volume processes.
resulting in a positive return experienced professionals.
Progress Headcount has increased A significant range of new During the last year, Renishaws Renishaw continues to invest in training for both its technical in the Group to 4,112. products have been brought various manufacturing This includes 1,387 in our to market during the year, operations have supported a support and sales people.
As the business continues to overseas subsidiaries and including MODUS 2 and Primo, significant growth in turnover.
Renishaws which introduces a genuinely This has only been possible grow and diversify, headcount has been increased accordingly in-house Academy, initially breakthrough business model.
as a result of our long-term established to focus on 25 new patents have been strategic commitment to 127 to ensure that resources are available where and technical training modules filed and 104 granted during manufacturing and our for applications engineers, this financial year.
The RenDx sustained investments in when needed.
The Renishaw Academy now offers over 70 has now expanded to Fungiplex diagnostic system the latest technologies and include sales development is in the process of obtaining facilities.
Recent strategic courses at all levels, training Renishaw employees around and corporate introductory CE certification.
manufacturing investment courses for employees, decisions have enabled the world to ensure that they are able to deliver the including graduates and Renishaw to manufacture apprentices.
Training can be sufficient products in-house excellent support levels that ourcustomers demand.
as diverse as presentation to satisfy order growth and skills, team-building and to react to the large changes technical training with one in demand on very short of Renishaws software lead-times.
We have done TM this by accelerating additional products such as MODUS TM or Productivity.
Courses are capacity, including the refurbishment of Miskin, where held throughout the year, and as part of a structured we now have 50% occupancy.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 9 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 5 6 7 8 Focus on delivering Strong market presence Consistent organic Supplementing the solutions and focus on emerging growth business via niche markets acquisitions Description Renishaws business has Renishaw has always been Whilst Renishaw does invest We actively undertake a global group with a strong for the long term, it also closely acquisitions as a means to transitioned over recent years from primarily being a local presence.
By ensuring manages costs at all levels expand our product portfolio, we target emerging markets and ensures that it does not quicken geographic market supplier of products to capital equipment manufacturers, we are able to develop strong undertake undue risks.
It is penetration and gain access working partnerships with through this approach that to newpatents, technologies to becoming much more focused on delivering a full newly developing businesses.
Renishaw has been able to and customers.
These loyal relationships build deliver such a long-term track solution directly to end-users.
Our experience in our core quickly as our customers record of profitable growth.
realise that all our customers product lines, which has highlighted that our global are important to us.
customers need assistance in solving their problems, is being carried across into our newer product lines medical dental, gauging, neurological, diagnostics and additive manufacturing.
Our sales force and technical support teams need to be ever more knowledgeable, not just about what our products do, but also how they can be applied to benefit our customers processes and practices.
By truly understanding our customers needs, we are able to offer a cost-effective, efficient and easy-to-use solution.
Progress Complex problems ideally Renishaws expansion into new Renishaws new 153,000 sq ft We continue to integrate growth economies continues, building at the New Mills site, acquired businesses and require simple solutions.
Whilst Renishaws hardware and this year we have opened, which houses R&D, corporate evaluate acquisition uses the latest technologies extended or relocated to larger services teams and corporate opportunities.
For example, and innovative approaches to premises in the UK, Singapore, demonstration and training werecently acquired a 20% deliver robust and repeatable Vietnam, Hong Kong, areas, is now fully occupied.
shareholding in HiETA functionality that is world-class, Ireland, Spain and Slovenia.
The additive manufacturing Technologies Limited, a UK our software is becoming ever This includes therelocation to products line recently relocated company specialising in the more user-friendly, intuitive and a new 26,000sqft property in to a larger 90,000 sq ft design and delivery of additive packaged for specific problems.
Hong Kong, to accommodate facility in Stone, Staffordshire manufacturing products, such The users experience of growth in the Far East region.
to help nurture sustained as heat exchangers for a Renishaw includes the The process for developing business growth.
rangeof applications a sales teams, applications larger offices in the USA, complementary business for engineers and products, and Czech Republic and Mexico ouradditive manufacturing we endeavour to make this isalso underway.
interaction a professional and positive experience.
To see how we measure performance on these strategic priorities please see pages 4243.
