10 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS SECTORS METROLOGY Renishaw Primo system: first pay-asyou-go probing system for entry-level users.
REVENUE 43% 467.0m OPERATING PROFIT 103% 150.7m PERCENTAGE OF GROUP REVENUE 94% Open here for more detail... w 1213 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS SECTORS METROLOGY CONTINUED Our metrology products help manufacturers to maximise production output, significantly reduce the time taken to produce and inspect components, and keep their machines running reliably.
In the fields of industrial automation and motion systems, our position measurement and calibration systems allow builders to manufacture highly accurate and reliable products.
This illustration highlights typical applications for our products within a metal-part production facility and semiconductor manufacturing plant.
27 28 MT 26 31 25 24 23 30 46 CMM 29 MT MT 47 48 17 M2:Bore Output D S G54 XY 22 Z 21 MT MT 20 19 18 1 2 A 3 36 C MT 35 B MT 34 37 MT 38 39 32 41 D 40 33 43 44 4 CMM 45 5 42 AM 6 AM CMM M2:Bore Output D S G54 XY Z 7 8 9 15 10 16 11 14 13 12 Group products TONiC AM250 OMP600 MODUS 1 8 15 22 Organiser incremental encoder additive optical transmission for position feedback manufacturing machine tool probe software for shop system floor operation of Equator gauge RLE MRS2 NC4 RGH41 2 9 16 23 fibre-optic laser rack for laser non-contact incremental interferometer automated probe tool setting system encoder for encoder system stylus changing position feedback RM44 MCU5 Primo Radio OTS 3 10 17 24 Part Setter magnetic position hand controller optical transmission encoder for use for CMM axes tool setting probe radio transmission in industrial motorised head machine tool probe environments RMP60 REVO RMP600 OMP400 4 11 18 25 radio transmission 5-axis high-accuracy high-accuracy machine tool probe measurement radio transmission optical transmission system with machine tool probe machine tool probe rack RTS MODUS 2 AxiSet Equator 5 12 19 26 Check-Up radio transmission metrology software versatile toolsetting probe for inspection gauging system health check for on CMMs machine tool rotary axes XL-80 RGH22 Renishaw OMV SPRINT 9 6 13 20 27 MTM Toolkit laser calibration incremental machine tool system encoder for software for repeatable position feedback inspection diameter verification measurement Controller TRS2 SP25 SPRINT 7 14 21 28 software OSP60 non-contact for high-speed broken tool scanning on software for optical transmission detection system Equator gauge the AM250 scanning probe system control Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1415 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 ATOM 35 CNC Reporter RGH41 Primo Radio 41 29 47 miniature incremental 3D Tool Setter analysis and incremental encoder for reports from radio transmission position position feedback Productivity tool setting probe feedback encoder RESOLUTE 36 SPRINT MCR20 GoProbe 30 42 48 true absolute Blade Toolkit automated module user-friendly position feedback changing for PH20 probing software high-speed encoder allowing use of measurement of multiple styli blade sections Productivity XR20-W Renishaw 31 37 43 fixtures CNC plug-in rotary axis software for calibration system modular fixturing SPRINT system for measurement systems Process Monitor RotaryXL 32 38 QC20-W 44 re-mastering rotary axis wireless ballbar software for calibration software for checking Equator gauge machine tools INTUO RA100 Ballbar 20 33 39 45 software Raman analyser for software for process monitoring operating easy-to-use QC20-W ballbar gauging software TONiC PH20 Inspection 34 40 46 5-axis touchPlus incremental trigger system encoder for macro software for CMMs position feedback for machine tool probing Key: Co-ordinate measuring machine used Flat panel display Semiconductor Hardware 1 CMM A B for off line inspection of components manufacturing wafer inspection CNC machine tool for machining Semiconductor 2 Software MT C D Wire bonder metal components wafer handling Additive manufacturing machine AM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Performance testing products Position encoders The product range includes Calibration and testing products to Position encoders that ensure the following: determine the positioning accuracy accurate linear and rotary Machine tool probe systems of a wide range of industrial and motion control in a wide range Sensors and software for computer scientific machinery to international of applications from electronics, numerically controlled CNC metalstandards, including a laser flat panel displays, robotics and cutting machine tools that allow the interferometer, rotary axis calibrator semiconductors to medical, precision automation of setting and on-machine and wireless telescoping ballbar.
measurement operations, leading These include magnetic encoders, Gauging to more productivity from existing incremental optical encoders, TM machines and reductions in scrap Equator enables process control absolute optical encoders and laser and rework.
These include laser tool by delivering highly repeatable, interferometer encoders.
setters, contact tool setters, tool thermally insensitive, versatile and Additive manufacturing AM breakage detectors, touch probes, reprogrammable gauging to the shop TM contact scanning systems and floor.
New INTUO software is an Advanced metal AM systems for high-accuracy inspection probes.
ideal alternative to traditional manual direct manufacturing of 3D-printed gauging, with training in a few hours, metallic components.
A total solution Co-ordinate measuring machine allowing engineers to program parts is offered from systems, materials, CMM products in minutes.
ancillaries and software through to Sensors, software and control consultancy, training and support for a Spatial measurement systems for three-dimensional CMMs, range of industries including industrial, including touch-trigger and scanning High-speed laser measurement and healthcare and mould tooling.
surveying systems for use in extreme probes, automated probe changers, Vacuum casting motorised indexing probe heads environments, such as mine and quarry surveying, marine positioning Vacuum casting machines from and 5-axis measurement systems, which enable the highly accurate and mobile mapping.
entry-level to high capacity for rapid prototyping and production measurement of manufactured Fixtures components and finished assemblies.
Modular and custom fixtures used to Styli for probe systems hold parts securely for dimensional inspection on CMM, vision and Precision styli that attach to probe sensors for CMMs, machine tools, gauging systems.
TM scanning probes and Equator gauging systems to ensure that accurate measurement data is acquired at the point of contact.
Open Modular fixtures for CMM inspection Quarryman Pro laser scanner for quarry Miniature ATOM optical incremental here for more providing improved throughput, surveying and stockpile monitoring.
readhead mounted on glass discs of detail... reproducibility and accuracy.
w 16 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 8 9 10 11 12 1 7 2 6 4 5 3 Spatial measurement Group products devicesoverview Renishaws world-class laser Pencil beam C-ALS Cabled 1 5 9 laser module Boretrak systems and modules for highslimline underground for distance borehole deviation performance mapping, surveying, laser scanner and presence measurement for positioning and measuring, even for deployment detection safer blasts through boreholes inextreme environments.
Our high-speed laser measurement and surveying systems are designed for use Fanbeam 5 Cavity Profiler Quarryman Pro 2 6 10 in extreme environments where speed, prisms C-ALS for quarry surveying accuracy and safety are essential.
and stockpile mounted to oil user-friendly monitoring rig docking software for fast, From underground voids and cavities, station accurate 3D to offshore and marine applications, cavity scans mining, quarrying or overhead, our laser systems have been developed over many years of close work with those in Void scanner Quarryman Fanbeam 5 7 11 3 the field, and have been adopted widely Viewer underground laser-based mapping of due to their reliability and ease of use.
dynamic intuitive software voids and positioning for Quarryman cavities system surveying systems Dynascan Dynascan 4 Cavity Profiler 12 8 marine vehicle VS mounted mounted simple, mobile mapping functional mining mobile mapping and and surveying software for surveying system system modelling voids Key: Hardware Software 1 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 17 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Pay-as-you-go probing Renishaws customer research has shown that concerns, including investment cost, ease of use and durability, have held some companies back from using probes.
Our response is the Renishaw Primo system, a truly innovative approach that addresses each of these concerns.
With a low initial cost, free training kit and immediate parts replacement, the Primo system enables manufacturers to grasp the opportunities of high-value manufacturing regardless of the sizeoftheir operation.
The latest pioneering initiative from Renishaw, and a first for the industry, the Primo system offers users all the advantages of automated tool setting at a very affordable price.
The twin probe system comprises the Primo Radio Part Setter, Primo Radio 3D Tool Setter and Primo Interface.
Renishaw Primo Credit Tokens enable the pay-as-you-go solution, which makes the Primo system unique and ensures an affordable initial investment, attractive overall purchase price and fast payback.
Users buy six-month credit tokens which enable unlimited use of the Primo machine tool probe system during that period.
An upgrade credit token is also available to provide unrestricted continuous use.
Registration of a valid six-month credit token activates Primo Total Protect, which provides cover against accidental probe damage.
Finally, the GoProbe software and supporting training kit makes these already easy-to-use machine tool probes even simpler.
A comprehensive self-study package with a range of training tools and modules guides users through everything they need to get the most out of the Renishaw Primo system.
