148 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the financial In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures are statements of the Group and RELX PLC the Company, for the year presented as additional performance measures used by ended 31 December 2015. management.
These exclude the Groups share of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, tax in joint During the year, the simplification and modernisation of the Groups ventures disposal gains and losses and other non-operating items, corporate structure, announced in February 2015, was approved by related tax effects, and movements in deferred taxation assets shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
In July, as part andliabilities related to acquired intangible assets and include the of the modernisation, the Company changed its name to RELX PLC.
benefit of tax amortisation where available on acquired goodwill RELX PLC and RELX NV are separate, publicly held entities.
RELXPLCs ordinary shares are listed in London and New York, andRELX NVs ordinary shares are listed in Amsterdam and Parent company financial statements NewYork.
RELX PLC and RELX NV jointly own RELX Group plc, The individual parent company financial statements of RELX PLC which, with effect from February 2015, when RELX PLC and are presented on page 152, and were prepared under Financial RELXNV transferred their respective ownership interests in Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV to RELX Group plc, held all of RELX Distributable reserves as at 31 December 2015 were 1,487m Groups operating businesses and financing activities.
RELX PLC, 2014: 1,459m, comprising reserves less shares held in treasury.
RELX NV, RELXGroup plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and Parent company shareholders funds as at 31 December 2015 were associates are together known as RELX Group or the Group.
Financial statement presentation Strategic Report The Governing Agreement determines the equalisation ratio The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the Company to present between RELX PLC and RELX NV.
Following a bonus issue of shares a fair review of the Group during the financial year.
The Strategic in RELX NV, one RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent Report is set out on pages 2 to 62. economic interest to one RELXNV ordinary share and this change inthe equalisation ratio took effect from 1 July 2015.
As a result of Dividends these arrangements, allshareholders can be regarded as having The Board is recommending a final dividend of 22.30p per ordinary interests in a single economic entity.
This gives total ordinary dividends for the year have concluded thatthe Group forms a single reporting entity for the of 29.70p 2014: 26.00p.
The final dividend will be paid on 20 May presentation of consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the 2016 to shareholders on the Register on 29 April 2016.
Group consolidated financial statements represent the interests ofboth sets of shareholders and are presented by both RELX PLC Details of dividend cover and dividend policy are set out on page 58. and RELXNV as their respective consolidated financial statements.
ThisDirectors Report and the financial statements of the Group Corporate Governance andCompany should be read in conjunction with the other reports The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out on pages 2 to 92.
Areview of the Groups performance during of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the UK Code, which the year is set out on pages 8 to 51, a summary of the principal ispublicly available on the Financial Reporting Council's website risksfacing the Group is set out on pages 60 to 62, and the Group www.
Details of how the principles of the UK Code have statement on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 42 to 51. been applied and the Directors statement on internal control are set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 69 to 75.
The shares of RELX PLC and RELX NV are regarded as two separate classes of share which together form the consolidated issued share Greenhouse Gas Emissions capital of the Group.
In calculating earnings per share of the Group, The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions the earnings for each company are calculated on a fully distributed intonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from Group operational basis.
The Groups usual practice is for only a portion of earnings to activities.
Details of our emissions during the year ended be distributed by way of dividends.
Dividends paid to RELX PLC and 31December 2015 and the actions being taken to reduce them are RELX NV shareholders are, other than in special circumstances, set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic equalised at the gross level including the benefit of the prevailing Report on pages 50 and 51.
Further details can be found in our online UK attributable tax credit of 10% available to certain RELX PLC Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
The UK Government has announced that the dividend tax credits will be abolished with effect from 6 April 2016, impacting Directors dividends paid after this date.
For 2015, the allocation of earnings The names of the Directors who served on the Board during the year between the two classes of shares reflects this differential in and changes to the Board are set out on pages 64, 65 and 70. dividend payments declared, with the balance of earnings assumed to be distributed as a capital distribution, in equal amounts per share.
Share capital As a result of the abolition of the UK tax credit, reported earnings The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class of per share will have the same value for each RELX PLC and RELX NV ordinary shares, all of which are listed on the London Stock share from 2016.
All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations or special rights.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Directors Report 149 In a general meeting, subject to any rights and restrictions attached Substantial share interests to any shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in As at 24 February 2016, the Company had been notified by the person shall have one vote and every proxy present who has been duly following shareholders that they held an interest of 3% or more appointed by one or more members entitled to vote on the resolution invoting rights of its issued share capital: has one vote although a proxy has one vote for and one vote against BlackRock Inc 9.62% the resolution if: i the proxy has been duly appointed by more than Invesco Limited 5.03% one member entitled to vote on the resolution: and ii the proxy has been instructed by one or more of those members to vote for the Legal & General Group plc 3.40% resolution and by one or more other of those members to vote against The percentage interests stated above are as disclosed at the date it.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a on which the interests were notified to the Company.
vote on a resolution on a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Employee Benefit Trust Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the The Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust held an interest in registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
There 5,454,942 ordinary shares in the Company representing 0.5% of the are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer issued ordinary shares as at 31 December 2015.
The Trustee may of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the vote or abstain from voting any shares it holds in any way it sees fit.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions Significant agreements change of control on the transfer of shares or on voting rights attached to the shares.
The Governing Agreement between RELX PLC and RELX NV states that upon a change of control of RELX PLC for these purposes, At the 2015 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising the theacquisition by a third party of 50% or more of the issued share Directors to allot shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis up to a capital having voting rights, should there not be a comparable offer nominal value of 8.7m, representing less than 5% of the Company's from the offeror for RELX NV, RELX NV may serve notice upon the issued share capital.
Since the 2015 AGM, no shares have been Company varying certain provisions of the Governing Agreement, issued under this authority.
The shareholder authority also including the governance and the standstill provisions.
permitted the Directors to allot shares in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share plans, and details of such There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit allotments are noted below.
The authority to allot shares will expire facilities that in the event of a change of control of both the Company at the 2016 AGM, and a resolution to further extend the authority and and RELX NV and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating to seek additional authority to allow the issue of up to 5% of the downgrade to sub-investment grade may, at the option of the issued share capital for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis in lenders, require repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
connection with an acquisition or specified investment subject tocertain conditions in accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Powers of directors 2015 Statement of Principles will be submitted to the shareholders Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company's at the 2016 AGM.
Articles and any directions given by special resolutions, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may During the year, 2,017,517 ordinary shares in the Company were exercise all the powers of RELX PLC.
issued in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share plans as follows: 586,219 under a UK Sharesave option scheme at prices Directors indemnity between 401.60p and 949.60p per share: 1,401,350 under executive In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted Directors share option schemes at prices between 420.00p and 924.50p per an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of liabilities share: and 29,948 under the Long Term Incentive Plan at 511.50p incurred as a result of their office.
The Company also purchased and pershare.
maintained throughout the year Directors and Officers liability The issued share capital as at 31 December 2015 is shown in note 26 insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
to the consolidated financial statements.
Related party transactions Authority to purchase shares Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party At the 2015 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are thepurchase of up to 120.5m ordinary shares in the Company carried out on an arms length basis and are properly recorded representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary shares by anddisclosed where appropriate.
During the year, 25,681,445 ordinary shares werepurchased under this and the previous authority, to be held intreasury.
On 2 December 2015, the Company cancelled 31.5m ordinary shares held in treasury.
Therefore, as at 31 December 2015 there were 63,879,780 ordinary shares held in treasury, representing 5.4% of the issued ordinary shares.
A further 4,592,100 ordinary shares were purchased between 4 January 2016 and the date of this report.
The authority to make market purchases will expire at the 2016 AGM, at which a resolution to further extend the authority will be submitted to shareholders.
150 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Conflicts of interest Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a duty to avoid The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is set out on the situations in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect pagesbelow: interest that conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The Board has established formal procedures for identifying, assessing and Information required Page reviewing any situations where a Director has an interest that 1 Interest capitalised by the Group n a conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of RELX PLC.
2 Publication of unaudited financial information n a 4 Long-term incentive schemes 86 The Nominations Committee considers any such conflict or potential conflict and makes a recommendation to the Board 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director n a onwhether to authorise it, as permitted under the Company's 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director n a Articles.
In reaching its decision, the Board is required to act 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer n a in a way it considers would be most likely to promote the success 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries n a of the Company and may impose limits or conditions when 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary n a giving its authorisation, if it thinks this is appropriate.
Actual 10 Contracts of significance n a orpotential conflicts of interest are reviewed annually by the 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder n a Nominations Committee.
12 Shareholder waiver of dividends 119 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends 119 Political donations 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders n a The Group does not make donations to European Union EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
In the US, Group companies donated 53,791 2014: 55,793 to political organisations.
Financial statements and accounting records In line with US law, these donations were not made at federal level, but The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report only to candidates and political parties at the state and local levels.
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law andregulations.
Employee relations The Group is committed to employee involvement and participation.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Where appropriate, major announcements are communicated to statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors employees through internal briefings.
Information on performance, are required to prepare the consolidated financial statements in development, organisational changes and other matters of interest accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards is communicated through briefings and electronic bulletins.
IFRS as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Company is an equal opportunity employer and does not The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial discriminate on the grounds of race, gender or other characteristics statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 in its recruitment or employment policies.
The Group seeks Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors opinions from employees through a triennial survey.
Information must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they onthe 2015 opinion survey is set out on page 46. give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and ofthe profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Disabled persons In preparing the parent company financial statements, the RELX Group has a positive approach to diversity and inclusion.
Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and Details of the Groups Diversity and Inclusion Statement are set out then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting on page 46.
The Group is committed to the full and fair treatment estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether Financial ofpeople with disabilities in relation to job applications, training, Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been promotion and career development.
Where existing employees followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and become disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment, explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial support and training wherever practicable.
statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Directors Report 151 In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS1 requires that Disclosure of information to auditors directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present As part of the process of approving the Company's 2015 financial information, including accounting policies, in a manner that statements, the Directors have taken steps pursuant to section provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 to ensure that they are aware of information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's the specific requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users auditors are aware of that information.
In that context, so far as the tounderstand the impact of particular transactions, other events Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial the Companys auditors are unaware.
performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability tocontinue as a going concern.
Going concern The Directors' statement regarding the appropriateness of The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting adopting the going concern basis of accounting is set out on page 75. records that are sufficient to show and explain RELX PLCs transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Long-term viability statement thefinancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure The Directors' statement regarding the long-term viability of the that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act Group is set out on page 75.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Auditors and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Deloitte LLP will be retiring as the Company's auditors at the 2016 AGM.
Following an audit tender process carried out during 2015, the Directors responsibility statement Board accepted a recommendation from the Audit Committee that The Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge: Ernst & Young LLP EY be proposed to shareholders as auditors of the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance the Company in respect of the 2016 financial year.
Further details on with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the audit tender process and transitional arrangements for the 2015 the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted audit can be found on page 92 of the Report of the Audit Committees.
by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial Resolutions for the appointment of EY as auditors of RELX PLC position and profit or loss of the Group: and andto authorise the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, to the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development determine their remuneration will be submitted to shareholders and performance of the business and the position of the Group.
A description of the principal risks facing the Group is set out on pages 60 to 62.
By order of the Board Having taken into account all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year, the Henry Udow Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts taken Company Secretary as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 24 February 2016 information necessary for shareholders to assess RELX PLCs Registered Office performance, business model and strategy.
1-3 Strand Neither RELX PLC nor the Directors accept any liability to any London person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that WC2N 5JR such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with Section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
