10 Our Markets We are leaders in our chosen markets Rentokil is the Initial Hygiene Initial Workwear worlds leading is the worlds is the second commercial leading hygiene largest provider pest control services business.
Pest control Hygiene Workwear The commercial pest control market is worth The hygiene services market offers good The European workwear market including c. 4.8bn p. a. and the total pest control market growthopportunities as organisations demand general workwear, cleanroom, flat linen and is worth c. 10bn.
increasing standards of hygiene hand personal protective equipment is valued at hygiene, air hygiene and a professional feminine c. 4.7bn.
With a compound annual growth rate Pest control is a highly defensive industry and hygiene service.
of 2% it is expected to reach 5.3bn by 2020. offers sustainable, long-term growth prospects.
It covers a vast array of pests, some unique to Margin growth is driven by density of customers Industry and trade services sectors comprise certain countries or climates, while others such by location, what we call postcode density, 35% of the market while hotels, restaurants, as rodents are present in every country around and by the number of serviced products by caterers and healthcare comprise 50% the world.
The cleanrooms market is valued at 625m, of which 250m is laundry There are c. 40,000 pest control companies related, and is growing at 5%-7% p. a. worldwide, of which about half are in North America.
Industry consolidation is an ongoing market dynamic.
Around the world Hand washing Laundries Global pest control 45% of people Initial Workwear market is expected to worldwide believe operates 51 laundries reach $18bn by 2019 washing hands regularly and performs 125m 18bn 51 is the most effective washes each year way to protect against North America is the catching colds and flu worlds largest pest control market and Garments 8bn worth c. $8bn More productivity from better hand hygiene the typical office Customer segments workers hands come 10m into contact with 10m bacteria per day Principal pest control customer segments include high dependency, food processing and pharmaceutical, offices, hospitality, According to research retail, healthcare, education and residential from 17 studies, the Initial Workwear has simple act of hand approximately 15m washing will reduce garments in circulation 15 the risk of a stomach and provides laundering million bug by 47% services to over 1.5m individual wearers Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 11 Our Markets What dynamics are shaping our markets?
66% of the worlds World population population will is expected to grow live in urban areas to 8bn by 2025 3bn in 1960 by 2050 54% currently Changes in age distribution and rising middle classes This raises the transmission in Asia and Latin America in particular - rising demand risk of infectious diseases.
in healthcare, housing and food production sectors.
Source: UN Global warming Increased economic activity Pests are becoming more endemic.
and employment levels Global warming is leading to longer breeding seasons, while fewer 2016 GDP growth forecasts for High Income countries harsh winters are maintaining USA, UK, Europe are 2.4% and Developing countries 5.2%.
Source: World Bank Environmental 5.4% standards 2.4% Growing demand for sustainable products and services.
Regulatory Increased Increased risks standards reputational risk to public health Customers facing increased laws, Organisations are acting to reduce the Mosquito-transmitted Dengue fever, regulations, codes of practice and risk of reputational damage through Zika virus, Chikungunya, West Nile enforcement burden, require higher social media and other channels for virus, and the spread of the influenza standards of pest control and hygiene.
instance, the potential impact of poor virus.
In 2015 there were 120,836 hygiene in food retail.
cases of Dengue fever in Malaysia, up 11%.
120,836 Dengue fever cases in Malaysia Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
