Our business model How we create value Once again, our progress in 2015 has justified our confidence in the Regus business model.
Rigorous planning, stress-testing and constant review clearly demonstrate that it remains fit for purpose.
Our Customers Returns business Our business comprises four Customers from self-employed Our approach to investment ensures we fundamental elements: our people, entrepreneurs to multinational deliver strong post-tax cash returns, our network, our products and our brands.
corporations use Regus because they generating long-term shareholder value The geographic scale of Regus operations wantto be in the best places where they through returns on investment that are is unmatched.
Critically, as our physical canfocus on what they are doing.
They stay well in excess of our cost of capital.
network grows, so does our lead over because we provide them with an excellent Our focus is on optimising revenue other workspace alternatives.
service at competitive rates, with a product generation through improving the that flexes to meet their every requirement.
These elements are underpinned by: performance of each location.
This Demand continues to increase during gives us the solid foundation we need rigorous planning processes to support 2015, membership grew to over to deliver strong returns, particularly the execution of our growth strategy: 2.3mworldwide.
when combined with our discipline constant investment in innovation on overhead costs, which continue to to differentiate Regus from all fall as a percentage of revenues.
competitors: and How we calculate our returns disciplined management procedures These returns are based on the to minimise the risks inherent in post-tax return divided by the net rapid growth.
Post-tax cash return EBITDA less amortisation of partner contribution, less tax based on EBIT, less maintenance capital expenditure.
Net growth capital investment growthcapital less partner contributions.
Turn to page 104 to see how our calculation of post-tax cash return on net investment reconciles to our audited statutory accounts.
10 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Cash Investment in growth A particularly attractive feature of the Regus We invest significant sums in growth, business model is our strong conversion of both through organic openings and selective profit into cash.
The cash flows we generate acquisitions, and we continue to find many from our locations support a significant high-quality opportunities that meet our proportion of our continued investment stringent returns criteria.
Our network in developing our network.
Strong cash growth is enhanced by our continued generation underpins the Groups investment in developing new location Returns to progressive dividend as well as funding formats and a greater diversity in partner the addition of locations to our network.
Together, these are enabling shareholders us to grow in a more capital-efficient way.
Our ability to adapt our growth plans to reflect changing market conditions is We have a progressive dividend policy.
another important aspect of our capability 2015 dividend increased by 13%.
to manage risk through the economic cycle.
With relatively short lead times between contracting with a partner and opening a new location, depending on where we are in the economic cycle we can either rapidly capitalise on a favourable investment environment, or restrict growth.
Cash flow before growth capital Dividend per share p Final expenditure and dividends m Interim 284.9million net growth capital 215.7 4.5 expenditure 4.0 175.6 3.6 3.2 2.9 115.4 112.4 97.7 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 www.
