14 Our Differentiated Strategy We use a quadrant analysis tool for capital allocation and operational By way of illustration, the strategies we need to deploy to grow in management.
We group our businesses by geography and business line Brazil are very different to what we need to do to manage our businesses into a four-box growth potential and profit contribution matrix.
Using this in Spain and Greece.
We review quadrant composition annually, approach we are able to introduce different growth levers to maximise looking carefully at business performance and developments in the impact, and apply differential investment hurdle rates.
Our four quadrants Emerging Growth Building a platform for future success Delivering margin improvement through scale and density 8% of group revenue, 7% of group profit 52% of group revenue, 53% of group profit Geographies product and service innovation.
Geographies leading positions through North America, UK, Germany, Strengthening performance in Asia, Latin America, Central city-focused acquisitions.
India Baltics, Caribbean, Pacific Pest Control.
Robust America, Middle East, Kenya, operations now profitable, losses France Pest Control, Italy, performance in Germany, aided Mozambique and Fiji.
in China reduced, enhanced Nordics Pest Control, South by growth in Cleanrooms.
Strategy and M&A Africa Pest Control, Australia, 34 acquisitions with annualised 11 acquisitions with annualised Build leading market positions in New Zealand and Ireland.
revenues prior to purchase cities offering best opportunities of 21m.
Strategy and M&A Focus for the Next Phase for Pest Control and Hygiene.
Grow market share and develop Enhance margins through density In M&A, pest control-led market Focus for the Next Phase existing customers, in-fill locally to and market share, leverage entry, focus on strong local Accelerate revenue and profit drive organic and acquisitive position in North America and UK management capabilities, adding growth through scale city and growth.
In M&A, extend to drive national accounts.
Internal Rate route density - and focus on geographic reach into new cities Ongoing focus on product and of Return IRR : 15%.
Selective entry into new and build out sub-scale regions.
service innovation, technology geographies where opportunities Performance in Phase One IRR: 15%.
Use brand strength to A growing presence in development programme.
Performance in Phase One higher-GDP markets to drive Capitalise on strong M&A Pursue pipeline of attractive M&A Our pest control business is now stronger organic growth.
Eight pipeline, North America in opportunities.
Strong new territories of operation, particular.
performance in UK driven by including Latin America, securing Manage for Value Protect & Enhance Reducing exposure to low-growth, low-margin business Lower-growth European markets remain challenging 3% of group revenue, 3% of group profit 37% of group revenue, 37% of group profit Geographies Summary of performance Geographies restructuring costs.
Businesses Pest Control, Hygiene and Plants in Phase One France Hygiene and Workwear, in France and Benelux remain in Southern Europe.
Ambius in Major reduction in exposure to Benelux, Nordics Hygiene, CEE, challenged.
smaller markets, Hong Kong IT this quadrant over past two Ireland Medical and South Africa Focus for the Next Phase Hygiene, Taiwan Pest Control, years, going from 35% of group Hygiene.
Execute Workwear Quality Indonesia Cleaning.
Exit from Strategy and M&A Programme to drive quality of Initial Facilities, Austrian Products, Strategy and M&A Focus on customer retention, product and service.
Execute Spanish Medical and flat linen Focus on customer retention, profit and cash.
In M&A, country-specific action plans for operations in Northern Ireland cost management, service consolidate regional and local France and Benelux given and Austria.
Improved business productivity and efficiency.
strengths, acquire new capabilities ongoing market challenges.
Opportunistic M&A, acquiring in adjacent service areas.
Maintain focus on productivity, bolt-ons for density requires high Focus for the Next Phase Above average IRR: 20% route density, retention and IRR: 30%.
Divest sub-scale Continue to execute country up-selling, and development of Performance in Phase One and unprofitable businesses.
plans targeting productivity, new services.
Higher cash flow performance density, cost management reflecting reductions in capex and and retention.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
