14 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Scientific, Technical & Medical Elsevier is the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical and In Scientific, Technical & Medical medical information serving scientists, health professionals and students worldwide.
Its objective is to help its customers advance markets, we provide information, science and improve healthcare by providing world-class content, analytics and decision tools that enable them to make critical analytics and tools to help decisions, enhance productivity and improve outcomes.
customers make decisions Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 2,070m, compared to 2,048m in 2014 and 2,126m in 2013.
Elsevier is a thatimprove scientific and global business with principal operations in Amsterdam, Beijing, Boston, Chennai, Delhi, London, Madrid, Munich, New York, healthcareoutcomes.
Oxford, Paris, Philadelphia, Rio fide Janeiro, St Louis, San Diego, Singapore and Tokyo.
Elsevier serves customers in over 170 countries.
In 2015, 41% of We enhance the quality of research output by organising revenue by destination was derived from North America, 27% the review, editing and dissemination of 16% of theworlds from Europe and the remaining 32% fromthe rest of the world.
scientific articles Subscription sales generated 69% of revenue, transactional sales29% and advertising 2%.
ScienceDirect, the worlds largest database of Elsevier serves the needs of scientific, technical and medical peer-reviewed primary scientific and medical research, markets by organising the review, editing and disseminating of has 12m monthly users primary research, reference and education content, as well as byproviding a range of database and decision tools.
Elseviers customers are scientists, academic institutions, educators, Scopus is the most extensive abstract and citation research leaders and administrators, medical researchers, database of research literature in the world, with over doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and students, as well 60minformation records from 5,000 publishers as hospitals, research institutions, health insurers, managed healthcare organisations, research-intensive corporations and SciVal offers insights into the research performance of governments.
All of these customers rely on Elsevier to provide 6,000 research institutions and 220 countries worldwide high-quality content and critical information for making scientific and medical decisions: review, edit, disseminate and preserve research findings: and create innovative tools to help focus ClinicalKey, the flagship clinical reference platform, research strategies, increase research effectiveness, improve isaccessed by more than 3,500 institutions medical outcomes, and enhance the efficiency of healthcare and healthcare education.
In the primary research market during 2015, over 1.3m research papers were submitted to Elsevier.
Over 17,000 editors managed the peer review and selection of these papers, resulting in the publication of 400,000 articles in approximately 2,500 journals, many of which are the foremost publications in their field and a primary point of reference for new research.
This content was accessed byaround 12m people, with close to 900m full-text article downloads last year.
Elseviers journals are primarily produced and delivered through the ScienceDirect platform, the worlds largest database of scientific and medical research, hosting over 13m pieces of content, and 30,000 e-books.
Flagship journals include Cell and The Lancet families of titles.
In 2015, Elsevier launched 73 new subscription and author-pays journals, including a new open access cross-discipline title, Heliyon, and expanded the Cell Press collection, adding titles suchas Trends in Cancer and Cell Systems.
Elsevier is also a global leader in scientific, technical and medicalreference markets, providing authoritative and current professional reference content.
While reference has traditionally been provided in print, Elsevier has been a leader in driving the shift from print to electronic.
Flagship titles include works such asGrays Anatomy, Nelsons Pediatrics and Netters Atlas of Human Anatomy.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Scientific, Technical & Medical 15 Elseviers flagship clinical reference platform, ClinicalKey, establish, execute and evaluate research strategies.
Pure is provides physicians with access to leading Elsevier and acomprehensive research information management system third-party reference and evidence-based medical content in which enables evidence-based research management decisions, asingle, fully integrated site.
ClinicalKey is growing strongly, promotes collaboration, simplifies administration and optimises andis currently accessed by more than 3,500 institutions.
Our Analytical Services team provides accurate, unbiased analysis on research performance by combining high-quality data In medical education, Elsevier serves students of medicine, sources with technical and research metrics expertise.
SciVal nursing and allied health professions through print and electronic Funding assists researchers and institutions in identifying grants books, as well as electronic solutions.
For example, HESI, an that are most relevant in their research areas.
online testing and remediation solution designed to help students of nursing and allied health professions, conducted over 750,000 For healthcare professionals, Elsevier develops products to tests in 2015. deliver patient-specific solutions at the point of care to improve patient outcomes.
Its clinical solutions include ExitCare which Elseviers products provide a range of tools and solutions for provides patient education and discharge information and professionals in the scientific, technical and medical fields.
CPM Resource Center, which provides a data-driven framework Customers include academic and corporate researchers, tosupport nurses in undertaking procedures.
research administrators and healthcare professionals.
For academic and corporate researchers, significant products Market opportunities include Scopus, Reaxys and Knovel.
Scopus, the largest abstract Scientific, technical and medical information markets have and citation database of peer-reviewed literature with over 60m goodlong-term growth characteristics.
The importance of records from more than 21,000 journals and 5,000 international research and development to economic performance and publishers, allows researchers to track, analyse and visualise the competitive positioning is well understood by governments, worlds research output.
Reaxys supports the early stages of drug academic institutions and corporations.
This is reflected in the development in the pharmaceutical industry, exploratory chemistry long-term growth in research and development spend and in the research in academia, and product development in industries number of researchers worldwide.
Growth in health markets such as chemicals and oil & gas.
Knovel is a decision support isdriven by ageing populations in developed markets, rising toolfor engineers that helps them to select the right materials, prosperity in developing markets and the increasing focus amission-critical use case in product development across onimproving medical outcomes and efficiency.
Given that a chemicals, oil & gas and other engineering-focused industries.
significant proportion of scientific research and healthcare isfunded directlyor indirectly by governments, spending is Elsevier serves academic and government research influenced by governmental budgetary considerations.
The administrators through its Elsevier Research Intelligence suite commitment to research and health provision does, however, ofproducts.
Leveraging bibliometric data from Scopus and other remain high, even inmore difficult budgetary environments.
data types, SciVal is a decision tool that helps institutions to Premier life sciences journal with the The leading suite of preparation, testing and highest impact factor in biochemistry remediation resources that generate actionable andmolecular biology data to prepare nursing and health profession students for success in pursuing degrees, passing licensure exams and starting their careers One of the worlds leading medical journals Ready-to-use tools to analyse the world of The worlds largest database of scientific since 1823 research, and establish, execute and evaluate and medical research articles the best strategies for research organisations The worlds largest abstract and citation Combines leading reference and An innovative research management and database of peer-reviewed literature evidence-based medical content into its social collaboration platform features tools to track, analyse and fully integrated clinical insight engine visualise scholarly research 16 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Strategic priorities Business model, distribution channels and competition Elseviers strategic goal is to lead the way in providing information Science and medical research is principally disseminated on solutions that advance science, technology and health.
To achieve apaid subscription basis to the research facilities of academic this, Elsevier creates solutions that reflect deep insight into the institutions, governments and corporations, and, in the case way its users work and the outcomes they are seeking to achieve: ofmedical and healthcare journals, to individual practitioners strives for excellence in content, service and execution: constantly andmedical society members.
For the past decade content has adapts and revitalises its products, business models and beenprovided free or at very low cost in over 100 countries and technology: and leverages its institutional skills, assets and territories in the developing world through Research4Life, resources to promote innovation and efficiency.
For a number of journals, advertising and promotional income represents a small Elseviers strategic priorities are to continue to increase content proportion of revenues, predominantly from pharmaceutical volume and quality: expand content coverage, building out companies in healthcare titles.
integrated solutions and decision tools combining Elsevier, third-party and customer data: increase content utility, using Over the past 15 years alternative payment models for the Smart Content to enable new e-solutions: combine content dissemination of research such as author-pays or authorswithanalytics and technology, focused on measurably improving funder-pays have emerged.
While it is expected that paid productivity and outcomes for customers: and continue to drive subscription will remain the primary distribution model, operational efficiency and effectiveness.
Elsevierhas long invested in alternative business models to address the needs of customers and researchers.
Over 1,700 In the primary research market, Elsevier aims to grow volume ofElseviers journals now offer the option of funding publication through new journal launches, expansion of author-pays journals and distribution via a sponsored article fee.
In addition, Elsevier and growth from emerging markets: enhance quality by building nowproduces around 170 stand-alone author-pays open on our premium brands: and add value to core platforms by accessjournals.
implementing new capabilities such as advanced recommendations on ScienceDirect and social collaboration Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and through Mendeley.
ClinicalKey, are generally sold direct to customers through adedicated sales force that has offices around the world.
In clinical reference markets, priorities are to expand content Subscription agents sometimes facilitate the sales and coverage and ensure consistent and seamless linking of content administrative process for remaining print sales.
Reference and assets across products.
educational content is sold directly to institutions and individuals and accessed on Elsevier platforms.
Sometimes it is still sold inprinted book form through retailers, wholesalers or directly toendusers.
Competition within science and medical reference content isgenerally on a title-by-title and product-by-product basis.
Competition in research and reference products is typically with learned societies and professional information providers, such asSpringer Nature, Thomson Reuters and Wolters Kluwer.
Decision tools face similar competition, as well as from software companies and internal solutions developed by customers.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 2,070m 2,070m Print 23% Rest of world 32% Face-to-face North America 1% 41% Electronic 76% Europe 27% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Scientific, Technical & Medical 17 2015 financial performance 2015 2014 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 2,070 2,048 2% 0% -1% 1% Adjusted operating profit 760 762 3% 1% -4% 0% Key business trends remained positive in 2015, with underlying We saw continued good growth in databases & tools, profit growth slightly exceeding underlying revenue growth.
as well as inelectronic reference and education products.
The difference between Print book declines continued in line with the prior year.
thereported and underlying growth rates primarily reflects Printpharma promotion revenue stabilised during the year.
theimpact of exchange rate movements.
2016 outlook Our customer environment remains largely unchanged.
Overall Underlying adjusted operating profit growth of 3% was slightly we expect another year of modest underlying revenue growth, ahead of revenue growth, driving margin expansion before with underlying operating profit growth continuing to exceed currency effects.
The reported margin was slightly lower, reflecting underlying revenue growth.
the adverse effects of exchange rate movements in the period.
In primary research, strong growth in usage and article submissions to subscription journals continued.
In 2015 we launched a total of 73 new journals, bringing our total journal count to approximately 2,500, of which around 170 are stand-alone author-pays open access journals.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 2% Underlying growth 3% 2,070 762 2,048 760 2014 2015 2014 2015 18 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Elsevier: changing the communication and use of science Dr Bradford Hesse is a leader at the National Institutes of Healths National Cancer Institute in the US, and one of the worlds leading experts on oncology informatics.
Hehas authored or co-authored more than 170 publications andhas worked with Elsevier for the past 10years.
Dr Hesse saw a need for a publication about how large-scale information systems could be used to support clinical applications of cancer research.
The e-book would have to address multidisciplinary audiences technologists as well as clinicians.
He chose to collaborate with Elsevier because he knew that its editorshad a deep understanding of both communities, as well as the technological expertise to help him achieve his objectives.
Elsevier also offered practical support through the use of advanced technology tools to enhance and ease the editing process, as well as measure the impact of the research.
His e-book, called Oncology Informatics: Using Health Information Technology to Improve Processes and Outcomes in Cancer, will be issued by Elsevier in 2016.
Elseviers cutting edge expertise and undaunted commitment have been invaluable as we prepare to publish my work.
Itknows how to reach a multidisciplinary audience and has provided me with both the technology and personal support Ineeded every step of the way.
Dr. Bradford Hesse Chief, Health Communication and Informatics Research Branch at the National Cancer Institute, one of the institutes within the NationalInstitutes of Health NIH Dr Bradford Hesse, Chief, Health Communication and Informatics Research Branch at the National Cancer Institute one of the institutes within the National Institutes of Health Business review Scientific, Technical & Medical 19 About Elsevier e-books Unlike traditional paper books or early PDF versions of print, Elsevier e-books are technology-laden, with features such as the ability to search and download individual chapters.
Users can also download individual figures, tables and datasets aswell as entire e-books for use on mobile devices.
Readers can also link out to other web content andarticles.
National Cancer Institute building, Maryland Dr Bradford Hesse, Chief, Health Communication and Informatics Research Branch at the National Cancer Institute one of the institutes within the National Institutes of Health
