22 Growth Levers Steritech accelerating growth 1 2 3 4 5 6 Where to Play Mastering Building Sales Brilliance Delivering Engaging our our Markets the Pipeline our Promise Customers Driving National Accounts National Accounts represent 25% of Steritech revenue.
Strong capability in this segment affords NA National greater opportunity to grow market share.
Accounts market worth $ 680m Represents 28% of commercial pest control market.
Strong client relationships Opportunities to enhance already strong existing client relationship by selling additional insight and services.
Steritech A key player growth drivers in Canada Well placed in Canada to scale operations and become a national player and market leader.
Complementary service line Steritechs Brands Standards services are a unique product offering, providing a new dimension to Rentokil Initials pest and hygiene services.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 23 Growth Levers Mosquito control eliminating the threat 1 2 3 4 5 6 Where to Play Mastering Building Sales Brilliance Delivering Engaging our our Markets the Pipeline our Promise Customers Global warming A combination of global warming and intense rainfall is leading to an explosion in mosquito Public population.
intolerance An increasing intolerance to mosquito bites and anxiety to the diseases they carry.
Public health A serious risk to public health and awareness from high profile diseases like Malaria and Dengue is driving demand for improved mosquito control.
How we control mosquitos Manage, report & educate Inspection Monitoring Control Identify Singapore programme Controlling mosquitos Proof of Rentokil Initial service Total Mosquito Count 7000 Treatment began in week 2 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 Larvae found in water Adult home and Adult open areas Adult indoors 1000 Treated with larvicide business Truck mounted sprayer Permanent traps sp ecifically targeted Application of liquid for larger fogging areas deployed and used 0 against the larval stage mosquito adulticide through by customers 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 of mosquito growth fogging or misting Week Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 24 Growth Levers PestConnect revolutionising pest control 1 2 3 4 5 6 Where to Play Mastering Building Sales Brilliance Delivering Engaging our our Markets the Pipeline our Promise Customers High performance, long-life traps communicate using wireless technology, alerting pest technician when a rodent is caught.
A scalable cloud solution developed in partnership with Google and PA Consulting is central to the connect technology, enhancing operations through data insight and process automation.
Data analytics inform efficient route planning of field technicians and reduced time on site.
Data analytics inform improvement to customer service plans.
myRentokil Considerable potential, x3 strong demand Demand tripled in the last 12 months, product revenue rising from The obvious Heavily regulated The technology LoRa second Cloud based 450k to 1.3m in the choice for high EU markets can be easily generation wireless technology future Netherlands test dependency create demand applied to existing provides broad proofs big data market.
German and customers infrastructure tech opportunities management, UK test markets are within internet provides insight forecasting similar of things and service demand and growth enhancements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
