32 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT MANUFACTURING OVERVIEW During the last year, manufacturing to metal cutting, where a high degree of tool setting, in-process monitoring and operations have had to support standardisation has been applied to the component validation.
Whilst the base Renishaws substantial business growth.
hardware used to perform machining machine platform has evolved with This has been aided by our sustained operations, since we have an excellent improvements in machine tool technology, long-term strategic commitment to the understanding of process capability for the fundamental process remains the latest manufacturing technologies and each platform.
A secondary benefit to same and is the mainstay of Renishaws facilities.
The Group has manufacturing this strategy is that it provides the ability standard machining platforms for facilities in the UK Woodchester toupscale production through duplication, prismatic parts, with 50 RAMTIC systems 165,000sqft, Stonehouse 100,000sqft, as required, without the need to invent now in operation.
There has been Miskin 460,000 sq ft and smaller alternative techniques, and this has been continual and substantial investment in operations at New Mills, Old Town, Stone key to delivering the growth in our turnover the latest manufacturing technologies in and York, Ireland Swords 70,000 sq ft, in recent years.
order to optimise the cost and capability India Pune 50,000 sq ft, Germany of our manufacturing systems, resulting The same standardisation philosophies Vlklingen 19,000 sq ft, France Lyon ininvestment in new equipment in the are applied during product and process 5,500 sq ft and the USA Grand Haven UK of 29m in the period between 2010 development to design for assembly 14,000 sq ft. and 2015. and test.
Standardisation enables us to transfer our manufacturing across to other The same approach has also been Strategy sites, and during the last year, a number taken with respect to our investments At a strategic level, Renishaws of new products have transferred from in assembly-based technologies.
manufacturing operations are highly pre-production to the assembly sites in Renishaw has a very broad product vertically integrated.
This results theUK, Ireland and India.
range that is largely produced in low from ourcommitment to delivering to medium volumes, but through our exceptional service levels in terms of Long-term investment strategies of standardisation and design delivery, service and product quality for manufacture we have created the Renishaw continues to be committed to to our customers.
This approach also circumstances to develop and invest in significant investment in its manufacturing ensures that we are in control of our highly efficient and capable assembly capability for both the medium and costs, quality and many of the supply systems that deliver exceptional process long term.
The Renishaw Automated chains that are critical to the success of control and efficiencies.
The electronics Mill Turn Inspection Centre RAMTIC our business.
production facilities utilise the very latest system developed in the early 1990s technology capable of placing 40,000 Over many years, we have strived to uses a standard machine tool platform components per hour, process control ensure that our products are designed to that has been modified to provide a by using in-line component validation, optimise manufacturing capability, whether highly efficient manufacturing solution, automated optical inspection and in relation to our machining and assembly involving a high degree of automation innovative technology to validate the processes, or that of third party suppliers.
and closed-loop control that is facilitated performance of assembled printed circuit This is best illustrated by our approach by Renishaw probing technology for boards PCBs.
Another example is the Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 33 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 MANUFACTURING OVERVIEW in-house development of automation of delivering exceptional customer service, volatility to demand.
As a result, we systems for assembly of certain products our approach has been to maintain as employ a proportion of our assembly in the UK and Ireland facilities, where much control as possible of our supply team on a fixed-term contract basis automation and closed-loop controls chains.
This has been achieved through in order to cater for the variations have delivered significant reductions a combination of in-house manufacturing in demand.
Employee turnover in process variation, hence providing including the creation of in-house within manufacturing is below enhanced product quality, as well as capability for critical processes as they 10%, and this stability, coupled reducing our costs.
become financially viable, duplication with a growing business, provides of critical processes, dual sourcing and a platform to develop our people We have continued to be proactive strategic long-term partnerships with our within the organisation.
In many in providing exceptional facilities third party suppliers.
We also have supply cases, employees transfer from within which to conduct our chain management teams based in China, manufacturing into other parts of the manufacturing operations.
India and at our manufacturing facilities business to assist other functions, in Ireland.
such as new product development or Miskin applications engineering, making best Following the acquisition of the Miskin Our investment in the 460,000 sq ft site use of the experience gained within the facility, we have taken the opportunity at Miskin in 2012 may have been seen manufacturing arena.
to duplicate key processes in order to by some as overly ambitious at the time.
reduce the risk associated with certain The investment in apprentices and However, the Boards confidence in the critical in-house supply chains, such as graduates is very much in evidence future growth of the business has been anodising of aluminium components at the manufacturing operations proven to be justified given the business and the assembly and test of electronic at each site.
All manufacturing performance since that time and the fact PCBs.
For third party supply chains, graduates and apprentices follow that we are now at 50% occupancy at regular monitoring and review takes a well-defined programme that the site.
place with a view to determining supply provides exposure to a wide range Refurbishment of the remaining space at risk, dual sourcing strategies and our of functions and technologies such Miskin is currently in progress to provide contractual terms with suppliers, in that we develop well-rounded the necessary space for expansion.
orderto ensure continuity of supply.
individuals with a broad grounding Planning permission for the development in a variety of  of the 193 acre site has recently been People disciplines.
Many of our apprentices obtained and includes an additional and graduates succeed in developing Consistent with Renishaws overall 400,000 sq ft to provide capacity for career paths into more senior philosophies, the manufacturing ourown future expansion requirements.
engineering and operational roles operations take a long-term view within the organisation.
with regard to development of our Supply chain management people.
The movement of the business As a manufacturer operating in a high towards providing end-user solutions mix low volume situation, with a strategy has introduced a much higher level of
