Industry fundamentals Flexible workspace the market opportunities A fast-growing industry that is rapidly developing to serve customer needs.
Workspace flexibility is becoming the new norm.
External factors enabling change No limits Technology has stripped away the restrictions of time and place: the right workspace is whatever people need, when they need it.
Constant connections No one is ever offline colleagues and customers are always within range and within touch.
1.3 billion people work on the move Network convenience The increasing availability of flexible spaces to work offices, hotspots, hubs and more is driving increased adoption by companies and people right across the world.
Source: Regus and IDC data 2 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements See how we respond The global Innovation for The global to the market drivers facilitator growth partner of on the following pages choice Forces driving demand Value Paying only for the space they need and use means major savings for many businesses.
Rapid transformation Short-term business cycles mean headcounts are changing faster than ever before.
84% of workers say flexible working improves Diverse requirements productivity Large organisations need many types of space, from call centres and executive suites, to R&D facilities and satellite networks.
The productivity challenge Corporate space that evolves to meet changing needs heightens business effectiveness and efficiency.
com 3 The global facilitator Meeting market demand.
Workplace Office Mobile Home recovery The most Ensuring Drop-in workplaces Virtual office flexible office and businesses and technology solutions for co-working solutions can continue services to help home-based in the world, in the event people stay workers, allowing people of disaster.
productive on start-ups, and to work where, the move.
established firms when, and how moving into they want.
4 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Office Home The worlds most extensive network Regus has 2,768 workplaces in 106 countries, serving customers ranging from Virtual office solutions for home-based single-person start-ups to global corporations.
We offer the ability to work how workers, start-ups, and established firms you want, where you want, and at a range of price points.
We see the potential moving into new markets: ranging from for more than 20,000 locations globally in the long term.
prestigious business addresses, to telephone services, mail management, and access to over 2,000 business lounges.
Offering a range of formats We are seeing a generational shift in what people want from their workspace, Mobile meaning different customers require different solutions.
Our growing range of formats enables us to deliver a working environment that matches the needs of each customer.
Flexibility Support Flexibility Community Consistency Professionalism Inspiration Creative Drop-in workplaces and technology services workstyle to help people stay productive on the move, giving users access to over 2,000 locations in 977 cities through our advanced web and mobile booking system, as well as 18m wi-fi hotspots.
Workplace recovery Business Connections Value Functional support Funding Ease Convenience Inspiration Ensuring business continuity in the event of a disaster through access to our international network of business centres and 24 7 support from our dedicated operations Exclusivity Luxury Convenience Productivity team.
Our Dynamic recovery product Privacy Status Professionalism Mobility guarantees local recovery in the optimal locations based upon the type of disaster.
com 5 Innovation for growth We invest significantly in innovation every year.
Businesses large and small pick Regus because of our understanding of how to set up global technology networks and provide services that help them work more efficiently.
6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Marketplace An online trading platform that allows our customers to promote services to each other, as well as giving them access to specially curated offers from our partners around the world Access control Cloud-based electronic access control that simplifies lock and key administration, while providing customers with mobile app convenience and improved control over their workspace Client app Cloud communications An easy to use client self-service application that allows Integrated audio, video, and web-based communications, individuals, corporates and enterprises to find locations, allowing customers to make and take office calls wherever book rooms, access benefits and facilitate administration they are and whenever they want on the device of their choice www.
com 7 The global partner of choice Regus allows us to mobilise very quickly in new markets... a quick call to Regus and were good to go.
Our scale, range of formats, products and service offering mean we are the only global player equipped to offer businesses the full range of office space they need.
8 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Its about break-out space, where we can be innovative.
The first-floor space here Spaces, Oxford Street, London is great for that somewhere people can go to have a conversation thats not structured, a casual conversation that tends to be where the magic happens.
com Regus allows us to mobilise very quickly in new markets.
It certainly helps us with new business initiatives, popping up very quickly in cities across the US a quick call to Regus and were good to go.
Anthony Smith, Director, Real Estate and Workplace Services, Asia Pacific, Google We particularly enjoy a fantastic relationship with our Regus Account Director.
Great relationships, flexibility, listening to requirements, coming to the table with suggestions and ideas these factors all make me want to stay with the company.
Chris Spratt, Director of Property and Facilities, Michael Page When I first saw Spaces, I noticed the light and the room theres so much here, which is really hard to find in central London.
Everybody seems lively and happy here, positive and excited about the future.
