28 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE METROLOGY Renishaw products are Position encoders also exhibited solid Performance growth, benefitting from investments As already reported, there was deployed in space for in the Far East electronics and exceptional growth for our machine semiconductor sectors, and a global the first time tool products line, but there drive towards industrial automation was also strong growth for our which will increase capacity and measurement automation, styli and The European Space Agencys flexibility, improve product quality fixturing, and additive manufacturing Sentinel-1A satellite was launched andreduce manufacturing lead times metal 3D printing products lines.
from the European spaceport in and costs.
Such automation requires The measurement automation products French Guiana with Renishaws the rapid, reliable and accurate line, which is currently focused on new space-encoder technology measurement of position between the award-winning Equator gauge, installed on the advanced moving parts, delivered by our encoders.
continues to see high levels of success Optical Communications Payload in the automotive, aerospace and In a similar way as we have dealt with OCP of the satellite, part of a consumer electronics sectors on a the unpredictable demand for machine revolutionary inter-satellite laser global basis, with integration within tool products, our manufacturing communication system.
automation cells continuing to be a investments and expert local support The OCP provides an optical Low notable trend.
organisations have given us an agile Earth Orbit LEO to Geostationary capability that allows us to quickly The additive manufacturing AM Earth Orbit GEO communications respond to the large encoder orders products line, which includes the LBC link through a pair of Laser from customers supplying the fastbusiness in Germany specialising in AM Communication Terminals LCT by paced electronics sector.
parts manufacture, including conformally space telecommunications company cooled mould tools and tool inserts Tesat-Spacecom Tesat of Backnang, Market conditions for injection moulding and die-casting Germany.
The GEO LCT is currently Manufacturers around the world applications, continues to benefit from accommodated on Europes AlphaSat.
are continuing the relentless drive to high levels of investment and integration Space is an exceptionally harsh reduce costs, shorten lead times and within the Groups infrastructure, environment that demands encoder improve the quality of finished products.
including the new facility in Staffordshire, performance and reliability far in Renishaw technologies provide them more machines for demonstration excess of normal operational limits.
with proven solutions to keep machines facilities and plans for a series of AM Tesat required a new rotary encoder for running reliably, maximise output from solutions centres which will aid adoption the coarse pointing assembly CPA those machines and significantly reduce of AM technologies by new customers.
of its second generation LCT, which is the time taken to inspect finished Renishaw is now being seen as a key essentially a telescope with coherent components.
The skills shortages faced player in the sector and we are receiving receiver and transmitter hardware.
on a global basis in engineering and strong interest from large manufacturers manufacturing are also driving increased in a wide range of sectors, including The space-encoder, developed in investments in automated processes, aerospace, motion control, mould and collaboration with Tesat, is designed many of which require products from die, medical and motorsport.
to withstand operating temperatures across our various lines.
from -40 C to 80 C, bombardment A new web shop was introduced during by solar cosmic radiation and high The civil aviation sector continues the year for the promotion and sales mechanical loads consistent with rocket to forecast very positive trends for of styli, fixtures and other metrology launch.
Radiation hardening, combined Renishaw, with the 2015 Airbus Global accessories, with the site now available with Renishaws extremely robust Market Forecast predicting a doubling of in 14 different countries.
Our co-ordinate optical detection principle, resulted air traffic over the next 15 years and also measuring machine CMM products in the encoder achieving qualification forecasting that over the next 20 years, line also showed good growth, for an impressive 15 years service in some additional 32,600 passenger with the REVO measuring system aGEO environment.
and freight aircraft will be required.
continuing to be adopted by some Our products are used heavily in the major global automotive businesses.
The space-encoder is installed on both aerospace sector and the continuing At one manufacturer, an installation of rotary axes of the CPA and achieves a drive towards more fuel-efficient aircraft seven systems led to an average 45% resolution of less than 0.5 microradians, also requires more tightly toleranced improvement in the cycle time to inspect with a short-range error of less than parts, and the lightweighting of engine blocks and cylinder heads, 0.5 microradians and long-range error components, hence strong interest leading to an additional eight systems ofless than 5 microradians.
S St tr ra at te egic gic r re epo por rt t Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Close-up of rotary space-encoder developed by Renishaw and Tesat-Spacecom, which is utilised on 1 axes and 1 2 In-space laser communication.
2 Laser Communications Terminal from Tesat-Spacecom.
30 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE METROLOGY CONTINUED We also constantly evaluate Strategy for growth Other products introduced during the new opportunities for existing or year for our CMM products line include We continue to position Renishaw complementary technologies both to the PH20 MT system an entry-level as a solutions provider and reduce increase sales to our existing customer machine touch only version of the the risks of over-reliance on large base and to expand upon that base.
market leading PH20 five-axis touchcustomers who integrate our products.
For example, a 20% stake in HiETA trigger system, RSP3-6 a new scanning Our measurement automation, AM Technologies Limited was recently probe for the REVO system that enables and accessory ranges, such as styli acquired.
The design and delivery of the use of ultra-long styli up to 800mm and fixtures, can be supplied direct additive manufacturing products such in length to measure deep bores and to the end-user, whilst we continue to as heat exchangers for a range of UCCsuite software V4.9.
2 CMM control strengthen our portfolio of hardware applications, which HiETA specialises in, software which supports new products and software for CMMs that can be will greatly complement our existing AM and improvements to CMM calibration.
used to upgrade measuring machines technology and products.
Many of the already installed.
For example, our new Additional products for the Equator opportunities for AM sales are to existing MODUS 2 software suite is designed to gauging system include a touch-trigger customers who understand Renishaws simplify the programming of CMMs and probe kit which gives much shorter cycle holistic approach to manufacturing and supports the full range of measurement times for certain applications and EZ-IO also the complementary products that tasks, from basic manual inspection 4.0, an updated version of software can assist their part production, such as devices to fully automated machines that allows Equator to be more easily gauging or CMM inspection products.
with five-axis systems such as REVO.
configured for use in automated cells.
A key focus is on developing Key developments An upgrade was also introduced for technologies that provide patented During the year, we launched a new the AM250 additive manufacturing products and methods which support machine, which includes new optical concept in probing, designed to appeal our product strategies, with 55.0m to a more price-sensitive market.
control software, a gas knife lens net of capitalisation costs expenditure window protection system and a highThe Primo twin probe system see on R&D and engineering during the page 17 offers a low initial cost and a capacity filtration system, all designed year.
The current technology focus to give faster and cleaner processing pay-as-you-go approach, which includes miniaturised high-resolution is already gaining popularity after ofAM parts.
position feedback systems, userinitial launches in India and China.
friendly metrology software products Also introduced towards the end of Outlook for gauging, co-ordinate measurement the year was Primo LTS, a single-axis We continue to be confident that and calibration, and the development tool setter that allows users to set there will be increased adoption of of AM systems with faster processing tool length, check for breakage and AM technologies by many of our capability and improved process control compensate for thermal growth on existing customer groups, whilst a for large-scale manufacturing.
continuing recovery in the electronics sector will benefit our position encoder There have been several new software products line.
products, all designed to simplify the operation of our metrology products, Growth in the worlds middle-classes, including MODUS 2 mentioned with increasing disposable income, previously.
For machine tool probe is also forecast to drive demand in users, GoProbe is simplified software areas such as civil aviation, consumer that requires no prior probing experience products, agriculture, construction and comes with easy-to-use training and power generation including oil, materials, including a smartphone gas and renewables.
To make using the Equator should all result in increased demand system similarly straightforward, for our metrology products to help gauging software our new INTUO drive efficiencies, reduce waste, requires minimal training and allows a increase automation and aid product programmer to create gauging routines measurement traceability.
simply by using the part to be measured and its associated engineering drawing.
Fanbeam 5 the laser-based marine dynamic positioning for offshore support vessels.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 55% reduction in cooling time increases Krchers productivity Based in Germany, Alfred Krcher GmbH & Co. KG Krcher and its high-pressure washers with their distinctive yellow cases, are a popular item in households around the world.
More than 2 million units of the basic Original design of mould tool for K2 rear Krcher K2 pressure washer model yellow case.
leave the companys Obersontheim factory every year.
As part of a project to reduce the total cycle time for the manufacture of the K2s moulded yellow case by at least 20%, Krcher turned to Renishaw GmbH based in Pliezhausen, Germany.
Our aim was to reduce the cycle time from the original 52 seconds to between 40 and 42 seconds, explained Leopold Hoffer, Krchers injection moulding process co-ordinator.
Renishaw carried out a full analysis ofthe original injection moulding process, where cooling accounted for 22 seconds of the 52 second total Krcher K2 pressure washer.
cycle time and recommended various design improvements to the mould tools, which were adopted by Krcher.
The solution combined a mix of conventional temperature control cooling technology, vacuum-brazed cores and additively manufactured conformal cooling channels that follow the shape of the injection mould tool cavity to achieve rapid uniform cooling.
Combined with the re-organisation of external processes, including material feed and handling systems, overall cycle time reduced by almost 30% from 52 seconds to 37 seconds, within which cooling time reduced from 22 seconds to just 10 a 55% New design of mould tool by Renishaw improvement.
Overall daily output of showingadditively manufactured conformal the K2 case has risen from 1,496 to coolingchannels.
