66 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 RELX Group Business Leaders Senior Business Executives Ron Mobed Mike Walsh Mark Kelsey Mike Rusbridge Chet Burchett Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Scientific, Technical Legal Risk & Business Analytics Exhibitions Exhibitions & Medical Joined in 2011.
Appointed to current position in 2011.
CEO Business Information as Chairman in 1996. to current position in 2015. to current position in 2012. in 2010 and CEO Risk Retired in December 2015.
Previously CEO of Solutions in 2012.
Previously President of Previously President of Cengage Learnings LexisNexis US Legal Previously President of the Americas for Reed Markets and Director Has held a number of Reed Exhibitions Europe Exhibitions.
Prior to that Academic & Professional Group and Co-President ofStrategic Business senior positions across and Asia and President was President and Chief Development Home Depot.
theGroup over the past 30 Reed Exhibitions North Executive Officer, USA, and Co-Chief Operating Officer with information Prior to that was a years.
Prior to that for Burson-Marsteller, practising attorney at Weil, University and received worked with leading US a leading global public services company, IHS.
Holds a degree from Trinity Gotshal and Manges in his MBA from Bradford exhibition organiser, Clapp relations agency.
Holds Washington DC and served University.
Studied at a degree from Baylor College, Cambridge, and a masters degree from as a consultant with Manchester University and University.
TheBoston Consulting Harvard Business School.
Holds a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School and is a graduate of Yale University.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Business Leaders 67 Corporate Executives Youngsuk YS Chi Ian Fraser Kumsal Bayazit Henry Udow Director of Corporate Affairs and Human Resources Director Chief Strategy Officer Chief Legal Officer and Chairman Elsevier Company Secretary Joined in 2005.
Appointed to current position in 2011. current position at that time.
tocurrent position in 2012. current position at that time.
Previously was President and Previously Global HR Director Previously Executive Vice Previously Chief Legal Officer and ChiefOperating Officer of Random atBHP Billiton 1998 to 2005.
President of Global Strategy Company Secretary of Cadbury plc House, founding Chairman of Holdsan MBA in Finance and andBusiness Development for having spent 23 years working with Random House Asia and Chief International Business from LexisNexis Legal & Professional.
Prior to that worked Operating Officer for Ingram Londons City University and an MA Prior to that worked with Bain at Shearman & Sterling in New BookGroup.
Holds an MBA from from Edinburgh University.
Ian is &Company in New York, York and London.
Holds a Juris Columbia University and is a also a Chartered Psychologist.
LosAngeles, Johannesburg Doctor degree from the University Graduate of Princeton University.
Holds an MBA from of Michigan Law School and a Harvard Business School and bachelors degree from the is a Graduate of the University University of Rochester.
