34 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE HEALTHCARE Research into graphene and other Performance Bristol Royal 2D materials, life sciences, medical Growth came from our medical dental research, pharmaceuticals and Childrens Hospital and neurosurgical products lines, while advanced materials for the green energy spectroscopy grew markedly in the market, require high-performance second half.
Bristol Royal Childrens Hospital Raman instrumentation for which BRCH acquired a Renishaw During the year, the dental products ourspectroscopy products are ideally neuromate robot as a result of the line was re-named medical dental, suited.
Hybrid systems, combining Grand Appeal charity fundraising reflecting the wider portfolio of Raman chemical analysis with the high in 2012.
Since then, it has been used products now being developed, spatial resolution of either scanning for several stereotactic procedures, including craniomaxillofacial implants.
electron microscopy or atomic force including deep brain stimulation This line saw another record for the microscopy, continue to be in strong treatment for dystonia and the annual production levels of metal demand.
Likewise, the growing life delivery of micro-catheters for the dental structures created from cobalt science market is showing renewed treatment of brain cancer in children.
chrome powder using Renishaw interest in Raman combined with AM machines, including LaserPFM laserscanning confocal microscopy.
Neil Barua, Clinical Lecturer in frameworks crowns and bridges and Neurosurgery, explains more about LaserAbutments, which are implantMarket conditions the oncology work: The main type supported custom abutments that Life expectancy is increasing in both of brain tumour we treat in children are machine finished for fitment a developed and developing markets, is called brain stem glioma.
This is custom abutment is a prosthetic device meaning that key drivers include the probably the worst kind of cancer you inserted into an implant to replace requirement for faster procedures can have, and at the moment, children natural dentition and provide functional to reduce waiting times, more who are diagnosed would be expected support for a crown.
We continue to economical treatments and safer to survive between about 7 and benefit from offering dental materials procedures with reduced human errors.
that are fully certified and traceable, and Our medical dental and neurological a central manufacturing facility to dental products are well placed to deliver He added, The brain stem is really laboratories which use non-Renishaw onthese requirements.
tiger country for any kind of surgery, CAD systems.
its where the clockwork of the brain Global economic conditions have seen is, and its the area where the nerves An important agreement was reached academic research funding delayed controlling the face, heart rate, blood with DENTSPLY Implants which will or reduced in certain markets while pressure and breathing are.
If we see this world-leading dental company remaining strong in others, but this are going to operate in that area, we purchase Renishaw AM machines for improved markedly in the second have to make sure we are as safe and the manufacture of dental products.
half and the outlook is much more accurate as possible.
Global funding for biomedical At the end of the previous financial research, advanced 2D materials and The team at BRCH use the neuromate year, the FDA issued clearance for green energy remains strong and our robot and a special version of the the marketing of the neuromate spectroscopy products are well placed neuroinspire planning software and stereotactic robotic system in the USA.
catheter system both manufactured The first installation of the system by Renishaw, according to BRCHs was made during the year at Thomas Strategy for growth specifications in a technique called Jefferson Hospital in Philadelphia, convection enhanced drug delivery, and is now being used regularly in We aim to develop innovative healthcare where very fine micro-catheters  SEEG products that will significantly advance deliver chemotherapies direct to cases to identify areas of the brain where our customers operational performance thetumour site.
epileptic seizures originate in epilepsy by maximising research capabilities, patients, with use of the robot reducing reducing process times and improving Neil comments, Our accuracy is procedure times from eight hours to just the efficacy of medical procedures.
typically within 1mm of the planned two hours.
A second neuromate system catheter target, which helps to make As a key Renishaw focus is to develop for the USA was delivered to Ohio surgery less risky.
technologies that provide patented State University Hospital in Columbus products and methods, we invested attheend of the year.
8.3m net of capitalisation costs of expenditure on R&D and engineering during the year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 35 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Neil Barua, Clinical Lecturer in Neurosurgery, planning surgery with the Renishaw neuroinspire software.
36 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE HEALTHCARE CONTINUED The regulatory requirements for At the end of the year, the medical dental Key developments healthcare products demand significant line launched LaserImplants, customDuring the year, version 4.1 of our investment, but make barriers to entry made craniomaxillofacial implants that neuroinspire surgical planning high forcompetitive products.
support reconstructive surgery, typically software was CE marked, making resulting from head or neck trauma, birth Our metrology and healthcare it available for sale in the EU.
This will be This new version includes significant businesses are interconnected and we one of the products that will eventually employ core metrology technologies new functionality, including the ability to be produced at the new Healthcare interface with hospital data networks, and manufacturing expertise to minimise Centre of Excellence being created technology risks.
This is illustrated very support for SEEG procedures, and at the Miskin site.
This centre will have importantly, it also integrates with the clearly in our dental CAD CAM scanners an ISO13485 quality management and the zirconia milling systems that we neuromate robot, allowing direct control system for the design and manufacture of the robot from surgical plans prepared use in our dental structure production, of medical devices and will operate which utilise proven measurement within the software.
additive manufacturing processes to sensors, encoders, software and our At the end of the year, we announced produce medical products.
As well knowledge of subtractive machining, the launch of the neurolocate patient as design and production facilities, whilst, as mentioned previously, we registration system in countries that the centre will include training and also produce a range of 3D-printed recognise the CE mark.
neurolocate is a conferencing suites to showcase metal dental structures on Renishaw frameless patient registration system for Renishaws solutions in neurosurgery, AM machines.
the neuromate stereotactic robot with dentistry, craniomaxillofacial surgery We also apply AM to an increasing technology based on a robot arm used andmolecular diagnostics.
in connection with an intraoperative number of healthcare applications including the metal delivery port X-Ray CT. Outlook of an investigational drug delivery Increased life expectancy on a global The spectroscopy line released WiRE system, which is manufactured basis means greater incidences of 4.1 during the year, an updated software using a combination of AM and degenerative neurological diseases, package that offers improvements in 2D conventional machining, and which will require surgical therapies.
There were also also as part of developments With new regulatory approvals we four new applications launched for use  surgery.
are increasingly well-placed to supply with the inVia Raman microscope two neurosurgeons with the products and We actively consider acquiring for biological analysis and two for the techniques to support such procedures.
A new Raman businesses and or technologies that we feel are complementary to our existing demonstration laboratory was opened In developing markets, levels of within the new Renishaw facility in healthcare products.
wealth are increasing at a national and Shanghai, featuring an  level, which is driving demand controlled clean room.
for higher-quality medical treatments, often requiring more technologically advanced products.
The market for Raman spectroscopy continues to grow in fields such as nanotechnology, advanced materials and life sciences.
Automation of a diagnostic assay on the Raman image revealing the chemical SP-2000.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 37 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Raman systems used to study 2D materials Boston Universitys Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering DECE houses the Optical Characterization and Nanophotonics laboratory.
Here, research focuses on developing, and applying, advanced optical characterisation techniques to the study of solid-state and biological phenomena, at the nanoscale.
The group uses Renishaw Raman spectrometers to measure strain in 2D materials and the friction between 2D materials and their underlying substrates.
Anna Swan is an associate professor in the DECE and involved with a research group that is currently focusing on 2D materials, such as graphene, boron nitride, molybdenum disulphide and phosphorene.
They are interested in how strain, and designed strain fields, can be used to manipulate the electronic and optical properties in these materials.
For this work, they are looking at how they can control the boundary conditions and manipulate the extent of friction between the 2D material and substrate.
They are using Raman spectroscopy to measure strain, the coupling between strain andRaman shifts, and the friction.
Dr Anna Swan of Boston University Dr Swan and her colleagues have with her Renishaw inVia confocal been using Renishaw Raman systems Raman microscope.
for a number of years, recently acquiring a new inVia confocal Raman microscope.
Their older Renishaw RM1000 system is now connected to different custom-designed chambers, for specific research under  conditions.
The new inVia provides a number of advantages such as easy switching between lasers, fast spectral mapping, automatic alignment and integrated calibration, making it the go to system for the lab.
High-resolution Raman image ofgraphene sheet.
