18 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS SECTORS HEALTHCARE Image shows a LaserImplant cranial plate created in titanium alloy using Renishaws additive manufacturing technology.
Such implants can be used in craniomaxillofacial surgery toreplace bone removed as a result of trauma ordisease treatment.
REVENUE -4% OPERATING LOSS PERCENTAGE OF GROUP REVENUE 27.7m 6.8m 6% OUR BUSINESS SECTORS HEALTHCARE CONTINUED Our technologies are helping within applications such as craniomaxillofacial surgery, dentistry, neurosurgery, chemical analysis and nanotechnology research.
These include engineering solutions for stereotactic neurosurgery, diagnosis of infectious diseases, analyticaltools that identify and characterise the chemistry and structure of materials, supply of implants to hospitals and specialist design centres for craniomaxillofacial surgery, and products and services that allow dental laboratories to manufacture high-quality dental restorations.
This illustration highlights 15 applications for ourproducts within a simulated healthcare facility.
14 13 12 11 10 9 8 17 16 1 18 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 202122 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Group products neuroinspire OMP400 DIXI medical 1 7 13 electrodes surgical high-accuracy planning software machine tool probe recording electrodes for epilepsy AM250 Furnace inVia 2 8 14 Raman microscope additive for sintering manufacturing milled zirconia for non-destructive system dental structures material analysis Controller software Productivity Structural and 3 9 15 chemical analyser software for PC-based machine the AM250 tool probing software SCA system control combines SEM and Raman analytical technologies OTS Renishaw RenDx SA-2000 4 10 16 Dental Studio optical transmission analyser for tool setting probe identification of CAD software for biological targets dental scanning Maxillofacial DS10 RenDx SP-2000 5 11 17 build plate contact sample processor dental scanner additively manufactured parts for cutting and placement guides Dental build plate DS30 neuromate 6 12 18 9  blue light optical robot for dental structures dental scanner stereotactic neurosurgery Key: 1 Hardware 2 Software 23 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 The neuromate stereotactic robot can be used in a variety of neurosurgical procedures such as biopsy, neuroendoscopy, deep brain stimulation and .
Open here for more detail... w Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 19 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Neurosurgical robot Hybrid Raman systems The product range includes A stereotactic robot that provides Renishaws hybrid systems unite the the following: a platform solution for a broad chemical analysis power of Raman Dental scanners range of functional neurosurgical spectroscopy with the high spatial 3D contact scanners and nonprocedures including deep resolution of other techniques, contact optical scanners used for brain stimulation DBS, such as atomic force microscopy digitising of dental preparations and  and scanning electron microscopy.
the measurement of implant locations SEEG, neuroendoscopy, These new instruments are vital tools for tooth-supported frameworks and stereotactic biopsies and is for investigating materials and devices custom abutments.
being used to trial the delivery for nanotechnology applications.
oftherapeutics deep into the brain.
Dental computer-aided design Turnkey Raman analysis CAD software Neurosurgical planning software The RA800 benchtop platform Dental CAD software that allows Software that allows advanced provides companies with a highset-up of scanning routines and planning of targets and trajectories for performance chemical imaging and enables laboratory staff to design stereotactic neurosurgery.
analysis system that can be tailored abutments and structures for crowns for the needs of their customers.
Neurosurgical implants and bridges, including powerful RA800 gives research-grade Raman Implantable devices that allow anatomic design functions.
microscopy performance in a Class 1 surgeons to verify expected DBS laser-safe, simple-to-use form.
Dental structures manufacturing electrode position relative to targeted service Diagnostic systems anatomy using magnetic resonance imaging MRI for the treatment of Renishaw Diagnostics Limited has A central manufacturing service Parkinsons disease, other movement developed the RenDx Multiplex Assay that can handle CAD files from a disorders and neuropathic pain.
System, an automated, multiplex wide variety of dental CAD systems platform for clinical diagnosis of to produce structures for crowns Neurosurgical accessories infectious disease, and is in the and bridges in zirconia, cobalt Specialist electrodes and instruments process of obtaining CE certification chrome, PMMA used for temporary for use in epilepsy neurosurgery, for the platform and its first assay, restorations and wax, and abutments manufactured by DIXI Medical.
Fungiplex, for diagnosis ofinvasive in cobalt chrome.
Raman microscopes Craniomaxillofacial custom-made implants Scientists and engineers worldwide use Renishaws research-grade Additively manufactured from titanium, inVia Raman microscope for the custom-made craniomaxillofacial non-destructive chemical analysis implants are structural implants and imaging of materials.
Its highthat are used in the reconstruction speed, high-quality results and of a patients head, face or jaw.
upgradeability are valued in fields as These are most commonly required diverse as nanotechnology, biology after oncology treatment or as a result and pharmaceuticals.
Open here Preparing the RenDx SP-2000 to process Checking a processed assay before analysis for more a diagnostic assay.
on the RenDx SA-2000 sample analyser.
