44 Corporate Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 CC N 4 5 6 CC N R A A 7 8 9 CC N R R N A CC Committee Chair Previous roles 2.
Andy Ransom, Chief Executive 52 N Nomination Committee Finance Director of Mitchells & Butlers plc Date appointed: May 2008 A Audit Committee A senior executive at J Sainsbury plc various R Remuneration Committee Key strengths finance roles including Group Financial Andy has broad commercial experience gained Controller, Corporate Finance Director and in senior executive positions and legal roles and Strategy Director 1.
John McAdam, Chairman 67 is a qualified solicitor.
He joined Rentokil Initial in Ernst & Young, working in audit and corporate Date appointed: May 2008 2008 as the Executive Director of the global Pest finance Control business and was also responsible for Key strengths the Group Legal and M&A functions.
John has extensive experience of senior 4.
Peter Bamford, leadership of global businesses.
He brings to Non-executive Director 61 Current external commitments the group a deep and strategic understanding of Date appointed: July 2006 Director and Trustee of Street League a wide range of industry sectors gained from his Key strengths Previous roles career with ICI and Unilever over more than 30 Marketing: one of the key architects of the Senior executive at ICI, EVP of M&A and years and his other Board and advisor global Vodafone brand as Chief Marketing General Counsel and Company Secretary appointments.
He has a strong scientific Officer of Vodafone, and brings extensive Responsible for a number of group functions background with a doctorate in chemical experience to the Board over developing the and international businesses including ICIs physics and as a former research fellow at marketing agenda for Rentokil Initials brands.
regional and industrial divisions Manchester University.
Current external commitments Current external commitments 3.
Jeremy Townsend, Chairman of SuperGroup Plc Chairman, United Utilities Group PLC Chief Financial Officer and SID, J Sainsbury plc Previous roles Chief Information Officer 52 NED, Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Chief Marketing Officer and Director of Date appointed: August 2010 Vodafone Group plc from 1998 to 2006 Previous roles Key strengths Chief Executive of Northern Europe, Middle Chief Executive, Imperial Chemical Industries Jeremy joined Rentokil Initial as Chief Financial East and Africa operations and Chief plc ICI Officer and, in addition, became Chief Executive of Vodafone UK Held senior executive positions at Unilever, Information Officer in November 2013.
Held senior positions at Kingfisher plc and including with Birds Eye Walls, Quest AChartered Accountant.
Tesco PLC and was a Director of WHSmith International and Unichema International PLC and Six Degrees Technology Group Ltd Current external commitments Director of Severn Trent plc Chairman of PRS for Music Limited Member of the Accounting Council of the Director of Sara Lee Corporation USA Chairman of Brandtone Holdings Limited Financial Reporting Council Ireland Non-executive Director of parkrun Limited Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 45 Corporate Governance 5.
Daragh Fagan, Non-executive Director 49 Non-executive Director 70 General Counsel & Company Date appointed: March 2012 Date appointed: January 2008 Secretary 46 Date appointed: September 2013 GC : Key strengths Key strengths July 2014 Company Secretary Marketing: member of the Chartered Institute of He has significant international business Marketing with a masters degree in marketing.
experience ranging from leading successful Key strengths Financial services: member of the Chartered manufacturing and service businesses in Extensive in-house legal and company Insurance Institute.
thedrinks industry to banking and financial secretarial experience in major listed services roles.
multinational corporations, including significant Current external commitments businesses in emerging markets.
Managing Director, Corporate Solutions at Current external commitments Aegon UK plc Chairman of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Current external commitments NED, Henderson Group plc NED, Carlsberg A S Denmark None NED, esure Group plc Previous roles Previous roles Previous roles Governor of the Bank of Ireland General Counsel, Europe & Asia Thomson Chief Executive of RAC Motoring Services Joint Chief Executive and latterly NED, Pernod Reuters, previously General Counsel EMEA for Distribution Director of Aviva UK Life and Ricard SA France Reuters Group plc Norwich Union Insurance Chairman and Chief Executive of Irish Distillers Associate General Counsel, N. America, Chairman of Voicesage Global Holdings Ltd. N. Sea & Middle East, Eni SpA 6.
Julie Southern, NED, CityJet Ltd Ireland Non-executive Director 56 NED, Mey ki Turkey Date appointed: July 2014 NED, Eurasian Natural Resources Corpn.
plc Age of Directors % Key strengths 8.
Alan Giles, Julie has had a long, successful career in a Non-executive Director 61 number of commercially oriented finance and Date appointed: May 2006 related roles working for some of the worlds best known consumer brands.
A Chartered Key strengths Accountant with a degree in economics.
He has extensive commercial and strategic service industry experience having led two major Current external commitments retail brand businesses through significant NED, NXP Semi-Conductors N. V. NASDAQ periods of change.
NED, DFS Furniture plc NED, Cineworld Group plc Current external commitments NED, Gate Group Holdings AG NED, Perpetual Income & Growth Investment Trust plc Previous roles NED, Competition and Markets Authority Chief Financial Officer 20002010 and Chief Chairman, Advisory Board at the Oxford 38% 45-55 years Commercial Officer 20102013 of Virgin Institute of Retail Management 37% 55-65 years Atlantic Limited 25% 65-70 years Associate Fellow, Sad Business School, Held anumber of financial and operational Oxford University roles in Porsche Cars, Great Britain and Honorary visiting professor, Cass Business WHSmith PLC School Previous roles Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited Chief Executive of HMV Group plc Managing Director of Waterstones Director, WHSmith PLC and Book Tokens Limited NED, The Office of Fair Trading NED, Somerfield plc NED, Wilson Bowden plc Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
