158 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Report of the Board The Non-Executive and Executive Directors present their joint The shares of RELX PLC and RELX NV are regarded as two report, together with the financial statements of the Group and of separate classes of share which together form the consolidated RELX NV the Company, for the year ended 31 December 2015. issued share capital of the Group.
In calculating earnings per share of the Group, the earnings for each company are calculated During the year, the simplification and modernisation of the on a fully distributed basis.
The Groups usual practice is for only a Groups corporate structure, announced in February 2015, portion of earnings to be distributed by way of dividends.
Dividends wasapproved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
paid to RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders are, other than in Effective in July, as part of the modernisation, the Company special circumstances, equalised at the gross level including the changed its name to RELX NV.
benefit of the prevailing UK attributable tax credit of 10% available RELX PLC and RELX NV are separate, publicly held entities.
to certain RELX PLC shareholders.
The UK Government has RELXPLCs ordinary shares are listed in London and New York, announced that dividend tax credits will be abolished with effect and RELX NVs ordinary shares are listed in Amsterdam and New from 6 April 2016, impacting dividends paid after this date.
RELX PLC and RELX NV jointly own RELX Group plc, which, 2015, the allocation of earnings between the two classes of shares with effect from February 2015, when RELX NV and RELX PLC reflects this differential in dividend payments declared, with the transferred their respective ownership interests in Elsevier Reed balance of earnings assumed to be distributed as a capital Finance BV to RELX Group plc, held all of RELX Groups operating distribution, in equal amounts per share.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX As a result of the abolition of the UK tax credit, reported earnings Group plc and its subsidiaries joint ventures and associates are per share will have the same value for each RELX NV and RELX together known as RELX Group or the Group.
This report of the Board and the parent company financial In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures are statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated presented as additional performance measures used by financial statements and other reports set out on pages 2 to 145, management.
These exclude the Groups share of amortisation of which are incorporated by reference herein.
Summary acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, tax in joint consolidated financial information in euros is set out on pages 168 ventures, disposal gains and losses and other non-operating to 169.
The consolidated financial statements on pages 94 to 145 items, related tax effects, and movements in deferred taxation are to be considered as part of the notes to the statutory financial assets and liabilities related to acquired intangible assets and statements.
The Annual Report of RELX NV within the meaning of include the benefit of tax amortisation where available on article 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code consists of pages 157 to 160 acquiredgoodwill and intangible assets.
and, incorporated by reference, pages 2 to 145.
The Corporate Governance Statement of RELX NV dated 24 February 2016 is Parent company financial statements published on the RELX Group website www.
com and is In accordance with article 2:362 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the incorporated by reference herein in accordance with the individual parent company financial statements of RELX NV Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag presented on pages 157 to 166 were prepared under Financial January 2010 article 2a under 1 sub b.
Principal activities The profit attributable to the shareholders of RELX NV was RELX NV is a holding company.
Its principal investment is its 787m 2014: 537m and net assets as at 31 December 2015, direct47.1% shareholding in RELX Group plc.
RELX Group plc principally representing the investment in RELX Group plc under is a global provider of information and analytics for professional the historical cost method and loans to their subsidiaries were and business customers across industries.
Free reserves as at 31 December 2015 shareholding in RELX Group plc is held by RELX PLC.
A full were 3,946m 2014: 4,192m, comprising reserves and paid-in description is set out on page 68. surplus less shares held in treasury.
Financial statement presentation Dividends The Governing Agreement determines the equalisation ratio The Board is recommending a final dividend of 0.288 per between RELX PLC and RELX NV.
Following a bonus issue of ordinary share, up 17% compared with the prior year.
This gives shares in RELX NV, one RELX PLC ordinary share confers an total ordinary dividends for the year of 0.403 2014: 0.589, equivalent economic interest to one RELX NV ordinary share up5% on 2014.
The final dividend will be paid on 20 May 2016. andthis change in the equalisation ratio took effect from 1 July Details of dividend cover and dividend policy are set out on page 58.
As a result of these arrangements, allshareholders can beregarded as having interests in a single economic entity.
Consequently, the Directors have concluded thatthe Group forms a single reporting entity for the presentation of consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the Group consolidated financial statements represent the interests of both sets of shareholders and are presented by both RELX PLC and RELX NV as their respective consolidated financial statements Areview of the Groups performance during the year is set out on pages 8 to 39, a summary of the principal risks facing the Group is set out onpages 60 to 62, and the Group statement on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 42 to 51.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Report of the Board 159 Share capital A resolution to renew the delegation of the authority is to be put to During 2015, 351,009,464 ordinary shares in RELX NV were issued the 2016 Annual General Meeting, together with a proposal for as follows: approval of the reduction of RELX NVs capital by cancellation of accumulated shares held in treasury.
The majority was issued under the bonus issue to implement the change of the equalisation ratio of RELX PLC to RELX NV Corporate Governance shares to 1 to 1 0.538 new RELX NV shares for each existing RELX NV is subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code RELX NV share held as at 30 June 2015, i. e. 349,083,336 issued in December 2008 the Dutch Code.
For further newshares information on the application of the Dutch Code, see the under convertible debentures at prices between 12.57 Corporate Governance Statement of RELX NV published on the and16.50 RELX Group website, www.
under executive share option schemes at prices between Significant agreements change of control 12.55 and 16.49 The Governing Agreement between RELX NV and RELX PLC states Note: that upon a change of control of RELX NV for these purposes, The prices at which shares were issued under convertible the acquisition by a third party of 50% or more of the issued share debentures and the executive share option schemes have been capital having voting rights, should there not be a comparable adjusted to take account of the bonus issue.
offer from the offeror for RELX PLC, RELX PLC may serve notice upon RELX NV varying certain provisions of the Governing Information regarding shares outstanding at 31 December 2015 Agreement, including the governance and the standstill provisions.
isshown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
At 31December 2015 the total shares held in treasury were 57,113,394.
There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit Another 5,740,212 shares were held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
facilities that in the event of a change of control of both RELX NV All issued R Shares in RELX NV, through which RELX PLC held a and RELX PLC and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating 5.8% indirect interest in RELX NV, were cancelled effective 1 July downgrade to sub-investment grade may, at the option of the 2015 with the consent of the sole holder of the R shares, Reed lenders, require repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
Holding B. V. The aggregate nominal value of the cancelled R shares was repaid by means of transferring 2,898 newly created Financial statements and accounting records non-voting shares in RELX Group plc to Reed Holding B. V. The financial statements provide a true and fair view of the state ofaffairs of RELX NV and the Group as of 31 December 2015 and At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders approved ofthe profit or loss in 2015.
In preparing the financial statements, the reduction of the capital of RELX NV by the cancellation of up the Board ensures that suitable accounting policies, consistently to30m of its shares held in treasury.
No shares have been applied and supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, cancelled on the basis of this authorisation.
have been used and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Board is responsible for keeping proper accounting Substantial holdings records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the As at 24 February 2016, based on the public database of and on financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that notification received from the Netherlands Authority for the the financial statements comply with the law.
The Board has Financial Markets, the Company is aware of interests in the capital general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard and voting rights of the issued share capital of the Company of at the assets of the company and to prevent and detect fraud and least 3% by the following persons or organisations: other irregularities.
BlackRock, Inc. Internal control RELX NV As required under sections II.
1.5. of the Dutch Code, the The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effectiveness Causeway Capital Management LLC ofthe systems of internal control and risk management during FIL Limited thelast financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Henderson Group Plc objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but Jupiter Asset Management Ltd. notabsolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The outcome of this review has been discussed with the external Authority to purchase shares auditors.
The Board confirmed that as regards financial reporting, At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a the risk management and control systems provide reasonable resolution delegating authority to the Board to acquire shares in assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have RELX NV for a period of 18 months from the date of the Annual functioned properly during the financial year.
General Meeting up to and including 21 October 2016, for the maximum amount of 10% of the issued capital.
During the year, 15,814,850 shares were purchased under this and the previous delegation of authority.
As at 31 December 2015 there were 57,113,394 shares held in treasury, representing 5.45% of the issued shares.
A further 4,088,700 shares were purchased between 4January 2016 and the date of this report.
160 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Directors responsibility statement Signed by: The Board confirms, to the best of its knowledge, that the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by Non-executive directors Executive directors the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted A Habgood Chairman E Engstrom Chief Executive Officer by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial W Hauser N Luff Chief Financial Officer position and profit or loss of the group: and A Hennah L Hook the Report of the Board includes a fair review of the M van Lier Lels development and performance of the business during the R Polet financial year and the position of the group as at 31 December L Sanford 2015 together with a description of the principal risks and B van der Veer uncertainties that it faces.
Neither RELX NV nor the directors accept any liability to any Registered office person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that Radarweg 29 such liability arises under Dutch law.
1043 NX Amsterdam The Netherlands Disclosure of information to auditors As part of the process of approving the RELX NV 2015 financial Chamber of Commerce Amsterdam statements, the Board has taken steps to ensure that all relevant Register file No: 33155037 information was provided to the RELX NV auditors and, so far as 24 February 2016 the Board is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the RELX NV auditors are unaware.
Going concern For details of the businesses cash flows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the going concern assumption, see the Chief Financial Officers Report on pages 54 to 59 and page 75 in the section on corporate governance.
Long-term viability statement The Directors statement regarding the long-term viability of the Group as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out on page 75.
Auditors Deloitte Accountants B. V. will be retiring as the Company's auditorsat the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Following an audit tender process carried out during 2015, the Board accepted a recommendation from the Audit Committee that Ernst & Young Accountants LLP EY be proposed to shareholders as auditors of the Company in respect of the 2016 audit.
Further details on the audit tender process and transitional arrangements for the 2015 audit can be found on page 92 of the Report of the Audit Committees.
Resolutions for the appointment of EY as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Board to determine their remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 20April 2016.
