42 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Groups long-term aim is to achieve sustainable growth in revenue and profits inorder to provide an increasing dividend to shareholders.
This is to be achieved through substantial investment in people and research and development of new products and processes, acquisition of niche businesses complementary to and supporting the Groups strategic development aims, the application of technologies into different market areas and the development of its global marketing facilities.
The main performance measures monitored by the Board are: Financial KPIs Revenue growth m Total engineering costs Adjusted earnings Dividend per share including research and pershare pence pence development m Included in the Consolidated income statement Gross expenditure Related strategic priorities: 1 to 8 1 2 3 7 1 to 8 1 to 8 We are focused on growth in The growth of the business In order to provide an increasing We aim to achieve significant revenue, through increasing is fundamentally dependent return to shareholders, along long-term returns to shareholders our market and geographic on the continuing investment with retaining adequate funds by maintaining a progressive penetration and continually in engineering costs for the for reinvestment in the business, dividend policy, whilst maintaining introducing new products.
development of new products we aim to achieve year-on-year a solid capital base with sufficient We have also made a number of and processes.
The Group growth in earnings per share.
working capital to support the acquisitions over the last five years continues to make significant forecast growth.
which expand our product range investment in future products, and will support revenue growth with engineering costs equal by using the Groups worldwide to approximately 13% of group marketing and distribution revenue, and has also been infrastructure to expand accelerating new product these businesses.
KPIs are linked to strategic priorities: please see pages 69 for more information.
Non-financial KPIs Employee turnover % Number of apprentices in Training Health and safety training UK average employee turnover Number of new placements Total lost working time injuries per andmembers of the graduate 100,000 hours worked Renishaw employee turnover andapprenticeship schemes New placements New graduates New apprenticeships Related strategic priorities: 1 to 4 1 to 4 1 to 4 1 3 We continue to train, develop We believe in the need to provide Our strategy is to grow organically In a manufacturing environment, and reward our employees many options for career entry for and therefore developing students it is crucial that we maintain so that we retain skilled and young people, and we are proud and taking on apprentices and high standards of health and effective teams of people.
of our apprentice programme graduates forms a key element safety.
Our aim is to have zero Our aim is to maintain a UK and the success it has achieved, of this strategy.
Dependent on fatalities and zero lost working employee turnover rate which both for the apprentices that economic conditions, we propose time injuries.
is below the UK average have trained with us, and for to increase year-on-year the for the manufacturing and Renishaw by solving skills number of new apprenticeships, production sector.
In a period of growth, we graduates and student intend to increase the number of placements we take on.
apprentices taken into training each year.
