Board of Directors Building our future growth Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Dominik fide Daniel Lance Browne Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer and Chief Senior Independent Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Committee membership N N A R Appointment 18 May 2010 Founder 1 November 2015 27 August 2008 Experience Douglas was Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer Dominik served for over nine Lance was previously CEO Officer of Skype during its and founder, Mark Dixon is years as the Chief Financial then Chairman of Standard acquisition by eBay and was one of Europes best known Officer of Adecco Group, the Chartered Bank China Ltd, also Chief Financial Officer entrepreneurs.
Since founding world leading provider of human Non-Executive Director of IMI at SecureWave during its Regus in Brussels, Belgium resource solutions: Dominik plc, Senior Advisor to the City acquisition by PatchLink.
in 1989, he has achieved a was also the Adecco Groups of London, Chairman of China formidable reputation for Head of Global Solutions and Goldmines plc, and Director Prior to this, Douglas was an leadership and innovation.
was responsible for global of Business Development Arthur Andersen Partner with Prior to Regus he established information management at Powergen International.
international management businesses in the retail and and for Adecco Groups responsibilities.
He has served wholesale food industry.
as a director of companies in A recipient of several awards multiple jurisdictions and was Dominik previously held the CFO for enterprise, Mark has the founding Chairman of position at DIS AG, the market revolutionised the way business the American Chamber of leader in professional staffing in approaches its property needs Commerce in Luxembourg.
Germany, before the company with his vision of the future was ultimately acquired by of work.
External appointments Douglas is currently also a Lance is Chairman of Travelex Director of Median Gruppe China, and a WS Atkins S. r. l. and Socrates Health International Advisory Solutions Inc. Board member.
Board balance Board gender diversity Balance of Non-Executive and diversity and Executive Directors 1 1.
Chairman: 1 1 The role of the Board is 2.
Non-Executive: 5 to provide entrepreneurial 2 leadership and to review the overall strategic 3 2 development of the Group.
28 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Elmar Heggen Nina Henderson Florence Pierre Franois Pauly Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Director N A R N A R N N A A R R N A R 1 June 2010 20 May 2014 21 May 2013 19 May 2015 Elmar has extensive During her 30 year career with Florence has over 30 years of Franois has over 30 years management experience.
Since Bestfoods and its predecessor international corporate finance of management experience 2006 he has been the Chief company CPC International, practice, holding senior in the banking sector.
Until Financial Officer, Head of the Nina has held a number of positions at BNP, Financire October 2014 Franois Corporate Centre and a Member international and North Rothschild, Degroof Corporate served as Chief Executive of the Executive Committee American general management Finance, 3i Infrastructure plc and and Chairman of the of the RTL Group, the leading and executive marketing her own M&A advisory boutique.
Management Board of Banque European entertainment positions, including Vice Florence has an international Internationale Luxembourg network.
Joining the RTL Group President of Bestfoods and perspective, having worked in BIL.
Previous management in 2000 he has previously held President of Bestfoods Grocery.
Chicago, New York, Paris and experience includes Executive the positions of Vice President She has also served as a director Brussels.
She has also taught appointments at BIP of Mergers and Acquisitions and of numerous companies economics and finance, Investment Partners S. A.
Vice President of Strategy and including AXA Financial Inc, published a number of books Dexia Group and at Sal.
Prior to joining RTL, Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Del and articles on valuation, and Oppenheimer jr. & Cie. S. C. A. Elmar was Vice President & Monte Food Company and has been a member of several General Manager of Felix Pactiv Corporation.
French entrepreneurship and Schoeller Digital Imaging innovation committees.
Elmar is Chief Financial Officer Nina is currently a director of Florence is a director at ESL Franois serves as the and Member of the Executive CNO Financial Group and Walter Network, and also shares her NonExecutive Chairman of Committee of the RTL Group.
Energy Inc. She is Managing time between directorships, the Board of BIL and Senior He is also a Board Member of Partner of Henderson Advisory, consulting and venture Advisory Partner at Castik Atresmedia Spain and a Director of the Visiting Nurse investments in companies Capital Partners.
He also Metropole television France Service of New York and the providing innovative and serves as a Non-Executive and Chairman of the Broadcast Foreign Policy Association, and internet services.
Director of Socit fide la Centre Europe SA.
Bourse fide Luxembourg S. A. Luxair SA, Group la Key Luxembourgeoise SA, BIP R Member of Remuneration Committee Investment Partners SA, Length of tenure of M&C S. p. A and Cobepa Non-Executive Directors A Member of Audit Committee SA.
Franois also serves N Member of Nomination Committee on the Boards of several 1.
0-3 years: 3 R Chairman, Remuneration Committee 3 charitable organisations.
6-9 years: 2 A Chairman, Audit Committee 1 N Chairman, Nomination Committee 2 www.
