34 R RE EL LX G X Gr ro ou up p A Annu nnual al r re ep po or rt ts s an and d fi fin nan anc ciial al s st ta at te em me en nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 Exhibitions Reed Exhibitions portfolio of events serves 43 industry sectors We operate the worlds leading across the globe.
In 2015, Reed Exhibitions brought together over 7m event participants from around the world, generating billions exhibitions business, with over 500 ofdollars of business, facilitating entry into new markets for its customers and boosting the local economies where the events events in more than30countries.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 857m compared to 890m in 2014 and 862m in 2013.
Reed Exhibitions Reed Exhibitions portfolio of exhibitions and conferences isa global business headquartered in London and has principal serves 43 industry sectors acrossthe globe.
offices in Paris, Vienna, Norwalk Connecticut, So Paulo, MexicoCity, Abu Dhabi, Moscow, Beijing, Tokyo and Sydney.
In 2015, Reed Exhibitions brought together over 7m event ReedExhibitions has 3,800 employees worldwide.
participants, g enerating billions of dollars of business.
In 2015, 20% of Reed Exhibitions revenue came from North America, 42% from Europe and the remaining 38% from the rest Reed Exhibitions facilitates entry i ntonew markets for ofthe world on an event location basis.
customers andboosts local economies where our events Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events which are arehosted.
relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the world meet face-to-face to do business, to network and to learn.
We proactively connect participants at our events.
Our digital Itsevents encompass a wide range of sectors.
They include services enable participants to make new contacts and meet construction, cosmetics, electronics, energy and alternative face-to-face to do business.
energy, engineering, entertainment, gifts and jewellery, healthcare, hospitality, interior design, logistics, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, real estate, recreation, security and safety, transport and travel.
Market opportunities Growth in the exhibitions market is influenced both by business-to-business marketing spend and by business investment.
Historically, these have been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which in turn has followed overall growth inGDP.
Emerging markets and higher growth sectors provide additional opportunities.
Reed Exhibitions broad geographical footprint allows it to effectively and efficiently capture growth opportunities globally as they emerge.
As some events are held other than annually, growth in any oneyear is affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Exhibitions 35 Strategic priorities In 2015 Reed Exhibitions launched 44 new events.
These included Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to understand and to respond many events which delivered on the strategy of taking sector toits customers evolving needs and objectives better than its expertise, customer relationships and leading brands from one competition through deep knowledge of its customers and the market and extending them into new geographies using local markets they serve.
Reed Exhibitions delivers a platform for industry communities One of Reed Exhibitions best-known brands, Mipim, which serves toconduct business, to network and to learn through a range the global real estate industry, built on the successful launch of a ofmarket-leading events in all major geographic markets and London edition in 2014 with Mipim Japan in Tokyo in 2015.
Another higher growth sectors, enabling exhibitors to target and reach brand, Maison&Objet, continued its geographic expansion strategy new customers quickly and cost-effectively.
with the launch of Maison&Objet Americas in Miami.
Organic growth will be achieved by continuing to generate greater With the opening of the new mega-venue in Shanghai, three customer value through the intelligent application of customer existing brands were combined and re-launched as The Health knowledge and data, by developing new events, and by building Industry Summit, serving the complete value chain of the rapidly outtechnology platforms to ensure the rapid deployment of growing healthcare market in China.
innovation and best practices across the organisation.
Reed Reed Exhibitions Japan also continued its successful launch Exhibitions is also shaping its portfolio through a combination of programme, with the highlight being Medical Japan in Osaka strategic partnerships and acquisitions in high-growth sectors whichis positioned to cover the entire healthcare industry.
and geographies, as well as by withdrawing from markets and industries with lower growth prospects over the longer-term.
The business-to-consumer Pop Culture portfolio added again toitsnumber of events with the launch of PAX South in Texas.
Reed Exhibitions is committed to improving customer solutions and experience continuously by developing global technology A number of targeted acquisitions and investments were platforms based on industry databases, digital tools and analytics.
These included C-Touch in China By providing a variety of services, including its integrated web touchscreen technology and manufacturing, Bar Convent Berlin platform, the company continues to drive up customer satisfaction.
hospitality, ThinkGP in Australia online medical education, Increasingly, digital and multichannel services such as active Jewelers International Showcase US jewellery industry, CNP in matchmaking are becoming part of the customer expectation the US security industry and Legend in the UK retail industry.
andproduct offering, enhancing the value delivered through Thebe Reed invested in Africa Automation industrial automation attendance at the event.
Using customer insights, Reed Exhibitions inSouthAfrica.
has developed an innovative product offering which underpins the value proposition for exhibitors by broadening their options interms of the type and location of stand they take and the channelsthrough which they can address potential buyers.
FIBO: A leading international trade show for MIPIM: The worlds property market Sino Corrugated Shanghai: A worldfitness, wellness & health leading corrugated manufacturing show World Travel Market: Premier global event for Batimat: A leading international trade-fair for Metalex: ASEANs international machine the travel industry the building industry tool & metalworking technology exhibition IT Week Spring: Japans largest IT show ISC West: International Security Conference Salo Duas Rodas: Brazils biggest two-wheel event 36 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Business model, distribution channels and competition Reed Exhibitions is the global market leader in a fragmented Over 70% of Exhibitions revenue is derived from exhibitor fees, industry, holding less than a 10% global market share.
Other with the balance primarily consisting of admission charges, international exhibition organisers include UBM, Informa IIR and conference fees, sponsorship fees and online and offline some of the larger German Messen, including Messe Frankfurt, advertising.
Exhibition space is sold directly or through local Messe Dsseldorf and Messe Munich.
Competition also comes agents where applicable.
Reed Exhibitions often works in from industry trade associations and convention centre and collaboration with trade associations, which use the events to exhibition hall owners.
promote access for members to domestic and export markets, andwith governments, for whom events can provide important support to stimulate foreign investment and promote regional andnational enterprise.
Increasingly, Reed Exhibitions is offering visitors and exhibitors the opportunity to interact before and after the show through the use of digital tools such as online directories and matchmaking and mobile apps.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 857m 857m Electronic 3% North America 20% Rest of world 38% Face-to-face Europe 97% 42% On an event location basis.
NUMBER OF EVENT LAUNCHES EVENTS REVENUES BY SOURCE 44 36 Other 28% Exhibition fees 72% 2014 2015 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Exhibitions 37 2015 financial performance 2015 2014 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 857 890 5% 1% -5% -4% Adjusted operating profit 217 217 2% 3% -5% 0% Exhibitions achieved strong underlying revenue growth in 2015, China continued to see differentiated growth rates by industry albeit slightly below the prior year, reflecting the macro sector.
Revenues in Brazil reflected the general weakness of the economic environment.
Most other markets continued to grow strongly.
After portfolio changes and We continued to pursue growth opportunities and launched 44 five percentage points of cycling out effects, constant currency new events and completed 10 small acquisitions, primarily in high revenue growth was 1%.
The difference between the reported growth geographies and sectors.
and constant currency growth rates reflects the impact of exchange rate movements.
2016 outlook We expect the 2015 underlying growth trends to continue.
In 2016 Underlying costs were 1% lower than prior year.
Underlying we expect cycling in effects to increase the reported revenue adjusted operating profit growth was 2%.
Margins were higher growth rate by around 3 percentage points.
year on year, as total profit growth was slightly ahead of total revenue growth.
Growth in the US was strong, albeit slightly below prior year, and growth in Europe was moderate, marginally ahead of prior year.
Growth in Japan remained strong, driven by new launches and strong demand across our events.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 5% Underlying growth 2% 890 217 217 857 2014 2015 2014 2015 38 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 MIPTV and MIPCOM: international markets powering extraordinary content Istanbul-based Global Agency is the worlds leading independent distributor ofcutting-edge TV series, formats and films for global markets, exporting programmes to more than 100 countries.
The company is committed to acquiring the highest quality, most original new content through its partnerships with leading broadcasters and production companies in all the major territories.
Forging successful partnerships at international events has been critical Izzet Pinto, CEO Global Agency, participating in a panel discussion to the companys success and much of its growth over the past nine years has been driven by MIPCOM and MIPTV.
Global Agency launched at MIPCOM 2006 with one project, two From day one, the MIP markets have employees and a 10 sq m stand.
Today the company has 130 really helped us to grow our business.
projects, 25 employees and a major presence at both MIPCOM We started out with just one project, and MIPTV.
Networking and brand exposure are the lifeblood of and have become the worlds leading TV distribution.
Global Agency recognises the unique power of independent distributor with over 130 MIPTV and MIPCOM to deliver the global industrys movers and selected projects.
shakers, and takes full advantage.
At MIPCOM 2015, it secured over 700 face-to-face meetings with key buyers and secured exclusive Izzet Pinto sponsorships to promote the Global Agency brand and content, and CEO, Global Agency support Turkeys presence as MIPCOM 2015 Country of Honour.
Business review Exhibitions 39 39 About MIPTV and MIPCOM Organised by Reed MIDEM, MIPTV and MIPCOM are the worlds leading markets for TV and digital content.
Every March and October, the industrys major players converge on Cannes to discover the hottest companies and content from around the globe, connect with the TV industrys key decision makers and content creators, stay at the cutting edge of the latest entertainment trends and sell and acquire the latest and best TV and online content in every genre.
7,600 participants attended MIPCOM 2015 MIPCOM 2015, Palais des Festivals, Cannes 40 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015
