84 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY DISCLOSURES Sir David McMurtry, as one party, and Review of the business Dividends DJ Deer and Mrs M E Deer, as the other A review of the business and likely future The directors propose a final dividend party, have entered into an agreement developments is given in the Chairmans of 24,748,105 or 34.0p per share relating to the way each party would statement and the Strategic report.
2014: 21,741,938 or 29.87p per share vote in respect of his or her shares Segmental information by geographical which, together with the interim dividend if requested by the other party to do market is given in note 2 to the of 9,098,568 or 12.5p per share so.
Under this agreement Sir David financial statements.
2014: 8,246,942 or 11.33p makes a McMurtry, John Deer and Mrs Deer total amount of dividends for the year The Group has established and acquired agree that i Mr and Mrs Deer will vote of 33,846,673 or 46.5p per share, overseas manufacturing, marketing and their shares in favour of any ordinary compared to 29,988,880 or 41.2p per distribution subsidiaries to manufacture resolution if requested to do so by share for the previous year.
some of the Groups products and to Sir David McMurtry and ii Sir David provide support to customers in our McMurtry will vote his shares against Directors and their interests major markets in the following regions any special or extraordinary resolution The directors at the end of the year are outside the UK: if requested to do so by John Deer.
listed below together with their interests The voting arrangement was renewed Europe: Germany, France, Italy, Spain, in the share capital of the Company with in 2013 for a further period of five years Switzerland, Netherlands, Czech the equivalent number of voting rights, and will terminate on the earlier of 25th Republic, Poland, Russia, Sweden as notified to the Company.
May 2018 and the deaths of both of Sir and Austria: David McMurtry and John Deer.
All the above interests were beneficially Americas: USA, Mexico, Brazil held with the exception of 2,434,411 The rules on appointment, and Canada: shares 2014: 2,434,411 shares which reappointment and retirement by were non-beneficially held by D J rotation of the directors and their powers Far East: Japan, Hong Kong, Deer but in respect of which he has Australia, South Korea, Peoples are set out in the Companys Articles voting rights.
There are no powers Republic of China, Singapore and Taiwan: and given to the directors that are regarded There has been no change in the as unusual.
holdings below in the period 1st July Other regions: India and Israel.
In accordance There are also representative offices Directors and officers with the provisions of the Code all in Hungary, Turkey, Malaysia, Vietnam, directors will retire and, being eligible, indemnity insurance Indonesia and Thailand and an offer themselves for re-election at the Subject to the provisions of the associate company in Slovenia, RLS, annual general meeting AGM to be Companies Act 2006, the Companys which is 50%-owned.
Details of Articles of Association provide for the the directors are shown on pages 62 directors and officers of the Company Also part of the Group is a subsidiary and 63 and full biographical details are to be appropriately indemnified.
established in 2014 in Slovenia which available at www.
The Company maintains insurance for designs and arranges the procurement its directors and officers in respect of of application-specific integrated circuits their acts and omissions during the for the Group and RLS.
Further information is available on the Companys website: www.
Ordinary shares of 20p each Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 D J Deer 12,233,040 B R Taylor 10,147 A C G Roberts 5,165 G McFarland 2,000 C T Chesney 500 D Grant nil D J Jeans nil K Durrant nil Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 85 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 The directors consider that all the Share capital and change Employees resolutions proposed are in the ofcontrol The maintenance of highly-skilled best interests of the Company employees is essential to the future of Details of the Companys share capital, and its shareholders as a whole the business, and the directors place including rights and obligations, is given and unanimously recommend that great emphasis on the continuation in note 21 to the financial statements.
shareholders vote in favour of the of the Companys approved training The Company is not a party to any resolutions, as they intend to do in policy.
Health and safety matters are significant agreements that might respect of their own holdings.
given special attention by the directors terminate upon a change of control of and well established systems of safety the Company.
Substantial shareholdings management are in place throughout A shareholders authority for the Apart from the shareholdings and the Group to safeguard employees, purchase by the Company of a corresponding voting rights of Sir David customers and visitors.
maximum of 10% of its own shares was McMurtry and John Deer 36.2% and Employment policies are designed in existence during the 2015 financial 16.8% respectively, the table below to provide equal opportunities year.
However, the Company did not discloses the voting rights that have irrespective of race, colour, religion, purchase any of its own shares during been notified to the directors under sex, age, disability or sexual orientation.
the requirements of the UK Listing Proper consideration is given to Authoritys Disclosure Rules and applications for employment from Auditor Transparency Rules DTR 5, which disabled people where suitable for represent 3% or more of the voting A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP appropriate vacancies.
Employees who rights attached to issued shares in the as auditor of the Company, will be become disabled whilst with the Company, as at 30th June 2015. proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Company will be given every opportunity to continue their employment through Research and development Disclosure of information reasonable adjustment to their working The Group has a continuing toauditor conditions, equipment, or where this commitment to a high level of research is not possible, re-training for other The directors who held office at the date and development.
They will also be afforded of approval of this statement confirm involved is directed towards the opportunities to continue training and that, so far as they are each aware, there research and development of new gain promotion on the same basis as is no relevant audit information of which products relating to metrology, any other employee.
the Companys auditor is unaware, and including computer-aided design and each director has taken all the steps manufacturing systems, and relating to Details on information provided to that he or she ought to have taken as a employees on the performance of the healthcare products, including Raman director to make himself herself aware business, consultation with employees spectroscopy systems, dental systems of any relevant audit information and to and performance incentives are and certain areas in the medical establish that the Companys auditor is contained in the description of corporate devices field.
Further information on aware of that information.
social responsibility activities set out on the expenditure on research and pages 46 to 59. development is contained in the financial Annual general meeting review section of the Strategic report.
There are no agreements with The notice convening the AGM and an employees providing for compensation explanation of the resolutions sought for any loss of employment that occurs are set out in a separate circular.
At the because of a takeover bid.
meeting, the Company will be seeking shareholder approval for, amongst other things, the ability to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares, % of issued Number of Substantial shareholdings share capital shares up to a total of 10% of the issued share capital.
Baillie Gifford & Co 5.25% 3,846,993 BlackRock Inc. 4.92% 3,578,133 Capital Research and Management Company 4.76% 3,465,730 Standard Life Investments Limited 4.99% 3,631,612 No notifications have been received under the provisions of DTR 5 in the period 1stJuly 2015 to 29th July 2015.
86 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED By virtue of his shareholding in The Company has been in discussions Donations the Company, Sir David McMurtry with the FCA about the application of No political donations were made during Chairman, 36% shareholder is a the enhanced oversight measures to the year.
John Deer the remuneration and benefits received Deputy Chairman, together with by the controlling shareholders in Controlling shareholders his wife, 17% is also a controlling their capacity as executive directors arrangements shareholder by virtue of a longin accordance with the Companys In May 2014 the Listing Rules were standing voting agreement between approved remuneration policy as well amended to include new requirements John Deer and his wife with Sir David other ordinary course corporate matters, relating to controlling shareholders.
The Board confirms that the such as the payment of dividends The revised Listing Rules require Company has not been able to enter by the Company to all shareholders.
that premium listed companies with into a relationship agreement with its Guidance has been received from controlling shareholders defined as controlling shareholders, containing the FCA that either these are not a shareholder who individually or with the independence provisions required transactions or arrangements that fall any of their concert parties exercises by the Listing Rules.
The Financial within the enhanced oversight measures or controls 30% or more of the votes Conduct Authority FCA has been or that the FCA will permit a modification able to be cast on all or substantially all notified of this, as required by the Listing of the enhanced oversight measures the matters at the Companys general Rules.
The controlling shareholders so that they will not apply provided that meeting must enter into a relationship have informed the Board that they are the arrangements remain in the ordinary agreement containing specific not willing to enter into a relationship course of business and, in the case of independence provisions, and for agreement because they are of the view salary reviews and bonuses, provided existing listed companies this agreement that the requirement to enter into the that they fall within the small transaction was required to be entered into by relationship agreement infringes upon exemption in the Annex to LR 11. their rights as shareholders and their 16thNovember 2014. track record demonstrates that they act Greenhouse gas emissions The independence provisions required in the best interests of the Company.
The disclosures concerning greenhouse by the Listing Rules are that: gas emissions required by law are set The Company continues to discuss the i transactions and arrangements with out in the Corporate social responsibility requirement for a relationship agreement report on page 56. the controlling shareholder and or any with the controlling shareholders and of its associates will be conducted with the FCA.
As a result of there being at arms length and on normal no relationship agreement in place, Norma Tang commercial terms: the Listing Rules provide that certain Company Secretary ii ne ither the controlling shareholder enhanced oversight measures will apply 29th July 2015 to the Company.
nor any of its associates will take Renishaw plc any action that would have the effect This means that, unless and to the of preventing the Company from Registered number 1106260 extent that the FCA agrees otherwise, complying with its obligations under England and Wales all transactions with the controlling the Listing Rules: and shareholders must be approved by the Companys shareholders excluding the iii neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or controlling shareholders in accordance with the related party transaction procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or requirements of the Listing Rules, and none of the normal exemptions apply.
appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
