60 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION In relation to our remuneration report on pages 76 to 83, the policy table from our three-year remuneration policy which was approved by 86% of shareholder votes at our annual general meeting AGM in October 2014 is set out for information purposes only.
The annual report on remuneration 2015 sets out the details of directors compensation throughout this financial year, which will be subject to the normal advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
The Board takes seriously its responsibilities for making sure that all employees are aware of their obligations to act with openness, honesty and transparency.
This strong With the assistance of the Audit anti-corruption culture is embedded in The Board is ultimately committee, the Board approves the our Group Business Code and Antiresponsible to shareholders Groups governance framework and Bribery Policy which can be found reviews its risk management and for all the Groups activities, at www.
com en renishawinternal control processes with a view to group-business-code--14444.
In 2015, its strategy and financial maintaining high standards of corporate we undertook a specific anti-bribery performance, for the governance throughout the Group.
monitoring project in order to update our last risk assessment undertaken efficient use of the Groups A key area of focus for 2015 was in 2011 2012 when we originally a review of our external audit resources and for social, implemented our policy in response to arrangements.
Following revisions to the Bribery Act 2010.
Progress updates environmental and the UK Corporate Governance Code were provided to the Audit committee.
the Code published by the Financial ethicalmatters.
Reporting Council FRC in September Other appropriate steps were also 2012 the 2012 Code recommending taken in order to maintain adequate David Grant that the external audit is put out to procedures.
We have now trained 1,085 Senior Independent Director tender at least every 10 years, the Board people worldwide via our anti-bribery has determined that it will commence a E Learning module, as well as other tender process in the spring of 2016 with training initiatives.
the chosen audit firm to be appointed In the coming year, the Board is later in 2016. reviewing its risk management and Our Nomination committee led the internal control framework, and is process to recruit a new non-executive looking to enhance its operation so that director, and Kath Durrant joined the it remains fit for purpose and in line with Board in January 2015. the changes to the Code published by the FRC in September 2014.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 61 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure For the purposes of the UK Listing Compliance disclosures Rules and Transparency Rules DTR, Authoritys Listing Rules LR, certain This corporate governance report require the Annual report to include a information required to be provided to has been prepared in accordance management report which can be found the shareholders is also contained in with the 2012 Code.
The Board has in the Strategic report.
the Directors corporate governance also considered, in advance of the report, the Directors remuneration commencement date for the Company, The Directors corporate governance report and the Other statutory and the principles and provisions of the report and Other statutory and regulatory disclosures, including certain updated Code published by the FRC regulatory disclosures set out on information relating to arrangements with in September 2014 2014 Code to pages 66 to 71 and 84 to 86 form the controlling shareholders.
ensure that processes and procedures Directorsreport.
are in place to apply the principles and For the purposes of the DTR, the For the purposes of the DTR, which provisions of the 2014 Code.
This report, information required by section 7 of require a corporate governance which incorporates the reports of such rules is referred to in the Directors statement to be included in the the Audit committee and Nomination corporate governance report.
Directors report, the Companys committee, together with the Directors corporate governance practices are remuneration report, describes how we set out in the Directors corporate have applied the main principles of the governance report, which forms part 2012 Code.
We report on the operation of our business in the following ways: A review of the Groups business and likely future developments is given in the Chairmans statement and the Strategic report.
Segmental information by geographical market is given in note 2 tothe financial statements.
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The information that fulfils the reporting requirements under this rule can be found in the Directors report, the Directors remuneration report and on the pages identified below, as applicable.
Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Not applicable 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 As item 7, in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Directors remuneration report p7683 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Other statutory and regulatory disclosures p86
