16 Strategy in Action Pest Control Strategy in action 65% 20% Digital Leadership Innovation PestConnect AutoGate Rodent We invest in technology to In 2015 PestConnect our This year we launched a new Monitoring Unit drive short-term growth and remote monitoring system for monitoring and control service AutoGate uses sensors and long-term differentiation.
In rodents was launched in five in Malaysia to protect people a barrier to protect poisoned 2015 we put our web platform countries with roll-out planned from dangerous diseases such bait from non-target species into 23 markets, resulting in for a further 10 countries in as dengue fever transmitted by until activated.
Created to a13% increase in web 2016, including the UK.
A similar service address changes in enquiries.
In the UK 65% resulted in a 10%-20% uplift in has also been launched in Brazil European legislation on use ofnew business has been the value of customer contracts to help protect against the of anticoagulant rodenticide generated from digital for those customers using the Aedes mosquito, associated products, it is particularly channels.
with the rapidly increasing effective in areas where threat posed by the Zika virus.
these products have been most restricted.
It will be launched across north Europe in 2016.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 17 Strategy in Action Revenue 13.1% Percentage of group Percentage of group Our engine for growth revenue operating profit Rentokil is the worlds leading commercial pest control business providing the highest levels of risk management, 791.3m reassurance and responsiveness to customers.
Over recent years we have Operating profit 14.2% broadened our geographic presence through acquisitions in North, Central 44% 48% andLatin America, Africa, Asia and the 151.5m Middle East.
Operating margin Why choose Rentokil?
Our USPs are our global reach, service quality, brand strength, expertise of people, innovation, management 19.1% information systems and digital capability.
pre central and regional overheads Progress update Outlook We have an During Phase One of the execution of our Pest control is a highly resilient industry and strategy, we have launched performanceoffers sustainable, long-term growth prospects.
unrivalled global enhancing websites in 20 markets and have We are well placed to take advantage of major developed a strong proprietary innovation growth drivers which include: the convergence leadership pipeline including PestConnect remote of international standards particularly in the position monitoring, AutoGate and myRentokil foodindustry : the drive for consistency from see page 24 for infographic case study on multi-nationals: rising expectations from complemented PestConnect.
Further, we have expanded consumers driving companies to invest in our global reach through the acquisition of brandprotection: and growing demand in further by 43 pest control companies, including the developing markets.
the Steritech major acquisition of Steritech.
Pest control benefits from exposure to higher GDP growth territories, principally within the Market acquisition.
Growth and Emerging markets and these will We are the worlds largest commercial pest We have strong positions in growing markets remain our primary focus for investment.
In 2016 control company and have 15% of the global across the world and a strong M&A pipeline we will continue to build our business in North commercial market and are continuing to enabling us to infill locally and build density, America and central to this will be the successful increase our international presence through a particularly in Emerging and Growth markets.
integration of recent acquisitions including combination of organic growth and targeted Steritech.
In addition, we will accelerate acquisitions.
For further information on the pest Challenges deployment of new products and services, control market, please see page 10.
Our key challenges are to accelerate organic increase digitalisation of our services, complete growth and to compete in online lead Customers the roll-out of our enhanced global web presence generation, especially in our largest market In over 67 countries businesses and and seek additional M&A opportunities.
homeowners trust Rentokil to solve their pest problems and prevent them from reoccurring.
Priorities for the Next Phase Commercial customers account for Acceleration approximately 80% of revenue and include food We plan to deliver continued acceleration through: processing, food service and food retail sectors, largely as a result of their regulatory requirements deployment of new products and services for pest control services.
from our innovation pipeline: roll-out of our  web Residential pest control represents approximately presence: 20% of business revenue with over 75% of this our leadership in the Internet-of-Things for coming from the US and Australia.
On a per pest control, for example monitoring devices capita basis both countries have much larger and risk-based reporting through extranets residential markets for pest control than in apps: Europe, primarily because of the presence of leverage of our North America position and termites.
In Europe residential pest control tends growth in Emerging markets: and to be typically around 10% of business revenue.
continued M&A programme to build density.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 18 Strategy in Action Hygiene Strategy in action 10% 19.9% 50% 50% Rising Levels of Roll-out of Operational Best Signature Success Customer Satisfaction The Signature Colour range has HygieneConnect Practice proven particularly popular in Following the launch of our HygieneConnect is the worlds In 2015 we implemented France which now accounts for Signature and Reflection first integrated wireless country action plans focused 50% of total Colour sales and ranges, Hygiene Customer monitoring and display system on delivering operational best which has doubled the number Voice Counts CVC scores designed to raise hand washing practice in our operations.
In 2015 60% of InIndonesia we targeted 15% of total Signature sales welaunched a full range of customers using the system premium hotels and offices havecome from new products No-Touch products meeting reported a 50% improvement onspecific routes in Jakarta launched in the last year, consumer demand to touch inhand washing compliance.
with structured hygiene No-Touch in particular.
fewer washroom products, Please see our HygieneConnect surveys to build relationships.
thereby reducing risks from infographic on page 25 for further This contributed to a 10% cross infection.
increase in portfolio and rose by 19.9% in 2015. higher local density.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 19 Strategy in Action Revenue 2.6% Percentage of group Percentage of group The benefits of good hygiene revenue operating profit A clean and hygienic environment is a safer, healthier and more pleasant place to live or work: it is mission critical for the food, 457.9m hospitality and healthcare sectors.
Establishing good hygiene practices Operating profit 1.2% throughout an organisation reduces the risk of infection being passed from person to 25% 28% person.
As a result, fewer days are lost to 89.6m sickness, which translates directly into real cost savings and increased productivity.
Operating margin Why choose Initial Hygiene?
For more than 100 years Initial Hygiene has helped organisations provide 19.6% pleasant and hygienic environments for pre central and regional overheads staff, clients and visitors.
Progress update Market Initial Hygiene We continue to strengthen our washroom range We operate in a competitive market with good to maximise our range-selling capabilities.
We are well placed to is the global Signature has been fully launched across our increase market share through market markets and includes four new products and a segmentation and the introduction of value leader in hygiene No-Touch range.
Signature Colour has been propositions to customers.
Significant services and launched into 13 countries.
The development of investment has been made in updating and our high-end Reflection range continues, with delivering best-in-class product solutions.
market leader six new additions in 2015.
Premium Scenting Formore details please see page 10. continues to grow strongly, particularly in Asia.
in 26 of its 43 Customers We continue the development of We achieve high customer satisfaction levels countries of HygieneConnect, the worlds first integrated and believe this is a key competitive advantage.
wireless monitoring and display system operation.
We have account management processes in designed to raise hand washing compliance.
In place for contacting customers at least annually Challenges 2015 all customers using the system reported to confirm service requirements are being met.
increases in handwash compliance, with 60% These are differentiating our offer through We use feedback from our Customer Voice increasing their compliance levels by over 50%.
service and innovation, gaining share and Counts surveys to improve service levels and Further deployment, starting with the UK, is building density to enhance margins.
every detractor score is followed by a call from planned for 2016. an account or branch manager within 24 hours.
Priorities for the Next Phase The launch of myInitial gives complete During the year we launched our new web Execute Now transparency about customer service including platform in Australia.
The new design is focused Our Execute Now growth strategy aims to proof of service and proof of delivery with on product searches, and the up-selling and leverage our strengths by: e-invoicing rolled out to 22% of customers cross-selling of products and services.
during 2015. building on the power of our hygiene brand Operational best practice and market positions: Outlook In 2015 we implemented country action plans to selling our new product ranges including The Next Phase of our plan will involve further drive best practice.
Our Italian operations have Reflection, Signature, Colour, No-Touch and implementation of our Execute Now growth developed a new service concept by addressing Premium Scenting: strategy to leverage our strengths, build on the specific customer sectors, involving different leading on innovation through Internet-ofpower of our brand and sell our new product product delivery options.
This initiative has Things, for example sensing and hand ranges.
Building city density through M&A driven a 3.3% increase in revenue per technician hygiene compliance: and intheGrowth and Emerging quadrants is and a 5.7% increase in product delivery revenue building city density and extending our footprint akeyfocus.
We have also introduced through organic growth and targeted M&A.
incentives in Germany to encourage our technicians to identify additional sales opportunities while on customer premises.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 20 Strategy in Action Workwear Strategy in action Our Workwear Quality Programme has started well in 2015.
See below for some examples of progress we are making already.
8% 37 Rigorous Application Best-in-Class Processing Greater Responsiveness Improved Product of KPIs to Measure 37 of our laundries have to Customer Needs Visibility through converted to new processing Progress in this area in 2015 Service Quality Service Process detergents, resulting in a 50% includes implementation of a new During 2015 we introduced a Following successful testing reduction in the use of bleach, sale to start-up process to number of new customeron the reliability of reading a30% reduction in textile measure systematic workflow focused quality KPIs.
As a Radio Frequency Identification wearthrough improved wash and performance, improved result, we have seen customer tags attached to customer processes, a 9.6% reduction delivery performance for satisfaction rise between 2 to garments, we are expanding inwater usage and a 14.8% additional and replacement 8 percentage points across all this pilot to cover a number of reduction in rewash rates.
garments and establishment countries of operation in the branches and key customers.
of a new Workwear Centre of fourth quarter of 2015, and a Full track and trace of Excellence for bespoke design 2.4% increase in overall garments could bring and innovation.
customer benefits, improving our operational effectiveness and service quality.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 21 Strategy in Action Service offering Revenue -3.2% Percentage of group Percentage of group Initial Workwear specialises primarily in revenue operating profit the rental and maintenance of garments, such as workwear and personal 384.0m protective equipment, in Europe.
It also offers specialist cleanroom services.
Operating profit -16.9% Why choose Initial Workwear?
Our promise to customers is to provide a 21% 16% 51.5m consistent, reliable, flexible and high quality laundry service, helping customers Operating margin meet a changing regulatory environment that is always on time, and delivered in full.
13.4% pre central and regional overheads smarter selling selling a service rather than Customers Initial Workwear aproduct: Based on our research-led understanding of creation of a product and service innovation is the overall No.
2 people at work, we can help our customers action group: and perform better by providing them with the leveraging European scale and best practice player in Europe.
The trend to create a more effective organisation insome sectors to outsource their workwear We are No.
1 in through best practice sharing in supply chain, requirements is still providing elements of R&D, processing, sales and marketing.
growth approximately 75% of the market is Belgium, No.
Industrial customers are seeking France and the While Germany has continued to grow robustly, both functional and now fashionable workwear, aided by growth in the higher-margin cleanrooms maintained to the highest standard and with Netherlands.
business, France and Benelux have continued greater transparency on costs and performance.
to decline, reflecting ongoing economic and Workplace safety regulation also supports the Challenges competitive challenges.
However, both regions market for protective as well as functional Our key challenges are the continuing economic have shown operational improvements on 2014. workwear.
pressures in France and Benelux and Implementation of our Workwear Quality Plan differentiating our service offering in a highly Outlook began in the second half of the year and is competitive market.
Our workwear business is profitable and cash delivering operational improvements as we generative and enjoys a strong position in the re-engineer quality standards across the Priorities for the Next Phase European workwear market.
We cite a number of examples of Focus on Quality not expect to see a material improvement in progress on the previous page.
Our aim is to create a workwear business that trading conditions across the business in the has clear market differentiation through the Market coming year and this will impact on its overall highest level of product and service quality, thus Initial Workwear operates across three main performance for 2016.
The coming year willsee driving greater customer satisfaction and in turn European areas France, Germany and continued focus on successful implementation generating improved revenue and margins.
The west European workwear market of the Quality Workwear Plan described above.
Workwear Quality Plan involves: which includes general workwear, cleanroom, flat linen and personal protective equipment is rigorous application of KPIs to measure quality valued at c. 4.7bn.
With a compound annual of service: growth rate of 2% it is expected to reach 5.3bn improved product visibility through the entire in 2020.
For more details on the market, please service process: best-in-class processing highest standards see page 10. in washing and repair quality, higher quality detergents: greater responsiveness to customer needs shorter lead time between contract and deployment: Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
