56 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This remuneration policy received a binding vote from POLICY shareholders at the AGM 2014 and became effective at the conclusion of the AGM on 2 May 2014.
Any commitments, eg historical share awards, entered into prior to approval and implementation of the remuneration policy as detailed in this report will be honoured on their original terms.
Policy table executive directors fixed pay Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually taking Annual salary increases for executive The overall performance of the account of our remuneration policy, directors will not normally exceed individual is considered by the To attract and retain personal performance and the the average percentage increase Committee when reviewing salary.
high performing talent experience of the executive director.
awarded to other employees in the by setting base salaries Other factors considered are the United Kingdom.
Increases may be at rates comparable levels of base salary provided for the above this level: for example if there with what would be broader employee base, prevailing is an increase in the scope, scale, paid in an equivalent market and economic conditions, and market comparability or position elsewhere.
market data from companies of similar responsibility of the role.
market capitalisation and revenue to Rexam with consideration of industry sector relevance.
Benefits The Company provides private Set at a level which the Committee None.
healthcare insurance, permanent considers will provide a sufficient To provide competitive health insurance, a car benefit or cash level of benefit based on the role and cost effective equivalent, travel, accommodation and and individual circumstances, benefits to assist meals while on Company business.
The such as relocation, and which are executive directors policy allows us to provide any other comparable with benefits offered to carry out their benefits that are deemed to be an by companies of similar size duties effectively.
employment benefit by the relevant tax and complexity.
authority, or in certain circumstances are considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Such benefits may include relocation expenses and education allowances.
Retirement and other Executive directors who commenced UK Current executive directors receive a None.
related benefits based employment prior to 6 April 2011, pension entitlement equal to 1 30th of participate in the Rexam Pension Plan, their selected pensionable salary with To provide market a career average revalued earnings an optional cash supplement of 44% competitive retirement defined benefit plan the Plan.
Members of eligible base salary not pensioned.
and other related select a pensionable salary for the year In the event of death in service of a benefits.
and receive a salary supplement on member of the Plan with dependants, pension eligible base salary not an age related amount of between pensioned.
11 and 15 times salary is provided.
Executive directors who commence UK In the event of ill health and subject based employment after 6 April 2011 to meeting eligibility criteria a benefit are entitled to membership of a defined may be provided through the Plan in contribution pension arrangement.
accordance with the Plan rules.
A newly appointed executive director who is an internal recruit and already a member of the Plan is entitled to continue to participate in the Plan.
Executive directors who are newly recruited may opt for a retirement plan contribution of 25% of base salary, or alternatively elect for a cash supplement of 22% of base salary.
Death in service life cover of four times base salary and a Group income replacement plan, providing continuing income for two years at 50% of base salary after short term sickness benefit expires, with a lump sum of two times base salary payable on cessation of service if there is no return to work, is also provided.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 57 Policy table executive directors performance based pay Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Annual incentives Financial and personal objectives Annual incentive opportunity The annual incentive is based are set at the start of the year and as a percentage of base salary: on annual financial performance, To incentivise the are aligned to strategic objectives.
usually profit and cash which Maximum performance 180% executive directors Following the end of the year, the accounts for 80% of the overall and senior executives Committee considers the extent to Target performance 90% incentive, and also on achievement to achieve profitable which these have been achieved of personal performance objectives Threshold performance 45% growth and to sustain and sets the award level.
which accounts for 20% of the overall the Groups cash Annual incentive payments are incentive.
Details of measures for Annual payments are subject performance.
2015 are included on page 64. to overall Committee discretion taking into consideration both the attainment of the financial measures and achievement against personal objectives.
Subject to malus and clawback.
Deferred bonus shares A proportion of the annual incentive A part of any earned annual incentive All deferred shares vest after as determined by the Committee is is to be deferred into Rexam shares, three years.
To add long paid in Rexam shares and deferred the current mandated amount being term sustainability for three years.
Dividend equivalents 25% of total incentive earned.
and shareholder are awarded in shares or cash equal alignment to short to the dividends paid during the period term performance between the date of grant and the achievement.
date of transfer of the shares on the number of shares that vest.
Awards will be forfeited in the event that a participant voluntarily terminates his employment and breaches restrictive covenants.
Long term incentives The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The maximum value that can be The LTIP performance measures is used for the long term incentive granted in a given year is 220% for awards from 2014 are relative To motivate and arrangement.
Awards which may of base salary.
total shareholder return TSR reward longer term be granted as nil cost options or performance and EPS growth Under each measure, threshold performance, linked to conditional share awards vest to the weighted 25% on TSR and 75% on performance will result in 25% of key strategic objectives.
extent that performance conditions EPS.
The EPS portion will only vest if maximum vesting for that element, have been achieved over a three a certain minimum average return on rising on a straight line basis to year measurement period.
Dividend capital employed ROCE is achieved.
equivalents are awarded in shares TSR targets are set with threshold or cash equal to the dividends paid being median ranking in the relative during the period between the date TSR versus the largest 150 companies of grant and the date of vesting on excluding investment trusts by the number of shares that vest.
market capitalisation within the FTSE All Share Index: maximum vesting is Subject to malus and clawback.
EPS targets Awards will be forfeited in the are set at the start of each three year event that a participant voluntarily measurement period having regard terminates his employment.
to a number of internal and external reference points.
The ROCE underpin is set above the cost of capital.
All employee Under the current all employee share Savings limits and the maximum None.
share plans plan UK based executive directors are discount for the option price are entitled to participate in the UK tax set by the UK tax authorities.
The To encourage voluntary approved Savings Related Share current maximum approved monthly participation in share Option Scheme SAYE.
The current ownership throughout maximum discount for the option Participants make monthly contributions the Group where share price is 20% of the market price from salary for either three or five years plans are appropriate.
of a share on the invitation date.
linked to the grant of an option to buy Rexam shares at the end of the savings period at an option price which can be discounted by up to 20% of the market price on the invitation date.
