02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE YEAR IN REVIEW On 19 February 2015, the boards of Ball Corporation Ball 2015 was another year of challenging global trading conditions but the business and Rexam announced they had reached agreement on the performed well and we saw volume growth terms of a recommended cash and share offer for Rexam.
across all our regions except North America.
Like many other UK based global companies One year on, we remain convinced that the alliance of we continued to be impacted by foreign exchange translation as well as other external Ball and Rexam represents a compelling opportunity for headwinds such as higher energy costs in our stakeholders and a strong cultural fit between our Brazil.
After taking into account the impact of these headwinds and our focused approach two companies.
to cost control Rexams profits for the year were in line with our expectations.
The full report of our performance is on pages 30 to 36.
In many respects, 2015 was therefore an unusual year, BALL CORPORATION but we have fully maintained our focus and continued Rexams board remains firmly supportive of the Ball offer, which is proceeding on track.
to invest in, and drive value at Rexam, concentrating During the year we worked hard to support on business as usual whilst the regulatory clearances Ball and provide the information required by regulators for the ongoing anti trust clearance around the Ball offer have been progressing.
This has inevitably taken up significant management time, but we have stayed focused on our strategic priorities and have continued to operate as a successful independent company.
Upon final regulatory clearances being obtained the Ball offer will be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under the UK Companies Act, which requires the approval of Rexam shareholders and the sanction of the scheme by the Court.
Shareholders will be sent a copy of the scheme document, which sets out the terms of the Ball offer, and will be asked to vote on the scheme of arrangement.
Completion of the transaction is expected towards the end of the first half of 2016, subject to Rexam shareholder approval, the sanction of the Court and final regulatory clearances.
RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS Returns to shareholders are an established priority for Rexam and the dividend is a core element of total shareholder returns.
The board has declared a final dividend of 11.9p 2014: 11.9p per share consistent with the terms of the Ball offer requiring that future dividends would not exceed the corresponding interim or final dividend paid or declared in respect of 2014.
The final dividend will be paid on 6 May 2016 to holders of shares registered on 8 April 2016.
This final dividend for 2015 will be paid whether or not the Ball offer completes.
The final dividend in respect of the six months to 31 December 2015 has been declared by the board as a second interim dividend in accordance with the Companys articles of association and does not require shareholder approval.
