STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 59 The performance measures proposed for 2016 are set out below.
Incentive plans Performance measure Reasons for selection Annual incentive plan Profit before tax or operating Key driver of shareholder value.
profit at business or sector level Captures growth as well as Rexams ability to manage costs.
Cash flow Encourages operational cash discipline and responsible and well timed investments.
Encourages the ability to link to specific strategic annual objectives.
Personal objectives Alignment of behaviours to strategic annual objectives.
Long term Earnings per share Captures long term growth and drives shareholder value creation.
incentive plan Relative total Captures creation of shareholder value and rewards management if appropriate shareholder return for outperformance.
ROCE underpin for earnings Rexam is committed to maintaining strong capital discipline and balance growth per share measure and returns.
The Committee believes that EPS, with the ROCE underpin, and TSR provide strong alignment with shareholder interests and our longer term strategy.
These measures also strike a good balance between growth and returns, as well as between internal and external perspectives on the Companys performance.
Policy table non executive directors fees Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Non executive The fees of the chairman, the senior independent director An annual fee will be paid monthly to the chairman directors fees and the other non executive directors are reviewed and non executive directors.
Each will be set at a annually.
Fee levels are benchmarked against FTSE listed sufficient level to attract, motivate and retain non To attract and retain non companies of similar size and complexity and against executive directors while being proportionate to executive directors of the sector comparators.
the requirements, time commitment of the role and highest calibre with broad the contribution that is expected.
An additional fee The chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee commercial and other is paid to the senior independent director and to and non executive directors are paid a basic fee.
experience relevant to the Committee chairs.
An additional fee is paid to the senior independent the Company.
director and to the chairs of the board committees.
The maximum fee that the non executive directors including the chairman will be paid by way of If revised, the effective date of any fee change remuneration for their services as directors of is 1 January.
the Company is set with reference to the relevant comparator group.
The aggregate fee that can be paid as stated in the Companys articles of association is 1,000,000 pa. Benefits The chairman and the non executive directors may be Set at a level which the Committee considers will eligible for benefits to assist them to carry out their duties provide a sufficient level of benefit based on the To provide benefits in a effectively.
The Company reimburses travel, accommodation role and are comparable with benefits offered cost efficient way to assist and meals to the chairman and the non executive directors by companies of similar size and complexity.
non executive directors to while on Company business and provides secretarial The non executive directors do not participate carry out their duties support to the chairman of the Company.
The policy in the Companys incentive plans or receive effectively.
allows us to provide any other benefits that are deemed retirement related benefits.
to be a benefit by the relevant tax authority, or in certain circumstances are considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee, such as financial advice.
Approach to remuneration upon the appointment of a new executive director In the cases of hiring or promoting an executive director from within Rexam, the Committee will align the remuneration package with the stated remuneration policy, as described in the table below.
In determining the appropriate remuneration, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Rexam and its shareholders.
Item Approach Maximum Base salary The base salary will be determined by reference to relevant Set at a level appropriate to attract talent, market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal taking into account market conditions.
relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years.
Retirement and other As outlined under Retirement and other related benefits Maximum contributions are as outlined under related benefits in the table on page 56.
Externally recruited executives Retirement and other related benefits in the table can opt for a retirement plan pension contribution or on page 56. an equivalent cash supplement.
Benefits Eligible to receive benefits outlined under Benefits in Benefits should be in line with those offered to the table on page 56 and may include any appropriate other executive directors.
Annual incentives The structure described in the policy table on page 57 will The maximum opportunity is 180% of base salary.
apply pro rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Long term incentives Will be granted awards under the LTIP as described in the The maximum award size is 220% of base salary policy table on page 57 at the next scheduled grant date.
