38 THE BOARD Non executive director Executive director Executive director Non executive director Senior independent Ros Rivaz 60 Graham Chipchase 53 David Robbie 52 Leo Oosterveer 56 director Appointed 12 June 2013.
Chief executive Finance director Appointed 1 September Johanna Waterous CBE Appointed 1 January Appointed 3 October 2011.
58 Appointed 4 May Committees 2010 as chief executive.
2012 as a non executive Nomination, Joined the board as Committees director and senior remuneration chair.
finance director on Skills and business Audit and risk, independent director.
Skills and business was Group director plastic Strong financial, Committees experience packaging from 2005. accounting, strategic Skills and business Audit and risk, Experience in technology, and corporate finance experience nomination, sustainability and IT Skills and business experience and skills.
systems, and expertise experience Previous appointments with global management in driving efficiencies in Comprehensive financial include chief financial experience and a track Skills and business manufacturing processes and operational knowledge, officer of Royal P&O record in marketing, sales experience and procurement in proven leadership skills and Nedlloyd NV and finance and strategy development A leading expert in retail global organisations.
a detailed understanding director of CMG plc.
gained both in Europe and and customer relationship Previous appointments of Rexams businesses Previously a non executive Asia.
Previous appointments management with wide include chief officer and markets.
Previous director of the BBC.
include leadership of the knowledge of the global for Smith & Nephew plc appointments include global food service division retail world.
Johanna was until 2014 and senior finance director of GKN Other directorships of Unilever PLC until awarded a CBE in 2013 for management positions plcs aerospace services Trustee of 2014 and chairman chief her services to supporting in ExxonMobil, ICI, business and various Aldeburgh Music.
executive of Unilever in business growth.
A former Tate & Lyle and Diageo.
positions within the Thailand and Indochina director of McKinsey, the European and US from 2002 to 2006. global management Other directorships subsidiaries of BOC consulting firm.
Deputy Chair of the Group plc.
Operational Other directorships Council of the University experience as Group Chairman of Mylaps BV.
Other directorships of Southampton where, in director of Rexams plastic Non executive director of 2015, she was awarded packaging business.
RSA Insurance Group plc, an honorary doctorate of chairman of Sandpiper CI science.
Non executive Other directorships Limited, and a director of director of Boparan Non executive director the RBG Kew Foundation.
Retired as a non executive director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC on 31 January 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 39 Chairman Non executive director Non executive director Company secretary Board experience Stuart Chambers 59 John Langston 66 Carl-Peter Forster 61 David Gibson 53 Manufacturing Appointed 1 February Appointed 30 October Appointed 10 June 2014.
100% director and chairman Committees Consumer Changes to the board on 23 February 2012.
Committees Nomination, Audit and risk chairman, remuneration.
Finance There were no changes Nomination chairman.
Skills and business to the board during 2015 Skills and business experience 38% and up until the date of Skills and business experience Considerable operational Marketing this annual report.
experience A chartered accountant and manufacturing 38% Extensive business with international, expertise, and the David Robbie was experience, including commercial and corporate knowledge and Board diversity diagnosed with a serious experience of global finance experience.
experience gained, medical condition in July International business to business Previous appointments as a leader in global 2015 and was granted fide NL GB CDN markets.
Previous include a director of TI organisations.
Carl-Peter a leave of absence to appointments include Group plc prior to its is the former Chief Women on undergo medical group chief executive of acquisition by Smiths Executive of Tata Motors, the board treatment.
Details NSG Group until 2009, Group and operational part of the global Tata of additional support 25% and chief executive of roles on the board of Group, and previous to arranged for the board Pilkington PLC until its Smiths Group plc, and that he was Group VP Board balance during David Robbies acquisition by NSG Group as finance director at and Regional President absence are on page 45.
Also held senior Smiths from 2006 until his of GM Europe.
He also positions at Mars Inc and retirement in May 2010. spent 13 years in various 25% Royal Dutch Shell plc.
senior management roles Non executive Other directorships at BMW AG.
Other directorships Non executive director 75% Chairman of of Inchcape plc.
Other directorships Board tenure ARM Holdings plc and Non executive director 02 years appointed to the Hearings of IMI plc.
Chairman of Committee of The Panel on London Taxi Company 25% Takeovers and Mergers, and a board member 34 years effective from 30 April of Hong Kong listed 2016 see page 40.
58 years 12.5% 912 years 25% Figures above as at the date of this report.
The directors who have been in office for 912 years are the executive directors.
