STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 49 THE INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK CONTINUED Responsibility Activity in 2015 Internal audit The internal audit function monitors financial and other Meetings were held regularly between internal audit, risks faced throughout the Group and the control systems Group and sector management, to review progress on in operation to manage those risks.
All significant internal implementing audit recommendations and to ensure any audit findings are reported to the audit and risk committee.
significant issues identified were addressed.
Updates on performance were provided to the audit and risk committee by the director internal audit, including details of progress against the audit plan, audit report opinions given and progress in implementing audit recommendations.
As well as reporting on Group controls and risks the internal audit function also reports on its own performance using key performance indicators KPIs measuring such areas as completeness of the audit plan, timeliness of internal audit reports, coverage of businesses, key projects supported and development of internal audit staff.
The internal audit function continues to enhance its approach to the audit of business risks by focusing on a number of the key Group risks identified from the enterprise risk management framework and carried out a detailed review of the risk mitigations management had put in place to address these risks.
Areas reviewed included commercial sales in Beverage Can North America, production and treasury risks in Beverage Can South America, country stability risks in emerging markets, as well as the Group treasury and information management functions of Rexam PLC.
Operational Operational risk management, part of the enterprise In 2015 the Environmental Health and Safety policy risk management risk function, provides the leadership to develop and was updated together with a communication about the monitor processes which identify, assess and manage different aspects of the operational risk management risks associated with health and safety, environment, programmes.
The Global Framework for Safety and business continuity and crisis management, fire and loss the World Class Safety Action plan was launched which prevention, security and asset protection.
Purpose built identifies safety as one of our core values and creates a audit programmes allow for businesses to be evaluated vision for safety.
KPIs reflect a LTAR consistent with 2014 against Rexams and external best practice standards and the number of life changing incidents occurring has in these areas, and provide the basis for continuous reduced by 50% and 83% of our sites were LTA free in 2015. improvement action plans.
In addition, many Rexam Good progress has been made on business continuity businesses are accredited to external internationally management planning and the sectors have completed recognised standards.
The function also manages live testing scenarios with their crisis management teams.
Periodic updates, Detailed business continuity audits have been completed including any significant findings and issues, are reported with some of our metal suppliers.
This process will continue to the audit and risk committee.
Further details can be found in the principal risks section of this annual report on page 26.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS INTERNAL AUDIT The internal audit function plans and undertakes audits to ensure The audit and risk committee has primary responsibility for, and advises that the controls operating in the businesses conform with Group the board on, the appointment, reappointment and the remuneration of the controls and procedures, and reviews the effectiveness of the risk Companys external auditors.
Any recommendation for the reappointment management process.
of the external auditors is subject to their continued satisfactory performance.
Following an audit tender in 2003,  The director internal audit provides quarterly updates to the audit LLP PwC were appointed as the Companys external auditors, with and risk committee and reports on all significant audit findings.
the lead audit partner changing by rotation in 2008 and in 2013.
It is He has separate meetings with the chairman of the audit and risk expected that the formal rotation of the current lead audit partner committee without any other member of management being present.
will be effective from the audit of the financial results for 2017.
In 2015, the audit and risk committee reviewed and approved the The board continues to monitor the Competition and Markets Authority annual internal audit plan including the proposed audit approach, Order the Order and EU rules relating to audit tendering and rotation, coverage and allocation of resources.
It also reviewed the results of and the audit and risk committee has indicated that, if the Ball offer does the audits undertaken, with particular emphasis on the recommendations not proceed, it will commence a review of the current external audit made and managements response to the matters raised.
The quarterly service provider and tender in line with the transitional arrangements update provided to the committee also includes the internal audit of the Order.
At the present time, the board believes it is in the best functions own KPIs reporting on audit plan performance, coverage interests of shareholders to defer any tender of the external audit of operations, days to issue reports and transfer of auditors into contract until there is certainty as to the progress of the Ball offer.
The external auditors attend all audit and risk committee meetings and An internally commissioned survey with Group, sector and business annual enterprise risk review meetings with each of the business sectors.
management was undertaken at the end of 2015 and the results The audit and risk committee chairman also has separate meetings were reported to the committee in early 2016. with the external auditors to discuss relevant matters.
The external auditors work with Group and sector management and discuss their findings and recommendations with the audit and risk committee.
