16 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: SHAPE OUR FUTURE Shaping our future is about our ability to innovate 61,000lbs in terms of products and processes, to support our Setting an example customers sustainability agendas and, at the same time, Our office in Chicago, US, received top honours in the 2015 to promote the can as an excellent drinks container.
Great American Can Roundup GACR industry challenge by recycling more than 61,000lbs of aluminium beverage cans, raising over US$24,000 for charity.
The GACR is a great opportunity for our industry to team with suppliers and MOBILE CANNING ALUMINIUM STEWARDSHIP INITIATIVE local charities to set a positive In 2015, Rexam teamed up with WeCan The Aluminium Stewardship Initiative example for local communities.
Solutions to produce aluminium cans for launched at the end of 2012 by key players the first ever mobile canning facility in the in the aluminium industry, is supported today UK, one of only a handful in Europe.
The by 16 major companies across the value pioneering service, backed by Rexam, offers chain including Rexam.
onsite canning solutions for craft brewers and The performance standard was released 17 goals smaller beverage brands with a minimum in December 2014 and addresses issues filling run of 5,000 cans per day.
relevant to the production and stewardship A catalyst for change The collaboration sees Rexam providing 33cl of aluminium, from extraction of bauxite to Following ratification of the size cans in a range of formats, including the producers of commercial and consumer sustainable development goals unprinted, one colour printed and bespoke goods and the recycling of pre and post SDGs by the United Nations designs, on demand.
In addition, WeCan consumer aluminium scrap.
This standard in September, businesses are Solutions offers the application of pressure was developed with the valuable support of encouraged to help governments sensitive labels for onsite filling.
15 leading non government organisations, achieve 17 global goals.
We are representing civil society.
keen to align with government The partnership highlights both companies and policymakers to solve global dedication to help craft brewers recognise the The standard will be implemented through challenges through innovation, benefits of cans as an alternative packaging a third party certification system involving all investment and collaboration.
format, whilst reducing investment costs on industry players along the aluminium value We will assess the SDGs and filling lines and transportation.
Rexam continues to be closely involved look to incorporate the relevant and is encouraging customers to participate WeCan Solutions canning system is available goals into our business plans.
in the first wave of implementation pilots.
to small craft brewers, cider brewers and non alcoholic beverages and currently services PROGRESS AGAINST COMMITMENTS over 50 craft brewers across over 40 brands.
Our established sustainability framework is comprised of 12 specific commitments and 15 measures and targets, and enables us First to continuously improve performance in our three main areas of focus: products, Metal Recycles Forever operations and people.
During 2015, August 2015 saw the first particular focus was given to water commercial use of the Metal stewardship and community engagement Recycles Forever logo in the UK as these were behind target and we are market on Rexam cans produced now able to confirm that all areas are for micro brewer Concrete Cow.
Our business key performance Promoted by all members of indicators include six of the 15 measures.
Metal Packaging Europe, the See page 21. logo provides a definitive symbol for the metal packaging industry.
Part of a behavioural change campaign, it informs consumers about the recyclability of metal packaging, encouraging them to recycle.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 17 2020 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Our material issues Our goals Progress Recycling Achieve industry targets in Europe, US and Brazil Measure in AMEA Life cycle carbon 25% reduction can normalised Partnership 7.5 10 customer satisfaction 100% policy mitigation 100% suppliers use CDP Innovation Five projects progressing through stage gate per year Our material issues Our goals Progress Material Ongoing material reduction Energy and carbon 7% reduction can normalised Water 10% reduction can normalised Waste 25% reduction can normalised Our material issues Our goals Progress Safety 33% reduction in three year rolling average Lost Time Accident Rate Engagement Improvement in engagement score by sector Conduct 100% successfully completed Code of Conduct training modules Communities 50% increase in total of employee hours invested in agreed initiatives Annual progress against the above measures can be accessed here: www.
com keymetrics On track to achieve on time Positive trend Progress behind target
