The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors The report of the Directors comprises these pages 28 to 34 Results and dividends and the other sections and pages of the Annual Report and The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income Accounts cross referred below which are incorporated by statement on page 64.
This shows a Group profit after tax of reference.
As permitted by legislation, certain disclosures 68.9m 2014: 67.0m.
The closing mid-market price of the normally included in the report of the Directors have instead ordinary shares on 27 December 2015 was 680.0p and the been integrated into the strategic report pages 16 to 25. range during the financial year was 638.5p to 738.5p.
These disclosures include information relating to future Dividend Increase business developments references throughout the strategic report and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties Interim dividend page 24.
Paid on 8 October 2015 6.8p per share 11.5% Final dividend UK Corporate Governance Code Subject to shareholder approval, The Company is committed to high standards of corporate payable on 6 July 2016 to governance and observing the principles of corporate shareholders on the Register governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance of Members at the close of Code issued in 2014 Code by the Financial Reporting business on 17 June 2016 10.6p per share 14% Council FRC for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Code is available to view in full on the Total dividend payable FRC website www.
in respect of 2015 17.4p per share 13% Throughout the year ended 27 December 2015, the Company For more information on the Companys dividends, see note 9 has complied with the principles set out in the Code except on page 73. for the independence of the Chairman who was previously executive Chairman before being appointed to the role of Directors non-executive Chairman in January 2006.
As announced on The Directors who held office during 2015 were as follows: 26 January 2016, Debbie Hewitt will, subject to re-election by Danny Breithaupt, Stephen Critoph, Alan Jackson, shareholders, succeed Alan Jackson as Chairman of the Tony Hughes, Simon Cloke, Sally Cowdry and Debbie Hewitt.
Board with effect from the end of the Annual General Meeting AGM 2016, to be held on 12 May 2016.
Further explanation Each of the non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman of how the Main Principles of the Code have been applied are are considered by the Board to be independent.
Each Director set out below and also in the Directors remuneration report demonstrates a range of experience and sufficient calibre and the Audit Committee report.
to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, risk management, performance, resources and standards of Articles conduct which are vital for the success of the Group.
The Companys Articles may only be amended by special resolution and are available on the Companys website at Biographies of the Directors are available on pages 26 and 27. www.
In accordance with the Code, the Directors are subject to Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their The Group has over 30 subsidiaries.
A list of these can appointment, except where they are appointed by be found on page 91 note i to the Companys financial shareholders, and to annual re-election thereafter.
28 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Directors shareholdings Role of the non-executive Chairman and The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, Chief Executive Officer all being beneficially owned, were as follows: The roles of non-executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
The Chairman, Alan Jackson, is At At At responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board 10 February 27 December 28 December and the Chief Executive Officer, Danny Breithaupt, is 2016 2015 2014 responsible for the strategic direction and operational Executive Directors management of the Group.
Danny Breithaupt 61,898 61,898 52,703 Role of the senior independent Director Stephen Critoph 189,220 189,220 275,220 As senior independent non-executive Director, Tony Hughes is available to liaise with shareholders who have concerns Non-executive Directors that they feel have not been addressed through the normal Alan Jackson 250,191 250,191 250,191 channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
He also leads the annual performance review Tony Hughes 200,000 200,000 400,000 of the Chairman with the other non-executive Directors and Simon Cloke 7,000 7,000 7,000 provides advice and judgement for the Chairman as Sally Cowdry 1,000 1,000 1,000 necessary.
Debbie Hewitt 11,305 11,305 n a Role of the non-executive Director Non-executive Directors make a significant contribution to For further details of Directors remuneration and interests in the work of the Board and have an ongoing dialogue with the Companys shares and options, together with information the executive Directors which includes constructive challenge on service contracts see pages 39 to 52 of the Directors of performance and the Groups strategy.
Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive management Role of the Board of the Group.
The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company and Group within a framework of prudent and Board meetings and attendance effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and During 2015 there were eight Board meetings with full managed.
The Board reviews the Groups business model attendance by all Board members at all but one meeting, and strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the which Simon Cloke was unable to attend due to a prior necessary financial and human resources are in place to commitment known to the Board in advance.
achieve these objectives, to sustain them over the long-term and to review management performance.
The Board also Comprehensive Board papers including financial information sets the Companys values and standards and manages the are circulated to all Directors prior to Board meetings and on business in a manner to meet its obligations to shareholders a weekly basis they receive up-to-date trading information.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors present.
Matters examined There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved on these occasions include consideration of targets set and for the Boards consideration.
This includes items such as the performance achieved by management.
approval of the annual budget and the three year business plan, approval of the interim report and year-end annual Role of the Company Secretary report and accounts, review and approval of significant All Directors have access to the advice and services of the capital expenditure including development of new sites, Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed for significant disposals of assets and acquisitions or disposals the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take of businesses.
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Company.
Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day running of the Group and regularly report that performance to On 1 September 2015, in the interests of good governance, the Board.
The Board is responsible for reviewing, challenging the roles of Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary and approving the strategic direction of the Group.
At this time Stephen Critoph resigned as Company Secretary and Alex Small was appointed.
29 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors continued Director induction, training and development Annual General Meeting On joining the Board there is a process for Directors to receive The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain training as to their role and its requirements and for nonaspects of Group business and provides a useful forum for executive Directors to gain an understanding of the business.
one-to-one communication with private shareholders.
At the Non-executive Directors are actively encouraged to meet with AGM shareholders receive presentations on the Companys operational management and to visit the Groups operations in performance and may ask questions of the Board.
The order to enhance their understanding of the Groups business, Chairman seeks to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, its brands, employees and processes.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors The Company acknowledges the importance of developing to attend.
the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant The 2016 AGM will be held at 10am on Thursday 12 May 2016 courses and seminars to acquire additional skills and at the offices of Instinctif Partners, 65 Gresham Street, experience which may enhance their contribution to the London, EC2V 7NQ.
The notice convening this meeting ongoing progress of the Group.
has been sent to shareholders at the same time as publication of this Annual Report and Accounts and is available at Board effectiveness review www.
The performance of the Board and its Committees are appraised annually.
The process is led by the Chairman, Re-engaging with gone away shareholders supported by the Company Secretary, and involves a We are supported by ProSearch to locate shareholders who comprehensive review of performance against objectives and havent kept their details up to date.
To date, the programme areas for future development.
The non-executive Directors has been successful at reunifying both lost shares and also meet in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the unclaimed dividends.
Audit Committee In 2015 an internal review was undertaken which examined In 2015, the Audit Committee consisted of at least three the key functions of the Board, the effective discharge of its independent non-executive Directors.
Current members responsibilities and progress since the prior years review.
include Simon Cloke Chairman, Tony Hughes, Sally Cowdry The results were analysed by the Board and it was agreed and Debbie Hewitt.
The Committee met on three occasions that they would focus on streamlining board papers for during 2015 with full attendance at each but for the absence consistency and ensuring board meetings were more evenly of Debbie Hewitt at one meeting, due to a prior commitment spaced in the year.
There were no significant changes or known to the Committee in advance.
The Board continues to evolve in description of the work undertaken by the Committee is accordance with best practice and feedback received from included in the Audit Committee report on pages 53 and 55. the Directors.
Nomination Committee Board engagement with shareholders During the year the Nomination Committee consisted of at Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The least three independent non-executive Directors together with strategic report includes a detailed review of the business and the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
operations, including a review of planned future developments.
Current members include Tony Hughes Chairman, Simon There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors including Cloke, Alan Jackson, Sally Cowdry, Danny Breithaupt and presentations after the Companys year-end and half year Debbie Hewitt.
It met twice during 2015 with full attendance results announcements.
Feedback from major institutional at the meetings.
shareholders is provided to the Board on a regular basis and, where appropriate, the Board will take steps to address their The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly concerns and recommendations.
reviewing the composition of the Board to ensure it remains effective and comprises a suitable range of skills, backgrounds and experience.
As appropriate the Committee makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment or replacement of Directors and ensure there is an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience, knowledge and independence for both now and in the future.
The Committee is also responsible for the Groups succession planning and its work is a significant factor in the smooth transition to the new non-executive Chairman.
30 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Following an extensive search by a leading, independent Substantial shareholdings executive search consultancy who are a signatory of the As at 10 February 2016, the Company had been notified Voluntary Code of Conduct, Debbie Hewitt was selected of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued share to succeed Alan Jackson as Chairman of the Board with her capital of the Company under the UK Disclosure and appointment effective from the end of the AGM 2016, to be Transparency Rules: held on 12 May 2016.
Number % of issue of shares share capital Both the Nomination Committee and the Board acknowledge Standard Life Investments Ltd 26,627,945 13.25 the importance of diversity and promoting equal opportunities throughout the Group and continue to have regard to the FMR LLC 16,764,442 8.34 recommendations of Lord Davies Women on Boards Royal London Asset Management 13,003,160 6.47 report published in February 2011 and the five year summary M&G Investment Management Ltd 10,065,216 5.01 published in October 2015 in its deliberations on future Legal & General Investment appointments and to the benefits of diversity more broadly.
Management Ltd 8,195,749 4.08 Remuneration Committee BlackRock Investment In 2015 the Remuneration Committee consisted of at least Management Ltd 7,894,943 3.93 three independent non-executive Directors.
Current members Threadneedle Asset include Tony Hughes Chairman, Simon Cloke, Sally Cowdry Management Ltd 6,426,898 3.20 and Debbie Hewitt.
Franklin Resources Inc 6,111,000 3.04 The Remuneration Committee met on four occasions in 2015.
Capital risk management There was full attendance at each meeting but for the absence The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to of Simon Cloke at one meeting, due to a prior commitment continue as a going concern while looking to maximise returns known to the Committee in advance.
The role of the to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists Committee and details of how the Company complies with of equity comprising issued share capital, other reserves and the principles of the Code are set out in the Directors retained earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and cash remuneration report on pages 39 to 52. equivalents.
The Group monitors its capital structure on a regular basis through cash flow projections and consideration Share capital structure of the cost of financing its capital.
The Companys issued share capital at 27 December 2015 1 consisted of 200,950,672 ordinary shares of 28 pence each.
8 Financial risk management There are no special control rights or restrictions on share The Board regularly reviews the financial requirements of the transfer or special rights pertaining to any of the shares in Group and the risks associated therewith.
The Group does issue and the Company does not have preference share.
not use complex financial instruments, and where financial instruments are used it is for reducing interest rate risk.
The As far as is known to management, the Company is not Group does not use derivative financial instruments for directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another Company trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed or by any government.
from retained earnings and bank borrowings including an overdraft facility.
Employee benefit trust EBT and share awards Details of the Companys EBT arrangements can be found In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group also on page 77 note 19. has other financial instruments such as debtors, prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly from the The Company has an all employee Save As You Earn scheme, Groups operations.
Further information is provided in note 23. a Long-Term Incentive scheme and a historic Executive Share Option Plan.
Details of share-based payments during the year The average rate of interest charged during the year on the can be found on pages 78 to 82 note 20.
On 2015 results, net The Group considers that the disclosure requirements under interest was covered 43.4 times 2014: 33.7 times by profit Listing Rule 9.8.
before tax, interest and non-trading items.
Based on year-end debt and profits for 2015, a 1% rise in interest rates would reduce profits before tax and non-trading items by 0.4% 2014: 0.5% and interest cover would reduce to 37.1 times 2014: 28.9 times.
31 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors continued At 27 December 2015 the Group had gross borrowings Financial statements and accounting records attracting interest including overdraft of 35.1m 2014: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 40.0m and cash balances of 3.0m 2014: 0.9m.
and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Significant agreements and change of control the Group financial statements in accordance with provisions International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as The Group has a 140m revolving credit facility in place until adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS June 2020 and a 10m overdraft facility.
Under the terms Regulation and have chosen to prepare the parent company of the 140m revolving credit facility the Group is required financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom to comply with its financing covenants whereby net interest Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom charges must be covered at least four times by EBITDA and Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company net debt must not exceed three times EBITDA.
The margin law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they on interest rates applied to the revolving facility is dependent are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
The banking facility affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the covenants are tested twice annually and are monitored on Company for that period.
The Group remained within its banking facility covenant limits throughout 2015.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: The Group has entered into various contracts, including properly select and apply accounting policies: leases, during the course of ordinary business which may be terminated in the event of a change of control of the Company.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Greenhouse gas emissions understandable information: The disclosure concerning greenhouse gas emissions are provide additional disclosures when compliance with the included in the corporate responsibility report on page 38. specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, Going concern other events and conditions on the entitys financial position The strategic report contains a summary of the cash flows and financial performance: and and borrowing position of the Group.
The Group is highly cash generative, as a retail business with trading receipts make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue settled by cash or credit or debit cards, and enjoys negative as a going concern.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Information on the Groups policies for capital risk Directors are required to: management and financial risk management are set out select suitable accounting policies and then apply them above.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties that could consistently: affect the business are detailed in the strategic report.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are Based on the Groups plans for 2016 and after making reasonable and prudent: enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have forecasts, consideration of current financing arrangements been followed: and and current headroom for liquidity and covenant compliance, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis has adequate resources to continue operations for the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt continue in business.
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
32 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate UK Corporate Governance Code accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable balanced and understandable and provide the necessary accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company information for shareholders to assess the Companys and enable them to ensure that the financial statements performance, business model and strategy.
comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Internal control over financial reporting and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with the Code the Board has ensured that there is an ongoing The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of integrity of the corporate and financial information included internal control including identifying, evaluating and managing on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, which the preparation and dissemination of financial statements is reviewed throughout the year, is carried out in conjunction may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
with business planning and is documented in a risk register that has been progressively enhanced during the financial year Auditor and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Each of the current Directors have taken all the steps that they Accounts.
ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant information needed by the Companys auditor for the purpose Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for the system of their audit and to establish that the auditor is aware of that of internal control, the Board is aware that the system is information.
The Directors are not aware of any relevant designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to information of which the auditor is unaware.
This information achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. or loss.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Group has well-established procedures which have been The Board confirms that to the best of its knowledge: developed over many years which meet the requirements the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the of the Code.
A key control procedure is the day-to-day IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and involvement of executive members of the Board in all aspects fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the business and their attendance at regular management or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the meetings at which performance against plan and business consolidation taken as a whole: and prospects are reviewed.
The Group has a monthly executive management meeting where the executive Directors, senior the strategic report includes a fair review of the development operational managers and head of functional departments and performance of the business and the position of the review Group performance and issues affecting the Group.
Company and the undertakings included in the Additionally, the Board seeks to continually strengthen its consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description internal control procedures to ensure there is a consistent and of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
appropriate balance between risk and reward.
33 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors continued Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness of the internal control and risk management system in relation to financial reporting are described below: the terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items for Board approval: an established organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements: operational performance and operational matters are considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors with senior management.
Financial performance is monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets approved by the Board: capital investment is regulated under a budgetary process and appropriate authorisation levels, including appraisals and post-investment reviews: comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures.
These include human resources related policies, information technology and health and safety.
The Group employs a firm of external auditors to monitor restaurants on a regular basis for compliance with statutory and internal health and safety requirements: and an internal audit function headed by an experienced internal auditor with access to all areas of the Company and Groups business.
By order of the Board Alex Small Company Secretary 9 March 2016 34
