The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Board of Directors as at 27 February 2016 H H Alan Jackson Danny Breithaupt 1 Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Alan joined the Company as executive Chairman in March Danny joined the Company in 2001.
He held a number 2001 and became non-executive Chairman in January of senior positions within Frankie & Bennys, becoming 2006.
He has a wealth of experience in the leisure sector.
Operations Director in 2003 and Managing Director in For 18 years, from 1973 to 1991, Alan occupied various 2009.
During his time leading Frankies the brand grew positions within Whitbread, principally Managing Director of from 75 to over 200 units.
In 2011 Danny led the successful Beefeater steakhouses and also the Whitbread restaurant launch of the new Coast to Coast brand and was division where he was responsible for the creation and appointed Managing Director of the Groups Leisure development of Beefeater, Travel Inns and TGI Friday business in 2012 and Chief Executive Officer on brands.
Alan was formerly deputy Chairman of Redrow Plc 1 September 2014.
His earlier career included 10 years and is currently non-executive Chairman of Playtech plc.
with Bella Pasta, then part of Whitbread.
Stephen Critoph Chief Financial Officer Stephen was appointed as Finance Director of the Company in September 2004.
In September 2014 he was promoted to the role of Chief Financial Officer.
Previously Stephen held several senior finance positions in Compass Group plc and Granada Group plc, including Corporate Development Director of Compass Roadside and Finance u Member of the Remuneration Committee Director of Travelodge and Little Chef.
He trained and D Member of the Audit Committee H Member of the Nomination Committee qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte & Touche.
Committee Chair 1 With effect from the end of the AGM, to be held on 12 May 2016, Alan Jackson will retire from the Board and Debbie Hewitt will, subject to her re-election as a Director, succeed Alan Jackson as Chairman of the Company.
2 On 4 April Mike Tye joined the Board as independent non-executive Director.
With effect from the end of the AGM, to be held on 12 May 2016, Tony Hughes will retire from the Board and Mike Tye will replace him as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Simon Cloke will succeed Tony Hughes to become senior independent non-executive Director.
26 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 u DH u DH Tony Hughes Simon Cloke Senior independent Independent 2 2 non-executive Director non-executive Director Tony was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Simon was appointed as a non-executive Director of Company in January 2008.
Tony was Managing Director the Company in March 2010.
Formerly Global Head of of the Restaurants Division of Mitchells & Butlers plc Industrials at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, he was previously Bass plc and Six Continents plc from 1995 to appointed Managing Director of HSBCs Diversified 2007 and served on the Board of Mitchells & Butlers plc Industries Group in 2005 and is currently responsible for from 2003 to 2007.
Prior to joining Bass, he held senior managing HSBCs business with some of its largest house management roles at B&Q, J.
building and building materials clients as well as a number of HSBCs largest UK corporate relationships.
u D H u D H Sally Cowdry Debbie Hewitt MBE Independent Independent 1 non-executive Director non-executive Director Sally was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Debbie was appointed as a non-executive Director on Company in March 2014.
Sally is Consumer and Retail 1 May 2015.
She is currently non-executive Chairman of Director at Camelot Lotteries UK Ltd, accountable for the Moss Bros Group Plc and senior non-executive Director strategic development and commercial performance of of Redrow Plc and NCC Group Plc.
She also holds The National Lottery and its portfolio of games.
Prior non-executive roles in the following private companies: to joining Camelot in 2013, Sally was Marketing and White Stuff Ltd, Domestic and General Ltd, BGL Group Ltd Consumer Director at O2.
and Visa UK Ltd, a subsidiary of Visa Inc.
Her executive career was spent at RAC Plc where she was Group Managing Director and prior to that she was in retail management with Marks and Spencer.
She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development and was awarded the MBE for services to Business and the Public Sector in 2011.
