STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 43 EFFECTIVENESS Our board performance evaluation process Our board members bring important skills and experience to our organisation and this Completion of questionnaires complements the skills of our executive team.
My ambitions for the composition of the board are to maintain and, where applicable, broaden the range of expertise, experience and Analysis of responses, strengths and challenges diversity and ensure that effective succession plans are in place.
Throughout 2015 the members of the board have continued to challenge each other to ensure the quality of our decisions.
Recommendations and discussion document Stuart Chambers Nomination committee chairman Individual meetings with the chairman EFFECTIVENESS OF THE BOARD The board acts in the best interests of the Company, making well Collective board and board committee discussions informed and high quality decisions within a framework of prudent risk management.
Matters are discussed cohesively by the board as a whole, with challenge and debate encouraged, and no one individual has unrestricted power of decision making.
Having conducted its performance evaluation, the board believes that it, and each of its committees has been effective in carrying out The composition of the board and its committees facilitates the their objectives in 2015 and that each individual director has been effective discharge of its duties and responsibilities.
Rexam has a board effective and demonstrated commitment to the role.
The challenges of directors with international business backgrounds and a range of and opportunities were identified through the performance evaluation diverse skills, experience and nationalities.
Their diversity and knowledge and the board agreed to focus on the following areas over the coming are invaluable in challenging and developing the Groups strategy year to improve the boards effectiveness in 2016: and enable the board to govern the global business effectively.
Throughout 2015 and up to the date of this annual report the Company Challenges and 2016 development points following had a majority of independent non executive directors on the board.
opportunities 2015 evaluation The board is aware of the other commitments of the directors and Board environment Learning from the additional requirements considers that these commitments do not conflict with their duties as and information and challenges arising from the Ball offer: to directors of the Company.
A biography of each member of the board, heighten the focus in 2016 on emphasising including details of their business experience and other directorships, and facilitating the importance of regular is given on pages 38 and 39. and full information flow, individual contribution from each director and BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION open and transparent discussions The directors recognise that the evaluation process is an important at the board and board committees.
annual opportunity to review the practices and performance of the Board and To increase the professional development board, its committees and its individual directors, and implement committee of the board and the board committees to actions to improve the boards focus, effectiveness and ability to professional extend their understanding of the Group contribute to the Companys success.
An externally facilitated development and the issues faced on a business as performance evaluation of the board was last conducted in 2013. usual basis, and to effectively contribute to discussions connected with the expected In 2015, the chairman and company secretary agreed the scope of closing of the Ball offer.
the review which took into account, amongst other areas, the principal challenges and opportunities identified in the 2014 performance Competitors, To continue presentations of detailed market evaluation.
The evaluation explored specific aspects of board and customers and intelligence on customers and suppliers board committee effectiveness: the work of the board in 2015, and suppliers to further develop the level of knowledge board environment, information and meetings.
Directors were asked to achieved in 2015.
Refocus of discussions complete a questionnaire which was reviewed and scored.
The chairman relating to competitors strategies, strengths met with each director to discuss their views on the effectiveness of and weaknesses, and underlying commercial the board and obtain open and constructive feedback.
trends that are shaping the future of the beverage packaging industry.
The senior independent director is responsible for the annual Succession planning To continue informal meetings between the performance appraisal of the chairman and presents the feedback and leadership board, senior management and the talent from this process and her recommendations to the nomination committee.
development pool so that the board can add value in discussions relating to talent identification, development and succession planning.
44 EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED The board made progress during 2015 against the areas for development All newly appointed directors participate in an internal induction identified in the 2014 evaluation although the announcement of the Ball programme that introduces the director to the Group and includes offer changed the emphasis of the boards priorities.
In particular: visiting Group businesses.
This programme is tailored to each directors needs, taking into account individual qualifications and experience.
Challenges and If required, an overview of the role and responsibilities of a director opportunities 2015 progress on 2014 development points can be facilitated by an external consultant.
The company secretary Competitors, Progress was achieved by providing the gives guidance on board procedures and corporate governance.
customers and board with customer and supplier insight New board directors participate in an induction programme which suppliers through presentations and analysis of the comprises one to one meetings with functional and operational global tender process.
In conjunction with management for an overview of the corporate and business aspects the progress made in 2014, the board of the Group.
Directors meet with the Groups external auditors, achieved a further enhanced understanding legal advisors, the Companys brokers and capital markets advisors.
of the beverage packaging industry.
Governance and board related matters are discussed with the company Development of the boards knowledge of secretary.
Visits to the Groups plants in different jurisdictions are the range of competitors to the beverage also arranged to provide a clear understanding of the beverage can industry will continue in 2016. can manufacturing process and the beverage can markets.
Talent pipeline Helpful interaction and debate on this topic and succession between the board and senior management The chairman is responsible for, and reviews and agrees with each director planning at board meetings, and events that were their training and development needs.
Members of the committees arranged to facilitate meetings with receive specific updates on matters that are relevant to their role.
The members of the talent pipeline.
The Ball chairman arranges for the board to visit at least one of the Groups offer influenced the boards focus in the business locations each year to ensure that the directors knowledge area of succession planning and the board of, and familiarity with, the businesses are updated and maintained.
was able to add value to discussions relating During 2015, the board visited the beverage can plant in Milton Keynes, to senior management succession planning.
UK where directors met with local management and toured the Board and Time constraints in 2015 affected plans for manufacturing facilities.
They also toured Rexams graphics and design committee general professional development.
Rexam is the only beverage can maker to currently professional offer provided scope for regular external provide a full suite of design development capability under one roof.
development training and development in the structure of takeover transactions, global regulatory Members of the senior management team with responsibility for clearance processes and associated the Groups businesses and those with corporate and service centre divestment and integration workstreams.
functional responsibilities make periodic presentations at board meetings about their businesses, functions, performance, suppliers, customers, The board committees each discussed their own effectiveness evaluations competitors, markets and strategy.
and identified areas for focus to improve their effectiveness in 2016.
The company secretary, who is appointed by the board, is responsible A full performance evaluation of the board, its committees and the for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
This includes taking individual directors will continue to be conducted annually.
minutes of the board meetings and recording any concerns relating to the running of the Company or proposed actions arising therefrom DEVELOPMENT, INFORMATION AND SUPPORT that are expressed by a director in a board meeting.
The company Formal board meetings are held during the year and the chairman secretary is also secretary to the audit and risk, nomination and and the company secretary ensure that, prior to each meeting, the remuneration committees.
directors receive accurate, clear and timely information which helps them to discharge their duties.
In the months with no scheduled Under the direction of the chairman, the company secretary is board meeting, the directors receive the prior month and cumulative responsible for the communication of relevant information between financial, operating and risk information relating to the Group and its the board, its committees and the senior management team.
The directors receive their board papers through a secure advises the board, through the chairman, on all governance and electronic portal and are able to reference and mark the electronic regulatory compliance matters.
papers in the board meeting.
Should a director reasonably request independent professional advice to carry out their duties, such advice is made available at the Companys expense.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 45 NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 2015 BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND DIVERSITY The board has approved the terms of reference delegating certain The board appreciates the benefits of greater board diversity, including responsibilities to the nomination committee.
The terms of reference gender diversity.
It recognises that a diverse and inclusive culture, are reviewed annually and are available on the Companys website.
and policies that promote diversity are key to creating a breadth of perspective among directors and effective balance in the boardroom.
The nomination committee is chaired by the chairman of the board.
The other members of the committee during 2015 were all independent The nomination committee has a policy of working alongside non executive directors.
recruitment consultants who adhere to a voluntary code of conduct to ensure that when seeking new candidates for the board, at least Committee membership Attendance 30% of the candidates on their initial list of candidates are women Stuart Chambers committee chairman 5 5 the Voluntary Code of Conduct and are independent in that they have no other connection with the Company.
For executive director John Langston 5 5 appointments the recruitment consultants evaluate and consider 2 Carl-Peter Forster 4 5 prospective external candidates and review internal candidates.
Leo Oosterveer 5 5 In all cases the nomination committee then meets with and considers Ros Rivaz 5 5 prospective appointees and, if appropriate, recommendations are made to the board for approval.
Johanna Waterous 5 5 The Groups gender balance at board level is currently six males, 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that 75% and two females, 25% 2014: 75% male and 25% female.
It is the director could have attended.
the boards intention to maintain that at least 25% of the board are 2 Carl-Peter Forster was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior engagement women.
Diversity is one of the important factors in the specification confirmed prior to his appointment to the board.
He received the agenda and the given by the nomination committee to recruitment consultants when papers for that meeting and provided his comments in advance of the meeting.
The nomination committee ensures that, with the assistance of recruitment consultants who adhere to the THE ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Voluntary Code of Conduct, female candidates are considered The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by routinely as part of the recruitment process to bring the most the Companys articles of association, which may only be amended effective balance within the boardroom.
The overriding objective with shareholders approval in accordance with relevant legislation.
is that board appointments will continue to be on merit and that Recommendations for appointments to the board are the responsibility the most appropriate candidates are identified and appointed.
of the nomination committee which acts in accordance with its terms In 2016, the nomination committee will continue to assess the boards of reference and the articles of association.
composition and how it can be enhanced and will consider diversity as All board appointments are conducted through a formal, rigorous and part of this process to ensure it continues to draw candidates from the transparent procedure involving the nomination committee and the board.
widest possible range of talent.
Further details on diversity throughout The performance and effectiveness of the nomination committee are the Group can be found on page 19. reviewed as part of the main performance evaluation of the board and all its committees.
SUCCESSION PLANNING The nomination committee develops succession plans for the board, The main responsibilities of the nomination committee are to: mindful of the need for progressive refreshment of the board, and review the structure, size and composition of the board including its a balance of skills, experience and diversity.
skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, including gender diversity : The boards responsibility for succession planning means that it is give full consideration to succession planning and ensure that actively involved in the Groups talent processes to identify internal processes and planning are in place with regard to both the candidates for promotion and develop senior managers to give them board and senior executive appointments: every opportunity to progress their careers.
The nomination committee identifies through the management review process any internal people identify and consider candidates on merit against objective criteria whose skills, experience and contribution to the Group would add and make recommendations to the board on appointments to the value to the board.
The board periodically discusses current senior board and board committees, and on the appointment of the management positions within the organisational structure and, company secretary: led by the chief executive, considers potential successors to meet assess the time needed to fulfil the roles of chairman, the Groups leadership needs over time.
senior independent director and non executive director: The board led discussions regarding appropriate arrangements for keep up to date on strategic issues and commercial changes the period of David Robbies medical absence.
As announced in July affecting the Company and its markets: and 2015, the board asked Kath Kearney-Croft, a senior member of the assist the chairman with the annual board performance evaluation Group finance team, to support the board in the role of acting finance process to assess the overall performance and effectiveness of the board director.
The board continues to keep under review the need to appoint and each board committee, and the individual performance of directors.
an interim finance director to the board.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE AREAS OF FOCUS 2015 RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS During 2015, the nomination committee carried out its duties To promote good governance and in accordance with the Code, the by focusing on its key activities and ensuring the long term board has recommended that all directors should submit themselves effectiveness of the board.
for election or re-election on an annual basis.
Reviewed the board and committee composition in 2015.
A biography of each member of the board can be found on pages 38 and 39.
Discussed the range of skills on the board and its diversity and how to ensure an adequate balance of skills and experience for effective medium and long term decision making.
Discussed the grant of leave of medical absence relating to the finance director and additional support to be provided to the board in his absence.
Reviewed succession and development plans for the executive directors and executive leadership team.
Reviewed its own effectiveness during 2015.
Oversight of the board performance evaluation.
