04 MARKET REVIEW The major growth areas in terms of new plants The global beverage market is large and growing.
and new lines have been in the developing parts of the world, particularly in China, South In 2015, around 2 trillion litres of packaged beverages East Asia, Middle East and Africa.
The rapid were consumed across the world, an increase of 3% expansion of modern retail in these markets supports can growth versus returnable glass compared with 2014.
The beverage can is helping packaging.
Moreover, current low levels of can consumption per capita in a market like to drive that growth.
India 1 can per capita in 2015 compared to North American and West European averages respectively 315 and 85 cans per capita in 2015 suggests major long term growth opportunities.
We also continue to see can growth in mature markets, driven by share THE GLOBAL BEVERAGE CAN MARKET THE GLOBAL BEVERAGE MARKET gains from glass packaging and by the While the average consumer drinks around The beverage can market comprises about consumption shift from on trade to off 90% aluminium cans and 10% steel cans.
270 litres of beverages a year, consumption trade channels, where the can is the levels and growth rates differ widely by There is a continued move from steel to preferred packaging.
North aluminium and steel cans are now only America remains the largest market for used in some parts of Europe, Africa and CAN ADVANTAGE beverages, with consumption at 575 litres Asia.
Moreover, nearly all beverage cans The advantages of the can are well per capita while average rates in Africa, the used in North America and Europe are documented: cans are unbreakable, light, Middle East and Asia AMEA are well below two piece cans but some three piece steel quick to chill and offer great visibility on shelf the global average.
The low consumption beverage cans are still used in China and with 360 degree branding.
Cans also support regions are expected to achieve the strongest South East Asia.
long product shelf life, they protect from light growth in the coming years, especially AMEA.
and oxygen, and keep the beverage fresh and Rexam estimates that just under 320 billion safe to drink.
They are suitable for all beverages, Carbonated soft drinks CSD and beers beverage cans were consumed globally in either carbonated or still, alcoholic or soft are well established categories and one of 2015.
Beer and CSD account for the vast drinks.
They are also convenient for the retailer the largest globally in terms of consumption majority of consumption, but an increasing with high cubic efficiency for transport and along with packaged water, milk and hot drinks.
number of consumers are drinking other are easy to stack on shelves.
Furthermore, In 2015, the CSD and beer categories have beverage categories such as energy drinks, beverage cans can be recycled forever.
increased by just over 1% compared to 2014. cider, iced RTD tea and coffee, FABs, The fastest growth rates over the next three flavoured and sparkling water, juices and THE GLOBAL PLAYERS years are expected from smaller categories milk from a can.
The beverage can market has three major such as energy drinks, iced ready to drink Industry trends vary significantly region global players, Rexam, Ball and Crown, who RTD tea and coffee and flavoured alcoholic to region with different market dynamics.
together account for over 60% of the global beverages FABs, but also from the large The worlds largest two piece market, North supply of beverage cans.
Can-Pack has and high growth packaged water category.
America, continues to show a slow controlled emerged as a strong regional player in Europe See charts 1 and 2 opposite.
decline in the CSD market.
This is partially in recent years and accounts for some 4% of Globally, about 1.6 trillion units of beverage offset by the growth in cans for beer, energy, global supply.
Excluding Japan and Australia, packs were sold in 2015, an increase of 5% RTD tea, and specialty categories.
Brand two geographically isolated markets, the in volume versus 2014.
PET bottles have now owners seek pack differentiation and shelf three largest players account for over 70% caught up with glass bottles and both account appeal in the more mature markets of North of the market.
for the biggest share of the market followed by America, Europe and Japan and we can beverage cans, with the remainder packaged expect an increase in niche markets for in a mix of cartons, pouches, sachets and specialty cans such as Sleek, Big cans other pack types.
Can and PET have been and sizes other than standard 12oz cans.
growing fast at respectively 3% and 7% per year over the past five years, gaining share over glass.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS E B J D C C I H G A A A A F REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 05 KEY CUSTOMERS Rexams customers include large global Innovation is taking place in areas such as and regional beverage companies in beverage categories, consumer segments, 76% soft and alcoholic drinks with a diverse drinking occasions and channels using pack geographic footprint.
size, shape and decoration as differentiators.
Percentage of turnover One of their key challenges is profitable In emerging markets the challenge is more derived from Rexams top 10 customers in 2015 growth in a world currently growing at a around different pack types to access the slower pace than before.
The slowdown in myriad of consumer segments, price points, certain mature markets has put pressure on beverage categories and channels.
ABInBev Heineken prices and margins.
Growth in emerging Arizona Monster To address customers priorities Rexam has Carlsberg Group Pepsi markets is attractive but they are proving continued to increase its focus on innovation.
Coca-Cola Red Bull no less competitive as local champions Our innovation board is chaired by the chief CCU SAB Miller and multinationals build their positions.
executive and funds investment to address The consolidation trend among the beverage strategic priorities through new technology.
producers industry continued in 2015 with We participate early in the technology value a number of new strategic partnerships and chain to create the best competitive advantage.
acquisitions aimed at increasing market share, Our supplier collaboration programme has expansion into new and emerging markets been built to create a line of sight from our and the reduction of costs by leveraging customer priorities to joint technology both suppliers and distributors.
developments that complement Rexams capabilities and accelerate our pace In developed markets, the trend is towards of innovation.
finding ways for our customers to continue to capture consumers share of throat.
Our customers are increasingly focused on innovation to differentiate their products in a crowded and lower growth marketplace.
2015 Global consumption 201518 e Global 1 2 Energy drinks 8% by beverage category beverage volume growth Packaged water 7% 2.0 trillion litres CAGR Flavoured milk 6% Soft and alcoholic drinks A: Packaged water Spirits 6% B: CSD Sports drinks 4% C: Beer & cider Iced RTD tea 4% D: Juice drinks Iced RTD coffee 4% E: Iced RTD tea & coffee Still drinks 4% F: Spirits incl FABs Wine 2% G: Squash & fruit powders Beer & cider 2% H: Wine CSD 2% I: Energy & sports drinks 2% Juice & nectar J: Milk & dairy drinks Squash & fruit powder 1% K: Hot drinks FABs 1% Source: Canadean Source: Canadean 3 2015 Global beverage 4 2015 Whats in a can pack mix 1.6 trillion units A: Glass A: Beer B: Plastic B: CSD C: Cans C: Energy drinks D: Other D: Still drinks E: Iced RTD coffee drinks F: Iced RTD tea drinks G: FABs H: Sports drinks I: Nectars 2599% J: Juices 100% Source: Rexam estimates Source: Rexam estimates 5 2015 Global can volumes 6 2015 Can makers by region market share c320 billion cans c320 billion cans Middle East & Africa A: Rexam South & Central America B: Ball Europe C: Crown Asia D: MCC North America incl Mexico E: Can-Pack F: Other 2015 Source: Rexam estimates Source: Rexam estimates J D K F E I H G D F B B E D B C C 06 MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED As a leading global beverage can maker, Consumer trends are changing: not simply what they drink Rexam stays in tune with the main trends seen in the table below, adapting as but where they drink it and what they expect the packaging needed so that it can continue to ensure to deliver above and beyond traditional expectations.
that the beverage can remains a package of choice for our own customers.
Consumer trends How Rexam cans address these growing trends Health and wellbeing: Cans are available in a variety of smaller sizes and slim shapes, supporting portion control Healthy nutrition and single serve consumption.
Product safety Cans are suitable for all beverages, including juices, iced RTD tea and coffee, FABs, and flavoured and sparkling water.
Cans support long product shelf life.
They protect from light and oxygen, and keep the beverage fresh and safe to drink.
Cans are available for multiple channels eg vending machines, convenience stores, Easy and convenient: Easy to buy hypermarkets and in multiple sizes and formats to suit a wide range of consumer Easy to consume occasions at home, on the go, with food, etc.
Rexam offers thermochromic inks on cans to signal to the consumer when the product is at its optimum drinking temperature.
Cans provide ready to drink packaging.
1 Individualism customisation: Rexams Standard Editions and Super Premium Editions technologies allow between Novelty, fun and experience 6 to 24 variable print designs on the can eg names, city photos for enhanced marketing Personalised packaging opportunities.
Cans have 360 branding capability for enhanced visibility on shelf.
Rexam can print QR codes and augmented reality AR features on a can, ideal for enabling social media interaction.
Premium and affordable: Rexam uses a combination of printing technologies eg high definition printing, tactile, Premiumisation debossing, sparkling, thermochromic inks and decorative effects as well as a variety Modern contemporary look of can ends and tabs coloured, laser engraved, cut out tabs to achieve a premium Affordability and contemporary look.
Rexams Fusion aluminium bottle 250ml and 330ml is ideal for premium products and special editions.
Cans offer affordable options when retailed in multipacks and smaller pack sizes.
Sustainability: The can is a highly efficient and economic package to produce, fill and distribute.
Sustainable production Lightweight, cubic efficient and unbreakable, the can protects the product perfectly.
Easy to recycle The can is the most recycled beverage packaging in the world.
Cans are infinitely and fully recyclable with no loss of quality.
Cans have the ability to be recycled back into new cans and on the shelf within 60 days.
NEW BEVERAGE CATEGORIES drinks offer an exciting growth path and The traditional categories of CSD, beer diversification of our customer base.
and energy drinks represent the majority The can offers customers the opportunity of Rexams volumes.
for product differentiation on crowded retail In a world with a maturing traditional CSD shelves, where plastic bottles dominate in soft category, fast growing beverage categories drinks, and provides a viable alternative to such as juices, dairy, FABs and nutritious the more premium types of glass packaging.
