10 BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is underpinned by MANUFACTURING Rexam is a global beverage clear and consistently applied frameworks Our core skill lies in converting sheet metal for enterprise risk management, including into beverage cans and that is where we can can maker producing around governance and sustainable development.
generate sustainable competitive advantage 66bn cans a year at 56 plants We are part of a supply chain that stretches and where we create the vast majority of our from ore mining to the consumption of value.
We invest in assets to convert sheet metal across the world.
We offer our beverages from cans by the consumer.
Within into cans and in most cases assume the risk that chain, we have direct control over the of converting aluminium ingot into coil.
Our customers a broad range of manufacture of beverage cans and ends and success and ability to create value relies on can sizes for their products such the capital see below to make this viable.
high utilisation of our can making lines and We also constantly support and promote the our ability to convert sheet metal into finished as CSD, beer, energy drinks beverage can as a sustainable alternative to beverage cans and ends as sustainably as other drinks packaging.
See more on page 6. possible at the lowest delivered cost.
Managing enterprise risk see page 22 WE EFFECTIVELY USE...
IN OUR CAN AND END OUR STRATEGIC INPUTS MAKING AND FOCUS ON... Natural capital Addressing our customers needs to Energy, virgin and recycled metal, inks, water get their products to their end users as innovatively, efficiently and sustainably Financial capital as possible see page 14 Disciplined capital allocation Intangible assets Continually improving the efficiency and sustainability of our processes and our Manufactured capital footprint to achieve low cost base Well invested asset base comprising 56 can see page 18 and end making plants including joint ventures and associates in five continents Expanding into new markets and into new 66bn cans Global suppliers and strong relationships product areas see page 14 and page 15 Human capital Maintaining capital discipline and managing 8,600 employees cash and costs see page 18 Safe and healthy working conditions Keeping our people safe and healthy and Training and development opportunities developing our structure and their skills to Fair remuneration and health benefits meet our customers needs see page 19 Social capital Promoting the drinks can as a viable Strong relationships with customers and suppliers and sustainable packaging option Licence to operate see page 6 Community engagement High governance and ethical standards Creating sustainable value Enhanced financial, manufactured and human capitals CASH RETURNS SALARIES AND PEOPLE TO SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYMENT DEVELOPMENT We employed more We delivered on than 8,600 people average 23.6 124m in dividend and paid them in training hours payments.
Cans recycled back into the metal supply chain reduce carbon emissions and offset virgin material requirements STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WATER REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 11 We focus on operational excellence see page CUSTOMERS PEOPLE AND CAPABILITIES 18 using six sigma and lean principles across Our aim is to build strong and mutually We have a highly skilled and motivated our operations and processes to reduce cost beneficial relationships with our customers to workforce, most of whom work in plants.
and material usage, all the while ensuring ensure that we are the preferred can supplier.
We invest in training and development to the safety and wellbeing of our people.
Cost leadership is essential and the location help employees achieve their full potential of our can making network relative to our and make sure they have the engineering, SUPPLIERS customers filling locations is important in technical and commercial skills to help us We are key strategic partners for most of our minimising logistics and freight costs.
Larger remain competitive and match the needs major suppliers who include aluminium, energy, customers are moving to global procurement of our customers.
chemical, machinery and freight companies.
models and, as part of our response, we We aim to attract and retain top talent by Aluminium represents almost 60% of our have global key account management for making Rexam a great place to work where annual cost base from continuing operations, core global customers to further align people from all backgrounds can develop their some 2bn annually.
We source our metal from ourselves with them.
The complexity of our careers and feel rewarded for what they do.
well established global aluminium suppliers.
business is growing with the proliferation of The risk of aluminium and other input cost different can sizes and finishes, and shorter SHARED VALUE increases has decreased mainly driven by product runs.
The ability to deliver at low cost Our business follows a circle of revenue and weak commodity prices and decline in in such an environment will become a prime profit generation, efficient cash conversion aluminium premium levels during 2015, capability.
Innovation in products and and reinvestment in the business.
We share alongside new regulations aimed at decreasing processes, and our close understanding the value we generate with our shareholders the volatility of aluminium premiums.
of the trends affecting our customers, with regular dividend payments see page 2 are also critical differentiating factors We work closely with all our suppliers to and with the wider community through in shaping our future.
See page 16. codevelop innovative processes and products employment, salaries, the payment of taxes to help reduce our material usage or take and supplier payments as well as social and advantage of the advances in can making charitable projects.
technology to complement the work we are Our aim is to balance growth and returns already doing in this area.
measured in return on capital employed: ROCE.
ROCE may drop slightly in a year of high investment or if we make an acquisition and in a low investment year it may go up.
Through the cycle, however, our aim is to maintain ROCE around 15%.
Sales growth is expected to be slightly above the GDP of the countries in which we operate...
THE VALUE WE BRING... AND HOW WE as beverage markets grow and cans continue TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUPPORT CONSUMERS to take a greater share of the pack mix mostly replacing glass containers.
Lowest delivered cost through the Provide the most convenient supply chain single serve beverage package We plan for operating efficiencies and pricing to offset cost inflation over time, thereby Partnership approach Ensure a safe package that expecting profits to grow slightly faster than keeps contents secure Innovative solutions sales.
This translates into good cash generation Deliver an easily which supports a healthy balance sheet and Investment to ensure that they are able recyclable package to maximise market opportunities helps maintain an investment grade rating.
Support recovery and recycling To underpin sales growth and to protect our Our customers growth is driven by a of beverage cans across the globe business, we aim to continue to invest at a number of evolving trends.
see page 6 rate of 1 to 1.5 times depreciation over the cycle.
Any investment in organic growth or in bolt on acquisitions will be determined by where we see the best opportunities to grow with good returns over time.
The disciplined allocation of capital is a crucial competency in this respect and, consequently, a source of advantage.
We consider dividends to be a core element of shareholder remuneration and something on which they should be able to depend.
We TEA aim to continue to pay dividends in line with CSD JUICE our policy of 2.0 to 2.5 times cover and return surplus cash to shareholders.
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL PAYMENTS IMPACT We paid around We reduced our c2.95bn to carbon intensity suppliers by 4%.
Cans recycled back into the metal supply chain reduce carbon emissions and offset virgin material requirements BEER
