STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 33 UNDERLYING TOTAL NET FINANCE COST EXCEPTIONAL AND OTHER ITEMS The exceptional and other items arising in 2015 in respect of total 2015 2014 operations were as follows: m m Net interest 43 52 Total operations Retirement benefit obligations m net interest cost 12 16 Exceptional and other items included in operating profit: Underlying total net finance cost 55 68 Restructuring of businesses 44 Transaction related costs 29 The underlying total net finance cost for continuing operations was 13m lower than 2014.
The retirement benefits net interest cost is explained in Employee incentive related costs 20 Retirement benefits below.
The 9m reduction in net interest is primarily Other exceptional items 2 due to a change in hedging strategy in Brazil.
The overall average interest Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 5 rate for the year was around 3%, down from 4% in 2014.
Based on Fair value changes on certain operating derivatives 13 underlying operating profit from continuing operations, interest cover was 9.4 times 2014: 8.0 times.
Interest cover is based on underlying Total exceptional and other items included in operating profit from continuing operations and underlying net interest operating profit 113 expense excluding charges in respect of retirement benefit obligations.
Fair value changes on financing derivatives 1 Total exceptional and other items before tax 112 TAX The tax charge on profit before exceptional and other items for Tax on exceptional and other items 17 the year on total operations was 82m 23% 2014: 96m, 25%.
Exceptional and other items after tax 95 The tax charge applicable to underlying profit from continuing operations before exceptional and other items is 82m 23% 2014: 86m, 24%.
Restructuring, transaction related costs, employee Our rate varies to some extent in line with our profit mix across our incentive related costs and other exceptional items businesses.
We anticipate the sustainable rate on continuing operations In 2015, the restructuring charge of 44m principally relates to going forward will be in a range of 23% to 25%, reflecting the territories reorganisation costs for the European beverage can business, including in which we operate, as well as the availability of tax incentives in some closure of the plant in Berlin, and costs incurred with respect to the jurisdictions.
A number of factors can cause the final tax charge to vary conversion of steel beverage can lines to aluminium.
from the weighted average tax rate of the countries of the Groups operations.
In 2015, the charge has been impacted by reassessment Transaction related costs of 29m have been incurred as a consequence of the recoverability of deferred tax balances, movements in provisions of the proposed acquisition of Rexam by Ball.
for uncertain tax positions, and tax incentives, offset to some extent by Employee incentive related costs of 20m will be incurred as tax on differences between local and functional currencies, withholding a consequence of the proposed acquisition of Rexam by Ball.
taxes and other charges on the repatriation of profits.
Other exceptional items of 2m include an increase in a legal provision Tax cash payments in the year for continuing operations were 60m relating to an historic dispute in a business that originated prior to Rexam compared with 63m last year.
Cash taxes can vary from the charge ownership and transaction fees relating to the acquisition of UAC.
in the income statement for a number of reasons.
The most material of these has been the utilisation of deferred tax assets such as tax losses, OTHER ITEMS but in addition our cash payments can be affected by local laws governing the timing of certain tax deductions, and payments of taxes Amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets sometimes falling outside of the year to which they relate or settlement Intangible assets, such as technology patents and customer contracts, of provisions.
We anticipate cash tax to continue to be lower than the are required to be recognised on the acquisition of businesses and charge to the income statement for the foreseeable future.
amortised over their useful life.
The board consider that separate disclosure, within exceptional and other items, of the amortisation of such acquired intangibles relating to total operations amounting to 5m 2014: 1m aids comparison of organic change in underlying profit.
Operating derivatives fair value changes Fair value changes on operating derivatives relate to changes in the value of commodity hedges for the forward purchase of aluminium and the fair value movements on non hedge accounted commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
Accounting rules require that the effectiveness of our commodity hedges is tested at each reporting date.
Where a hedge is deemed to be effective, the fair value change is recorded in the relevant hedge reserve and where it is ineffective, or there is over hedging, the relevant proportion of the fair value is charged or credited to the consolidated income statement.
