22 RISK MANAGEMENT KEY DEVELOPMENTS DURING 2015 Ball offer Rexam is exposed to Following the announcement of the Principal risks proposed acquisition of Rexam by Ball a number of financial, With Rexam continuing to strengthen Corporation, the risks associated with a customer relationships, improve cost operational and reputational potential takeover have been separately efficiency and grow its presence in considered with the implementation of a risks which can impact the emerging markets, the principal risks for number of mitigating actions and active Rexam operating on a business as usual monitoring see page 29. delivery of our strategy.
basis remained the same although the assessment of the following principal risks Assessment of prospects and viability A proactive approach to has changed see pages 24 to 29 : Analysis for the new viability statement risk management is critical reporting requirement included on page 51 Increased risks: has been based on our strategic plan for to ensuring the sustainable Risk of financial impact from country 2016-2018 and ERM framework.
The tools based instability has increased due to and information we use for managing our growth and resilience of economic and currency weakness, as risks have facilitated the quantification of well as political uncertainty, in some the Group.
potential downside scenarios and the analysis of Rexams markets such as Russia, required to make this statement.
of the three year period for the viability Risk of a cyber attack and data security statement with the Groups strategic plan breaches has increased given the period and ERM framework review has increasing frequency of attacks on supported the analysis with the ability to use technology systems and data breaches a consistent set of underlying assumptions.
Rexams transition to a new These include the forecast growth and global data centre also increased risk profitability of the Group and financial during the year although this transition position reflecting current expectations successfully completed at the end of regarding market growth, contracted the year.
volumes and recent investments as well Decreased risks: as assessments of risk probabilities and OVERVIEW OF ENTERPRISE Risk of aluminium and other input cost risk impact over the three year period.
RISK MANAGEMENT increases has decreased mainly driven The assessment has been performed on Rexam has a well established risk management by weak commodity prices and decline a business as usual basis and does not framework which is embedded in day to day in aluminium premium levels during the take into account any potential change in operations and reinforced by the board and year, alongside new regulations aimed circumstances resulting from the Ball offer.
senior managements focus on ensuring at decreasing the volatility of aluminium The assessment of the Companys prospects effective identification, mitigation and premiums.
considered stress testing of the strategic plan monitoring of existing and emerging risks.
Firstly, a stress The importance of risk management in Enterprise Risk Management test case has been modelled reflecting all ERM framework protecting our people, assets and reputation of the risks which have been identified in is recognised throughout the organisation Development of our ERM framework the strategic plan.
Secondly, a simulation has continued with a number of activities with strong awareness of how risks impact model with a probabilistic approach to our business and strategic priorities.
focused on enhancing our risk culture and quantify the impact of many combinations risk management process including: Our risk management framework includes a of risks that could materialise has generated Continued focus on safety: thorough review of relevant risks and mitigating a spread of potential outcomes based on actions and continues to evolve to reflect changes Updated business continuity management varying the extent of an economic downturn activities and extension of business in the business and operating environment.
where a number of highly correlated principal Each business unit and Group function has continuity reviews to key suppliers: risks are reflected, as well as significant risks Introduction of risk velocity and responsibility for identifying potential risks at independent from an economic downturn.
an early stage, escalating risks and relevant appropriate risk ratings which have The principal risks that have been reflected refreshed our consideration of considerations and implementing appropriate in one or both of these methodologies are mitigations.
Close working relationships principal risks: noted in the table on pages 24 to 29. Review of emerging and common between Group functions, business units and The results of the stress test case and the risk leadership team facilitate the sharing risk topics across the Group: and simulation modelling were considered against Extension of risk based of best practices and insight on risk trends the Groups financial position to determine from internal and external sources to refresh auditing approach.
that in these severe but plausible downside and enhance our collective understanding scenarios, the Group would not breach its and management of principal risks.
covenants and would have sufficient resources Refer also to pages 48 and 49 for more details to continue to operate and meet its liabilities on risk management and internal controls.
over the three year assessment period.
