12 Five key strategic priorities see below and pages 14 to 19 help us to focus on what is important to deliver on our commitments, OUR STRATEGIC to align and mobilise our organisation and to optimise time to execution.
Together they will enable us to achieve our vision and our overriding goal to deliver sustainable value PRIORITIES to all stakeholders.
Our strategic priorities What are our key strengths?
How does this help to create value Key events in 2015 Future challenges and risks and how do we measure?
OUR VALUES Clear values help build a sense of Strengthen our Global manufacturing footprint Delivering on our promises coupled We grew volumes 4% in 2015.
Pressure on profit margins through trust and accountability.
They are customer relationships with a proactive approach increases coordinated global customers a point of reference, a compass Long standing relationships with Expanded our European and Russian graphics Not simply by providing best quality and the likelihood of further sales growth.
world leading brands and design studio capabilities customer service at the right cost but also Measures: Sales growth, research and See summary of principal risks and by working with customers strategically Depth of packaging knowledge Continued to lead the development of craft Safety new product development and customer uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 and proactively.
We will strengthen ties beer in cans in both US and Europe In 2015, we added safety to our core Responsiveness to operational requirements satisfaction score see pages 20 and 21. through commercial excellence and values.
We wanted to reinvigorate our All time record quality score in our customer marketing capability, while innovating to Continued investment in new products focus, not just on the shop floor, but survey in South America meet the challenge of profitable growth and processes right across our business.
Our safety in a lower growth world.
Continued growth in new beverage categories vision is that we all get home safely to our family and friends every day.
Invest with focus Disciplined capital allocation with Our customers operate globally and expect We invested in a number of markets globally Asset acquisition expensive Ensure that we capture opportunities and good investment track record us to be able to match their geographic in 2015.
Continuous improvement Lack of significant available new protect our core business, all the while footprint.
Our geographic base translates World class project management Completed acquisition of 51% stake emerging market investment We are determined to do better maintaining strict capital discipline into a robust business portfolio.
This is the key to strong of processes in UAC opportunities and a focus on returns.
improves our ability to win and extend customer relationships, operational Strong enterprise risk management contracts to serve the growing needs of Invested in joint venture in Panama See summary of principal risks and excellence and business success.
We our customers and fully utilise our can uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 Regarded as proactive, reliable Opened new innovative plant in set ourselves ambitious targets and, in making capacity.
making us the benchmark for quality global partner Widnau, Switzerland Measures: Sales growth, profit growth in our industry, become a beacon Strong balance sheet Started building second plant in India of best business practice.
and emerging market sales see page 20.
Pursue continuous improvement Unrelenting focus on beverage Lowest delivered cost is essential to We again gained recognition for operational Metal premiums Recognition in operational excellence can making winning and maintaining business and excellence from The Shingo Institute.
We believe in recognising every contribution See summary of principal risks and Our emphasis is on delivering first class ensuring that our production lines are to our business and we celebrate outstanding Stringent focus on quality and The Shingo Prize awarded to our joint venture uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 products at cost at or below those of working at optimum capacity.
We reward and promote on time delivery in Guatemala our competitors.
people on merit, through fair and open Measures: Underlying profit growth, Globally recognised manufacturing Delivered 22m in savings, continuing our performance management and career free cash flow, annual efficiency savings excellence based on six sigma and excellent record in this area development systems.
We should all see page 20. lean principles feel that our work is an enjoyable Global operational tools implemented and fulfilling part of our lives.
Highly skilled employees with the to enhance best practice sharing engineering and technical expertise Berlin plant closure completed in a fair Teamwork to support our business and professional way We know that as a focused beverage can company we are at our best when Global centrally funded We continued to innovate in both processes and Maintain balance in our innovation Shape our future Positions us as the can maker of choice for we work together as a group.
We By innovating and continuing to improve innovation programme our customers and serves as a further products to support the needs of our customers.
portfolio across the short, medium deliver the greatest possible benefit to our sustainability performance to underpin means of reducing our cost base and and long term in light of short customers, shareholders, colleagues Close ties with technology leaders Our Editions technology patent pending our licence to operate and to support our earning our licence to operate.
term pressures and communities when we pool our to enhance our can making process continued to grow strongly across the world customers as they face increasing consumer talents and pull together.
We respect Measures: Recycling rates, research with a number of customer collaborations See summary of principal risks and and legislative pressures.
Clear, aligned sustainability framework and value the diversity of our people and development, carbon intensity, uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 with stretching targets Launched new cans sizes in our Sleek range and we are committed to fairness recycling rates see page 21. and meritocracy.
Industry leading commitment to promote Published our 2015 sustainability report achieving and support post consumer recycling 16 of the 20 goals we had previously set Trust Openness and honesty are essential to Build a winning organisation Engaged employees Engaged, motivated people understand We introduced safety as a core value.
Competition for talent business efficiency and fundamental Ensuring that a culture of collaboration, how their work contributes to the delivery Strong and improving safety culture Reduced the number of life changing safety See summary of principal risks and to a positive working environment.
delivery and behaviour centred around of our strategy and the satisfaction of our with engagement across the company incidents by 50% uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 We encourage people to say what our core values and leadership practices customers.
Training and development they think and if we promise we will underpins everything that we do.
Continual investment in training and ensure that they have the skills to help Increased participation in our employee survey do something, we deliver.
We will development to ensure that we are prepared us remain competitive.
and maintained our engagement index at 75% earn and deserve the trust of Clear values and leadership practices as Measures: Employee engagement and Continued to provide learning and development everyone who comes into well as globally applied Code of Conduct lost time accident rates see page 21. opportunities for our people against the contact with us.
part of leaders performance objectives backdrop of change STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 13 Our strategic priorities What are our key strengths?
Strengthen our Global manufacturing footprint Delivering on our promises coupled We grew volumes 4% in 2015.
Pressure on profit margins through customer relationships with a proactive approach increases coordinated global customers Long standing relationships with Expanded our European and Russian graphics Not simply by providing best quality and the likelihood of further sales growth.
procurement world leading brands and design studio capabilities customer service at the right cost but also Measures: Sales growth, research and See summary of principal risks and by working with customers strategically Depth of packaging knowledge Continued to lead the development of craft new product development and customer uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 and proactively.
We will strengthen ties beer in cans in both US and Europe Responsiveness to operational requirements satisfaction score see pages 20 and 21. through commercial excellence and All time record quality score in our customer marketing capability, while innovating to Continued investment in new products survey in South America meet the challenge of profitable growth and processes in a lower growth world.
Continued growth in new beverage categories Invest with focus Disciplined capital allocation with Our customers operate globally and expect We invested in a number of markets globally Asset acquisition expensive Ensure that we capture opportunities and good investment track record us to be able to match their geographic in 2015.
Lack of significant available new protect our core business, all the while footprint.
Our geographic base translates World class project management Completed acquisition of 51% stake emerging market investment maintaining strict capital discipline into a robust business portfolio.
Investment of processes in UAC opportunities and a focus on returns.
improves our ability to win and extend Strong enterprise risk management contracts to serve the growing needs of Invested in joint venture in Panama See summary of principal risks and our customers and fully utilise our can uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 Regarded as proactive, reliable Opened new innovative plant in making capacity.
global partner Widnau, Switzerland Measures: Sales growth, profit growth Strong balance sheet Started building second plant in India and emerging market sales see page 20.
Pursue continuous improvement Unrelenting focus on beverage Lowest delivered cost is essential to We again gained recognition for operational Metal premiums in operational excellence can making winning and maintaining business and excellence from The Shingo Institute.
See summary of principal risks and Our emphasis is on delivering first class ensuring that our production lines are Stringent focus on quality and The Shingo Prize awarded to our joint venture uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 products at cost at or below those of working at optimum capacity.
on time delivery in Guatemala our competitors.
Measures: Underlying profit growth, Globally recognised manufacturing Delivered 22m in savings, continuing our free cash flow, annual efficiency savings excellence based on six sigma and excellent record in this area see page 20. lean principles Global operational tools implemented Highly skilled employees with the to enhance best practice sharing engineering and technical expertise Berlin plant closure completed in a fair to support our business and professional way Global centrally funded We continued to innovate in both processes and Maintain balance in our innovation Shape our future Positions us as the can maker of choice for By innovating and continuing to improve innovation programme our customers and serves as a further products to support the needs of our customers.
portfolio across the short, medium our sustainability performance to underpin means of reducing our cost base and and long term in light of short Close ties with technology leaders Our Editions technology patent pending our licence to operate and to support our earning our licence to operate.
term pressures to enhance our can making process continued to grow strongly across the world customers as they face increasing consumer Measures: Recycling rates, research with a number of customer collaborations See summary of principal risks and and legislative pressures.
Clear, aligned sustainability framework and development, carbon intensity, uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 with stretching targets Launched new cans sizes in our Sleek range recycling rates see page 21.
Industry leading commitment to promote Published our 2015 sustainability report achieving and support post consumer recycling 16 of the 20 goals we had previously set Build a winning organisation Engaged employees Engaged, motivated people understand We introduced safety as a core value.
Competition for talent Ensuring that a culture of collaboration, how their work contributes to the delivery Strong and improving safety culture Reduced the number of life changing safety See summary of principal risks and delivery and behaviour centred around of our strategy and the satisfaction of our with engagement across the company incidents by 50% uncertainties on pages 24 to 29 our core values and leadership practices customers.
Training and development underpins everything that we do.
Continual investment in training and ensure that they have the skills to help Increased participation in our employee survey development to ensure that we are prepared us remain competitive.
and maintained our engagement index at 75% Clear values and leadership practices as Measures: Employee engagement and Continued to provide learning and development well as globally applied Code of Conduct lost time accident rates see page 21. opportunities for our people against the part of leaders performance objectives backdrop of change
