STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 15 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: INVEST WITH FOCUS The long term sustainability of our performance is 55% dependent on the successful expansion in current and Growth in AMEA new markets, all the while maintaining a balance between Including the acquisition of UAC, our volumes across the AMEA growth and returns to our shareholders.
Through organic region grew well at 55% in 2015. growth and carefully selected bolt on projects, we aim to defend our market positions and improve our ability to serve the needs of our customers.
120t EXPANSION IN CURRENT Saudi Arabia and Panama AND NEW MARKETS In January 2015, we acquired a 51% stake in Innovative approach In 2015, we strengthened our capabilities in beverage can maker United Arab Can UAC to new plant both current and new, faster growth markets.
The two line plant has an annual In building our new plant in capacity of 1.8bn cans in both standard and Widnau, Switzerland we had to Supporting energy drinks growth specialty sizes.
In May 2015, we opened a take an innovative approach to In November 2015, we officially opened a third production line at the plant to support solving environmental concerns.
new plant in Widnau, Switzerland.
The hi tech future market growth.
Growth prospects for For example, to restrict vibrations facility will produce a range of Slim and Sleek the beverage can in the Middle East are from machinery, both the cupper cans to meet global growth in energy drinks attractive in the medium term and we look and bodymaker were placed on and marked the culmination of collaborative forward to working together with our partners 120 tonne blocks of concrete working and innovative thinking, with in Rexam UAC to lead further expansion in supported by large springs.
environmental consideration at its core.
The plant, which represents an investment of In January 2015, we also announced that we, 115m over three years, will have capacity to together with Envases Universales fide Mexico, produce 2.2bn cans per year and started with had completed an investment in Envases del one line operational with a further two lines 0.2bn Istmo SA, a single line beverage can plant in to come on stream.
Long term supply agreements Taking only 30 months from ground breaking have been secured with customers.
The Expanded capacity for aluminium bottle to completion the can making plant is situated transaction positions us well to serve both alongside the filling plant.
Transferring cans our local and global customers in an exciting The expansion of our Fusion aluminium bottle capability in directly between the plant and adjoining growth region.
filling area through wall to wall operations Ejpovice in the Czech Republic was completed on time in 2015. will significantly reduce associated transport Expansion in India costs, regional traffic and CO emissions.
We have now started to build our second This investment will help meet growing demand for the aluminium Indian plant in Sri City 55km from Chennai, southern India, as well as securing land in bottle by enabling us to increase capacity at the plant by 0.2bn Jaipur, northern India, for a third plant in due course.
The location of the new plants bottles per year.
will complement our existing production in Mumbai and will enable us to better support our customers and to take advantage of the continued exciting growth of the beverage can in this market.
The plant in Sri City is expected to be operational in the second half of 2016.
