46 ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Throughout 2015 the audit and MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 2015 The audit and risk committee members comprise independent non risk committee continued to carry out executive directors.
John Langston is the chairman of the audit and risk its duties by focusing on the key activities committee.
As a qualified chartered accountant and former finance director he is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience associated with, and complementary to, its and is well placed to lead the audit and risk committee to enable it to carry out its responsibilities.
core internal financial control responsibilities.
Committee membership Attendance In accordance with its terms of reference the audit and risk committee considered all financial related matters on behalf of the board, such as John Langston committee chairman 5 5 the full year and half year financial results, the external audit reports Leo Oosterveer 5 5 and responsibilities, the internal audit functions plans and updates, and Johanna Waterous 5 5 the detailed review of Group risks and mitigation plans.
In addition, during 2015, the audit and risk committee spent additional time 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that discussing with management and the external auditors the financial the director could have attended.
reporting requirements in relation to the Ball offer.
Full details of our activities during the year are given on page 47.
THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE The committee recognises its role in supporting the board by ensuring The board has approved the terms of reference delegating certain that appropriate internal controls and risk management processes are responsibilities to the committee.
The terms of reference are reviewed in place to maintain good corporate governance for the Company.
annually and are available on the Companys website.
The main responsibilities of the audit and risk committee are to: The board recognises its responsibility for ensuring the implementation and maintenance of effective systems of risk management and internal oversee and review the financial and operational risks, policies control, and presenting a fair, balanced and understandable assessment and management: of the Groups position and prospects.
The systems and controls in place assist the board in meeting its responsibilities by ensuring an include policies and procedures which provide assurance that transactions effective system of internal control and compliance and accurate are recorded as necessary to facilitate the financial reporting process and external financial reporting: the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Representatives of the assist the board in managing the relationship with the Companys businesses complete biannual representation letters formally confirming external auditors including negotiating and agreeing the audit that their businesses comply with the Groups financial reporting policies fee and the scope of the audit for and on behalf of the board: and other Group policies and procedures.
To discharge its responsibilities review and monitor the external auditors independence, and the board works closely with the audit and risk committee.
in particular the provision of any non audit services provided After taking account of the detailed work of the audit and risk committee, by them to the Group: the board confirms that it carried out a review of the effectiveness of keep under review the effectiveness of the process for the the system of risk management and internal control which operated identification, assessment, mitigation, reporting and monitoring within the Group during 2015 and up to the date of this annual report of principal risks facing the business: in accordance with the requirements of the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business approve the appointment of the director internal audit and review and Reporting.
This review covered the effectiveness of internal controls, approve the annual programme of internal audit assignments: and namely financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
ensure the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review for understandable and provides the information necessary for 2015.
The board is satisfied that, where areas for improvement were shareholders to assess the Companys business model, strategy, identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary action position and performance.
is taken and that progress is monitored.
The board will continue to The audit and risk committee meets at least four times a year.
At the carry out such reviews on an annual basis and will monitor the risk request of the audit and risk committee chairman, the chairman of the management and internal control systems as recommended by the board, the chief executive, the finance director, the acting finance director, 2014 Code.
Details of the specific actions taken during 2015 to review the director of Group accounting and control, the director internal audit, the control environment and continue to improve controls are set out the director with responsibility for enterprise risk management and the under risk management and internal control on pages 48 and 49. external auditors are invited to attend each meeting.
The Company has complied during the financial year under review and up Should it be requested, the audit and risk committee has access to to the date of this report with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services independent expert advice at the Companys expense.
The performance for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive and effectiveness of the audit and risk committee are reviewed as part Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities order 2014. of the performance evaluation of the board and all its committees.
John Langston Audit and risk committee chairman
