The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Frankie & Bennys brings together classic American and Italian style with food and drink that always provides great value for money.
The kitchen buzzes with bustling activity as the chefs prepare dishes from our broad menu pizzas, pastas, burgers, grills and other favourites while, in typical stateside fashion, service at Frankie & Bennys is second to none!
Settle into a cosy booth to enjoy a casual family meal or a catch up with friends and observe the clatter and chatter of the open kitchen and the familiar classic 50s and 60s soundtrack playing in the background.
The restaurant walls are filled with family snapshots and memorabilia showing life on the lower east side of the Big Apple, helping you into a New York stateof-mind.
First opened in 1995 in Leicester, Frankie & Bennys has become one of the best known casual dining brands in the UK, and trades successfully in leisure and retail locations, standalone sites and at six airports.
The estate spreads across the country from Aberdeen to St Austell.
com 04 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 261 Restaurants 14 New openings in 2015 05 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Mexican for fun, fantastic food, amazing atmosphere for a good time, guaranteed.
The Chiquito menu offers a great range of authentic Mexican and Tex-Mex dishes in a lively environment, with fantastic music.
The dcor draws inspiration from Mexican architecture and Latin style.
Some restaurants have a rustic and relaxed feel while others demonstrate the buzz and graphic energy of contemporary Mexico City.
Chiquito favourite dishes include nachos, burritos, enchiladas and our signature sizzling fajitas, as well as the old favourites burgers, ribs, salads and hand-cut steaks from the grill.
We specialise in great food, good times and fantastic cocktails to ensure every meal is a fiesta.
Chiquito is open for breakfast, lunch, lazy afternoons and lively evenings, so whether youre out shopping, meeting friends after work or planning a party its the only place to be!
Trading in the UK for over 25 years, Chiquito continues to attract a broad mix of young adults, couples, teenagers, families and large parties.
Leisure, retail and stand-alone restaurants cover the UK with more openings planned.
co. uk 06 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 86 Restaurants 9 New openings in 2015 07 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Coast to Coast takes its inspiration from the Lincoln Highway, which spans the United States of America from New York to San Francisco.
This is reflected in our great range of authentic food and drinks, all served with superb hospitality and service.
We offer the best of classic American food mind blowing double burgers, stone-baked calzones, distinctive steaks, amazing seafood dishes and South-West American specials.
Coast to Coast is more than just a restaurant, with a great bar serving speciality cocktails and a wide range of beers, spirits and traditional milkshakes.
The music is an eclectic mix of Motown and American Rock, songs you may not have heard in a little while, but are absolutely guaranteed to lift your spirits and make you smile.
We see significant opportunities to grow Coast to Coast further.
com 08 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 21 Restaurants 8 New openings in 2015 09 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Really great pubs are timeless, familiar and very British.
Everybody knows what their perfect pub looks like.
Each of ours has its own style and personality and youll always find a warm welcome, set against a backdrop of ageless interiors.
Mostly set in beautiful rural or semi-rural locations, each pub has a local feel and many are set in intriguing buildings with fascinating histories.
We dont want all our pubs to look and feel the same instead we preserve the character of the building, which after all was what attracted us to the property in the first place.
We serve a wide selection of cask ales which change frequently and always try to include a local brew or two.
We have decent but not over the top wines and the essence of our freshly prepared food is classic British dishes complemented by more exotic influences from other parts of the world: what we believe is modern British cookery.
Seasonal and local specials mean the menu always offers new choices alongside trusted favourites each time you visit.
Theres friendly, engaging service from the moment you arrive, ensuring that all your needs are taken care of.
We believe that, when done well, classic pubs will never go out of fashion and that opportunities to expand in the sector are available for experienced operators with the right offer for customers.
co. uk 10 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 54 Pub restaurants 3 New openings in 2015 11 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 The Groups Concessions business has a marketleading reputation for developing partnerships to deliver catering solutions that meet the needs of our clients and their customers.
Currently operating from outlets in the UKs busiest airports, other transport locations and shopping centres, we have more than 21 years of experience providing exceptional hospitality to the travelling public.
Our specialist operating knowledge and flexibility ensures successful performance across our diverse brand portfolio, covering a wide range of popular categories including table service, counter service, sandwich shops, pubs and bars.
To meet client and customer needs we deliver existing TRG brands, create bespoke concepts and establish partnerships to franchise brands from third parties as appropriate.
Building on our track record of innovation, partnership and performance ahead of sector growth will ensure we remain a market leader in this exciting sector.
co. uk 12 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 61 Sites 7 New sites opened in 2015 13 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Joes is all about sharing wholesome and wonderfully tasty food.
The menu is eclectic and inspired by comfort dishes from around the world, from our superfood salad to beef and ale pie, with a spectrum of tasty dishes in between.
We rustle up creative yet relaxed food and serve well-chosen wine from independent wineries around the globe.
The atmosphere is relaxed and chilled and the rustic interior furnished with random finds from local markets, is comfortable and unpretentious but New openings interesting and individual.
co. uk Founded in Londons West End in 1979, Garfunkels is proud to be the original British caf restaurant serving breakfast, lunch and dinner all day every day.
Wake up to a traditional British fry-up or a warming bowl of porridge and great coffee, made just the way you like it.
For lunchtime our salad bar really hits the spot, it is fast, it is fresh and you can make it any way you want to.
And of course there are Garfunkels classics like rotisserie chicken, hand-battered fish and chips and tasty topped burgers fresh from the grill.
Everything has been chosen because we 13 just love the taste.
Principally located across Central London, each Garfunkels Restaurants restaurant offers a place to relax and take a break from the hustle and bustle outside, with a loyal following of visitors, local residents and workers who have been eating at Garfunkels for years.
co. uk 14 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Over 500 restaurants across the UK Number of restaurants and locations Scotland 56 East Anglia 34 30 Frankie & Bennys 18 Frankie & Bennys 10 Chiquito 06 Chiquito 08 TRG Concessions 02 Pub restaurants 56 08 Coast to Coast 07 TRG Concessions 01 Coast to Coast Northern Ireland 08 07 Frankie & Bennys Midlands 71 01 Chiquito 42 Frankie & Bennys 15 Chiquito Wales 25 01 Pub restaurants 15 Frankie & Bennys 04 TRG Concessions 05 Chiquito 09 Coast to Coast 05 Pub restaurants North West 75 South West 33 32 Frankie & Bennys 08 22 Frankie & Bennys 11 Chiquito 75 08 Chiquito 09 TRG Concessions 01 Garfunkels 20 Pub restaurants 44 02 TRG Concessions 03 Coast to Coast South East 112 North East 44 42 Frankie & Bennys 34 Frankie & Bennys 16 Chiquito 08 Chiquito 22 Pub restaurants 02 Coast to Coast 26 TRG Concessions 71 06 Coast to Coast 34 London 25 inside the M25 48 48 19 Frankie & Bennys 06 Chiquito 12 Garfunkels 112 04 Pub restaurants 33 05 TRG Concessions 02 Coast to Coast 15
