Group strategy Challenging market conditions Consistent strategy underpinned by In 2015, we: six value drivers The mining sector is facing very challenging Announced increases of our Pilbara iron ore, market conditions.
In response to these A clear and effective strategy is critical to Diavik diamond, Escondida copper and Hail challenges, we have redoubled our focus on surviving and outperforming in todays Creek coal reserves.
productivity, cost reductions and capital challenging market conditions.
We remain Achieved first production from the discipline across our business squeezing the convinced that our longstanding and modernised Kitimat aluminium smelter maximum possible returns from our existing consistent strategy is the right one: to invest in Canada.
businesses and ensuring only the best growth in and operate long-life, low-cost, Agreed the sale of our interest in the projects attract fresh capital.
While others in expandable operations in the most attractive Bengalla coal joint venture in Australia the sector have embarked on similar paths, our industry sectors.
which completed on 1 March 2016. early and decisive action in this area is bearing Six critical drivers underpin our value Announced that we supported Energy fruit.
Financial strength has become a key proposition, and combine to create a unique Resources of Australias decision not to differentiator in the sector, and our balance platform for our ongoing success.
proceed with the Final Feasibility Study of sheet remains strong relative to industry peers.
World-class portfolio Looking beyond the current challenges and determined that we did not support any At the heart of Rio Tinto is a portfolio of worlduncertainty, the long-term outlook for the further study or the future developmement class assets from our Pilbara iron ore mining sector remains positive.
In the period of Ranger 3 Deeps due to the projects business, to our Queensland bauxite ore to 2030, we expect 220 million new urban economic challenges.
reserves, our hydro-powered aluminium residents in China alone.
In India and ASEAN,  smelters, our global suite of copper mines and current trends indicate that around Murowa Diamonds and Sengwa Colliery our sector-leading energy, diamonds and 250 million people will urbanise over that in Zimbabwe.
We use a clear strategic same period.
GDP growth in emerging Asian framework to assess our existing assets and economies outside China is expected to new opportunities taking into account the average around five to six per cent per industry attractiveness and the competitive annum over the next 15 years.
These advantage of each asset, and its capacity to factors drive demand for the minerals and deliver best-in-class returns.
metals we produce, as essential ingredients of modern life.
Our six value drivers A world-class portfolio Free cash Quality growth flow generation Sustainable shareholder returns Capital Operating allocation and commercial discipline excellence Balance sheet strength 10 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 2.
Quality growth In 2015, we: Our 2016 strategic priorities We have a high-quality pipeline of both nearReduced our all injury frequency rate to We will continue to focus on our critical value term and longer-dated projects across the 0.44 per 200,000 hours worked at the end drivers in 2016. portfolio.
By reinforcing capital discipline and of the year, compared with 0.59 in 2014. reshapingourprojects, wehaveretained As always, we will maintain our relentless  significant, high-quality growth despite further focus on safety, continuing to target fatality zero fatalities.
Our project elimination, catastrophic event prevention Achieved US$1.3 billion of sustainable pipeline has a compelling internal rate of and injury reduction.
operating cash cost improvements return and is expected to deliver strong We will continue to build strong and lasting including exploration and evaluation volume growth.
relationships with local and regional host savings, 35 per cent above target.
In 2015, we: communities and governments, and mitigate Reduced exploration and evaluation spend the impacts that our activities and products by a further US$0.2 billion.
Reduced capital expenditure from have on the environment.
US$8.2 billion in 2014 to US$4.7 billion.
Streamlined our organisational structure by reducing from five to four product Generating and conserving cash will be a key Completed the Pilbara infrastructure groups and reshaping a number of business imperative during 2016.
We will project on time and with the rail and port corporate functions.
continue to ensure our capital is deployed in components of this project at a capital cost the most efficient way, and will continue to below initial estimates.
Balance sheet strength reshape our portfolio to focus on the Approved US$1.9 billion capital expenditure In a cyclical and capital intensive industry such highest-returning assets in our preferred for the Amrun bauxite project due to as mining, a strong balance sheet is essential in industry sectors.
commence production in 2019. order to preserve optionality and generate Signed a US$4.4 billion project financing shareholder value through the cycle.
We target We will further enhance our portfolio as we agreement for the proposed Oyu Tolgoi a net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent in order progress a number of key growth projects, underground expansion.
to maintain our robust balance sheet.
This including the Amrun bauxite project and the target positions us favourably to withstand preparatory work for the proposed 3.
Operating and commercial excellence current industry pressures and seize any underground expansion of Oyu Tolgoi.
The safety of our people is core to everything opportunities these market conditions create.
Importantly, we will deliver measured, valuewe do.
A well-run operation is a safe operation.
adding growth while maintaining our capital At the end of 2015 our net gearing ratio Our commercial activities ensure we reap the expenditure at around US$4.0 billion in 2016. was 24 per cent, in the lower half of our maximum value from each of our businesses.
Our strong focus on costs will continue in Our marketing teams work hand-in-hand with 2016, as we target further operating, our operations, so that our resource 5.
Capital allocation discipline exploration and evaluation cost savings of management is fully aligned to the market.
We adopt a consistent and disciplined approach US$1.0 billion and continue to reduce our to capital allocation.
Our first allocation is to We have established a leading position in the working capital.
Next, we fund our development and use of technology and primary contract with our shareholders the We will continue to leverage our strength in innovation allowing us to deliver more ordinarydividend.
Finally, weassessthebest technology and innovation, and our leading tonnes, more cheaply and with less risk.
As the use of the remaining capital between commercial capabilities, to ensure we remain industry faces increasingly complex geological, alternatives of compelling growth, debt the supplier of choice to our customers and environmental and cost pressures, technology reduction and further cash returns to maximise the cash generated from every will be an increasingly important value driver.
Over the years we have leveraged our governance and assessment criteria to ensure Maintaining our balance sheet strength will understanding of customer needs to create that every dollar is spent in the right way.
We aim to maintain our new markets for our products, including In 2015, we adhered to our disciplined capital gearing ratio between 20 per cent and champagne and pink diamonds.
We deploy allocation framework, resulting in: sustaining 30 per cent.
industry-leading capabilities in supply chain capitalofUS$2.1billion, dividendsof optimisation and a variety of logistics solutions US$4.1 billion, compelling growth capital of across the Group and have in-house centres US$2.6 billion and a share buy-back of of excellence for value-in-use analysis, pricing US$2.0 billion.
Free cash flow generation value in all market conditions.
 improvements to our business increasing our productivity, reducing operating and capital costs and delivering incremental volume expansions from high quality projects.
Together with the quality of our asset base, these actions enhance our capacity to generate free cash flows.
In 2015, tight management of working capital generated a cash inflow of US$1.5 billion, aided by lower commodity prices.
