Diamonds & Minerals Financial performance With a workforce spanning multiple RTD produced 17.4 million carats of rough geographies, languages and cultures, the diamonds in 2015, 25 per cent higher than group faces unique health and safety 2014.
At Argyle, the ramp-up of production 2015 2014 challenges.
Managers use innovative strategies from the underground mine delivered a US$ million US$ million and visible safety leadership to address these 47 per cent increase in carats produced Revenue 3,674 4,783 and to train the workforce.
At Diavik, carats recovered were 11 per cent lower than in Net cash generated 1,010 1,184 , whichtheWorld 2014, attributable to processing plant pauses from operating Health Organization has now declared ended, in the fourth quarter and the absence of activities was a critical issue for the product group during stockpiled ore processed in 2014.
Both Underlying earnings 189 269 the year.
The priority for Diamonds & Minerals  Underlying earnings has been to ensure the health and safety of underground mines.
excluding Simandou 230 324 employees, contractors and their families while supporting the wider response to this epidemic.
Revenue in 2015 was 23 per cent lower Capital expenditure 446 562 than in 2014, reflecting the impact of lower Net operating assets 5,189 7,977 Greenhouse gas emissions prices and the disposal of Murowa, partially EBITDA 833 1,045 offset by higher sales volumes from Argyle.
Overall greenhouse gas GHG emissions At US$79 million, 2015 earnings were intensity across the product group improved Strategy and strategic priorities US$25 million lower than in 2014. slightly in 2015 compared with 2014.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group has an Emissions intensity for Rio Tinto Iron & Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT attractive portfolio of businesses that connect Titanium and Rio Tinto Diamonds improved RTIT is the worlds largest producer of customers and consumers all around the world compared with 2014, while GHG emissions per high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks.
It with products that enhance their quality of life.
tonne of product were marginally higher at mines ilmenite at its wholly-owned RTFT Demand growth for diamonds and industrial Rio Tinto Minerals.
The product group operation in Canada, its managed operation minerals typically comes mid-to-late in the continues to invest in the implementation of Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South Africa economic development cycle, following peak more efficient equipment and technology, such Rio Tinto: 74 per cent, and its QMM operation requirements for commodities such as iron ore as the wind farm at Diavik.
in Madagascar Rio Tinto: 80 per cent.
produces high-grade titanium dioxide Review of operations The product groups strategy is focused on feedstocks at its world-class metallurgical The Diamonds & Minerals product groups operating low-cost, demand-led businesses.
 underlying earnings of US$189 million were Through its integrated marketing strategies valuable co-products including high purity iron, 30 per cent lower than 2014.
This reflected and insight, the product group creates and steel, metal powders and zircon.
lower sales prices and reduced volumes in grows global markets for its products to deliver Titanium dioxide slag production was response to soft market conditions, partly value for Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
25 per cent lower in 2015 than in 2014 at offset by weaker exchange rates.
In absolute The product groups strategy is focused on: 1.1 million tonnes as RTIT continues to terms, cash operating costs were optimise production to reflect weaker demand.
US$832 million lower than 2014 including a Operating demand-led, integrated Two of nine furnaces at RTFT and one of four US$342 million benefit from exchange rate operations that can respond quickly to the furnaces at RBM are currently idled, reflecting movements, although the earnings impact changing external environment.
lower demand for high-grade feedstocks.
 Creating and growing global markets RTITs revenues fell by 28 per cent due to lower production.
Net cash generated from through technical research and lower sales volumes and lower prices for operating activities of US$1,010 million was development and market insight.
titanium dioxide feedstocks, metallic products 15 per cent lower than in 2014, due to lower Improving operating performance by and zircon.
Earnings fell by 53 per cent to prices and sales volumes, partly mitigated by reducing costs, driving productivity and US$116 million.
further reductions in working capital.
expenditure of US$446 million was 21 per cent Rio Tinto Minerals RTM Strengthening its position in traditional lower than in 2014.
RTM RioTinto:100percent suppliesover segments and entering attractive Rio Tinto Diamonds RTD 30 per cent of the worlds refined borates from new markets.
its world-class deposit in Boron, California.
RTD is a leading producer of rough diamonds, Safety  or with a product portfolio that provides a shipping facilities in China, France, Malaysia, presence in all major markets and market In its pursuit of zero harm, the Diamonds & the Netherlands, Spain and the US together segments.
Rio Tintos diamonds assets Minerals product group continues to focus on with the Jadar lithium-borate project comprise the Argyle Diamond Mine in Australia fostering a culture of accountability and Rio Tinto: 100 per cent in Serbia.
Rio Tinto: 100 per cent, the Diavik Diamond awareness among employees and improving Mine in Canada Rio Tinto: 60 per cent and the contractor safety.
The product groups all injury Borates production of 476,000 tonnes boric Bunder diamond project in India Rio Tinto: frequency rate AIFR fell to 0.42 in 2015 from oxide equivalent was six per cent lower than in 100 per cent.
However despite this 2014, driven primarily by lower market 78 per cent interest in Murowa Diamonds in improvement, there were three fatalities in the demand.
Revenue was eight per cent lower Zimbabwe.
 product group during the year: at QIT than in 2014, and earnings of US$103 million diamond production through a centralised Madagascar Minerals QMM, at Rio Tinto Fer were 15 per cent lower.
During the year, sales and marketing office.
et Titane RTFT and at the Simandou project Rio Tinto Minerals successfully commissioned inGuinea.
 the modified direct dissolving of kernite It also has a high-end branded business based eliminate fatalities by placing an emphasis on MDDK facility, which allows for more in Perth, Australia, which polishes, markets and critical controls and robust process safety, efficient orebody utilisation.
including rolling out a critical risk management programme across the business.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Dampier Salt DSL  Outlook of the largest-known undeveloped high-grade DSL Rio Tinto: 68 per cent, the worlds largest Since 2013, demand softened in Diamonds & iron ore orebodies in the world.
On 26 May solar salt exporter, produces industrial salt by Minerals markets in response to broader 2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project solar evaporation of seawater at Dampier and economic trends.
Markets are still challenging, partners signed an Investment Framework with Port Hedland, and from underground brine at with the pace of recovery expected to be slower the Government of Guinea which provided the Lake MacLeod, all in Western Australia.
Salt is than previously anticipated.
However, the legal and commercial foundation for the project sold principally to base chemical industry mediumto long-term outlook continues to be and formally separated the infrastructure and markets in Asia.
positive across all products as urbanisation and mine development plan.
The Simandou project Salt production of 5.5 million tonnes Rio Tinto rising standards of living, particularly in China, partners are currently finalising an integrated share was 18 per cent lower than 2014 as a drive higher levels of demand.
Bankable Feasibility Study BFS for the mine, result of weaker demand.
Earnings increased port and infrastructure elements of the project, Demand for borates is expected to remain 33 per cent to US$24 million.
which is scheduled to be submitted to the relatively stable in the near term, with strong Government of Guinea in May 2016.
Given the Uranium demand growth in some end-use sectors being uncertainties associated with funding the partially offset by excess inventory build in the The Uranium business comprises Energy infrastructure, coupled with the volatility of the valuechainsofothers.
Thelong-termindustry Resources of Australia Ltd ERA, Rio Tinto: current and near-term outlook for commodity fundamentals remain attractive.
RTM will focus 68.4 per cent, which operates the Ranger Mine prices, the Group has undertaken a review of on increasing refined borates capacity to meet in the Northern Territory of Australia and the carrying value of the asset and determined higher-than-GDP demand growth while Rssing Uranium Limited Rio Tinto: an impairment charge of US$1,118 million net achieving world-class safety performance and 68.6 per cent in Namibia, together with the of non-controlling interests and tax.
In improving its cost position.
Roughrider project Rio Tinto: 100 per cent in finalising the integrated BFS, Rio Tinto will Canadas Athabasca Basin.
The Uranium Titanium dioxide pigment and feedstock maintain a dialogue with potential business became part of the Diamonds & inventories across the supply chain remain infrastructure investors, in order to preserve Minerals product group during 2015. elevated.
In response to weak demand and in the potential of this world-class orebody.
order to reduce operating costs and inventory, Uranium production of five million pounds The Bunder diamond project is progressing its RTIT has taken action at a number of its Rio Tinto share was 20 per cent higher than in prefeasibility studies, which began in July 2010. operations, including temporary closures of 2014, with lower grades and recoveries more The project is seeking environmental and mining and processing facilities across the than offset by a full year of production at ERA.
forestry approvals before commencing the next business.
Whilst the short-term market ERA continues to process existing stockpiles.
conditions remain challenging, demand for Revenues fell 25 per cent due to lower sales titanium dioxide feedstock is expected to volumes, however losses of US$42 million were The Jadar project in Serbia is a potentially continue to grow in the mediumto long-term, 64 per cent lower than in 2014, including the world-class lithium-borate deposit discovered in line with improving global economic effect of cash cost savings and favourable by Rio Tinto in 2004.
If developed, it could conditions, urbanisation and demand growth in exchange rates.
supply a significant proportion of global emerging markets supported by rising per demand for lithium and borates.
Findings so On 11 June 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it capita incomes.
far are encouraging and prefeasibility supported ERAs decision not to proceed with assessments are ongoing to confirm the Rough and polished diamond inventories the Final Feasibility Study of the Ranger 3 economic business case and advance the remain high throughout the pipeline.
Rio Tinto also determined that it environmental and social-economic impact with subdued demand from India and China, did not support any further study or the future assessments for the project.
this has led to lower prices in the short term.
development of Ranger 3 Deeps due to the Despite this downturn, the medium to projects economic challenges.
The group The Roughrider project is a uranium long-term fundamentals for the diamond recognised an impairment charge of exploration site located in Canadas Athabasca industry remain positive and are expected to US$262 million net of non-controlling Basin in north-east Saskatchewan.
The basin support sustainable future price growth as interests and tax relating to its shareholding in supplies approximately 20 per cent of the inventories deplete and markets recover.
In late 2015, Rio Tinto global mineral resource base is steadily completed an Order of Magnitude study on the Development projects declining, exacerbated by limited exploration project.
This led to the Group recognising a investment and success, and reductions in The development of the A21 kimberlite pipe post-tax impairment charge of US$199 million supply over the medium to longer term.
at Diavik is advancing as planned and will relating to goodwill and intangible assets.
Demand in India and China is estimated to pick provide an important source of incremental Technical oversight of the Roughrider project up as conditions improve.
Demand in mature production to maintain current volumes up has transitioned to Exploration.
markets is expected to continue to grow in line to the end of mine life.
A21 is estimated to In 2011, Diamonds & Minerals re-entered the with GDP.
cost US$350 million Rio Tinto share potash business through an exploration joint US$210 million, with first production The uranium market remains challenged due to venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc. NAPI, expected in 2018. the lingering effects of the Fukushima accident a subsidiary of JSC Acron.
Acron is a world and delays in new reactor projects around the Work continued on the feasibility study for the leader in fertiliser production and holds world.
However, some Japanese reactors Zulti South mine expansion at RBM, which will multiple potash exploration permits in resumed operation in 2015, and Chinas maintain low-cost RBM smelting capacity.
Rio Tinto remains in new-build programme is gathering momentum.
mineral sands exploration programme in discussions with NAPI and Acron regarding Furthermore, increased global attention to Mozambique and other brownfield studies at the optimum development pathway for the climate change and carbon emissions will the groups operations also continued joint venture.
benefit the longer-term growth of nuclear throughout the year.
