STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Strategic context Global economy Revenues for aluminium producers also Drivers of commodity prices suffered from a rapid fall in regional For the fourth year running, the global Long-term structural economic trends are market premia.
economy grew at a moderate rate of around important drivers of future commodity prices three per cent in 2015, below consensus Bauxite and copper have not experienced through their effects on commodity demand.
expectations at the start of the year.
Global prices cutting as deep into their respective The economic development and urbanisation of growth was held back by slowing emerging global cost curves, although downward emerging countries goes through an initial economies that faced a challenging dynamic of pressures have gradually been building up.
investment-led growth phase, which is subdued global trade and falling commodity Malaysia has replaced Indonesia as the main particularly commodity-intensive.
Developed economies were on a source of bauxite imports into China, meaning commodities such as the steel and copper used stronger footing, but seven years on are still that stockpiles that were built up ahead of the in construction and infrastructure.
As struggling to fully extricate themselves from Indonesian export ban are not being drawn economies evolve over time, other the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
Nevertheless, with further commodities such as light metals, energy additions of alumina refining capacity in Chinas products and industrial minerals tend to take Chinas GDP growth slowed moderately to just coastal province of Shandong, demand for over as the main enablers of consumption-led below seven per cent, but this had a strong imported bauxite remained strong.
impact on metals and minerals demand, copper market, a combination of mine because most of 2015s economic weakness Combined with high capital intensity and long disruptions, mine shutdowns and project was concentrated in the commodity-intensive project lead times, the long-term nature of deferrals dampened the ramp-up in new construction and industrial sectors.
Some signs mining investment tends to result in cyclical supply.
Reported copper inventories drifted of stabilisation started to appear during the investment patterns in the industry, which  second half of the year, although from a weak translates into cyclical commodity prices.
Over remained at levels representative of a base.
In particular, policy measures introduced thepastcoupleofyears, theindustryhas balanced market.
This was not sufficient to by the Chinese Government supported a pickmoved into the low phase of the cycle.
stop a gradual erosion in price, with up in housing sales.
While this stopped the rise Investments made during the previous period expectations of continued supply growth from in property inventories, these remain elevated, of high prices and margins have started to expansions reaching their commissioning delaying growth in construction activity.
deliver new supply, into a context of phase late in the year.
Chinas central bank also gradually shifted decelerating demand from China.
With markets exchange rate policies throughout the year.
The absorption of excess titanium dioxide for most metals and minerals moving into pigment and feedstocks inventories has been a oversupply, the focus of the industry has The US Federal Reserves first interest rate drawn-out process since 2012.
It continued into shifted away from capital investment and hike since the financial crisis was initially 2015, with producers of high-grade feedstocks toward strategies focused on strengthening interpreted by the markets as a sign that the curtailing more capacity.
balance sheets through productivity and cost US economy continued to strengthen in 2015. reduction initiatives.
Consumer demand is strong and was Outlook supported by improvements in the labour Commodity markets The macro and market environment in 2015 market.
However, growth momentum was presented significant challenges for industry The cyclical downturn deepened in most dampened by the impact of lower oil prices on margins.
High-cost marginal supply is seen commodity markets in 2015.
The iron ore price US energy sector investment and by a exiting across most commodity markets.
But dipped below US$40 dry metric tonne CFR manufacturing sector struggling with a this is a long process and in the absence of a cost and freight towards the end of the year, stronger dollar.
The rally in the US currency, turnaround in demand, it is difficult to see representing an 80 per cent fall from the peak which started in the second half of 2014, supply withdrawals having a strong positive of the market in 2011.
Given its exposure to continued throughout 2015, with the tradeimpact on commodity prices in the short term.
property and investment trends, domestic weighted index reaching levels last seen in finished steel consumption in China fell by 2003.
 The macroeconomic consensus points to a between four and five per cent.
Chinas iron ore trends, and while growth remains modest, moderate improvement in global growth in requirement proved more stable due to a 2015 saw the most solid performance in the 2016.
Meanwhile, China is expected to further combination of record steel products exports eurozone since 2011.
This enabled the Greek progress the transition towards its New .
crisis, which unfolded throughout the year, to Normal, resulting in a less , this was far from sufficient to remain relatively well contained.
intensive and slower growth path.
absorb the growth in low-cost seaborne Growth in developed economies was not This is a context in which producers at the supplies from the iron ore majors.
Price sufficient to support strong global trade.
This lower end of the cost curve and those working pressures led to about 130 million tonnes in negatively impacted emerging markets, with hard to reduce costs and improve productivity high-cost production cuts from China and currencies, debt and fiscal positions of should outperform the broader industry.
marginal seaborne suppliers, in addition to the commodity exporters under further stress from .
Longer-term demand prospects remain low oil and minerals prices.
Currencies in  Prices for several other commodities, such as developed commodity-dependent economies recovery out of the current cyclical low phase.
aluminium, and thermal and metallurgical coal, such as Australia and Canada were under For some commodities, especially those facing  lesser pressure but still depreciated against stronger mine depletions, this will be amplified boom in 2005 or only seen briefly in the depth  by recent cutbacks in capital spend.
of the global financial crisis.
Strong Chinese respectively through the year.
supply and slow curtailments have exacerbated global market imbalances in each of these threecommodities.
Asaresult, pricesare cutting deep into global cost curves despite significant reductions in costs, weaker currencies and lower energy input prices.
