Iron Ore Financial performance Greenhouse gas emissions The Pilbara performance remained strong despite interruptions throughout the year, Throughout 2015, Iron Ore continued to reduce including a train derailment temporarily greenhouse gas emissions across mine, rail 2015 2014 blocking the rail access to the Dampier port, US$ million US$ million and port operations.
and tropical cyclones Olwyn and Quang Revenue 15,305 23,281 Productivity projects in the Pilbara have also interrupting coastal operations in the second focused on improving energy efficiency.
Inland Pilbara mines were also Net cash generated example, fuel saving software has improved impacted by unseasonal wet weather during from operating activities 6,061 10,274 fuel burn in excavators and trucks across the second quarter and bush fires caused by Underlying earnings 3,952 8,107 the operations.
lightning strikes in the fourth quarter.
Capital expenditure 1,726 4,211 Greenhouse gas intensity of saleable Contestable iron ore demand in 2015 Net operating assets 18,005 20,987 production at IOC improved by 18 per cent decreased marginally to 1.72 billion tonnes.
EBITDA 7,872 14,244 compared with the 2008 baseline.
This was due During the year around 110 Mt of additional to an increase in the ratio of concentrate sales, iron ore supply entered the market with Strategy and strategic priorities combined with operational efficiencies.
Chinese The Iron Ore product group focuses on three domestic supply continues to struggle with In total, the product groups greenhouse gas strategic goals to maintain its position as the high operating costs due to the nature and emissions intensity has improved by 7.6 per best iron ore business in the world: location of its iron ore reserves, which require cent on the baseline target set in 2008. more processing than most seaborne supply.
Production at the right cost, with a total Non-traditional supply Iran, Russia, Ukraine, Review of operations focus on safety.
Kazakhstan, Mexico, Indonesia and others, Value-driven growth from disciplined Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore whichpeakedin2013, hasalsodeclined phasing and low-cost growth options.
portfolio, with major operations and projects significantly due to sustained low prices.
This includes Maximising portfolio value through operations in the Pilbara region of Western In 2015, the iron ore price averaged around specialist sales and marketing expertise.
Australia and in Canada, and projects in US$50 per dry metric tonne Platts 62 per cent Safety Guinea see page 37 and India.
Fe FOB, down from an average of around US$88 per dry metric tonne in 2014.
In 2015, Iron Ore achieved a fatality-free year.
In the Pilbara region of Western Australia,  Rio Tinto operates the worlds largest Rio Tinto Marine shipped 265 Mt of dry bulk was 0.49 compared with 0.73 in 2014, a integrated portfolio of iron ore assets.
This improvement system comprises 15 mines, four independent an increase of 11 per cent on 2014.
By volume, is attributable to a number of ongoing port terminals, over 1,700km of the largest Rio Tinto is the largest dry bulk shipping programmes that have strengthened safety privately-owned heavy freight railway in business in the world, operating 17 vessels of interactions and focus in the field.
Australia, and supporting infrastructure, all its own and contracting a fleet of around 200 .
vessels at any given time.
Average freight rates Further engagement and visibility from in 2015 tracked below 2014 and forward leadership teams continues positively IOC operates a mine, concentrator and voyage rate curves are flat, reflecting ongoing influencing safety culture, driving better pelletising plant in the Canadian province of vessel oversupply and low bunker fuel prices.
safety performance year-on-year across the Newfoundland and Labrador, together with port product group.
The construction and commissioning of the Pilbara port and rail infrastructure expansion Iron Ore has also adopted critical risk Rio Tinto Marine delivers shipping services to were completed in mid-2015.
Iron Ore management as part of a fatality elimination the wider Rio Tinto Group, including Iron Ore. continues to ramp up this integrated system to strategy aimed at embedding critical controls In 2015 Iron Ore achieved underlying earnings full capacity to generate maximum value.
across Rio Tintos managed operations.
Despite record sales programme was introduced to supervisors in A range of initiatives undertaken throughout volumes and continued cash cost savings, 2015 and will continue in 2016.
2015 resulted in pre-tax cash cost reductions weaker iron ore prices, down 43 per cent on of US$428 million and have now delivered In Western Australia, Iron Ore launched a average year-on-year, reduced earnings by US$1.1 billion of cumulative savings compared wellbeing strategy across the business.
Key US$5,541 million on 2014. with the 2012 base, making a significant activities included a peer support programme Iron Ore shipments for 2015 were contribution to the wider Rio Tinto Group and a leader education programme focusing on 336.6 million tonnes globally Rio Tinto share: pre-tax savings.
Further efficiency mental health awareness, managing stress and 270.9 million tonnes an increase of 11.2 per improvements reduced the Pilbara cash unit building resilience.
This included IOCs delivery of costs to US$14.9 per tonne in 2015, compared Marine improved the safety culture aboard its 9.6 million tonnes of pellets and 8.4 million with US$19.5 per tonne in 2014.
At the same vessels, with training and welfare programmes tonnes of concentrate for sale in 2015. time, working capital levels across Iron Ore and critical risk controls, inspections and safety were reduced by 83 per cent year on year performance reviews that will continue in 2016.
Iron ore production was 327.6 million tonnes compared with 2014.
These savings have been In a challenging year, Iron Ore Company of globally Rio Tinto share: 263 million tonnes.
achieved while increasing production by more Canadas IOC Rio Tinto share 58.7 per cent Sales exceeded production in 2015 due to the than ten per cent and improving safety all injury frequency rate was 0.74 compared drawdown of stockpiled iron ore inventory, performance in 2015. with 0.66 last year.
The continued roll-out of which is now largely depleted.
critical risk management will ensure the focus Initiatives included inventory reduction Strong quarterly production and sales were is on achieving the goal of zero harm.
measures that have reduced warehouseachieved throughout the year as expanded managed inventory by A$129 million The Pilbara Utilities team was named the Pilbara infrastructure continued to integrate US$94 million for the year.
Savings were also winner of the Chief Executive Safety Award in with operations.
Increased asset reliability achieved through supplier negotiations, and by 2015 for the second year running.
The award and performance also resulted in a record reducing 400,000 hours of maintenance time recognises sites and teams with the best year for IOC.
with new failure mode-based tactics aimed at annual safety performance, culture improving asset reliability and removing all and leadership.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS low-value tasks from sites.
Other initiatives Iron Ore continues to support programmes and of approximately US$9 per tonne.
It is expected have improved train cycle time, increased plant initiatives across the Pilbara, our fly in, fly out that the full infrastructure expansion will be utilisation, and extended the life of heavy FIFO source communities in regional Western delivered at an industry-leading capital mobile equipment across the Pilbara fleet.
Two keystone partnerships intensity of US$100-110 per tonne.
include the Community Infrastructure and  Pilbara mine production capacity increased Services Partnerships with the City of Karratha autonomous truck operator and a proud leader through a series of low-cost brownfield .
Thesefocuson in automated mining technologies.
The Pilbara expansions and operational improvements working together to make the Pilbara region a fleet of autonomous haulage trucks and which were undertaken during 2015. better place to live and work through a shared autonomous drills continued to improve vision of improving town amenities and Following completion of the Pilbara performance in 2015. revitalising communities.
infrastructure and brownfield expansions in the The autonomous haulage system AHS truck first half of 2015, the focus has shifted to the IOC continued as a supplier of high-quality, Nammuldi Incremental Tonnes NIT project, fleet is deployed across three sites in the premium pellets and high-quality, lowwhich delivers high-grade, low-phosphorous Pilbara, decreasing load and haul operating contaminant concentrate.
The company ore into the Pilbara Blend.
The initial phase, costs by up to 13 per cent, and increasing remains focused on increasing production to with a five million tonne per annum capacity, effective utilisation by up to 14 per cent nameplate capacity following completion of the started production in the fourth quarter of compared with a manned fleet.
Software Concentrate Expansion Project in 2014 and 2015.
Construction has begun on the second upgrades during the year also improved further reducing costs.
Through effective phase, which will take annual capacity from the reliability.
The AHS fleet currently comprises employee engagement, highly visible NIT project up from five to ten million tonnes 71 trucks with 19 Komatsu 830E AHS trucks at leadership and improved asset management, and is due to come into production in the fourth  IOC shipped 26.2 per cent more tonnes in 2015 quarter of 2016. at Nammuldi and 22 Komatsu 930E AHS versus 2014.
A C$45.3 concentrate operating trucks at Yandicoogina.
The Wickham town upgrade project was unit cost was achieved following a 19 per cent completed in September 2015.
This This year, Iron Ore expanded the number of reduction from 2014.
US$300 million project supports the Cape fully autonomous drills operating at the West IOC continued to focus on building and Lambert port and rail operations workforce  maintaining strong relationships with and included the construction of more than successfully trialled their remote operation Aboriginal groups through engagement, 240 houses, the Wickham Lodge FIFO from the Operations Centre in Perth.
accommodation and the Julutharndu Maya consultation and collaboration.
The company is Central Facilities building as well as new parks, Once implemented, AutoHaul will be the actively implementing two Aboriginal roads and other community infrastructure.
worlds first fully autonomous, heavy-haulage, agreements in Labrador to promote access to long-distance rail system.
In 2015, the physical Aboriginal business development and Construction of the A$18 million Dampier installation work neared completion and trains employment opportunities.
IOC also provided Community hub began in the second quarter of are being operated under controlled conditions support to Group-wide initiatives and 2015, followed by the announcement in the to demonstrate the safety and performance of partnerships across Canada to encourage fourth quarter of an A$8 million contribution for thesystem.
Asattheendof2015, morethan opportunities for Aboriginal youth, including construction and operation of the Wickham 70,000km of mainline train trials have been support to undertake education and training.
These projects at the coastal completed.
AutoHaul development will operations will improve community amenity by continue, including submission of regulatory providing childcare and after-school services, Development projects approvals, completion of full system youth services, library services and facilities for The Pilbara infrastructure expansions were functionality and, improvement of system other community groups and activities.
completed in mid-2015, delivering expanded performance and reliability.
During 2015, engagement continued with our port and shipping capacity at Cape Lambert, Iron Ore maintained its focus on supporting partners Orissa Mining Corporation increased rail network capacity, improved local communities, Aboriginal Traditional 44 per cent and the National Mineral power and fuel supply and distribution, as well Owners, businesses and people located within Development Corporation 5 per cent on the as expanded and improved accommodation Odisha iron ore project in India.
The current its operational footprint.
The product group and town facilities in the Pilbara.
 continued actively implementing participation A number of mine developments were also arrangements with project partners and the agreements with Traditional Owners in the completed throughout 2015 to sustain existing Odisha state government.
Pilbara,  operations and as part of the growth mining operations.
The West Angelas Deposit B incorporate mutual obligations to deliver project achieved full production rates, allowing Continuing low prices will challenge many iron outcomes in employment, financial the West Angelas operation to achieve 35 Mt a ore suppliers.
However seaborne supply is compensation, education and training, heritage in the first quarter of the year, and the expected to continue to outpace demand surveys and practices, environmental care and Nammuldi Below Water Table project was fully growth in the near term.
Contestable iron ore demand is likely to remain Iron Ore also supported Pilbara Aboriginal The Yandicoogina project delivered first ore, flat in 2016 with new iron ore supply entering businesses to secure contracts in the Pilbara which will sustain the existing Yandicoogina  and remains one of the largest private-sector operation and increase capacity to 60 Mt a.
At exits of marginal production.
Over the medium employers of Indigenous people in Australia, Western Turner Syncline 2, a road train term we expect contestable iron ore demand to with approximately 1,000 Indigenous operation that began in May 2015 delivered an grow by around 1.3 per cent CAGR until 2030. employees, including more than 350 Pilbara additional 7 Mt a at Tom Price.
This equates to approximately 370 Mt of Aboriginal people.
Rio Tinto joined the incremental demand, with around 20 per cent  Australian campaign for constitutional expected to be driven by China.
at an average mine production capital intensity recognition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people by formally supporting the Recognise campaign in June 2015.
