Business model Howwecreatevalue Rio Tinto owns a global and diversified To optimise the value of our portfolio over and the quality of our assets.
Coupled with portfolio of world-class assets: the result of time, we pursue opportunities for productivity our framework for managing risk effectively,  improvements, cost reductions and prudent these provide strength across the cycle, and longstanding strategy see page 10. growth.
We are committed to running and through the challenges that the external growing our business in ways that are environment presents see page 14.
We create value through the way we find, increasingly safer, smarter and more develop and operate these assets, how we Our approach is described in our business sustainable.
market the minerals and metals they lifecycle below, along with examples produce, and the legacy we leave at the end Our competitive advantages stem from the showing some of the ways we differentiate of their lives.
capabilities and behaviours of our people ourselves.
We look for deposits in our preferred Our approach is to develop orebodies so that We create value by operating our assets commodities at both new, greenfield they deliver value over the long term.
We safely and efficiently, and by building on our apply rigorous assessment and review leadership position in low-cost operations.
locations and within the orbit of our current operations.
Our in-house exploration team processes that ensure we only approve With a global operating model, we can apply investments that offer attractive returns well standard processes and systems across the has a multi-decade track record of discovery above our cost of capital.
We assess the Group in areas such as health, safety, of Tier 1 orebodies in both greenfield and spectrum of risk and how we will manage it environment and communities, procurement, brownfield settings.
To maintain our focus on see page 14. operations and maintenance.
This extends targets that are important to Rio Tinto, we run the life of our equipment and optimises the most exploration programmes ourselves, but Once we have confirmed the value of a extraction of ore, meaning higher production, we will partner with others if it gives us resource and received internal and external lower costs and maximised value.
Our access to skills or opportunities that we do approvals to develop it, the project moves operations bring benefit to local economies by not possess in-house.
into the implementation phase and is handed providing employment opportunities, to the product group to manage.
The product Our exploration teams are often the first procurement, and the transparent payment of groups work in partnership with Rio Tinto contact with people we may work alongside tax and royalties.
Projects part of the Technology & for decades, so we explore respectfully and Innovation group Our commitment to technology and make sure we engage with communities from see page 41. innovation also sets Rio Tinto apart.
It enables an early stage.
us to take advantage of opportunities that As we develop an operation, we plan the most Using our orebody knowledge, we develop our may not be available to others, improves our efficient configuration for mining the orebody resources and position our products in the productivity and helps us tailor our products .
We can use our network closely with our customers to create demand support the Groups investment decisionof partnerships with academia, technology that maximises the value of the deposit over making.
Our geological expertise gives us the suppliers and other experts to tap into its lifetime.
We also work in partnership with knowledge and technical prowess that confidence to keep looking for the most host governments and communities, augment our own capabilities.
And we have a strong identifying ways in which we can deliver tradition of developing innovative mutual benefits from the development of our technologies to resolve specific exploration operations.
Differentiation in action: Differentiation in action: Differentiation in action: Globally, we have offered to analyse rock In December 2015 the Rio Tinto board  samples from prospective joint venture approved investment of US$1.9 billion in the automated mining technologies.
In the partners using breakthrough mineralogical Amrun project in Australia, one of the highest Pilbara, our fleet of 71 autonomous haulage technology.
By detecting and analysing quality bauxite projects in the world.
Amrun trucks has cut load and haul operating costs indicator minerals in samples, this involves the construction of a bauxite mine by 13 per cent and increased effective technology can identify and prioritise targets and associated processing and port facilities utilisation by up to 14 per cent.
At the West on exploration sites, potentially with great  Angelas mine, fully autonomous drilling has precision.
This approach supports our Queensland.
, lowraised productivity, cut cost, and improved commitment to boost exploration activity and cost, expandable asset, Amrun will provide safety and ore recovery.
potentially allows us to find new exploration jobs and strengthen the regions economy for partners.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Delivering value for our stakeholders Shareholders Our primary focus is on delivering shareholder .
Wedothisby balancing disciplined investment with prudent management of our balance sheet and  approach to capital allocation see page 30.
Through our global footprint and diverse portfolio, we are also able to create value for our other stakeholders in a variety of ways.
Customers We supply our customers with the right Our business is based on the supply of highClosure planning is part of every assets life products at the right time, so they can add quality products that have been developed to cycle, from the earliest stages of value by turning them into the end products meet our customers needs.
We aim to progressively that society needs to sustain and enhance metals we supply mostly to industrial rehabilitate as much land as possible before modern life.
companies that process them further are the closure.
And when a resource reaches the building blocks of value-added goods.
Our end of its life, we seek to minimise its Communities diverse portfolio allows us to respond to financial, social and environmental impact  demand throughout countries economic by finding sustainable and beneficial future communities and can open up new markets for development cycles, including in infrastructure, land uses.
We identify post-closure options local suppliers.
Communities often benefit transport, machinery, energy and consumer that take into account stakeholders goods.
 once our operations are closed, we restore the Rio Tintos marketing teams work with our sites for instance for community use, new operations to align our resource management industry, or back to native vegetation.
with market needs and to make sure we improve our products and services in a way that Our people maximises value to customers.
What we learn We invest in our people throughout their from our markets and customers helps us to refine our investment decisions.
In many cases careers, offering diverse employment we deliver products ourselves, with logistics prospects, opportunities for development, and capabilities that include our own networks of competitive rewards and benefits that have a rail, ports and ships.
Governments We are often a major economic contributor to the local, state and national jurisdictions in whichweoperate.
Ourtaxandsovereign equity contributions enable governments to develop and maintain public works, services and institutions.
We help create growth  Differentiation in action: Differentiation in action: our operations.
Suppliers Our Diamonds & Minerals business takes a Working in land management and By seeking the right balance of global, national market-to-mine approach, working closely rehabilitation at the Weipa bauxite mine in and local supply capability, and supporting with customers to understand their needs, Australia provides Indigenous employees local supplier development wherever possible, provide solutions to their problems and with professional opportunities that align we drive value for our shareholders and deliver maximise the value we achieve for our products.
closely with their cultural connection to the economic benefits for the communities in A partnership between Rio Tinto Minerals and land.
 Australias University of Wollongong is seeking nursery, where seedlings are nurtured which we operate.
to find new energy-related applications for before being planted out to restore the boron found in our borate minerals, such as in forest canopy, and benefits from our hydrogen storage and advanced batteries.
Indigenous employees unique understanding of the geography and climate.
com 13 Risk management Rio Tinto is exposed to a variety of risks that Executive Committee, who are supported by Approach can have financial, operational and compliance the Risk Management Committee an executive The Groups approach to risk management, impacts on our business performance, management committee chaired by the chief underpinned by the Risk policy and standard, is reputation and licence to operate.
The board executive and central support functions aimed at embedding a risk-aware culture in all recognises that creating shareholder returns is including Group Risk and Group Audit and decision-making, and a commitment to the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The Assurance, to enable effective risk managing risk in a proactive and effective effective management of risk is therefore identification, evaluation and management manner.
This includes the early identification critical to supporting the delivery of the across Rio Tinto.
and evaluation of risks, the management and Groups strategic objectives.
mitigation of risks before they materialise, and This approach reflects a three lines of dealing with them effectively in the event they defence model for the management of risks Risk management framework do materialise.
Accountability for risk and controls: Rio Tintos risk management framework management is clear throughout the Group and First line of defence: ownership of risk by reflects our belief that managing risk .
effectively is an integral part of how the Group To support risk understanding and creates value, and fundamental to the Groups Second line of defence: control of risk by management at all levels, the Group Risk business success.
The responsibility for central support functions and the Risk function provides the necessary infrastructure identifying and managing risks lies with all of Management Committee.
to support the management and reporting of Rio Tintos managers and business leaders.
Third line of defence: assurance of systems of material risks within the Group, and escalates They operate within the Group-wide framework internal control by Group Audit & Assurance.
key issues through the management team and to manage risks within understood thresholds.
ultimately to the board where appropriate.
The key risk management responsibilities The framework includes clearly defined Group Risk also supports the Risk Management throughout the Group are outlined below.
oversight responsibilities for the board and the Committee in its review of risk.
Risk management framework Board Determine the nature and extent of risk that is acceptable in pursuit of strategic objectives Confirm that managements risk thresholds reflect the level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of strategic objectives Provide oversight across the risk management process Board committees The Audit Committee monitors and reviews at least annually the maturity and effectiveness of management processes and controls designed to identify, assess, monitor and manage risk The Audit and Sustainability Committees review periodic reports from management: identifying the Groups material business risks within the committees scope: and the risk management strategies and controls applied Group Audit Provide reasonable assurance that the systems of risk management, internal control and & Assurance governance are adequate and effective Executive Set risk strategy and assess risks inherent in key investments and in strategic, Committee business or annual plans Risk Management Oversee the risk management framework to facilitate the identification of significant risks Committee to Group-level objectives and ensure effective risk management processes are in place Group Risk Provide co-ordination and support of Group-level risk management activity and reporting Embed risk management into core business processes, such as planning and capital allocation Build risk management capability and a risk culture throughout the Group Other central Provide targeted expertise and support to risk owners support functions Develop and maintain specific controls, including policies, standards and procedures, and management to support the effective management of material Group-level risk within the agreed thresholds committees Assure first line of defence compliance with controls Product groups Monitor material risks and track activities to manage risk within their business activities, and central and escalate where appropriate functions, Consider risk and uncertainty in strategic and business planning and capital allocation proposals executive audit forums Product groups Identify, assess and manage risks in operations and projects, utilising risk registers and our and business units Group-wide risk data system: RioRisk Risk managers Provide technical expertise and risk management for line leaders and the product group and Risk Forum executive management teams The Risk Forum risk managers across the Group supports alignment, consistency and continuous improvement of risk management 14 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report Third First line Second line Oversight line Risk appetite and tolerances: strategic objectives: accountability to manage, audit and assurance Escalation as appropriate, transparency and formal reporting STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The process for identifying, evaluating and The principal risks and uncertainties listed in Longer-term viability statement managing the material business risks is designed this section may materialise individually, Current business planning processes within to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and where simultaneously or in combination and could Rio Tinto require the preparation of detailed appropriate accept risk to generate returns.
significantly threaten the Group in the financial plans over a three-year time Certain risks, for example natural disasters, following respects: horizon.
The Groups strategy is developed, cannot be managed using internal controls.
Such and capital investment decisions are made, Business model major risks are transferred to third parties in the based on an assessment of cash flows over a The basis on which the Group generates or multi-decade horizon, with financial international insurance markets, to the extent preserves value over the longer term, given its investment capacity regularly tested to considered appropriate or possible.
market positioning as a global diversified ensure capital commitments can be funded The Group has material investments in a number mining and processing business.
in line with the Groups capital allocation of jointly controlled entities.
Where Rio Tinto does model.
This multi-year planning approach Future performance reflects our business model of investing in, not have managerial control, it is not always able The Groups ability to deliver its financial plan and operating, long-life mining assets, to ensure that management will comply with in the short to medium term.
whose outputs we sell into commodity Rio Tinto standards.
markets over which we have limited Solvency influence.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups ability to maintain an appropriate The planning process requires modelling capital structure and to meet its financial The principal risks and uncertainties outlined in under a series of macroeconomic scenarios liabilities in full.
this section reflect the risks that could materially and assumptions of both internal and affect Rio Tinto or its ability to meet its strategic Liquidity external parameters.
Key assumptions objectives, either directly or by triggering a The Groups ability to meet its financial include: projections of economic growth, succession of events that in aggregate become and thus commodity demand in major liabilities as they fall due.
Rio Tintos business units markets, primarily China: commodity prices Health, safety, environment and communities and functions assess the potential economic and and exchange rates, often correlated: cost HSEC non-economic consequences of their respective and supply parameters for major inputs The Groups ability to send our employees such as labour and fuel: and a series of risks using the framework defined by the Groups assumptions around the schedule and cost and contractors home safe and healthy every Risk policy and standard.
Once identified, each of implementation of organic and inorganic day and work with our communities and principal risk or uncertainty is reviewed and growth programmes.
partners to achieve our sustainable monitored by the relevant internal experts and by development goals.
the Risk Management Committee, the relevant Reflecting the speed and degree of change possible in a number of these parameters, board committees and the board.
Group reputation such as Chinese demand, commodity The Groups ability to maintain investor There may be additional risks unknown to prices, and exchange rates, Rio Tinto has confidence and our social licence to operate.
Rio Tinto and other risks currently not believed to deemed a three-year period of assessment be material which could turn out to be material.
In appropriate for the long-term viability Robust assessment statement, consistent with the Groups previous years the Group has reported risks detailed planning horizon.
related to climate change, community disputes, The board confirms that, with the assistance discount rates, short-term cash generation of management, it has carried out a robust Additional robust stress-testing has been initiatives, technology and innovation, supply assessment of the principal risks of the Group undertaken during the past year, utilising chain and third party exposure, industrial as detailed below including those that would the models used for business planning, to further test and confirm the long-term relations, availability of skilled resources, and , future viability of the Group, beyond commodity closure.
The Group remains exposed to these performance, solvency or liquidity and has price and exchange rate movements.
risks but does not consider them to be principal also tested the financial plans of the Group for Production and social licence to operate risks currently as defined below.
Therefore they each of these principal risks, and for a series related assumptions were also stressed, are not discussed in detail in this section.
, madeupof individually and collectively, to levels A number of them are, however, referred to in the the concurrence or close sequence of a considered severe but plausible and well sustainable development section of this Annual number of principal and material risks.
beyond those expected in the normal report on pages 22 to 28. course of business.
The viability of the Group under these scenarios remained sound with the use of a suite of management actions available to redress the situation, including accessing Principal risks and uncertainties at a glance 2015 trend lines of credit, changing capital allocation levers, and, if necessary, selling External Internal Internal and external down assets.
Therefore, taking into account the Groups Commodity prices current position and principal risks, the Increasing None None China development directors have assessed the prospects of risk pathway theGroup, , and have a reasonable expectation that the Execution of acquisitions Group will be able to continue in operation and divestments Liquidity and meet its liabilities as they fall due Strategic partnerships No change over that period.
Capital project development Exploration and resources in risk Jurisdictional risk HSEC It is impossible to foresee all risks, and the Business interruption Business misconduct combinations in which they could manifest, and there may be risks that currently or individually do not appear material that Decreasing could turn out to be material, particularly if None None None risk occurring in close sequence.
