Exploration Rio Tinto has had a sustained commitment to engagement and development of the Groups of publicly available data and a focus on data exploration since 1946, with an exceptional social licence to operate.
accuracy and availability has continued to drive track record in mineral discovery.
Research and Safety operations such as Weipa and the Pilbara were development projects have progressed in 2015.
Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto New analytical techniques for mineral In 2015, Exploration achieved a fatality-free year.
Exploration where value is still being realised geochemistry that support exploration targeting At the end of 2015 the Exploration groups all after more than 50 years of production.
were applied across a number of regions and injury frequency rate was 0.43, sustaining the are proving attractive to potential exploration improvement from the 0.47 rate at the end of Strategy and strategic priorities joint venture partners.
A multi-year change programme across the the development of the VK1 airborne gravity Exploration creates value for Rio Tinto by Exploration group has helped to sustain the gradiometer, with a continuing improvement in discovering or acquiring well-located, significant safety improvement gained in 2013. detection levels achieved in 2015. high-grade Tier 1 resources.
Its work spans During 2015, Exploration undertook a review of greenfield and brownfield exploration past incidents that had resulted in fatalities on In addition to Explorations projects, the Groups  exploration projects.
The aim was to understand major evaluation projects in 2015 were: development that supports exploration.
how and why those fatal events occurred and try Project Commodity Country Greenfield exploration aims to establish to ensure that they do not happen again.
The completely new operating business units, findings were compiled as a series of case studies La Granja Copper Peru including diversifying into new commodities or for the group to learn from.
This increased focus Resolution Copper US geographic areas.
Brownfield exploration looks on fatality prevention across the Exploration Pilbara Iron ore Australia to sustain or grow existing Group businesses in group continued, with planning for a number of Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia the orbit of existing operations.
pilot projects under way to trial the roll-out of the Rio Tinto critical risk management programme.
Hunter Valley Thermal coal Australia The Exploration group also supports a range of Zulti South Mineral sands South Africa projects across the business, providing orebody Performance Jadar Lithium borates Serbia knowledge, helping evaluate merger and During 2015, with the support of a more visible acquisition opportunities and providing resource Simandou Iron ore Guinea communication strategy, commercial activities insights to support supply forecasts.
During Weipa Bauxite Australia increased, providing access to new projects and 2015, Exploration reviewed the orebody supporting the progression of projects through knowledge content for all projects that were In 2015, the Group reduced its exploration and the Exploration project pipeline.
Exploration a progressed to the Investment Committee.
evaluation expenditure to US$576 million.
joint ventures were established in the US, Chile, Community, sustainability and investment This represented a 23 per cent decrease Serbia and Australia.
Divestment activities requirements mean it can take over 20 years to compared with 2014 expenditure of continue for projects not of interest to Rio Tinto.
progress from initial exploration through to US$747 million.
Of the 2015 spend, discovery and on to a final development At the Roughrider uranium project in US$141 million relates to centrally-controlled decision.
Rio Tintos core exploration capability Saskatchewan, orebody knowledge progressed exploration and evaluation activity.
In total, and rigorous global prioritisation process has with geological and structural interpretation Rio Tintos 2015 exploration and evaluation consistently delivered Tier 1 discoveries, which and resource modelling.
At the Sanxai bauxite activity covered eight commodities across a : project in Laos, ongoing exploration provided range of greenfield and brownfield greater certainty around resource quality, while environments.
Year Discovery Commodity Location infrastructure studies targeted a range of 2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia Outlook options for transporting the ore to a suitable 2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique port location.
The Amargosa bauxite project in In 2016 the Exploration group will continue to Brazil has progressed, with drilling and mapping 2009 Jadar Lithium Serbia work on a prioritised portfolio of greenfield and advancing a number of brownfield areas in the borates brownfield projects.
The continued downturn in Amargosa orbit as well as adding new prospects commodity prices is expected to produce 2011 Amargosa Bauxite Brazil in the region.
Brownfield projects generated further cost-effective commercial opportunities 2013 KP405 Potash Canada good drilling results at iron ore projects in the to gain access to high-quality exploration 2014 Yandi Braid Iron ore Australia Pilbara, coking coal projects in the Hunter properties.
However, challenges are expected to 2015 Mount Coking coal Australia Valley and Bowen Basin, and for bauxite in the continue around timeframes to access ground, Thorley Weipa orbit in Australia.
In the Bingham orbit in the need to increasingly explore for orebodies Warkworth the US, drilling continued to extend the beneath cover rocks, and the decreasing grade Hunter mineralisation envelope.
and quality of potential orebodies.
The Valley Exploration group will focus on project Exploration activities are underpinned by data generation in a number of key geographies, as and information management.
Targeted capture At the end of 2015, the Exploration group was well as testing of targets within the portfolio.
active in 18 countries and assessing For 2016, exploration projects at a more opportunities in other countries across a range advanced stage are listed in the table below: of commodities including copper, nickel, iron ore, bauxite, coking coal, uranium, diamonds and mineral sands.
Exploration activities in Project Commodity Country Type Stage China were conducted through CRTX, the joint Tamarack Nickel US Greenfield Project of Merit venture between Chinalco 51 per cent and b Roughrider Uranium Canada Greenfield Order of Magnitude Rio Tinto 49 per cent.
The Exploration group is Sanxai Bauxite Laos Greenfield Project of Merit organised into regional multi-commodity teams based in Melbourne, London, Salt Lake City, Amargosa orbit Bauxite Brazil Greenfield Order of Magnitude Perth, Brisbane and Beijing, which are Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia Brownfield Project of Merit supported by a team of technical and Pilbara Iron ore Australia Brownfield Project of Merit commodity professionals.
This structure a An additional US$8 million gain on disposal of undeveloped evaluation projects was recorded separately in profit loss provides a global reach with a local presence relating to interest in undeveloped projects in the income statement.
that allows for effective community b As noted on page 37, an impairment charge has been recognised on this project.
