STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Technology & Innovation In close partnership with our product groups, T&I continued execution of the Holden Innovation Technology & Innovation T&I provides Environmental Remediation project, US: East The Mine of the Future programme continued leadership in the fields of technical excellence, Waste Rock Extension project, Rio Tinto to progress and deliver value to Rio Tinto in the Kennecott: and AutoHaul project, Pilbara.
It productivity, major capital projects, technical areas of productivity and HSEC improvement: commenced project execution of the assurance and strategic planning.
It has a track Autonomous Haulage System: US$1.9 billion Amrun bauxite project.
T&I also record of creating value and implementing 71 autonomous trucks in operation across provided execution planning and preparation step-change initiatives that help maintain the .
work into the following studies: Groups competitive advantage.
Gross costs in Testing and verification of the AutoHaul Oyu Tolgoi underground copper project, 2015 were US$204 million compared with autonomous rail system continued, with Mongolia US$340 million in 2014 and US$370 million 70,000km of mainline trials completed by in 2013.
Hail Creek coal project, Australia end of 2015.
Zulti South, mineral sands, South Africa Strategy and strategic priorities Expansion of the autonomous drill fleet at Jadar lithium-borate deposit, Serbia theWestAngelasmine, theworldsfirst T&Is strategic priorities are to deliver Simandou iron ore project, Guinea fully autonomous drill mine, has  Silvergrass and Koodaideri iron ore mines, contributed to more than 2.5 million metres excellence.
In 2015 the productivity team was Pilbara, Australia of drilling in autonomous mode.
restructured to focus on selected Group-wide, T&Is capital effectiveness programme applies high-value projects.
Automated train load-out systems were capital intensity tools to focus on cost installed, helping Iron Ore deliver Safety reduction and has already delivered strong approximately 1.6 Mt of extra rail capacity.
results at the Amrun and Silvergrass projects.
T&I is Remote Draft Survey technology is being committed to the safety of our employees.
The deployed to make ship loading safer by The Technical Assurance team independently all injury frequency rate for T&I was 0.44 in calculating the air and water draft around a assesses investment decisions for the Rio Tinto 2015 compared with 0.57 in 2014.
A functional enhancement is Investment Committee and board.
Its work has improvement is a result of a leadership focus helped ensure the right projects are supported being developed to improve loading times on zero harm, particularly areas of risk that and prioritised in line with the capital and volumes.
have the potential for fatal injury.
This year, expenditure plan for the year.
In 2015, Resistate Indicator Minerals technology was the post-investment review programme, Rio Tinto Projects, the team that is responsible applied to improve the productivity of which extracts the lessons from past for major project delivery in the Group, focused copper and diamonds exploration.
investments in order to improve future on five areas of improvement: incorporating RTVis: Extension of this visualisation projects, continued to help improve the health, safety, environment and communities software to all sites in the Pilbara enabled assurance process for investments.
HSEC aspects in project design: leadership an increase in the recovery of high-grade and engagement to build a safety culture: Productivity .
critical risk management: learning from The Productivity programme, which aims to incidents: and being work-ready.
Outlook generate more out of every dollar invested in Rio Tintos business, made significant progress In2016, T&Isfocuswillbeonthree Performance during 2015.
This included establishing: strategic capabilities: Projects Technical Discipline Leadership group to delivery of major projects: In 2015, T&I successfully completed identify and embed world-class practices technical excellence: and construction of the Kitimat Modernisation that will improve Group productivity,  improving performance through manage technical risk and improve revised schedule and budget.
In the Pilbara, T&I innovation and analytics.
discipline health across the Group.
completed the infrastructure components of World-Class Asset Management .
Thisincluded productivity programme to improve the expansion of port and shipping capacity at Group-wide asset performance through Cape Lambert, laying additional track and rail optimising asset servicing, standardised infrastructure, fuel facilities and the expansion maintenance and predictive asset health.
of accommodation and town facilities.
It has Energy Productivity programme to been delivered on time and more than increase performance in energy sourcing, US$800 million below budget.
During the year, consumption and productivity of the T&I completed the following mine expansions  in the Pilbara: transparent energy measurement, power optimisation, diesel efficiency initiatives 21 Mt a Nammuldi below-water-table project and alternative energy sources.
West Angelas Deposit B project, increasing capacity to 35 Mt a The programme also implemented T&Is Yandicoogina sustaining project, increasing smart-data architecture, metrics and analytics capacity to 60 Mt a strategy, enhancing the Groups ability to predict performance and increase Western Turner Syncline 2 road productivity gains.
train operation 2015 Annual report riotinto.
