Aluminium Financial performance The solid financial results reflected many Safety ongoing initiatives to reduce costs through In 2015, Aluminium achieved a fatality-free year.
production and procurement efficiencies, and The product groups all injury frequency rate 2015 2014 by reducing support costs.
This was US$ million US$ million continued its steady downward trend, ending the supplemented by the impact of the weaker year at 0.48 compared with the 0.53 rate Australian and Canadian dollars.
In addition, Revenue 10,117 12,123 recorded at the end of 2014.
The group is productivity improvement initiatives enabled Net cash generated 2,413 2,550 committed to achieving a zero harm workplace.
higher production levels across each of the from operating It aims to improve its overall safety performance bauxite, alumina and primary metal segments, activities further with a systems-based approach, which helping to reduce unit costs further.
Underlying earnings 1,118 1,248 includes critical risk management and human The average London Metal Exchange price for Capital expenditure 1,682 2,021 performance initiatives, and a strong emphasis aluminium was US$1,661 per tonne in 2015, on process safety.
Net operating assets 15,949 18,297 which compares with an average of EBITDA 2,742 2,930 US$1,867 per tonne in 2014.
Rio Tintos Greenhouse gas emissions average realised price for primary metal Rio Tintos Aluminium group has one of the Strategy and strategic priorities products including regional and product lowest carbon footprints in the aluminium premia was US$2,058 per tonne in 2015, Rio Tintos Aluminium product group continues industry.
Since2008, thegrouphasreduced compared with US$2,395 per tonne in 2014. to focus on delivering industry-leading greenhouse gas emissions intensity by In 2015, record bauxite production was achieved performance through the cycle.
 at the Weipa mine in Australia.
Global Rio Tinto group has a sector-leading bauxite position, power needs are supplied by low-carbon bauxite production was four per cent higher in large-scale alumina refineries and a firstsources, with 55 per cent coming from self- 2015 compared with 2014, while third-party quartile smelter portfolio.
Each of the three generated hydropower.
This compares with a exports were 14 per cent higher this year.
areas of the business bauxite, alumina and global industry average for non fossil fuelAlumina production increased by four per cent  based power of approximately 35 per cent.
in 2015, reflecting continued consistent strategies, summarised below: performances across Rio Tintos refineries.
As a result, the carbon footprint from the Inbauxite,  Following operational and design groups smelters is around half the industry expanding seaborne demand.
This involves improvements, the Yarwun refinery in average, with less than six tonnes of carbon continuing to enhance performance and Queensland, Australia achieved record annual dioxide CO equivalent per tonne of 2 output at current operations while production in 2015. aluminium compared with an industry average developing Tier 1 opportunities.
The of around 11 tonnes on a life cycle analysis Rio Tintos share of aluminium production for approval of the Amrun project was an a approach.
Furthermore, tenofthegroups 2015 totalled 3.3 million tonnes, which was important step in the execution of this sites are able to produce metal with a carbon broadly in line with 2014.
footprint of around two tonnes of CO record annual production.
The modernised and 2 In alumina, providing security of supply to equivalent per tonne of aluminium.
expanded Kitimat smelter, commissioned in the groups smelter portfolio.
The focus is thefirsthalfof2015, isrampinguptowards On top of the direct environmental benefits, on aggressively driving down costs to nameplate capacity of 420 thousand tonnes this positions Rio Tinto to address increasing improve the refineries position on the that is expected to be achieved in the first half market demand for responsible metal industry cost curve, especially in the current of 2016. produced with a low CO footprint.
2 In 2015, Rio Tinto divested two of its ancillary In primary metal, leveraging the groups businesses, ECL and Alesa, and received a Review of operations sustainable low-cost power competitive binding offer for Carbone Savoie.
The groups position as a sector-leading advantage in smelting and aggressively Development projects business is demonstrated in its financial pursuing productivity and cost reduction The Aluminium groups development pipeline performance in 2015.
The Aluminium opportunities to further reduce its cost focuses on its competitive advantages in group achieved underlying earnings of position and generate increased cash flow.
Across the Aluminium groups Key to this result was the strong delivery of In November 2015, the Rio Tinto board operations, aggressive cost and ongoing cash cost savings, which partially approved the development of the Amrun productivity improvement initiatives offset the 14 per cent reduction in realised bauxiteproject,  aimed at further driving out costs, pricing as market conditions deteriorated Cape York, Queensland, in Australia.
With generating incremental cash and through the year.
Cash cost improvements of mining costs projected to be in the first quartile reducing working capital requirements.
US$326 million pre-tax were delivered, and of the industry cost curve and industry-leading The three product areas are supported by a further entrenched the groups integrated returns, Amrun is a an exceptional project single global commercial organisation that b industry-leading EBITDA margin.
long life, low cost and expandable focuses on maximising value from mine to strategically placed to satisfy increasing The resilience of the groups underlying market, while providing customers with demand for seaborne bauxite in China and the EBITDA, combined with further reductions in higher-margin, value-added products and Middle East as well as the Aluminium groups working capital levels, resulted in net cash services.
With an approved generated from operating activities of capital cost of US$1.9 billion, the project US$2,413 million, a decline of only five per cent includes mine, port and infrastructure year-on-year.
elements, with a planned initial output of 22.8 a Life cycle analysis approach takes into account the c entire production process, electricity generation, and Mt a beginning in 2019.
Theprojectwill the products use and end-of-life.
partly replace the depleting East Weipa mine b Rio Tinto internal analysis which includes adjustments with lower cost production while also delivering to externally reported EBITDA margins, trading, c This production target was disclosed in a release to the procurement and marine revenues to report market on 27 November 2015.
All material assumptions additional volumes of around 10 Mt a in the performance on a comparable basis.
Analysis excludes underpinning that target continue to apply and have not future.
The majority of the capital expenditure the Gove alumina refinery.
Competitors included in the materially changed.
See pages 217 and 221 for details analysis are Rusal, Hydro, Alcoa and Chalco.
on Weipa ore reserves and mineral resources.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The Kitimat Modernisation Project, which uses the Aluminium groups wholly-owned Kemano hydropower resource and high-efficiency AP smelting technology, increases production capacity at the smelter by more than 48 per cent, while reducing overall environmental emissions by nearly 50 per cent.
Energy efficiency also increased by 33 per cent and workforce productivity by some 60 per cent.
Once at full capacity, Kitimat will be one of the lowest-cost smelters in the world, strategically located to supply responsible metal to key markets in North America and Asia namely Japan and South Korea.
Outlook The long-term demand outlook for aluminium is robust.
The consensus view foresees a strong and steady increase in demand, averaging four per cent per year.
This translates into additional consumption of around 24 million tonnes by 2025, compared .
This outlook is driven mainly by rising utilisation intensity and more diverse end-use applications.
In the automotive sector for example, manufacturers are planning to use significantly more aluminium in the future to make lighter vehicles that consume less fuel and produce fewer emissions.
Developing economies, where current consumption is low, also provide solid growth potential for aluminium.
In India, consumption is less than two kilograms of aluminium per capita compared with 20 kilograms in more developed economies.
, 2015was a very difficult time for the aluminium industry, with London Metal Exchange LME prices retreating to levels seen during the global financial crisis and physical delivery premia falling significantly from their elevated levels earlier in the year.
Looking forward, many suppliers are expected to remain under pressure both inside and outside China, with demand continuing its positive trend.
This should help inventories move to a more balanced level over the next few years.
Prospects for bauxite a sector where Rio Tinto maintains an unrivalled position are positive.
The projected growth rate, driven mostly by seaborne bauxite traded into the China market, is outpacing that of aluminium.
In 2015, Rio Tinto supplied 19 million tonnes of bauxite to China, making it the largest single seaborne bauxite supplier in the world a position the Group aims to develop further.
