Group overview Introduction to Rio Tinto Aluminium product group Copper & Coal product group Rio Tinto is a leading global mining and Building on more than a century of experience Rio Tintos Copper & Coal product group metals group that focuses on finding, mining, and expertise, Rio Tinto is a global leader in the was formed in February 2015 following a processing and marketing the Earths aluminium industry.
Our business includes corporate restructure.
At the end of 2015, the mineral resources.
high-quality bauxite mines, large-scale alumina product group had four copper operating refineries, and some of the worlds lowest-cost, assetsintheUS, Mongolia, Chileand We have been in business for more than most  primary Indonesia and six coal operations in Australia 140 years and remain focused on a aluminium smelters.
and South Africa, as well as attractive long-term horizon.
Our approach is driven by development projects.
an enduring and proven strategy see Products page 10.
It sees us invest in and operate Products Bauxite long-life, low-cost, expandable operations in Bauxite is the natural ore used to make Copper the most attractive industry sectors.
It is refined into alumina which is Precious metals aside, copper is the best smelted into aluminium metal.
Our wholly and conductor of heat and electricity, and Our world-class assets are run by a company partly owned bauxite mines are located in 70 per cent of the copper the industry produces of world-class people: a 55,000-strong Australia, Brazil and Guinea.
is used in conductive applications.
Copper wires workforce spanning more than 40 countries.
the world, bringing vital infrastructure and We foster a culture where our people keep Alumina information to all corners of the globe, and their safety, and that of their workmates, at Alumina aluminium oxide is extracted from helps to power economic and societal the top of their minds: where every person bauxite via a refining process.
Copper is also a key understands how they can create and four tonnes of bauxite are required to produce component of green technologies, from wind preserve value for the business: and where two tonnes of alumina, which in turn makes energy and solar collection to high-efficiency diversity and innovation are embraced.
one tonne of aluminium metal.
Our wholly and buildings and electric vehicles.
We also partly owned alumina refineries are located in We produce a diverse suite of minerals and produce gold, silver and molybdenum as Australia, Brazil and Canada.
metals that enable the world to grow and co-products of our copper production.
 Aluminium Coal markets around the world, and across the Aluminium is a unique and versatile modern Coal is a cost-effective and abundant energy economic development spectrum, from basic metal.
Light, strong, flexible, corrosionsource that will continue to be part of the infrastructure needs, through industrial resistant and infinitely recyclable, aluminium is global energy solution for years to come.
growth, and to consumer-led demand.
one of the most widely-used metals in the Thermal coal is used for electricity generation world.
Its largest markets are transportation, Supporting our four product groups are our in power stations.
The thermal coal from our machinery and construction.
Our smelters are Exploration and Technology & Innovation Hunter Valley operations is world class, mainly concentrated in Canada.
We also have teams, central support functions, shared featuring the low ash and sulphur content plants in France, Australia, New Zealand, services, and headquarters-based activities.
necessary for modern lower-emissions power Iceland, the UK and Oman.
We produce high-value coking or Our contribution to sustainable development Strategic advantages metallurgical coal, which produces steel when is integral to how we do business.
It is a mixed in furnaces with iron ore. Access to the largest and best-quality fundamental consideration in how we bauxite ore reserves in the industry, manage the business, seeking long-term Gold strategically located to serve growing mutually beneficial outcomes for our Gold is used as a store of value.
It is also highly Chinese bauxite demand.
Find out conductive, malleable and inert.
These One of the lowest-cost bauxite producers.
more on page 22. properties make it a key component in the Outstanding hydropower position, which electronics, chemical production, jewellery, Our approach is underpinned by our values delivers significant cost and other aerospace and medical industries.
of respect, integrity, teamwork and advantages in an energy intensive industry accountability.
Combined with the strength Silver and todays carbon-constrained world.
provided by our people and our assets, Alsoapreciousmetal, silverhasthehighest Rio Tinto has a first-quartile average cost they help form the foundations of our electrical and thermal conductivity of any position for aluminium smelting, with long-term success.
metal and is used in many electronic devices.
It is also used in aerospace and medical Key production locations Key sales destinations applications, to make jewellery and as an investment.
Canada Asia Australia Americas Molybdenum Europe Europe Molybdenum enhances toughness, hightemperature strength and corrosion resistance Full operating review 32 when combined with other metals.
It is frequently used to produce stainless steel and other metal alloys.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Strategic advantages Borates Iron Ore product group Refined borates are used in hundreds of A portfolio of high-quality assets in copper Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore products and processes.
portfolio, supplying the global seaborne iron ingredient of many building materials and glass Attractive growth opportunities in copper.
 applications and are essential micro-nutrients Large, low-cost, expandable copper and from continuing demand across China and the for crops.
They are commonly used in glass and coal assets located close to existing developing world.
In Australia, where the ceramic applications including fibreglass, infrastructure and growing Asian markets.
majority of our iron ore is produced, we have television screens, floor and wall tiles, and Industry-leading technology industry-leading margins.
Products Salt Strong product stewardship.
Iron ore Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the Key production locations Key sales destinations Iron ore is the key ingredient in the production chemicals industry and is indispensable to a of steel, one of the most fundamental and Australia China wide array of automotive, construction and durable products for modern-day living, with electronicproducts, aswellasforwater Chile Japan uses from railways to paperclips.
Our iron ore treatment, food and healthcare.
Mongolia South Korea mines are located in Australia and Canada.
US Taiwan Uranium Strategic advantages Uranium is one of the most powerful known US Proximity of the Pilbara operations in natural energy sources, and is used in the Full operating review 34 Australia to key Asian markets.
production of clean, stable, base-load electricity.
, itis The lowest cost major iron ore producer in processed into uranium oxide.
This product is thePilbara,  sold for processing into fuel rods for use in Diamonds & Minerals product group US$14.9 in 2015. nuclear power stations.
World-class assets, comprising a seamless The Diamonds & Minerals product group supply chain with extensive optionality.
consists of industry-leading, demand-led Other products from the Diamonds & Minerals A premium product suite, which drives businesses, which include mining, refining and product group include high purity iron, metal strong customer relationships, supported .
by technical and commercial marketing Rio Tinto Diamonds is one of the worlds Strategic advantages expertise.
leading diamond producers, and manufactures, Portfolio of industry-leading businesses sells and markets diamonds from its mines in Key production locations Key sales destinations operating in attractive markets.
Rio Tinto Minerals is a Australia China Demand-led, integrated operations that are world leader in borates, with a mine in the US, Canada Japan responsive to the changing external processing plants, and commercial and environment.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is an industry leader in high-grade titanium Poised to benefit from mid to lateFull operating review 38 dioxide feedstocks, with operations in Canada, development-cycle demand growth as Madagascar and South Africa.
Dampier Salt, consumption increases in emerging basedinAustralia,  markets.
producers of seaborne salt and the Uranium Key production locations Key sales destinations business includes production facilities in North America North America Australia and Namibia.
The product group also Australia South East Asia  Guinea, one of the largest known undeveloped Africa India high-grade iron ore resources in the world.
Full operating review 36 Products Diamonds Diamonds are an important component in both affordable and higher-end jewellery.
We are able to service all established and emerging  diamonds in terms of size, quality and colour distribution.
Titanium dioxide , togetherwith titanium dioxide slag, can be transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium metal.
The white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, paper, inks, textiles, food, sunscreen and cosmetics.
Titanium metal is light weight, chemically inert and strong, making it ideal for use in medical applications and in the aerospace industry.
