Directors report The directors present their report and audited On 7 April 2015, Rio Tinto successfully On 26 June 2015, Rio Tinto announced that consolidated financial statements for the year completed the off-market buy-back tender  ended 31 December 2015. of Rio Tinto Limited shares.
That buy-back interest in Murowa Diamonds and was increased to A$560 million from the 50 per cent interest in Sengwa Colliery Ltd Dual listed structure and indicative A$500 million announced, due to Sengwa to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited.
The buy-back price was RioZim Limited, an independent A$48.44 per share which represented a Zimbabwean mining company listed on the An explanation of the dual listed companies discount of 14 per cent to the market price Zimbabwean Stock Exchange, already held DLC structure of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Rio Tinto a 22 per cent interest in Murowa Diamonds Limited, and aspects of the Companies Limited bought back around 11.6 million and a 50 per cent interest in Sengwa and constitutional provisions can be found on pages shares, at an aggregate cost of has assumed the overall management of 236 to 242.
That section provides a description approximately A$0.6 billion US$0.4 billion.
of voting arrangements, including restrictions This represented 2.65 per cent of Rio Tinto On 7 July 2015, Rio Tinto announced it was  Limiteds issued capital 0.63 per cent planning its first shipments of metal from either Company under specified circumstances.
of the Rio Tinto Groups issued capital its world-class Kitimat aluminium smelter Operating and financial review at the time.
in Canada following an extensive On 18 May 2015, the Government of modernisation and expansion of the facility.
The Strategic report set out on pages 1 to 43 Mongolia, Turquoise Hill Resources and On 30 September 2015, Rio Tinto provides a comprehensive review of Rio Tintos Rio Tinto signed the Underground Mine announced that it had reached a binding operations, its financial position and its Development and Financing Plan UDP  business strategies and prospects, and is which provides a pathway forward in interest on completion of the restructure incorporated by reference into, and forms part addressing shareholder matters to restart outlined below in the Bengalla coal Joint of, thisdirectorsreport.
Next steps Venture in Australia to New Hope Rio Tintos principal activities during 2015 were included approval of the underground Corporation Limited for US$606 million.
minerals and metals exploration, development, feasibility study, as well as securing all Rio Tinto also announced that it and production and processing.
necessary permits for operating the Mitsubishi Development had agreed a underground mine.
change to the ownership structure of Coal &  On 11 June 2015, Rio Tinto acknowledged Allied.
Under that agreement, Rio Tinto comprehensive review of the performance of Energy Resources of Australia Ltds ERA agreed to assume 100 per cent ownership Rio Tintos operations for the year ended release to the Australian Securities of Coal & Allied and Mitsubishi 31 December 2015 and the outlook for Exchange in which ERA announced it had Development agreed to move from holding those operations.
decided it would not proceed with the Final &Alliedto The subsidiary and associated undertakings Feasibility Study of the Ranger 3 Deeps holding a direct 32.4 per cent stake in the principally affecting the profits or net assets of project in the current operating Hunter Valley Operations mine.
the Group in the year are listed in notes 33 to environment.
Rio Tinto agreed with the On 27 November 2015, Rio Tinto 36 to the financial statements.
decision not to progress the study.
After announced that it will expand output from careful consideration, Rio Tinto determined Significant changes and events affecting the one of the worlds premier bauxite deposits that it did not support any further study or Group during 2015 and until the date of this following approval of the US$1.9 billion the future development of Ranger 3 Deeps report have been: Amrun project.
due to the projects economic challenges.
On 15 December 2015, Rio Tinto On 12 February 2015, the Group Rio Tinto recognised the importance of announced that Oyu Tolgoi in Mongolia had announced a proposed US$2 billion capital ongoing rehabilitation work at the Ranger secured project finance for the underground return programme, comprising the mine site, which is surrounded by the mine development with commitments by repurchase of a targeted A$500 million of KakaduNationalPark.
RioTintoisengaged international financial institutions and Rio Tinto Limited shares by way of an with ERA on a conditional credit facility to export credit agencies representing the off-market buy-back tender, and the assist ERA to fund its rehabilitation governments of the United States, Canada balance of approximately US$1.6 billion programme, should additional funding be and Australia, along with 15 commercial by way of an on-market buy-back of required beyond ERAs existing cash banks.
reserves and the future earnings from On 18 December 2015, Rio Tinto On 27 February 2015, the Group processing ore stockpiles.
successfully completed the US$2 billion announced that it would streamline its On 12 June 2015, Rio Tinto announced that share buy-back programme of which product groups and corporate functions as ithadpricedUS$ US$1.6 billion approximately was part of the continued focus on efficiency rate SEC-registered debt securities.
The completed through the on-market purchase and costs.
Under the revised bonds were issued by Rio Tinto Finance of Rio Tinto plc shares.
arrangements, Rio Tintos world-class USA Limited and are fully and On 27 January 2016, Rio Tinto announced portfolio of assets was condensed into four unconditionally guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc that it had reached a binding agreement for product groups: Aluminium, Copper & Coal, and Rio Tinto Limited.
The notes will pay a the sale of its Mount Pleasant thermal coal Diamonds & Minerals, and Iron Ore. coupon of 3.75 per cent and will mature on assets to MACH Energy Australia Pty Ltd for On 24 March 2015, Rio Tinto and joint 15 June 2025.
venture partner Alcoa agreed to terminate a historic State Agreement Act intended to  facilitate the mining of bauxite and the are further described in note 43 to the financial development of an alumina refinery in the statements.
north Kimberley region, clearing the way for the area to be included in the Kimberley National Park.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT AND OPERATIONS Risk identification, assessment and management The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 14 to 21.
The Groups approach to risk management is discussed on page 14.
Share capital  31 December 2015 can be found at notes 27 and 28 to the financial statements.
Details of   241 under the heading Voting.
Where under an employee share plan operated bytheCompany,  owners of the shares, but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant.
Details of certain restrictions on holding shares in Rio Tinto and certain consequences triggered on a change of control are described on page 237 under the heading Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Rio Tinto shares save for: restrictions that may from time-to-time be imposed by laws, regulations or Rio Tinto policy for example, those relating to market abuse or insider dealing or share trading or those relating to Australian foreign investment : restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be imposed following a failure to supply information required to be disclosed, or in relation to unmarketable parcels of shares: restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee share plans while they remain subject to the plan.
At the annual general meetings held in 2015, shareholders authorised: the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited or its subsidiaries, of up to 141,381,390 Rio Tinto plc shares representing approximately ten per cent of Rio Tinto plcs issued share capital, excluding Rio Tinto plc shares held in Treasury, at that time : the off-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc of up to 141,381,390 Rio Tinto plc shares acquired by Rio Tinto Limited or its subsidiaries under the above authority: and the off-market and or on-market buy-back by Rio Tinto Limited of up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited shares representing approximately ten per cent of Rio Tinto Limiteds issued share capital at the time.
b The shares were purchased in the currency of the stock exchange on which the purchases took place and the sale price has been converted into US dollars at the exchange rate on the day of settlement.
c Shares purchased in connection with the dividend reinvestment plans and employee share plans are not deemed to form part of any publicly announced plan or programme.
d On 12 February 2015, Rio Tinto announced a US$2.0 billion buy-back programme comprising a targeted A$500 million c. US$425 million off-market share buy-back tender of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of approximately US$1.6 billion for an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares.
e This figure represents 3.15 per cent of Rio Tinto plc issued share capital at 31 December 2015. f At the Rio Tinto plc annual general meeting held in 2014, shareholders authorised the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited, and its subsidiaries of up to 141,340,869 Rio Tinto plc shares.
g At the Rio Tinto plc annual general meeting held in 2015, shareholders authorised the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited, and its subsidiaries of up to 141,381,390 Rio Tinto plc shares.
h The average price of shares purchased on-market by the trustee of Rio Tinto Limiteds employee share trusts during 2015 was US$34.19.
i At the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting held in 2014 shareholders authorised off-market or on-market buy-back of up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited shares.
j The Average price paid per share includes the off-market share buy-back by Rio Tinto Limited.
k The shares were puchased at A$48.44 per share under the Rio Tinto Limited off-market share buy-back, representing a 14 per cent discount to the relevant market price.
l At the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting held in 2015 shareholders authorised off-market and or on-market buy-back of up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited shares.
m The table does not include 5,743 units repurchased pursuant to a Rio Tinto rescission offer in March 2015.
That offer related to the purchase of ordinary shares of Rio Tinto plc in the form of ADSs included in 93,043 units in the Company Stock Fund by persons who acquired such units from 9 September 2013 to 8 September 2014 through the following US employee share plans: Rio Tinto America Inc. 401 k Savings Plan and Investment Partnership Plan for Represented Employees and the U. S. Borax Inc. 401 k Savings and Retirement Contribution Plan for Represented Employees.
The average price per unit purchased was US$58.29.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT AND OPERATIONS Substantial shareholders Further information on the Groups Political donations environmental performance is included in the Details of substantial shareholders can be  sustainable development section of this found on page 238. political purposes in the EU, Australia or Annual report, on pages 22 to 28, and on elsewhere, as defined by the UK Companies the website.
Details of dividends paid and the Companys Government regulations dividend policy can be found on page 240.
Our operations in over 40 countries are subject Directors   local, state, provincial and federal the year, together with their biographical governments.
These regulations govern many details and other information, are shown on aspects of our operations how we explore, pages 51 to 53. mine and process ore, conditions of land tenure and use, health, safety and environmental All directors, save for Richard Goodmanson, requirements,  will stand for re-election at the 2016 annual including laws regarding securities, taxation, general meetings.
intellectual property, competition and foreign A table of directors attendance at board and investment, provisions to protect data privacy, committee meetings during 2015 is on conditions of trade and export and page 57. infrastructure access.
In addition to these laws, several operations are also governed by the Secretaries provisions of specific agreements which have Eleanor Evans is the Group company secretary.
Some of these  agreements are enshrined in legislation.
joint company secretary, along with Tim Paine, The geographic and product diversity of our of Rio Tinto Limited.
Their qualifications and operations reduces the likelihood of any single experience are set out on page 53. law or government regulation having a material effect on the Groups business as a whole.
Corporate governance A full report on corporate governance can be Environmental regulations found on pages 55 to 66 and forms part of this Rio Tinto is subject to various environmental Directors report.
laws and regulations in the countries where it has operations.
Rio Tinto measures its Indemnities and insurance performance against environmental regulation The Articles of Association and Constitution of by tracking and rating incidents according to the Companies provide for them to indemnify, their actual environmental and compliance to the extent permitted by law, directors and impacts using five severity categories minor, officers of the Companies, including officers of medium, serious, major, or catastrophic.
certain subsidiaries, against liabilities arising Incidents with a consequence rating of major or from the conduct of the Groups business.
The catastrophic are of a severity that require directors of the Companies, the Group notification to the relevant product group chief company secretary and the joint company executive and the Rio Tinto chief executive secretary of Rio Tinto Limited, and certain immediately after the incident occurring.
employees serving as directors of certain In 2015, there were no environmental incidents eligible subsidiaries at the Groups request at managed operations with a major or have also received direct indemnities catastrophic impact.
No amount has been paid under any of these indemnities During 2015, five operations incurred during the year.
The Group has purchased fines amounting to US$130,371 directors and officers insurance during the 2014: US$319,513.
Details of these fines year.
In broad terms, the insurance cover are reported in the performance section of indemnifies individual directors and officers the sustainable development report at: against certain personal legal liability and legal riotinto.
defence costs for claims arising out of actions Australian corporations that exceed specific taken in connection with Group business.
It is a greenhouse gas emissions or energy use condition of the insurance policy that detailed thresholds have obligations under the terms and premiums paid cannot be disclosed.
Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Employment policies and Reporting Act 2007 NGER.
All Rio Tinto communication entities covered under this Act have submitted their annual NGER reports by the required Information about the Groups employment 31 October 2015 deadline.
policies and our employees is available on page 25.
com 49 Directors report continued Greenhouse gas emissions During the year, the Audit Committee Auditors reviewed the effectiveness of PwC for Group a b Greenhouse gas emissions in million tCOe 2  LLP and audit and local, statutory audit work.
The  together, PwC are 2015 2014 evaluation took the form of a survey the auditors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto c comprising a range of questions covering Scope 1 19.8 21.9 Limited respectively.
 objectivity, quality and efficiency and was d g Scope 2 12.0 12.4 LLP have indicated their willingness to continue completed by individual Rio Tinto business e g Total emissions 31.3 33.8 in office as auditors of Rio Tinto plc and a units.
The results of this survey and review resolution to reappoint them as auditors of Ratios were presented to the Audit Committee which Rio Tinto plc will be proposed at the 2016 f g GH intensity index 78.9 81.8 concluded that PwC continued to provide a annual general meetings.
A separate resolution high-quality audit and an effective and GH intensity will seek authority for the Audit Committee to independent challenge to management.
The g tCOe t of product 0.070 0.081 2 determine the remuneration of PwC.
Audit Committee was satisfied with the  will continue in office a Rio Tintos greenhouse gas emissions for managed external audit process and the independence operations are reported in accordance with as auditors of Rio Tinto Limited.
requirements under Part 7 of The UK Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report A copy of the declaration given by PwC have been the external auditors since Regulations 2013.
Our approach and methodology used , as the Groups before the formation of the dual listed for the determination of these emissions are available external auditors, to the directors in relation to at: riotinto.
com sd2015 climate change and riotinto.
For the reasons the auditors compliance with the com sd2015 glossary.
noted on page 60 the Audit Committee does independence requirements of the Australian b Rio Tintos greenhouse gas emission inventory is based  on definitions provided by The World Resource Institute Corporations Act 2001 and the professional undertake a tender process for the Groups World Business Council for Sustainable Development code of conduct for external auditors is set out external audit.
Since 2002, PwC have followed Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Carbon Reporting and on page 201 in the financial statements.
Accounting Standard, March 2004. the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act c Scope 1 emissions include emissions from combustion 2002 and APB Ethical Standards and rotated No person who was an officer of Rio Tinto during of fuel and operation of managed facilities.
It includes both the lead UK and Australian audit partners 2015 was a director or partner of PwC at a time emissions from land management and livestock at least every five years.
In the UK, the audit when they conducted an audit of the Group.
engagement partner was appointed in 2011, d Scope 2 emissions include emissions from the Each person who held the office of director at and in Australia the audit engagement partner purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling.
Theyareduetorotate e Total emissions is the sum of scope 1 and scope 2 report makes the following statements: emissions minus emissions that are associated with the after 2015 and 2016 respectively.
This generation of electricity, heat, steam or cooling supplied so far as the directors are aware, there is no continued refreshing of the team brings new to others.
These emissions exclude indirect emissions relevant audit information of which the perspectives to the audit and promotes healthy associated with transportation and use of our products auditors are unaware: and debate between auditors and management as reported on page 26. each director has taken all steps that he or well as the Audit Committee.
f Rio Tinto greenhouse gas intensity index is the weighted she ought to have taken as a director to emissions intensity for each of Rio Tintos main Based on advice provided by the Audit commodities relative to the commodity intensities in the make him or herself aware of any relevant Committee as set out in the report of the Audit 2008 base year set to 100.
This index incorporates audit information and to establish that the approximately 98 per cent of Rio Tintos emissions from Committee on pages 58 to 60, the directors are auditors are aware of that information.
satisfied that the provision of non-audit g Number restated to ensure comparability over time.
services by PwC is compatible with the general Fees for audit and non-audit Amendment due to changes in measurement and standard of independence for auditors and the calculation methodologies or immaterial updates to data.
services standards imposed by Australian, UK and US The amounts payable to the Groups auditors, Exploration, research and legislation.
PwC, were: development Financial instruments 2015 2014 The Group carries out exploration as well as US$m US$m  research and development in support of its a management objectives and policies and Audit fees 14.4 14.7 activities as described more fully under exposure to risk are described in note 30 to the b Assurance services 1.8 2.1 Exploration and Technology & Innovation on 2015 financial statements.
Amounts charged for the Taxation services 0.9 0.9 year, net of any gains on disposal, generated a c All other fees 1.3 0.4 net loss before tax for exploration and 18.4 18.1 evaluation of US$568 million 2014: US$783 a Audit fees relating to statutory audits.
Research and development costs were b Assurance services in 2015 were mainly related to half US$104 million 2014: US$112million.
year review procedures, sustainability assurance and other project related assurance services.
c All other fees include services in connection with other corporate projects.
Further information on audit and  the financial statements.
