Governance | Directors and of cers Scott Forbes Nick McKittrick Peter Brooks-Johnson Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Chief Operating Of cer Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 13 July 2005 5 March 2004 10 January 2011 Committee membership Current external commitments Current external commitments Nomination Chairman None None Current external commitments Previous roles and relevant experience Previous roles and relevant experience Chairman of Innasol Group Limited Nick is one of the co-founding executives and Peter joined Rightmove in 2006 and became became Chief Executive Of cer in April 2013, Chief Operating Of cer in April 2013, having Chairman of Ascential plc having been Chief Operating Of cer since 2005 been Managing Director of rightmove.
co. uk Previous roles and relevant experience and additionally Finance Director since 2009. since 2011 and head of the estate agency Chairman of Orbitz Worldwide until September His prior experience is in technology consulting business since 2008.
Director of NetJets Management Ltd, a with Accenture.
Peter was a management consultant with subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway until October Accenture and the Berkeley Partnership.
Chief Executive of Bridge Capital Advisors Ltd. Scott has over 30 years experience in operations, finance and mergers and acquisitions, including 15 years at Cendant Corporation, which was formerly the largest worldwide provider of residential property services.
Scott established Cendants international headquarters in London in 1999 and led this division as Group Managing Director until he joined Rightmove.
Colin Kemp Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard Jenny Warburton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 3 July 2007 28 July 2014 1 July 2014 Committee membership Committee membership Current external commitments Remuneration, Nomination Audit, Remuneration None Current external commitments Current external commitments Previous roles and relevant experience Head of Strategic Projects for the Lloyds Non-executive director of Intu Properties plc Jenny joined Rightmove in 2011 as Assistant Banking Group, Retail Business Non-executive director of Be Heard Group plc Company Secretary and was promoted to Previous roles and relevant experience Non-executive director of King sher plc Company Secretary in 2014.
She is an With over 30 years experience in high street Previous roles and relevant experience Associate of the Institute of Chartered retail banking, Colin has worked for Lloyds Rakhi was previously Director of UK Media at Secretaries and Administrators.
Prior to Banking Group companies since 1979.
She held various joining, Rightmove Jenny was the Assistant Between January 2005 and December 2007, other senior positions during her 11-year tenure Company Secretary at Jacques Vert plc and Colin was Managing Director of Halifax Estate at Amazon, including Media, Entertainment, before that, held various senior management Agencies Limited.
Colin is a Cran eld MBA General Merchandise and Book divisions as roles within the Aurora Fashions Group and and an Associate of the Chartered Institute well as Product Development.
Prior to Amazon, Mosaic Fashions Group.
Rakhi advised Zappos and held strategy roles at TomTom and Oliver Wyman.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Robyn Perriss Peter Williams Ashley Martin Finance Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Non-Executive Director 30 April 2013 11 June 2009 Appointment to the Board Current external commitments Committee membership 3 February 2014 None Audit Chairman, Nomination Committee membership Previous roles and relevant experience Current external commitments Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Robyn joined Rightmove in 2007 as Financial Group Chief Financial Of cer of Current external commitments Controller with responsibility for day-to-day Engine Holding LLC Chairman of boohoo.
She was appointed Previous roles and relevant experience Chairman of Mister Spex GmbH Company Secretary in April 2012 until July Ashley quali ed as a chartered accountant in Senior independent non-executive director 2014 and promoted to the Board as Finance 1981 and has a career in finance spanning of Sportech plc Director in April 2013.
He was previously Finance Director Non-executive director of U and I plc chartered accountant in South Africa with of Rok plc, the building services group, and Previous roles and relevant experience KPMG and worked in both audit and Group Finance Director of the media services Peter was previously senior independent transaction services.
Prior to joining Rightmove, company, Tempus plc.
director of ASOS plc, Chairman of Jaeger, Robyn was Group Financial Controller at the held non-executive director roles in Cineworld online media business, Auto Trader.
Group plc, the EMI group, Blacks Leisure Group plc, JJB Sports plc, GCap Media plc and Capital Radio Group plc.
In his executive career, he was Chief Executive at Alpha Group plc and prior to that, Chief Executive of Selfridges plc where he also acted as Chief Financial Of cer for over 10 years.
