ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 06 MARKET OVERVIEW GROWING MARKETS Rotorks total addressable market grew by MARKET DRIVERS Large numbers of Rotorks products are used in structural 3% during the year, mainly as a result of growth markets which provide essential infrastructure to the acquisitions, whilst our total market share global economy.
These markets have long term investment reduced slightly to 14.9%.
This provides cycles, with new infrastructure needed to support the ever opportunities for further growth.
increasing demand arising from urbanisation, and growing populations that require water, food and energy.
The trends for greater automation and new technology also drive growth in our markets.
Urbanisation More people now live in cities than rural areas around the world and that number is climbing.
The trend towards 3.7bn urbanisation, particularly in emerging markets, is increasing TOTAL ADDRESSABLE MARKET demand for water and energy.
Investment in private and public sector infrastructure such as power stations, electricity grids, water supply and water treatment plants is required to meet this growth in demand.
40bn Automation Businesses and organisations around the world continue to TOTAL FLOW CONTROL MARKET require greater automation in their operations to improve efficiencies and safety, and increase precision in production.
Real-time monitoring of plant allows problems to be fixed before they escalate, improving safety and optimising asset life.
Population growth The growing global population is driving increased demand for land, food, energy and water, in a back drop of dwindling resources.
Investment in new power and water facilities, and the refurbishment of existing facilities is necessary to respond to this need.
New technologies There is a growing global demand for innovative products, offering improved performance and reliability, and reducing environmental impact.
See pages 8-9 for our end user 11 markets and opportunities for growth Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 07 14.9% MARKET SHARE Revenue Market share by division CONTROLS 1,527m 18.8% FLUID SYSTEMS 810m 18.4% GEARS 273m 16.9% INSTRUMENTS 1,055m 6.1% Market share based on competitors revenue, published market reports and Rotork internal data.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 08 MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED SHARE OF END USER MARKET Oil and gas 53.3% Onshore and offshore production Refining and petrochemicals Distribution and storage Pipelines GROUP LNG liquefaction and regasification REVENUE Water 11.6% Sludge and sewage treatment Water treatment, desalination and re-use Environmental control Dams, reservoirs and irrigation GROUP REVENUE Power 16.4% Fossil fuels Nuclear energy Concentrating solar power Geothermal and other renewables GROUP REVENUE 18.7% Industrial and other Marine HVAC Pharmaceutical Mining Paper and pulp Biomedical GROUP Rail REVENUE See page 3 to find out more 11 about each market Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 09 OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH Centork water, power and industrial See pages 30-31 for Rotork Controls 11 Controls Business Review HVAC market Process actuator solutions Asset management developments Market expansion See pages 32-33 for Rotork Fluid Systems 11 Fluid Systems Business Review SI3 actuators Collaboration with Instruments division New Lucca factory Roto Hammer integration See pages 34-35 for Rotork Gears 11 Gears Business Review Product range expansion Increased R&D investment Geographic expansion Sales channel development Instruments See pages 36-37 for Rotork 11 Rotork synergies Instruments Business Review Geographic expansion Product range expansion CHANGING THE MARKET A PIONEERING PRODUCT The Rotork Skilmatic SI self-contained electro-hydraulic valve actuator combines all-electric simplicity with the precision of hydraulic actuation and the reliability of mechanical fail-safe operation.
Typical applications for Skilmatic actuators include functional safety related emergency shutdown ESD, and remotely operated shutoff valve duties.
Communication and data logging capabilities have been increased in response to end users desire to access more valve related data, both in the field and in the control room.
