ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 28 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES To provide short term focus, we Our aim is to deliver a high return on capital with agree an annual set of key objectives.
strong and sustainable margins and consistent The progress against these during the year-on-year growth in revenues and profit year, and objectives for the coming year which, combined with our asset-light model, are shown below.
will deliver strong cash generation.
GROWTH STRATEGIC PRIORITIES ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 OBJECTIVES 2016 Sales growth Deliver profitable sales growth by A regional management structure Further develop regional focusing on the customer, increasing was introduced with an increased management structure and continue international coverage, broadening focus on sales opportunities.
to develop sales channels, including end markets and leveraging the Revenue synergies were achieved into new end markets, and strengthen expanding product portfolio.
Due to the slow sales teams.
Increase focus on large down in growth, some investment project opportunities driven by the plans were delayed.
new Group Project Sales Director.
Continue to drive revenue synergies from new acquisitions using our extensive salesforce.
Acquisitions Acquisitions are a core part of our Acquired M&M Srl, Bifold Group Ltd Execute acquisition plan of identified growth strategy.
An acquisition will and Eltav Wireless Monitoring Ltd opportunities.
only be considered if it will deliver which sit within the Instruments a new product, geographic market, division and Roto Hammer Inc. for market sector or a combination our Gears division.
Also acquired our of these.
agents businesses in Turkey and the south of France.
Service growth Further develop after market services New service centres were opened Continue to improve customer capability including the Client in Glasgow and Korea, and we experience by developing the sales Support Programme.
increased the number of service channels for delivering service engineers by 5%.
Recent support and further expanding the acquisitions extend our service sales team.
Establish new, or expand coverage in Turkey and France.
existing, service centres in response to customer demand.
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 OBJECTIVES 2016 Employee development We will invest in our people to We have increased gender diversity Rollout the sales training programme support our growth strategy and at all levels of the organisation and further expand the training promote diversity and inclusion throughout the year.
The leadership opportunities throughout the Group.
training programme was rolled out.
We expanded our online training courses delivered throughout the Group.
Corporate social responsibility CSR Communicate best practice Our CSR Sub-Committees continued Continue to drive safety throughout the Group, training those to promote improvements in health improvements and deliver the responsible and, where appropriate, and safety, monitor initiatives to CSR strategy.
The CSR Report is verifying adoption in each subsidiary.
reduce CO emissions, provide on pages 48 to 59.
2 training on ethical behaviour and our employees gave their time and money to many charities around the world.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 29 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 OBJECTIVES 2016 Manufacturing excellence Continue to develop world-class As part of the development of our Consolidate and develop world class manufacturing.
new ERP system, we reviewed many manufacturing facilities delivering of our manufacturing procedures market leading products and service.
with a view to developing best Complete the consolidation of practice.
The Lucca factory fit out northern Italy businesses and was completed with the move being complete the consolidation of completed in 2016. three existing facilities into one combined site in Tulsa, USA.
Supply chain management Rotorks outsourced manufacturing Sourcing initiatives during 2015 Further develop and leverage global model means that material costs are the have resulted in savings of 2.8m supply chain for all parts of the Group, most significant component of direct in the year with an annualised value including newly acquired companies.
Managing these costs has been a of 5.6m.
Reduce overall cost of materials by key driver to improve margins across all investing in supply chain.
Global business systems We are moving from having a wide The roll-out of RQM quotation Increase the rate of roll-out of the range of systems around the world system was accelerated.
Good global business system solution to to adopting a global standard progress continues to be made on sales offices and start roll-out of the ERP system.
the development of the manufacturing solution.
Cost management We have accelerated our cost We achieved cost savings of 2.6m Continue to execute cost management programme to reflect in 2015. management programme.
INNOVATION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 OBJECTIVES 2016 New product There were a number of product Develop Group wide innovation Develop and introduce new products launches, and expansion of product function and infrastructure to in each of the divisions.
ranges and certifications during the support the development and year in all divisions.
See the Business introduction of new products in Reviews on pages 30 to 37 for each of the divisions.
Spend on R&D was products in accordance with 9.6m or 1.8% of revenue.
A new divisional product road maps.
Group Innovation Director was appointed in October to lead future technological development.
