10 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Acquisitions in the year The Group made three major acquisitions in the year which considerably broadened the geographical reach of the Group, the markets and products served which now include non-packaging products and technical components.
This has extended the technologies usedfor polymer conversion.
Ace is a China based and Hong Kong headquartered award-winning manufacturer of complex plastic injection moulded components and injection moulded tools for the packaging, lifestyle, medical, power and automotive end markets.
Operating through five factories in China this was the Groups first major acquisition outside of Europe.
It provides a strong platform to support RPCs international customer base with high quality packaging of European standards in China, Platform to create meaningful presence in Asia as well as benefits from the high and sustained 6 3,300 RPC enhances Aces attractive standalone growth of this profitable niche manufacturer of Locations No.
of employees growth strategy injection moulded parts and moulds.
Tooling synergies being realised and packaging sales office established 104m Turnover annualised PET Power is a specialist Dutch single-site manufacturer of PET bottles and jars for personal care, cosmetics and food markets.
Based in Etten-Leur in the Netherlands and with sales offices in the UK, Germany and Austria, PET Power is recognised as a European leader in PET based products from an Injection Stretch Blowmoulding platform.
It strengthens RPCs position in the PET packaging market, which is the fastest growing polymer material for conversion to rigid plastic acquisition for RPC with minimal integration effort in the packaging industry.
This has a number of 4 226 required and synergies quickly realised.
unique characteristics which makes it an attractive Locations No.
of employees Strengthens RPCs presence in PET material to develop for both packaging and other Strong partner for M&H business market applications.
This was a true plug and play 37m Turnover annualised Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Promens is a leading European manufacturer of rigid plastic packaging products for the chemicals, personal and healthcare and food markets as well as rigid plastic components primarily for the commercial industrial vehicles industry.
Originally headquartered in Reykjavik, Iceland, it operates from 41 production facilities spanning 20 countries, mainly in Europe but also in North America, Asia and North Africa.
of employees combines two industry leading players and has accelerated the Groups programme for consolidation in Europe whilst providing access 462m tonew technologies and geographic expansion.
Turnover annualised Strengthening selected market positions in coreEuropean end markets Extending geographical reach outside of Europe Adding niche technologies Enhancing scale in European polymer buying And post year end... Innocan was acquired in May 2015 and is a Belgian based innovative supplier of PET containers for the industrial and food markets.
Based in Antwerp the business sells into mainland Europe with PET products which complement our existing market positions.
With sales of 6m in the year, RPC will provide the business with the funding and support 2 13 to grow its innovative range of industrial and Locations No.
Innovative and stackable PET containers for the 6m industrial and food markets Turnover annualised Complements our existing market positions
