Strategic Report Chief Executives review Engineering and innovation 1.2bn University Technology Centres Gross R&D investment in 2015 RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY 31 CENTRES We have a network of 31 University SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT P104 Technology Centres UTCs dedicated to advancing our understanding in specialist science and technologies that are core toourbusiness.
2015 marked the 25th anniversary of our UTC network.
EXPERT KNOWLEDGE Within our engineering community, ELECTRICAL OTHER ENGINEERS wehave some of the worlds most ENGINEERS SAFETY TEST TRANSFORMATION knowledgeable people in specialist 1,614 disciplines.
There are over 100 members 2,108 of the Rolls-Royce Fellowship fellows and associate fellows each recognised as an expert in a particular field TOTAL ENGINEERS ofscience and technology.
15,690 SERVICES MANUFACTURING ENGINEERS ENGINEERS YEAR-END STEM SUPPORT 1,554 3,204 We are actively engaged in supporting the study and teaching of science, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM subjects.
The Rolls-Royce Science Prize is DESIGN ENGINEERS aprime example.
This is an annual award programme that rewards excellence in 7,210 science teaching this year, we received 2,000 entries.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Engineering and innovation ENGINEERING EXCELLENCE...
THROUGH DESIGN Structured development Lean thinking Our Vision 20 approach to research and development of technology over Our latest Product Development System, We further increased focus on lean thinking a 20-year horizon introduced in 2015, provides an even more and behaviours during 2015, with the aim rigorous and structured method for oftransforming our business into a true VISION developing game-changing capabilities lean enterprise.
By a relentless pursuit andembedding these across the Group.
ofefficiency and continuous improvement Itallows us to substantially improve weare seeking to empower our people to ourperformance.
reduce waste in all its forms and deliver 5 products and services efficiently.
Near-term technologies ready to embed into new products VISION 10 Leading-edge and validated technologies VISION 20 Emerging and as yet unproven technologies Permanent magnet tunnel LATEST MARINE thrusters are now entering THRUSTERS service.
These improveefficiency and response, while reducing vibration, noise and emissions.
20 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Engineering and innovation A Trent fan disc being manufactured at our new facility in Washington, Tyneand Wear, UK.
FUTURE MAKING Advanced Manufacturing ResearchCentres Advanced Manufacturing...
THROUGH ResearchCentres AMRCs MANUFACTURING Our growing network of seven AMRCs forms 7 a unique resource to bridge the gap An important part of the design between early research and industrial process is to consider the most application, delivering step-change effective way of manufacturing improvements in product competitiveness theoften complex components and business performance.
The network supports all our key manufacturing process thatgo into our products.
These technologies including additive layer considerations are an intrinsic part manufacturing 3Dprinting and advanced ofdesign engineering for any composites.
Teams of design These highly collaborative public private and manufacturing engineers partnerships are a national asset, supported workclosely on the development by long-term government commitment and offuture products.
delivering benefits through the entire supply chain for both original equipment and aftermarket activities.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 21 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business review BUSINESS REVIEW Summary CIVIL The Civil Aerospace business isamajor manufacturer of aero engines forthe commercial large aircraft and corporate jet markets.
We power AEROSPACE 35types of commercial aircraft and have more than 13,000 engines inservice around the world.
Underlying OPERATIONAL revenue mix REVIEW Underlying revenue mix Key highlights Overall, underlying revenue for Civil Aerospace Underlying revenue up 3%: solid growth grew 3% on a constant currency basis up 1% in aftermarket revenues offset lower at actual rates with steady growth in services new engine sales.
up 9% at constant rates, including a 189m one-off benefit discussed below which more Underlying profit before financing 14% than offset the reduction in original lower than 2014: largely reflecting lower equipment down 3% at constant rates.
gross margins, due to adverse mix Second-half growth was particularly strong effects and higher R&D charges, partially OE revenue 47% asthe business improved original equipment offset by the impact of life-cycle cost improvements, retrospective long-term delivery performance on a number of Services revenue 53% contract accounting benefits, a reversal programmes, notably in corporate jets.
of impairment of contractual Original equipment revenues from Underlying aftermarket rights and lower revenue by sector widebody engines: linked and other reduced restructuring costs.
Underlying revenue by sector 11% reflecting a slow-down in linked Trent 3.8bn order book growth: led by Trent900 700 deliveries for the Airbus A330 ahead of and TrentXWB orders TrentXWB now the introduction of the Trent 7000 for the nearly 50% of order book.
A330neo, together with reduced sales of linked Trent900 engines for the Airbus A380, New Trent engines, 1000 TEN, XWB-97 partly offset by increased linked Trent 1000 and 7000, on track for entry into service engine sales forthe Boeing 787 Dreamliner.
In addition, sales of spare engines to joint Good progress modernising supply chain ventures generated revenue of 189m to reduce costs and increase capacity for Large engines 63% 2014: 138m.
Trent XWB ramp up over next four years.
S mall & medium 37% Original equipment revenues from unlinked widebody engines increased by 29%, largely aresult of an increase in unlinked Trent XWB and other Trent engine deliveries.
The 17% increase in widebody services revenue was mainly driven by increased flying hours from our growing fleet of installed Trent 700, Trent 900 and Trent 1000 engines and a 189m one-off benefit resulting from refining the basis for taking account of risk in our forecasts of future Trent 1000 in service A Trent 1000 engine seen revenue on long-term contracts.
This was here on an AirNew Zealand partially offset by lower utilisation of some Boeing 787-9 aircraft.
of our more mature engine types, notably the Trent 500 and Trent 800.
22 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
