Strategic Report Strategic Report Chief Executives review Business model Chief Executives review Business model OUR Invest in R&D and skilled people Design and make world-class products Manufacturing capability Developing and protecting We differentiate on performance.
We manufacture cost-efficiently leading-edge technology and Wewin and retain customers by through a combination ofeconomies BUSINESS deploying it across our businesses developing and delivering products of scale, developing alean enterprise allows us to compete on a global that provide more capability and offer and integrated management of our basis and creates high barriers better through-life value than those supply chain.
MODEL Our business model is to capture value from markets for high-performance power.
We do this by developing advanced, integrated power 2 3 and propulsion systems and providing long-term 1 aftermarket support and delivery of outstanding customer services.
Operational Capturing Engineering Our long-life products operate in challenging excellence aftermarket environments where they are expected to deliver excellence sustained levels of differentiated performance.
They deliver value to customers through outstanding power Develop technology that value Grow market share anticipates customer needs andinstalled base or other performance capabilities, together with greater Our deep understanding Our substantial order book fuel efficiency and mission-critical reliability.
This is ofcustomer needs drives for both original equipment often combined with a flexible service offering to best thedevelopment of new and services provides good suit each customers operating needs.
Industry-leading R&D Strong supply chain partnerships Long-term relationships with visibility of future revenues We make significant investments in advanced and provides a firm civiland defence customers Proven mission-critical reliability Sustained cost reduction foundation to invest technology and engineering programmes to deliver Decades of in-service experience withconfidence.
We seek to recoup our Exceptional long-life products Transforming to world-class investment through developing superior products, production capability Flexible range of service offerings many of which are selected for use on major multi-year Differentiated product performance programmes.
We benefit from increasingly cost-efficient Cost-focused lean enterprise Growing installed base and global manufacturing as production levels rise, and by service footprint High-performance culture securing strong aftermarket revenues.
In certain markets we strengthen our customer relationships typically through long-term service agreements where we commit to deliver exceptional standards of service, including high levels of product operational availability.
This provides significant value to customers and in return we achieve long-term predictable revenues.
Disciplined capital allocation Investment in future Secure and maximise By growing our installed base of power systems over We allocate our capital toachieve programmedevelopment service opportunity time and leveraging our aftermarket service activities, abalance of financial strength We make significant investment Our equipment is in service for decades.
andliquidity to deliver commercial indevelopment programmes which we enhance revenue, profit and cash flow.
Cash flow is Our deep design knowledge and advantage and sustainable we believe will deliver cost-efficient in-service experience ensures that then invested to support future product development long-term shareholder returns.
and competitive next-generation weare best placed to optimise product and technology programmes to drive growth while products.
16 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Engineering and innovation CREATING WORLDCLASS TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING In 2015, we invested 1.2bn in gross R&D, which includes funding from governments and other bodies.
831m was from our OUR FUTURE own funds.
Asa result, weapplied for 626patents during the year.
It is this investment that creates the intellectual property we then develop and embed inour products.
We leverage our own scientific and engineering talent globally to create world-class technology and also partner with leading academic institutions.
This ensures we benefit from the knowledge of renowned experts in their fields, and get the best value from our investment.
COM We seek to attract and retain the best INVESTING IN andbrightest engineers.
We then create aculture of innovation that allows them PEOPLE AND SKILLS to develop their skills.
We encourage allemployees to contribute to our Innovation Portal via the Company Our investment in intranet.
In 2015, this generated well over 1,000 ideas from which we conducted technology and skilled dozens of challenges.
people is vital for a company that has advanced engineering atits core.
Ultimately it delivers the differentiated, Graduates recruited in 2015 high-technology products that attract our customers.
Colin Smith 228 Group President Director Engineering & Technology Apprentices recruited in 2015 throughout 2015 277 18 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
