Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 89 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their report which incorporates the Use of financial instruments management report required under the Disclosure and An explanation of the Group policies on the use of financial Transparency Rules for listed companies and the audited instruments and financial risk management objectives are accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 as set out contained in note 26 to the accounts.
In compiling this report, the Directors have consulted with the management of the Group.
Post-balance sheet events There have been no important post-balance sheet events.
Directors The names of the Directors in office during the year, still in Existence of branches outside the UK office at the year end, and their biographies and other details The Company has no branches outside of the UK.
RC Lockwood and GM Ogden were Directors during the year and resigned from the Board Share capital on 31 March 2015 and 24 April 2015, respectively.
Details of the Companys share capital including the rights and obligations attached to each class of shares and the Directors indemnification and insurance ordinary shares issued during 2015 are summarised in note The Companys articles of association provide for the 17 of the financial statements.
On 18 May 2015, each of the Directors and officers of the Company to be appropriately Companys ordinary shares of 5p were subdivided into 10 indemnified, subject to the provisions of the Companies ordinary shares of 0.5p each.
The Company purchases and maintains represent over 99.9% of the Companys total share capital insurance for the Directors and officers of the Company and 1 9.5% cumulative preference shares represent less in performing their duties, as permitted by section 233 than 0.1% of the Companys total share capital.
There are no securities of the Company carrying special Powers of the Directors rights with regard to the control of the Company.
As set out in the Companys articles of association, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who At the Companys last AGM held on 24 April 2015, the may exercise all the powers of the Company.
shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of ordinary shares limited to just under Appointment and removal of Directors approximately 10% of its issued ordinary share capital The Board may appoint a Director, either to fill a vacancy at that time and of certain issued preference shares, or as an additional Director.
Any Director appointed by and to allot shares within certain limits approved by the the Board must retire at the next AGM of the Company shareholders.
These authorities expire at the 2016 AGM and put themselves forward for reappointment by the and appropriate renewals will be sought.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, each member The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in 2015. of the Board submits themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
The Companys articles of association contain customary restrictions on the transfer of shares as applicable only in In addition to any power of removal conferred by the certain limited circumstances e. g. in relation to transfers to Companies Act 2006, the Company may by ordinary a minor.
Save for those provisions, there are no restrictions resolution remove any Director before the expiration of on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the their period of office and may, subject to the articles of Company other than certain restrictions which may be association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person required from time to time by law, for example, insider who is willing to act as a Director in their place.
In accordance with the Model Code, which forms part of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority Political donations as adopted by the Company, Directors and certain No political donations were made during the year.
The employees are required to seek the prior approval of the Group has a policy of not making political donations in Company to deal in its shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Dividend shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.1p per of securities and or voting rights.
The Companys articles ordinary share 2014: 3.09p for the year, payable on of association contain limited restrictions on the exercise of 16 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on 8 April 2016. voting rights e. g. in relation to disenfranchised shares An interim dividend for 2015 of 1.95p per ordinary share following the issue of a notice to shareholders under section 2014: 1.92p was paid on 25 September 2015.
793 Companies Act 2006. Dividend information has been restated to reflect the The Companys share schemes each contain provisions subdivision of the Companys ordinary share capital providing voting rights to the scheme trustee.
Amendments to the Companys articles of association Information required in the Report of the Directors The Companys articles of association may only be set out in the Strategic Report amended by special resolution at a general meeting Information relating to likely future developments of the of the shareholders.
Company and its subsidiaries and information relating to the R&D activities of the Company and its subsidiaries is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 59.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 90 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Significant agreements change of control Statement of Directors responsibility for preparing the The Company is not aware of any significant agreements Annual Report and Financial Statements to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon Directors responsibilities a change of control of the Company following a takeover.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual There are no agreements between the Company and its Report and the financial statements in accordance with Directors or employees that provide for compensation applicable law and regulations.
for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, Greenhouse gas emissions the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions statements in accordance with International Financial required by law are set out in the Corporate Social Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Responsibility Report on page 53.
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements Disabled persons and employee involvement under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under The disclosures concerning the Groups policies on company law, the Directors must not approve the financial the employment of disabled persons and employee statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true involvement are set out in the Corporate Social and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of Responsibility Report on page 54. the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Substantial shareholders Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: As at 31 December 2015, the following notifiable interests Properly select and apply accounting policies: in issued share capital had been received by the Company Present information, including accounting policies, in a under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and UK Listing Authority.
It should be noted that these holdings understandable information: are likely to have changed since notified to the Company.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the However, notification of any change is not required until an specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable applicable threshold is crossed.
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Size of Nature of Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue Identity holding holding as a going concern.
5.01% Indirect APG Asset Management NV 5.01% Direct The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Blackrock Inc. 4.86% Indirect accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Fiera Capital Corporation 4.23% Indirect the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable 1 Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 5.01% Indirect accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 1 and enable them to ensure that the financial statements The Company was informed on 18 February 2016 that Mondrian comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also Investment Partners Limited had decreased the size of its holding to 4.91% of the voting capital.
No other changes to the above have been responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 between the end of and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention the financial year and 29 February 2016. and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance Directors responsibility statement The Companys Corporate Governance Report can be found We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: on pages 62 to 68.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of Disclosure of information to auditors the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this of the Company and the undertakings included in the report of the Directors confirm that, so far as they are each consolidation taken as a whole: aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 2.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has development and performance of the business and the taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a position of the Company and the undertakings included Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is description of the principal risks and uncertainties that aware of that information.
The Annual Report and financial statements, taken Going concern basis of preparation as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable provide the information necessary for shareholders expectation that the Group has adequate resources to to assess the Companys performance, business model continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the Directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant order book with customers spread across different geographic areas and industries and the significant net cash position.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 91 Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 60 to 61, confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business, and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategies.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
External Auditor Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval of the Board, a resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
On behalf of the Board Stephen Rhys Jones Company Secretary 29 February 2016
