Strategic Report Chief Executives review Key performance indicators Description Why we measure it How we have performed To deliver on its commitments to customers, the Group Expenditure reduced Capital expenditure % investssignificant amounts in its infrastructure.
All proposed to494m 2014:668m as a proportion of 4.7 4.6 4.4 investments are subject torigorous review to ensure that they principally reflecting underlying revenue 4.1 4.0 3.7 are consistent with forecast activity and will provide value themajor investment in formoney.
We measure annual capital expenditure asthe cost CivilAerospace facilities 3.7% ofproperty, plant and equipment acquired during the period nearingcompletion.
and, over the medium term, expect a proportion of around 4%.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 We measure underlying profit before financing on a basis The reduction reflects Underlying profit m thatshows the economic substance of the Groups hedging thereduction in revenues before financing 1,831 strategies in respect of the transactional exchange rate and and the Groups high level 1,678 1,681 1,495 1,492 commodity price movements.
In particular: a revenues and of fixed costs, which the -11% costs denominated in US dollars and euros are presented onthe transformation 1,206 basis of the exchange rates achieved during the year: b similar programme is addressing.
adjustments are made in respect of commodity derivatives: and c consequential adjustments are made toreflect the impact ofexchange rates on trading assets andliabilities and long-term contracts on a consistentbasis.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 In a business requiring significant investment, we monitor The reduction reflects Free cash flow m cashflow toensure that profitability is converted into cash thelower profits and the 781 generation, both for future investment and as a return utilisation of provisions.
We measure free cash flow as the movement 581 548 innet funds debt during the year, before movements 447 arisingfrom payments to shareholders, acquisitions and disposals, andFX.
254 179 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 Average cash is no longer being monitored as a key performance indicator, as the focus is now on the free cash flow.
Non-financial KPIs As we undertake significant restructuring, reorganisation and transformation, it is imperative that we do not lose focus on our customers, andthat we ensure our employees are fully engaged in the transformation.
So for 2016, we are introducing two non-financial measures to the Annual Performance Related Award relating to customers and employees.
In line with our remuneration policy, financial performance will still berequired for any payout, as the non-financial measures will be subject to achieving a profit before taxation threshold.
Description How performance is measured This is measured by the percentage of on-time to purchase order and includes measures for new equipment, Customer satisfaction spareparts, equipment repair and overhaul.
This is tracked Group-wide in our scheduling and order fulfilmentsystem.
This is measured through our Employee Opinion Survey which produces a composite engagement score.
Employee engagement Thetargetswill be based on absolute scores.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 53 inc Energy inc Energy inc Energy exc Energy exc Energy exc Energy Strategic Report Chief Executives review Principal risks PRINCIPAL RISKS and functions and the detail of risks that meet Joint ventures constitute an increasingly large Risk management the Group threshold are subject to review and part of the Groups activities.
Responsibility for Risk management is built into our daily challenge by the Executive Leadership Team risk and internal control in joint ventures lies activities and is an integral part of how we ELT and the Board during their risk reviews.
with the managers of those operations.
We seek work: from our engineering design, through This includes monitoring the status of to exert influence over such joint ventures to engine production, servicing and how mitigation actions, adequacy of controls and through board representation.
any incidents that have occurred since the last and internal audit regularly review the activities review.
Risks are also captured during the of these joint ventures.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk strategy and business planning activities to The Board is aware that the effectiveness ofrisk management and internal control system and inform the development of the principal risks.
management is highly dependent on behaviours, reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is The Board, assisted by the ELT, has carried out a as a good process does not automatically lead designed to identify and manage, rather than robust assessment of, and reviewed our to a good outcome.
Ourethics and compliance eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business appetite for, the principal risks facing the improvement programme, aimed at securing objectives and to provide reasonable but not Group.
These include those that threaten the compliance with our ethical standards, and the absolute assurance against material business model, future performance, solvency Global Code of Conduct are reinforcing the misstatement or loss.
More information about and liquidity.
These reviews have been values and behaviours required, which in turn our internal control system can be found in the complemented by financial scenario modelling will continue to strengthen our risk Audit Committee report on page 95. of our principal risks which is also used to management culture.
Our risk management system RMS helps support our viability statement on page 57. usmake better decisions and to deal with Principal risks problems if they occur.
It is implemented The Board, or the most appropriate Board through: a Group-wide framework mandated committee, undertakes periodic in-depth During the year, the Board and ELT focused on in the Group risk management policy: reviews of our principal risks in which it the principal risks and the actions and controls anetwork of trained risk management assesses our material controls and the in place to manage them.
effectiveness of our risk management and mitigation activities.
This involved: discussing changes to the risks: In 2015, we performed a comprehensive review reviewing the risk indicators for principal risks: Business units and functions are accountable of our RMS and are implementing and hearing from management about how for identifying and managing risk in line with aprogramme of work to enhance our RMS risks will be managed.
the Group risk management policy.
Business which will continue to be embedded continuity plans are in place to mitigate throughout 2016.
This activity is sponsored by This ongoing review of risks has resulted in continuityrisks.
the General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer afurther principal risk being added this year: and isregularly reviewed by the Audit talent and capability.
This risk has been added The Groups enterprise risk team, led by the Committee.
Theenhancements touch all areas to reflect the significant transformation Director of Risk, is responsible for disseminating of our RMS including: categorisation, agenda ahead and our future growth risk policy and processes and co-ordinating the governance, operating model, reporting and requirements and plans.
effective operation of the RMS.
actions to mitigate risks and the adequacy Our RMS is designed sothat principal risks can ofrisk controls are also now regularly reviewed be identified from multiple sources.
Key bythe sector audit committees.
bottom-up risks are identified by businesses Management of principal risks Our risk framework ensures that risks are identified, managed and communicated at every level of the Group.
Identify Impact of Monitor Governance Set risk appetite principal risks PRs on longmitigation and Reporting of PRs for PRs PRs term viability control of PRs Assess effectiveness of risk management system RMS 54 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
