Directors Report Committee reports Science & Technology Committee SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED At a glance Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Overview of How the Group selects, develops and acquires new technology across all The technology process was appropriate and supported technology areas of the business: and the outcome of the process during 2015. the development of the business.
Deep dives Detailed technical briefings on certain key technologies for aerospace and The committee supported areas of innovation and the marine applications.
commercial application of new technologies.
Governance The adequacy of the committees terms of reference.
No changes were made to the terms of reference.
Overview and deep dive reviews University Technology Centres UTCs We have established a global network of UTCs, with the first The first meeting of the committee served as an orientation session formal collaborations being signed in 1990.
At first, UTCs at which the members received detailed briefings and presentations wereestablished mostly in the UK and more recently they have from senior engineering and technology executives.
This included been founded in the US, Norway, Sweden, Italy, Germany and areview of the Groups technology acquisition process, and a detailed Korea.
Additionally, Rolls-Royce has significant relationships walkthrough of each of the Groups identified key technologies with many other research centres around the world, including initsbusinesses.
Japan, Singapore, China, Germany and the US.
The committee learned about how the Group benchmarks Each UTC addresses a key technology: collectively they tackle itsactivities in R&D and research & technology providing measures awide range of engineering disciplines from combustion to establish whether theGroup is doing enough to capture its andaerodynamics to noise and manufacturing technology.
Thisconsistent strategy of developing long-term relationships In December 2015, a briefing was provided on technologies which could with selected universities has provided close contact with bepotential disruptors both as potential risks and opportunities.
world-class academic institutions, and given access to a wealthof talent and creativity to help protect our capability A detailed discussion was held with the Groups Chief Scientific into the future.
Officer and Chief Information Officer on steps taken in identifying and mitigating the risks and opportunities in emerging digital The aim is to satisfy the needs of the business and its capabilities, and the Groups future plans for digital business.
customers whilst providing technical input that enhances Thisincluded consideration of how digitisation could be applied theresearch reputation of the university.
UTCs are long-term, toparticular technologies reviewed in detail by the committee.
funded collaborations that ensure continuity of work, offering high-quality technology for the Group and real-world The committee reviewed the processes and outcomes of current challenges for academic partners.
Each is led by a world-class technology selection and related funding, including a discussion academic and supported by a strong team of research fellows, ofitems that did not get funded and the reasons why.
associates, students, technicians, staff and facilities.
The committee is continuing to review the Groups current and While the main focus of the UTC is long-term research, emerging technologies, as well as the measures that the Group deploys anadditional advantage of the relationship is to provide continually to assess the competitive and technological landscape.
theGroup with access to highly capable people to support Maintaining technological advantage through leading-edge R&D, short-term needs.
This can be beneficial to both parties, engineering and manufacturing techniques inthe development of our providing practical experience for the research team and products whilst ensuring they remain reliable, safe and compliant with valuable solutions for theGroup.
regulatory standards is core to what the Group does.
The committee will continue to support and guide management in its strategic decision-making on technology investments, and in assessing scientific and technology risks andopportunities for our business.
Sir Kevin Smith Chairman of the Science & Technology Committee 104 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Responsibility statements RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also OFTHEANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement The Directors, as listed on pages 58 to 61, are responsible thatcomplies with that law and those regulations.
for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity law and regulations.
ofthe corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation company financial statements for each financial year.
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS UNDER THE DISCLOSURE RULES and have elected to prepare the parent company financial ANDTRANSPARENCY RULES statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this applicable law.
report confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial i each of the Group and parent company financial statements, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair prepared in accordance with IFRS and UK Accounting Standards view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and respectively, gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, oftheir profit or loss for that period.
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: ii the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 57 and Directors Report select suitable accounting policies and then apply them onpages 58 to 104 and pages 178 to 181 include a fair review consistently: ofthe development and performance of the business and the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and position of the Company and the undertakings included in prudent: theconsolidation taken as a whole, together with a description for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been ofthe principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: iii the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and for the parent company financial statements, state whether understandable and provides the information necessary for applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent business model and strategy.
company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the By order of the Board parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Pamela Coles records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent and Company Secretary Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 11 February 2016 time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 105
