Directors Report Board of Directors Dame Helen Alexander Lewis Booth CBE Ruth Cairnie Sir Frank Chapman Independent Senior Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director R NG SE A NG ST NG R ST SE NG R Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointed as an independent Appointed as an independent Appointed as an independent Appointed as an independent Non-executive Director in Non-executive Director in May 2011 Non-executive Director in Non-executive Director in September 2007 September 2014 November 2011 Current directorships and Current directorships and business interests Current directorships and Current directorships and business interests Mondelez International Inc, business interests business interests UBM plc, chairman non-executive director Associated British Foods plc, Myeloma UK, vice chairman Huawei Technologies UK Co. Gentherm Inc. non-executive non-executive director Career, skills and experience Limited, non-executive director director Keller Group plc, non-executive Sir Frank has worked in the oil & gas Bain Capital, senior adviser director Career, skills and experience industry for 38 years including EDF Energys Stakeholder Advisory Rotterdam School of Management, Lewis is the former executive vice appointments within Royal Dutch Panel, member member of the advisory board president and chief financial officer Shell plc and BP p. l. c. He was chief University of Southampton, Cambridge University, finance ofFord Motor Company, aposition he executive of BG Group plc for 12 years chancellor committee member held for over three years until his until December 2012 and chairman She is also involved in not-for-profit retirement from the company in Career, skills and experience ofGolar LNG Ltd from 2014 to 2015. organisations in media and the arts April2012.
During his 34-year career Ruth was executive vice president SirFrank is a fellow of the Royal Career, skills and experience atFord he held a series of senior strategy and planning at Royal Dutch Academy of Engineering, the Dame Helen was chief executive positions in Europe, Asia, Africa and Shell Plc until 2014, before which she Institution of Mechanical Engineers ofthe Economist Group until 2008, the US.
Lewis began his career with held a number of other senior and the Energy Institute.
He was having joined the company in 1985, British Leyland, before joining Ford in international roles at Shell, including knighted in 2011 for services to the and was managing director of the 1978.
He was awarded a CBE in June managing its global commercial fuels oil&gas industry.
Economist Intelligence Unit from 2012 for services to the UK business from 2005 to 2011.
She was president of the automotive and manufacturing Ruth served on the boards of Shell CBI from 2009 to 2011: she has also industries.
Pakistan Ltd and joint venture been chairman of Incisive Media and companies in Germany and Thailand.
Port of London Authority, and anon-executive director of She also chairs the POWERful women NorthernFoods plc, BTGroup plc initiative, supporting the progression andCentricaplc.
Shewas awarded of women to senior positions in the aDBE in 2011 forservices to business.
Audit Safety & Ethics Committee membership A SE Committee Committee Nominations & Governance Science & Technology NG ST Committee Committee Remuneration Denotes R Committee Chairman Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 59 Directors Report Board of Directors Alan Davies Irene Dorner Lee Hsien Yang John McAdam Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director NG A NG A SE NG A SE NG R SE Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointed as an independent Appointed as an independent Appointed as an independent Appointed as an independent Non-executive Director in Non-executive Director in Non-executive Director in Non-executive Director in July 2015 January2014 February2008 November 2015 Current directorships and Current directorships and business interests Current directorships and Current directorships and business interests OUTleadership Advisory Board, businessinterests business interests Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals member General Atlantic LLC and associated J. Sainsbury plc, senior independent division, chief executive South East Asia Rainforest Research funds, special adviser director Partnership, trustee Civil Aviation Authority of Rentokil Initial plc, chairman Career, skills and experience Singapore, chairman United Utilities Group PLC, Career, skills and experience Alan joined Rio Tinto in 1997 and has The Islamic Bank of Asia Private chairman Irene was CEO and president of held a number of senior positions Limited, chairman HSBC, US, until December 2014 where Career, skills and experience inAustralia, London and the US, The Australian and New Zealand she was responsible for all ofHSBCs John was the chief executive of ICI plc predominantly in Rio Tintos iron ore Banking Group Ltd, director operations in the US and played a key until ICIs acquisition by Akzo Nobel in product group where he has served Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, role in strengthening thefinancial 2008.
He held a number of positions as CFO, managing director global member of the Board of governors institutions risk processes.
During at Unilever, within its Birds Eye Walls, development and as president INSEAD SE Asia Council, president a29-year career atHSBC, she held Quest International and Unichema international operations.
Alan is Singapore Exchange Ltd, director anumber ofinternational roles International businesses and is afellow of the Institute of Chartered Capital International Inc, including asthefirst woman to lead aformer non-executive director Accountants in Australia.
consultant to advisory board HSBC inMalaysia and launching its ofSevern Trent plc and Sara Lee Islamicbanking unit.
Career, skills and experience Corporation.
Hsien Yang was chief executive Irene was a consultant at PwC until ofSingapore Telecommunications February 2016.
She is afellow of Limited for 12 years until 2007.
He St. Annes College, Oxford.
served as chairman and non-executive director of Fraser andNeave Limited from 2007 until February 2013.
Board members by gender Balance of the Board Tenure of Non-executive Directors Nationalities of Directors Male 10 Executive Directors 3 0 - 3 years 6 British 11 Female 4 Non-executive Directors 11 3 - 6 years 3 German 1 6 - 9 years 2 Singaporean 1 Australian 1 According to the Companys Articles of Association, at least 50% of all Directors must be British citizens 60 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Board of Directors Sir Kevin Smith CBE Jasmin Staiblin Pamela Coles Independent Independent Company Secretary Non-executive Director Non-executive Director ST NG R NG ST Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment Appointed as an independent Appointed as an independent Appointed as Company Secretary Non-executive Director in Non-executive Director in May 2012 inOctober 2014 November 2015 Current directorships and Career, skills and experience Current directorships and business interests Pamela has been a fellow of the business interests Alpiq Holding AG, CEO Institute of Chartered Secretaries Unitas Capital, senior adviser Georg Fischer AG, non-executive and Administrators since 1997, director andis an expert in governance Career, skills and experience Federal Institute of Technology, andcompany law.
She has held a Sir Kevin joined Unitas Capital in 2012 theETH Domain, board member variety of company secretary roles and served as partner and chairman throughout her career.
She joined of its operating advisor group until Career, skills and experience Rolls-Royce from Centricaplc, October 2015.
He was chief executive Jasmin is the CEO of Alpiq Holding AG.
whereshe was head of secretariat.
officer of GKN plc until 31 December She held a number of senior positions Pamelas previous roles also include 2011, having led GKNs Aerospace at ABB Switzerland Ltd, a subsidiary group company secretary and a division from 1999 to 2003.
Before ofthe ABB Group, culminating in her member of the executive committee joining GKN, he spent nearly 20 years serving as CEO of ABB Switzerland Ltd at The Rank Group plc andcompany with British Aerospace BAe plc, until December 2012.
She has lived secretary & head of legal atRAC plc.
becoming group managing director of and worked in Switzerland, Sweden BAes New Business division.
served as a non-executive director ofScottish and Southern Energy plc between June 2004 and July 2008.
He was knighted in 2006 for services to industry and is a fellow of the University of Central Lancashire, The Royal Aeronautical Society and The Chartered Institute of Management.
Warren East CBE Chris Cholerton Mary Humiston EXECUTIVE Chief Executive President Defence Aerospace Group Human Resources Director LEADERSHIP TEAM Colin Smith CBE Miles Cowdry Mikael Makinen The Executive Leadership Team Group President Corporate Development Director President Marine is the executive forum in which David Smith Dr Ulrich Dhle Eric Schulz the Groups senior leaders come Chief Financial Officer CEO Power Systems President Civil Aerospace together to communicate, review and agree on issues Chris Barkey Mark Gregory Lawrie Haynes andactions ofGroup-wide Group Director General Counsel Executive Engineering & Technology Transitional support significance, and assist the Harry Holt ChiefExecutive in the Marion Blakey Group Operations Strategy Director Tony Wood performance of hisduties.
President & CEO Rolls-Royce Transitional support Executive North America President Nuclear Transitional support Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 61 Directors Report Chairmans introduction CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Early in the year we adopted and published the new Science & Technology on our website a new Board governance Committee, formed to provide greater document that recognises the requirements oversight of the Groups innovation of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 strategy and the direction of research, theCode.
It contains the terms of reference technology and development activities of our principal Board committees and the taking into account scientific and matters reserved to theBoard, and was technological trends.
further updated by the Board to reflect best I led a review that resulted in some practice in December 2015. changes tothe composition of our However, we did not stop at Code committees during 2015.
Our governance improvement reflected the diversity ofskills and work went much deeper this year by steering experience amongst our Non-executive and supporting an update of internal Directors including those who joined the governance arrangements at executive and Board during 2015 and the value that operational levels.
As a result, a new internal they could each bring to the particular Strong corporate governance governance framework document is being work of the committees.
More rolled out to employees in 2016 to provide information on the experience of our sets the right tone to drive aclear and common understanding about Directors is contained inthe Nominations appropriate conduct and how Rolls-Royce works and what is expected & Governance Committee report across the key governance areas.
Our current committee behaviour across all that wedo.
read about this important milestone project memberships are set out on pages 58 Ian Davis in the Nominations & Governance to61 and on page 65, andyou can read Chairman Committee report on page 73. about the remit and work of each committee during the year inthe reports The following Board committees met for which follow on pages 69 to104.
thefirst time under their new mandates: In its stewardship ofRolls-Royce, the Board The Board is satisfied that allcommittees recognises that excellence in corporate the Nominations & Governance are working effectively to deliver strong governance is essential in order togenerate and Committee, with an expanded remit oversight and governance over their protect value for our investors.
Thisrequires toprovide more dedicated time and focus respective areas of responsibility, and are continuous focus but is particularly important on corporate governance in addition to reporting appropriately to the Board, in in times of change andtransformation.
It is not traditional nominations matters: accordance with their terms of reference.
just a matter ofensuring compliance with the our combined Safety & Ethics Committee, latest regulatory guidance: strong corporate The Board and each of its committees created as a dedicated and focused governance is the over-arching principle which have also worked during the year to oversight forum in acknowledgement gives management the confidence torun implement the recommendations made ofthe critical emphasis we place on: asustainable business within an agreed by Independent Audit in its 2014 Board framework of strategic direction and risk promoting the highest standards effectiveness review.
It sets the right tone to drive ofethical behaviours throughout our returned to conduct a follow-on survey appropriate conduct and behaviour across organisation and with our partners, and review in 2015 of how this work had allthat we do.
You can read more about this the safety of our products and our on page 66.
This was auseful This year we have taken steps to improve the workforce which can be jeopardised independent assessment of frequency and quality of our interactions byinappropriate behaviours as well improvements made throughout the year with major shareholders and will continue asother factors, and and also served to identify further areas to work on this.
You can read more about the continuing development of a for our continued focus into 2016. this activity on page 68. sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible business: 62 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
