Directors Report Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ian Davis Warren East CBE David Smith Colin Smith CBE Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Group President NG Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointed to the Board in March 2013 Appointed as an independent Appointed as an Executive Director Appointed as an Executive Director and as Chairman in May 2013 Non-executive Director in January inNovember 2014 inJuly 2005 2014 and as Chief Executive in Current directorships and Current directorships and Current directorships and July2015 business interests business interests business interests Motability Operations Group plc, Council for Science and Technology, Johnson & Johnson Inc, Current directorships and non-executive director member non-executive director business interests Warwick Business School, advisory BP p. l. c. non-executive director Dyson Ltd, non-executive director Career, skills and experience board member UK Cabinet Office Board A member of the UK Governments Colin joined Rolls-Royce in 1974.
Chartered Institute of non-executive member Business Advisory Group Hehas held a variety of key positions Management Accountants, steppingdown in March 2016 Trustee of the Institute of within the Group, including: member of Advisory Panel Apax Partners LLP, senior adviser Engineering and Technology Director Research & Technology: Temasek, European Advisory Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Director ofEngineering & Technology Panelmember Warren held various senior David joined Rolls-Royce in January CivilAerospace: and, Group Director Teach for All Inc, director appointments at ARM Holdings plc 2014 as Chief Financial Officer for the Engineering & Technology, before Majid Al Futtaim Holdings LLC, from 1994 including CEO from 2001 Aerospace Division.
Before joining being appointed as Group President director to 2013.
He is a fellow of the Institute Rolls-Royce he was chief financial in January 2016.
Colin is a fellow of Career, skills and experience of Engineering and Technology, officer for technology group, Edwards.
the Royal Society, the Royal Academy Ian spent his early career at Bowater, afellow of the Royal Academy of of Engineering, the Royal Aeronautical He has spent over 25 years in the moving to McKinsey & Company in Engineering and a distinguished Society and the Institution of automotive industry at Ford and 1979.
He was managing partner of fellow of the BCS, the Chartered Mechanical Engineers.
In June 2012 Jaguar Land Rover.
McKinseys practice in the UK and Institute for IT.
He was awarded hewas awarded a CBE for services Ireland from 1996 to 2003.
In 2003, aCBEin 2014 for services to the toUKengineering.
he was appointed as chairman and technology industry.
worldwide managing director of Prior to his appointment as Chief McKinsey, serving in this capacity Executive, Warren was Chairman of until 2009 and retiring as senior the Science & Technology Committee partner in 2010.
During his career and a member of the Audit with McKinsey, Ian served as a Committee and the Nominations & consultant to a range of global Governance Committee.
organisations across the private, public and not-for-profit sectors.
Heisnow senior partner emeritus ofMcKinsey.
58 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
