12 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RPC business model Our business model is centred around creating significant shareholder value by satisfying our customers needs.
We achieve this through excellence in choice, design, product innovation and customer service.
Strategic inputs Design, Engineering & Manufacturing inputs Financial Capital sound financial base Manufacturing base Human Capital experienced management and skilled staff Resin Working relationship capital longstanding proven Water relationships with customers Energy Sustainability acting responsibly and safely Recyclate Product design Technical components Manufacturing excellence A one-stop-shop approach to design, Our extensive tool and mould making Our experience of plastic packaging achieves product requirements facilities mean that we can provide mean quality and high specification across brand image, functionality and customers with a complete service production packaging performance from initial concept to finished pack Diverse product offering multi technology We offer unparalleled choice in both standard and customised products across many conversion technologies.
We add value for our customers by protecting their products and increasing their shelf-life Customer service We operate through an autonomous but connected business structure that meets the diverse needs of global and local customers across a wide geographical area.
With 91 manufacturing sites spanning 24 countries, we have close proximity to our customers and access to a wide range of markets Technological excellence Expertise in multiple processes throughout the manufacturing process Sustainable and responsible operations and products Caring for our people and the environment at every stage of our operations.
In addition, the products we produce help our clients be more sustainable by lightweighting packaging and increasing shelf-life For more information on our influence on each stage of the packaging lifecycle, see page 32 E C N E S E E Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information R P P L O U R F U G N E I N E A D E I S M T C A U O G O N N O I T T R I A N G E A U R I N C N I C 13 Driven forward by our highly experienced Executive team Executive Board Members Pim Vervaat Simon Kesterton Darin Evans Frank Doorenbosch Tom Saunderson Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Purchasing Business Improvement Corporate Development Years experience: Years experience: Years experience: Years experience: Years experience: 8 12 19 26 5 Divisional CEOs Experienced international management team with over 200 years Ren Valentin Alfons Bckmann Alistair Herd Thomas Wahlmeyer Jack Yeung experience in the plastic Superfos Bramlage Promens Bebo Ace conversion industry Years experience: Years experience: Years experience: Years experience: Years experience: 25 40 28 34 15 Key Focus: Key Focus: Key Focus: Key Focus: Key Focus: Standard product Personal and Blow moulding for Food industry and Mould making, ranges for consumer healthcare, beverage consumer and industrial beverage systems technical components and industrial markets systems markets, roto moulding and developing and speciality vehicles Asian market HOW THIS LINKS TO OUR STRATEGY Core to our strategic delivery is our continuing focus on organic growth and gaining entry into new, profitable and highgrowth markets.
Increasing our added value offering through innovation Following our customers globally FOCUSED Supporting customer growth through operational excellence GROWTH Growth through the ongoing substitution of plastic for glass and metal Developing niche positions through continued investment Continued growth in North America and gaining further exposure to emerging markets G G F R O O C W N U T O S H I T O A D N I E L P O S O N R O U C E E V N I I T C E L E S E C N E S E E R P P L O U R F U G N E I N E A D E I S M T C A U O G O N N O I T T R I A N G E A U R I N C N I C 14 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our strategy Vision 2020 Vision 2020 is progressing well with further organic growth, three major acquisitions in the year and another completed in May 2015.
FOCUSED ON GROWTH The Group announced its Vision 2020: Focused Growth Strategy in 2013, designed to build on RPCs strong market positions, leading innovation capabilities and the success of its investments in recent years.
There are three core elements to Vision 2020, which are: FOCUSED continuing our focused organic growth strategy in selected areas of the 1 GROWTH packaging markets: the selective consolidation in the still fragmented European packaging market 2 through targeted acquisitions: and creating a meaningful presence outside Europe.
3 Alongside the targeted Focused Growth strategy, the Group established minimum through the cycle key financial targets.
RONOA Return on sales at at least least 20% 8% through the cycle minimum through the cycle minimum AWARDS RPC continued its award winning performance with a number of awards in 2014 15 both for its products and also the Company itself.
RPC Group M&H Plastics: RPC Superfos: RPC Barrier Containers: Winner Processor Braille Tubes HalfMoon pack Shake Me Pasta Pot ofthe Year ife World Food Winner Horners ScanStar 2014 & Innovation Awards 2015 Plastic Bottlemakers Award WorldStar 2015 Best Convenience or Industry Awards On-the-Go Packaging OTHER AWARDS RPC Oakham: Training Scheme Plastic Industry Awards RPC Group Training & Development Programme of the Year Company of the Year UK Packaging Awards Ferromatik Milacron for work with RPC Group Plastic Industry Awards Supplier Partnership, Prime Machinery G G F R O O C N W U T O S H I T O A D N I E L P O S O N R O U C E E V N I I T C E L E S Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 15 STRATEGIC ACTION RATIONALE PROGRESS TO DATE Continued focused Rigid plastic packaging market is forecast to The Group achieved good underlying growth with sales up 4% on a like-for- 1 grow by 5.5% globally in the next five years like basis versus last year, supported by higher levels of investment in product organic growth with 2.7% growth in Europe.
Activity levels improved compared with the previous Increasing our added value offering year with most of the growth experienced in the UK and USA, whilst sales through innovation RPC can leverage from its strong market volumes in mainland Europe were generally in line with last year.
The Group positions, scale and geographical reach, Supporting customer growth through won several awards for excellence in product design and was named the innovation capabilities, extensive product operational excellence UK packaging company of the year UK Packaging Awards, as well as the rangeand operational excellence.
UK plastic processor of the year Plastic Industry Awards.
Improvements in Growth through the ongoing technology continued across the Group, for example doubling the speed of substitution of glass and metal theassembly lines for a single serve beverage system.
with plastic Developing niche positions through continued investment Selective consolidation Plastic packaging, whilst concentrated In 2013 14 the Group made two acquisitions in Europe: M&H Plastics, whose 2 in selective niches, remains a largely principal manufacturing site is based in Beccles, UK, and Helioplast, which in Europe fragmented market.
There are relatively is based in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Both have been successfully integrated and Value accretive acquisition opportunities few large rigid plastic packaging converters have made a positive contribution to the results with the achieved synergies in Europe which willfurther enhance in Europe and opportunities to consolidate higher than anticipated.
The combined organic growth realised in the year the growth inprofitability of the Group themarket and leverage from the Groups by these businesses was 19% compared with the same period last year Complement existing businesses by existing competitive advantages will pre-acquisition.
extending product ranges or provide accelerate growth.
In 2015 RPC acquired Promens, a leading European manufacturer of rigid access to new geographical markets plastic products for a wide range of end markets.
This has strengthened our Provide opportunities to participate in position across the Groups common packaging end markets and extended new rigid plastic packaging products our geographic reach, adding new adjacent technologies to RPCs capabilities.
and markets With 41 production facilities spanning 20 countries including sites in North America, Asia and North Africa and with annual sales of 590m, this was a Provide access to new major acquisition for the Group.
It will take time to fully integrate and realise conversion technologies the potential synergies from combining the two businesses.
The Group also acquired PET Power, a Netherlands based manufacturer of PET polyethylene terephthalate products, serving the cosmetics, food and pharmaceutical markets.
It is recognised as a European leader in PET based products from an Injection Stretch Blowmoulding ISBM technology platform.
PET is the fastest growing polymer material for conversion to rigid plastic in the packaging industry and has a number of unique characteristics which makes it an attractive material to develop for both packaging and other market applications.
More recently, in May 2015, the Group enhanced its position in PET further by acquiring Innocan, a Belgian based start-up company with a range of innovative and stackable PET containers.
Creating a meaningful Rigid plastic packaging is forecast to grow During the year the Group completed its major expansion programme at 3 by 6.5% outside Europe whilst at the onset Morgantown, PA, USA, providing additional capacity for growth in food presence outside of of the strategy 94% of RPCs sales were packaging.
In addition, further capital expenditure to support Superfos Europe in Europe.
growth in North America was made, alongside the expansion of M&H Accessing new markets outside of Plastics facility at Winchester, VA, as its successful UK business model is Europe, where growth rates in demand rolled out to the USA.
Sales in the USA relating to these sites have grown for consumer packaging are higher by52% versus last year to a level of 89m for the total Group.
Leverage innovation capabilities to In June 2014 the Group acquired Ace Corporation Holdings Limited Ace, a gain a competitive advantage over China based and Hong Kong headquartered award-winning manufacturer of incumbent packaging suppliers complex plastic injection moulded components and injection moulding tools for the packaging and non-packaging markets.
Operating from five factories Follow global customers to higher in China, it provides RPC with a strong platform to support its international growth economies customer base with high quality, European standard packaging in Asia.
It also provides opportunities to benefit from the high and sustained growth of this profitable niche manufacturer of injection moulded components and moulds.
The acquisition of Promens extended the Groups geographical reach outside Europe with operations in Canada, Russia, Tunisia, India and China.
