ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 16 OUR BUSINESS MODEL SEEKING EXCELLENCE TOGETHER Our global network of offices and manufacturing sites We provide high quality, technically advanced, expands each year to ensure that we can offer local innovative products and a superior level of support to our customers.
Rotorks culture of local service to support our customers collaboration, respect and excellence is a core activities wherever they are in the world.
philosophy which we share with new offices and acquired businesses to ensure our customers receive We do this in a responsible way, with CSR consistently high quality service throughout the world.
values being entrenched in our business We operate an asset-light business model, with most processes.
We work as a global team, seeking of our manufacturing sites purchasing components in excellence together, to respond rapidly to a finished form and then assembling to order.
changing business environments, introduce new technologies, pioneer new markets, and respond and identify business opportunities.
COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Technological leadership Diverse end market exposure Rotorks technological leadership is driven by our Rotorks actuators and flow control products are used employees who ensure that we remain competitive by most intensively in the oil and gas, power and water maintaining the technical excellence of our products and markets, but our products are used in many other markets.
providing solutions to our customers needs.
We constantly Our diverse end market exposure and participation in strive to improve quality and performance, even when we a wide range of industries means that wherever fluids are the best, we strive to be even better.
or gases are being moved and the process requires automation, or to contain fail-safe controls, actuators Global footprint and flow control products are required.
Our global geographic footprint is key to our continued business success.
Local relationships with customers allow Breadth of product portfolio Rotork to understand long term value generation We have the broadest range of actuators on the market opportunities and ensure that our innovation is relevant and a growing range of complementary flow control to our customers evolving requirements.
We continue to expand the breadth of our presence allows us to manage complex global projects and product portfolio through product development and to support customers in the field.
Rotork Site Services work acquisitions.
Our extensive offering ensures that we with our customers by installing and commissioning our have the appropriate products for the widest range of actuators, and by meeting our customers service applications within a site or a project and increases our requirements.
Our strategic manufacturing locations cross-selling opportunities.
optimise supply chain management and productivity.
E Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information T A V O N N I P A R S S O E D M U B C L Y T W Y O R H T - S W U D O N N P I A K S R O T U N R E C R ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 17 SEEKING DELIVERING EXCELLENCE LONG TERM SUSTAINABLE VALUE TO TOGETHER SHAREHOLDERS Asset-light business model Talented workforce Our asset-light business model allows us to focus on our Our innovative company is built on our talented workforce.
Over 85% of our products are built using Attracting, developing and retaining outstanding talented an outsourced manufacturing model, with our workforce people has been a key part of our success.
Investment in assembling components and configuring products to match our employees and their continued development is a key customer orders.
We have developed a global network of part of our strategy and is essential to ensure that we suppliers who manufacture the components to our designs remain competitive.
Leveraging our international supply chain allows us to achieve and maintain profitable growth while supporting new market entry.
Quality Rotorks products have a reputation for technological excellence, quality and reliability: meeting or exceeding international technical and performance standards.
The reliability of our products is essential as they are used in difficult environments and can be employed in critical applications where consistency of performance and safety is paramount.
Our stringent quality control procedures, which also extend to cover our supply chain, are central to delivering this.
