Strategic report Operations review Africa The majority of our markets performed challenged due to weak economic fundamentals.
The majority of our markets well through strong local portfolios with performed well through strong local portfolios with continued premiumisation and growth of continued premiumisation and growth our affordable brands.
We recorded strong growth in our soft drinks portfolio resulting of our affordable brands.
from price moderation and strong retail execution.
We continue to invest in capacity including the commissioning of the Namibia Mark Bowman brewery during the second half of the year Managing Director, and expansions in Ghana and Nigeria which SABMiller Africa are nearing completion.
The construction of our maltings plants in South Africa and Zambia is progressing well.
EBITA grew 6% on an organic, constant currency basis, but declined by 2% on a reported basis due to the depreciation of key currencies against the US dollar.
We continue to invest behind our brands, innovate and strengthen our execution in trade.
Currency weaknesses created raw material input cost pressures which were partially offset by our focus on improving production ef ciencies and sustainable development initiatives, such as our Go Farming approach.
EBITA margin declined by 70 bps on a reported Africa delivered group NPR growth of 9% on basis driven by transactional impacts of an organic, constant currency basis 1% on a currency depreciation, moderated pricing in reported basis.
The growth was derived from conjunction with our affordability initiatives, share gains across a number of markets, and adverse geographic mix.
total volume growth of 5%, selective pricing and continued premiumisation in lager.
The integration of our South Africa beverages The skill and scale in the The performance in the fourth quarter was business and the rest of Africa into one particularly strong, underpinned by the timing region is progressing well.
The skill and scale South African business of Easter in the year and cycling weaker in the South African business is bene ting the is benefi ting the trading in the prior year.
Lager volumes in the African businesses in the areas of innovation, region grew by 4%, tempered by declines in distribution, sourcing and revenue African businesses.
Tanzania and Zambia, as a result of excisemanagement.
related pricing, and Zimbabwe, which was Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 7,421 13 636 690 7,462 91 1 EBITA US$m 1,954 4 152 109 1,907 6 2 EBITA margin % 26.3 25.6 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 46,768 1,645 48,413 44 Soft drinks 32,080 2 2,819 34,901 99 Other alcoholic beverages 7,618 62 62 7,618 1 Total beverages 86,466 60 4,526 90,932 55 1 In 2015 before a net exceptional credit of US$45 million being additional pro t on disposal of a business in 2012 2014: net exceptional charges of US$8 million being Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment related charges of US$33 million, net of pro t on disposal of a business of US$25 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 23 Strategic report Operations review Africa | | In South Africa, strong group NPR growth Castle Lager in mainstream, price increases of 9% on organic, constant currency basis in the context of mid-single digit in ation, and was delivered in the context of weak growth in spirits volumes.
The growth in the economic growth.
Lager volume growth latter was across the portfolio, aided by brand of 2% was driven by market share gains, renovations and increased investment in our selectivity in in ation-related price increases sales force.
and improved mix resulting from the double digit growth of our premium brands Castle Stimulated by Impala, Castle Lite and Lite and Castle Milk Stout.
In the mainstream 2M, lager volumes in Mozambique grew segment, sustained growth in Castle Lager by double digits despite the impact of and Carling Black Label volumes was widespread oods in parts of the country partially offset by a decline in Hansa Pilsener.
The drivers of growth Innovation in the avoured beer segment include selective adjustments to price points, continued to deliver strong growth from both a revamped route to market, and a more Flying Fish and Castle Lite Lime.
Fixed costs stable political environment.
This resulted and manufacturing ef ciencies produced in group NPR growth of 22% on an organic, productivity bene ts that mitigated the impact constant currency basis.
Traditional beer of the shift in consumer preferences into performance was impacted by the ban on lower margin packs.
Soft drinks volume PET which affected our Chibuku brand.
The growth of 8% in a highly competitive integration of the wines and spirits business, environment was aided by improved acquired in the prior year, has been trade execution, price restraint and successfully completed.
Strong growth continued in 2 litre PET packs In Nigeria, group NPR growth supported by the growth of remained strong, with volume 440 ml cans and 330 ml growth driven by incremental 9% Castle Lite becomes PET bottles.
Reductions in capacity, improved availability Group NPR growth on an distribution and xed costs and continued sales and a signifi cant regional organic, constant continued and were partially distribution focus.
premium brand offset by discounts to manage alcoholic malt beverage price points.
Our regional brands, Hero and Castle Lite strengthened its In Tanzania, lager volumes declined Trophy, are performing well on an position as an Africa-wide by 7% due to excise-related pricing and absolute and relative basis as they establish premium brand attracting new a weak agricultural harvest affecting rural themselves as local heartland offerings and consumers of both genders consumer sentiment, although we still gained are resonating strongly with consumers.
and creating new occasions share of the lager market.
Group NPR still Their respective contribution to the regions for consumption.
grew by 6% on a constant currency basis they service is growing and brand visibility re ecting positive lager brand mix driven by is increasing.
Twenty-one years after its launch Castle Lite in the premium segment and in South Africa, Castle Lite which is made at -2.5C is now enjoyed in 11 countries.
This year, regional volumes grew by more than 20%, with particularly strong growth in Mozambique, Namibia, South Flavour innovation Africa and Zambia.
We are now drives growth looking to align Castle Lites Extra Cold proposition across the continent.
Extending refreshment occasions is another route to realising topline growth.
To achieve this, we have launched avoured beer innovations, such as Flying Fish in South Africa.
Flying Fish engages both male and female drinkers from other categories on a greater variety of occasions.
The brand grew strongly in the year supported by the introduction of convenience packs and has now been launched in five other African countries.
The launch of Castle Lite Lime, the first brand extension of the very successful Castle Lite brand, is another example of innovation with avour.
Castle Lite Lime complements our avoured Brutal Fruit and Redds brands.
24 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Building on our success in mainstream African spirits We are building on our mainstream local spirits success in Tanzania to develop the category across Africa.
The African local spirits market is fragmented and largely informal, with most products being untaxed, unregulated and of low quality.
Following our 1993 acquisition of Tanzania Breweries Limited, which included Tanzania Distillers Limited, we have had great success.
Over the past five years, Konyagi volumes have increased at a compound annual growth rate of 25%.
We are now looking to replicate this success selectively with new local operations.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, we acquired a spirits business in Mozambique and in the year we commenced operations in Ethiopia and Nigeria.
Group NPR in Zambia grew by 3% re ecting price increases in both lager and soft drinks Prosper and growth in soft drinks volumes.
Pro tability was impacted by an 8% decline in lager Across Africa, some of our breweries face volumes driven by the excise-related price water supply challenges, from availability increases taken in January 2014.
Beyond our breweries, water returned to growth in the final quarter, as scarcity limits prosperity and growth for we cycled the excise increase, together with thousands of communities.
SABMiller strategic price repositioning and the launch of invests in partnerships to secure water mainstream bulk packs.
Soft drinks volumes for our business growth and for the water grew by 3% resulting from increased users around us.
In 2014 we funded a availability while traditional beer volumes Water Resources Group partnership in declined 2%.
Tanzania to bring together the government and private sector to address a number Trading in Botswana was rejuvenated with of pressing water resource issues.
Supporting African total volumes growing by 8%, driven by the launch of new packs, lager market share Read more about how we are partnering innovation gains and robust growth in the 2 litre PET to tackle water risk on page 48. soft drinks pack.
In Africa, we have pioneered the use of Harmful consumption of alcohol remains traditional local crops such as sorghum In Zimbabwe, consumers disposable a signi cant concern across the region.
In and cassava in beer, creating new markets income remained under pressure amid a South Africa, where underage drinking is a for small-scale subsistence farmers who negative economic environment.
This has serious issue, YouDecide encourages young can now sell surplus crops, boosting their resulted in a loss in volume and increased people to make positive choices and avoid income and food security.
In Uganda, for demand for economy brands and packs drinking underage.
Since it was introduced, example, Nile Breweries directly supports which has driven down value.
Chibuku our campaign has reached more than 1,000 20,000 smallholder farmers who grow Super volumes grew by 23%.
schools and over half a million students.
sorghum for Eagle lager, which has helped Through the reality TV series, Future us become the number one brewer in Castel, our associate, delivered volume Leaders, it showcases ordinary teenagers the market.
growth of 6% with notable performances who are role models for others struggling in lager achieved in the competitive markets to do the right thing.
Through a new exchange programme, of the Democratic Republic of Congo in partnership with the Royal Society in and Ethiopia, as well as Burkina Faso and Read more at www.
za London, we hope to identify, nurture and Cameroon.
This was supported by soft grow local African scienti c expertise to drinks growth in Angola, Algeria and the Read more about regional and country drive the next innovations in agriculture, Ivory Coast.
All these factors assisted sustainability priorities and performance at renewable energy, water security group NPR growth during the year.
Our associate Distells volume performance was up 2% on an organic basis supported by selective price increases and a change in sales and brand mix.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 25 ASIA PACIFIC Where we operate Lager volumes 71.2m hl 1 -2% Signi cant business with production operations Associates Selling operations and major export markets Group NPR 2.5 hl US$3,867m water hl beer 2 2 -4% Our Yatala site in Australia is 1 % EBITA the groups most US$768m water-effi cient brewery.
Drive superior topline growth through our brands: China: Premium growth from Snow Draft and Brave the World: Australia: Premium lager volumes up 7%.
