Governance Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to shareholders, Dividends together with the audited annual financial statements for the year An interim dividend of 26 US cents per share was paid to ended 31 March 2015. shareholders on 5 December 2014 in respect of the year ended 31March 2015.
Details of the final dividend proposed by the Much of the information previously provided as part of the directors boardfor the year ended 31 March 2015 are set out below: report is now required to be presented as part of the strategic report, which includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Amount of final dividend proposed by the board: we face, our development and performance during the year, our 87 US cents per share.
position at the end of the year, key performance indicators, and information relating to environmental matters, employee matters Total proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015: andsocial, community, and human rights issues.
The directors report includes information required under the If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and either section of the register on 7 August 2015 in the following way: Transparency Rules.
Dividend payable on: For the purposes of compliance with the Disclosure and 14 August 2015.
Transparency Rules, the strategic report and this directors report, including those sections of the annual report incorporated by Currency of payment: reference, constitute a management report.
South African rands to shareholders on the RSA section of theregister: Directors US dollars to shareholders shown as having an address The names and biographical details of the current directors are set intheUSA and recorded on the UK section of the register out on pages 52 and 53.
All the current directors served throughout unlessmandated otherwise : and the period, except Jan du Plessis, who was appointed as a director Pounds sterling to all other shareholders on the UK section on 1 September 2014, and Trevor Manuel who was appointed as a of theregister.
Miles Morland served as a director until his retirement on 24 July 2014 and Jamie Wilson until 18February 2015.
Ex-dividend dates: As detailed in our corporate governance report, itis intended that 3 August 2015 for shares traded on the JSE Limited, South Africa.
at our annual general meeting on 23 July 2015: JavierFerrn will join 6 August 2015 for shares traded on the London Stock Exchange the board as an independent non-executive director: Dave Beran LSE.
will join the board as a non-executive director nominated by Altria and John Manser, John Manzoni and Howard Willard will retire.
The rate of exchange for conversion from US dollars will be calculated Details of the interests in shares and options of the directors who on 22 July 2015 and published on the RNS of the LSE and the SENS held office during the year and any persons connected to them are of the JSE Limited on 23 July 2015. set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 96.
Shareholders registered on the RSA section of the register will, Corporate governance unless a shareholder qualifies for an exemption, be subject to a The directors approach to corporate governance and statements dividend withholding tax at a rate of 15%.
The dividend withholding of our application of the UK Corporate Governance Code are set out tax is only of direct application to shareholders registered on the in the corporate governance report, which forms part of this directors RSAsection of the register, who should direct any questions about report, on pages 56 to 69, in the audit committee report on pages the application of the dividend withholding tax to Computershare 70 to 73 and in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 96.
Investor Services Pty Limited, tel: 27 11 373 0004.
Share capital Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses Details of the issued share capital and movement in it during the dividendswaived.
year are provided in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Purchase of own shares During the year 2,848,471 ordinary shares were purchased At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was by the trustee of the SABMiller Employees Benefit Trust EBT obtained for us to purchase our own shares up to a maximum of at an average price of 33.32 per share which amounted to 0.17% 10% of the number of ordinary shares in issue as at 2 June 2014. of the issued ordinary shares of the company and we transferred This authority is due to expire at the earlier of the next annual general a further 3,500,000 ordinary shares from treasury to the trustee of meeting or 24 October 2015, and remains exercisable provided EBT, in order to ensure that the trustee of EBT continued to hold thatcertain conditions relating to the purchase are met.
The notice sufficient ordinary shares to meet expected future obligations in ofannual general meeting proposes that shareholders approve respect of performance share awards under the Share Award Plan.
a resolution updating and renewing the authority allowing us to purchase our own shares.
Annual general meeting Our 2015 annual general meeting will be held at the InterContinental We did not repurchase any shares during the year for the purpose London Park Lane, One Hamilton Place, London W1V 7QY, UK at ofcancellation, holding in treasury, or for any other purpose.
Copies of the notice of this meeting may be obtained from our website.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 97 Governance Directors report continued | Directors report continued Political donations Research and development Our Carlton & United Breweries CUB business paid membership To ensure improved overall operational effectiveness, we place fees to registered political parties and incurred expenditure in considerable emphasis on research and development in our global attending public policy events by registered political parties.
This enables us to develop new products, The total value of the fees and expenditure incurred was packaging, processes and manufacturing technologies.
All CUB expenditure related to participation and progress was made in our research in the key areas of raw materials, attendance at public policy events.
CUB also donated Crown brewing, flavour stability, packaging materials and energy and Ambassador products to the value of US$523 to the Liberal Party watersaving.
CUB does not provide stand-alone cash to any political party.
Donations of this nature in Australia are an accepted part Greenhouse gas emissions of the socio-political environment.
Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are included in the strategic report, on page 48.
It remains our policy not to make donations to political organisations in the European Union.
Other political donations are only made Overseas branches by exception, and where permitted by local laws, and must be SABMiller plc does not have any branches registered overseas.
consistent with the support of multi-party democracy.
Substantial shareholdings Employment, environmental and social policies As at 2 June 2015, we had received the following notifications of Our aim is to be the employer of choice in each country in which interests in voting rights of the issued share capital of the company our group companies operate.
To achieve this, each operating pursuant to Rule 5.1.
2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: company designs employment policies which attract, retain and Percentage motivate the highest quality of staff.
We are committed to an active Date of Number of issued 1 equal opportunities policy, from recruitment and selection, through notification of shares share capital training and development, appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Altria Group, Inc. 29 June 2012 430,000,000 26.99 Within the constraints of local law, it is our policy to ensure that BevCo Ltd. 2 June 2014 225,000,000 13.99 everyone is treated equally, regardless of gender, colour, nationality, Public Investment Corporation 11 March 2015 50,780,462 3.14 ethnic origin, race, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or trade union affiliation.
We value the benefits of employing The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of persons with people of different races, genders, creeds and backgrounds.
If significant direct or indirect holdings of securities as at the year end.
employees become disabled, efforts are made to allow them to At the year end we were aware of the following shareholdings of continue in theirrole, or a suitable alternative role, through making 3.00% or more: reasonable adjustments.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their Percentage of issued particular aptitudes and abilities.
1 share capital Altria Group, Inc. 26.60 We are committed to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global BevCo Ltd 13.92 Compact, which sets out universally accepted principles in the Public Investment Corporation 3.43 areasof human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
BlackRock Inc. 3.11 Our website sets out these principles and our progress towards achieving them.
1 Excluding shares held in treasury.
We are committed to regular communication and consultation Directors indemnities with our employees and we encourage employee involvement in The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, our performance.
We have distribution of real time news through our uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which intranet, which is available to businesses to help inform employees they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the company about what is happening in our global operations.
Further information orof one or more of its subsidiaries and associates.
The company is provided to employees at regional and country level by way of secretary has also been granted an indemnity, on similar terms, a mix of channels such as newsletters, employees boards, covering his role as group company secretary of the company, meetings and electronic communication.
andas a director or as company secretary of one or more of the companys subsidiaries and associates.
The board believes that it Certain employees throughout the group are eligible to participate isin the best interests of the group to attract and retain the services inthe groups share incentive plans.
of the most able and experienced directors and officers by offering competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of The sustainable development review on pages 46 to 49 gives suchindemnities.
an overview of the progress of the implementation of our new sustainable development ambition, Prosper, and of the impact These indemnities are categorised as qualifying third-party indemnity of our business on the environment.
More detailed information provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. is provided in our 2015 sustainable development report, available They will continue in force for the benefit of directors and officers on our website.
inrespect of their periods of office.
98 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance The company does not have any agreements with any director Financial instruments orofficer that would provide compensation for loss of office or Information on our financial risk management objectives and policies employment resulting from a takeover.
and details of our exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk andcash flow risk are contained in note 21 to the consolidated Our articles of association allow directors, in their absolute discretion, financial statements.
to refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid or the transfer of a share in certificated form on Future developments whichthe company has a lien.
If that share has been admitted to the Details of likely future developments in the business of the group Official List, the board may not refuse to register the transfer if this areincluded in the strategic report.
would prevent dealings in our shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer Other disclosures required by the Companies Act ofa share in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer is andthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the address at which our We do not have any contractual or other arrangements that register is held or at such other place as the directors may appoint, individually are essential to the business of the company or the and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution groupas a whole.
where acertificate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates The structure of our share capital, including the rights and obligations and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require attaching to each class of share and the percentage of the share to showthe right of the transferor to make the transfer, is in respect capital that each class of share comprises, is set out in note 25 ofonly one class of share and is in favour of not more than four to theconsolidated financial statements.
There are no securities transferees jointly.
of thecompany that grant the holder special control rights.
Transfers of shares in uncertificated form must be made in At 31 March 2015 our employees benefit trusts held 8,997,945 accordance with, and subject to, the Uncertificated Securities ordinary shares in the company.
By agreement with the company, Regulations the Regulations, the facilities and requirements of the voting rights attached to these shares are not exercised unless relevant CREST system and such arrangements as the board shares arebeneficially owned by a participant and that participant has may determine in relation to the transfer of certificated shares instructed the underlying shareholder to vote.
As at 31 March 2015 subject tothe Regulations.
there were no shares beneficially owned by a participant in our employees benefit trusts.
Transfers of shares listed on the JSE in uncertificated form must bemade in accordance with, and subject to, the Securities Services The directors are responsible for the management of the business Act 2004, the Rules and Directives of the JSE and STRATE Ltd. ofthe company and may exercise all the powers of the company Certificated shares may be transferred prior to dematerialisation, subject to the articles of association and relevant statutes.
butshare certificates must be dematerialised prior to trading in Powers ofthe directors relating to the issuing and buying back the STRATE environment.
of shares areset out in the articles of association.
These powers are subject torenewal by our shareholders each year at the Pursuant to our code for securities transactions, directors and annual general meeting.
persons discharging managerial responsibilities, and employees may, in certain circumstances, require approval to deal in the Our articles of association give the board of directors power to companys shares.
The articles of association may be amended byspecial resolution of the shareholders.
Unless the directors otherwise determine, no shareholder is entitled in respect of any share held by them to vote either personally or Directors appointed by the board are required to submit themselves byproxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right for election by the shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if Additionally, as disclosed in the corporate governance report on anycall or other sum presently payable by them to the company in pages 56 to 69, Altria Group, Inc. Altria and BevCo Ltd BevCo respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no shareholder will havepower under their respective relationship agreements with the be entitled to vote if they have been served with a notice after failing company to nominate directors for appointment to the board and to provide the company with information concerning interests in certain committees.
These relationship agreements also regulate those shares required to be provided under Section 793 of the orderly marketing processes applicable in relation to any disposal Companies Act 2006.
Restrictions on the rights of the holders ofshares by Altria and BevCo.
of convertible shares and deferred shares are set out in note 25 to theconsolidated financial statements although there are no We have a number of facility agreements with banks which contain provisions giving rights to the banks upon a change of control of convertible shares currently in issue.
A change of control of the company would also give The Coca-Cola Company certain rights under its bottling agreements Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to with various subsidiaries of the company, and in certain limited corporate members, by a corporate representative.
The deadline circumstances may give China Resources Enterprise, Limited the fordelivering proxy forms is 48 hours before the time for holding ability to exercise certain rights under a shareholders agreement in themeeting.
relation to our associate CR Snow.
A change of control may also give the Molson Coors Brewing Company the ability to exercise certain rights under the MillerCoors operating agreement, and would result in certain minority protection rights contained in ourrelationship agreement with the Anadolu Group and Anadolu Efes ceasing to apply.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 99 Governance Directors report continued | Directors report continued A copy of the consolidated and company financial statements is Going concern placed on the companys website.
The directors are responsible The directors have reviewed the groups performance for the year forthe maintenance and integrity of the statutory and audited and the principal risks it faces, together with the budget and cash information on the companys website.
Legislation in the United flow forecasts, in particular with reference to the period to the end Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial ofSeptember 2016, and the application of reasonably possible statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
sensitivities associated with these forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in light of the current financial position and existing The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken committed borrowing facilities, the directors are satisfied that the asa whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups and therefore have continued to adopt the going concern basis performance, business model and strategy.
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on Directors responsibility statement pages 52 and 53 of this annual report, confirms that, to the best The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, ofhis or her knowledge: thedirectors remuneration report and the financial statements inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Companies Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the consolidated view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial group: and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the management report contained in this annual report includes and the parent company financial statements in accordance afair review of the development and performance of the business with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the position of the group, together with a description of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Under company law the directors must not approve the consolidated The directors in office at the date of this report have each financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true confirmed that: and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the groups auditors are unaware: and In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware select suitable accounting policies and then apply of anyrelevant audit information and to establish that the them consistently: groups auditors are aware of that information.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Post balance sheet events applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject In May 2015 we entered into an agreement to acquire Meantime to any material departures disclosed and explained in the group Brewing Company.
The acquisition of the London-based modern and parent company financial statements respectively: and craft brewer is expected to complete in June 2015. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the Stephen Shapiro company will continue in business.
Group Company Secretary For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 2 June 2015 records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the company and group and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and group and enable them to ensure that the company and consolidated financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
100 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R the table below gives the location of information required by that Rule to be included in the annual report and accounts.
Listing Rule Information Location LR 9.8.
4 1 Amount of interest capitalised and amount and treatment Not applicable: no interest capitalised.
4 2 Information required by Listing Rule 9.2.
18 regarding Not applicable: no relevant information published the prior publication of unaudited financial information.
inadvance of this annual report and accounts.
4 4 Long-term incentive schemes where the only participant Not applicable: no such arrangements exist.
is a director or prospective director of the company and the arrangement is established specifically to facilitate therecruitment or retention of the director.
4 5 Arrangements under which a director has waived or In accordance with our agreement with Altria, Howard agreed to waive emoluments from the company or any Willard, as an executive director of Altria, did not receive subsidiary undertaking.
a directors fee from SABMiller see page 85.
John Manzoni declined to accept his directors fees with effect from 30 October 2014, when he announced his intention to retire from the board on 23 July 2015.
4 6 Agreements with a director to waive future emoluments.
Not applicable: no such agreement exists.
4 7 Details of shares allotted during the period under review Not applicable: the only shares that have been allotted which have not been allotted to existing shareholders during the period have been to satisfy the exercise inproportion to their shareholdings and which have ofoptions under various share incentive plans as notbeen specifically authorised by the companys approved by the companys shareholders.
to the consolidated financial statements for further details of these allotments.
Not applicable: no individual subsidiary is a major LR 9.8.
4 8 Shares allotted in major subsidiary undertakings during the period under review which have not been allotted to subsidiary undertaking as defined by the Listing Rules.
existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
4 9 Details of any parent undertakings participation in any Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a parent placing during the period under review.
4 10 Details of any contract of significance as defined by Not applicable: no such contract of significance exists.
theListing Rules existing between SABMiller, or any of its subsidiaries, in which either a director is materially interested or one of the parties is a controlling shareholder of SABMiller.
4 11 Details of any contract for the provision of services to Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a SABMiller, or any of its subsidiaries, by a controlling controlling shareholder.
4 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder The trustees of the two employee benefit trusts have has waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
elected to waive dividends, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares beneficially owned by participants.
See notes 9 and 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
4 13 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder As noted above the trustees of the two employee has agreed to waive future dividends.
benefit trusts have elected to waive dividends, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares beneficially owned by participants.
4 14 Agreements with any controlling shareholder.
Not applicable: SABMiller does not have a controlling shareholder.
