Governance Executive committee The executive committee excom is 1.
Alan Clark Chief Executive SABMiller Africa Appointed to the executive committee: appointed by the Chief Executive after Appointed to the executive committee: 1 October 2000 1 October 2007 Alans biography can be found on page 52. consultation with the board.
It comprises Mark was appointed Managing Director 3.
Sue Clark Managing Director, ofSABMiller Africa in 2007 and has been SABMiller Europe the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial instrumental in developing SABMillers Appointed to the executive committee: beerand soft drinks operations on the 10 February 2003 Officer, regional managing directors and African continent since then.
Following the Sue was appointed Managing Director, consolidation of SABMillers South Africa directors of group functions.
Its purpose is SABMiller Europe in June 2012.
She joined beverage business and Africa division into SABMiller in 2003 as Corporate Affairs one region for management purposes, he to support the Chief Executive in carrying Director.
Before this, she held a number became Managing Director of the enlarged ofsenior roles in UK companies, including SABMiller Africa region on 1 July 2014. out the duties delegated to him by the board.
that of Director of Corporate Affairs for He joined The South African Breweries Railtrack Group and Scottish Power plc.
In that context, excom executes the strategy Limited SAB Ltd in 1993 and has held various senior positions in the group and budget approved by the board.
It also including Managing Director of Kompania Piwowarska S. A.
Managing Director of ensures that regular management reports ABI the soft drinks division of SAB Ltd andChairman of Appletiser.
are presented to the board, that effective He is an independent non-executive director of Tiger Brands Limited.
internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
54 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 4.
Ari Mervis Managing Director, and Corporate Affairs Director, ofGroup Strategy and Acting Chief Integrated Supply & Human SABMiller Asia Pacific and Chief SABMiller plc Financial Officer, SABMiller plc Resources, SABMiller plc Executive Officer, Carlton & United Breweries Appointed to the executive committee: Appointed to the executive committee: Appointed to the executive committee: 1 August 2006 1 July 2011 1 February 2003 Appointed to the executive committee: 1 October 2007 John joined the group as General Counsel Domenic was appointed Director of Group Tony was appointed Director: Integrated and Group Company Secretary in 2006.
In Strategy in 2014 and Acting Chief Financial Supply & Human Resources, SABMiller plc Ari was appointed Managing Director, November 2014 he assumed responsibility Officer in February 2015.
He is a Chartered in October 2008.
He joined The South AsiaPacific and Chief Executive Officer for regulatory affairs, communications Accountant SA, completing his articles African Breweries Limited SAB Ltd in 1982 ofCarlton & United Breweries in 2011. andsustainable development, and is now atArthur Young, and joined SABMillers and has held a number of senior positions He joined ABI, the soft drinks division General Counsel and Corporate Affairs corporate finance team in 1996 from UAL in the group, including that of Chairman of The South African Breweries Limited Director.
Before joining SABMiller, he Investment Bank in South Africa.
He has and Chief Executive Officer, Plzensk SAB Ltd, in 1989 and has held various spent his entire legal career at Lovells, held a number of senior positions in the Prazdroj a. s. and, most recently, Chairman senior positions in sales, marketing, finance a leading international law firm, where he group, including that of Director, Corporate and Managing Director: SAB Ltd.
He is and general management.
He has held was apartner from 1991, specialising Finance and Development for Europe accountable for group procurement, the position of Managing Director, SABMiller in international corporate finance, cross and the Americas, Director of the global technical, planning, distribution and R&D, Asia, Managing Director of Appletiser and border mergers and acquisitions, and corporate finance and development team, and human resources.
Managing Director of SABMiller operations corporate governance advisory work.
and Director, Group Strategy & Corporate in Russia and Australia.
Tony intends to retire at the end of He was the Chairman of the GC100 group Development.
He is a director of the Melbourne Business theassociation of general counsel and School, and Chairman of China Resources 6.
Nick Fell Marketing Director, company secretaries of companies in 8.
Karl Lippert President, SABMiller Snow Breweries.
SABMiller plc theFTSE 100 for 2010 and 2011.
Latin America Appointed to the executive committee: Appointed to the executive committee: 1 August 2006 1 January 2011 Nick was appointed Marketing Director, Karl was appointed President, SABMiller SABMiller plc in 2006.
He has extensive Latin America in 2011.
He joined the group experience in developing global in 1992 and has extensive experience in commercial strategy and previously held theglobal brewing industry.
He has held senior roles in Cadbury Schweppes Plc anumber of senior positions in the group and Diageo plc.
including that of President of Bavaria S. A. and Managing Director of Kompania Piwowarska S. A.
