Strategic report Our business model is built on our passion for beer We are local beer experts.
Our success is rooted in deep local insights, global skills, talented people and community investment.
Understanding consumer tastes Refreshing our success: innovation and applying local insights and selling across the price spectrum Sharing our consumers passion for local beer, more than We enhance our enduring brands with innovation across a vibrant 200 of our brands are mostly sold locally in their country spectrum of beer styles to re ect demographic, cultural and societal or region of origin.
We have a selected number of regional shifts and evolving consumer tastes.
and global brands, which complement our local portfolios.
We reinvigorate national icon brands to keep our strength in core lager and are developing products for more occasions and consumer types.
Our brands range from entry-level beers, including sorghum and cassava beers such as Eagle and Impala to international super premium beers such as Peroni Nastro Azzurro.
Creating sustainable value chains We create sustainable value chains that contribute to local economic and social development.
Sourcing Brewing Bottling and distribution Working closely with suppliers, including Producing beers that taste great demands Delivering quality, fresh beers and soft drinks for large-scale and smallholder farmers who a mix of traditional craftsmanship, modern our consumers to enjoy while minimising waste grow quality crops, and sourcing locally science and fresh, natural ingredients.
and promoting returnable bottles and recycling.
Using global skills and scale Investing in talent for to drive local performance competitive advantage Our local markets focus on commercial activity, producing, We are proud to attract and retain the best talent, and invest marketing and selling the right beers and beverages for in individuals skills and careers.
The global mobility of our leaders is one of our major strengths, We support our country operations with broader, shared service by moving around, they take insights into new markets.
These help us to achieve economies and ef ciencies We incentivise management at every level through a rigorous of scale and drive duplicative costs out of local businesses.
goal-setting process that aligns the need for commercial success We also share best practice and success across our markets with the longer-term ambition of achieving sustainable best practice.
in innovation, marketing, technical standards and training.
12 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Working with associates and joint ventures We generate a signi cant amount of group NPR from interests in associates and joint ventures and in Africa we have signi cant minorities in our subsidiaries.
These have facilitated our global expansion and are valuable where local knowledge is an important asset.
Delivering value for our stakeholders: sustainable superior returns for shareholders: refreshment and sociability for consumers: jobs and career Retail Consumers Partnering with small and large retailers Listening and responding development for in the onand off-trade segment to to changing consumer needs, bring refreshment and sociability using local insight and broadening employees: to our consumers.
our appeal across new segments and occasions.
incomes and livelihoods for suppliers and retailers: Partnering for support for shared prosperity national economies: and By supporting the small businesses across our value chains and our local communities to prosper, our business will prosper too.
investment in By joining forces with others who share our goals, we can co-ordinate communities.
action and unlock innovation for job creation, responsible alcohol consumption, watershed protection, lower carbon emissions and more productive use of land.
We tailor our response to address local challenges, widening and deepening partnerships as our initiatives grow and our understanding develops.
