Governance Corporate governance continued | Roles and responsibilities Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive, as well as through regular circulation to the board and the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director inclusion in the board papers of reports on comments from, and The Chairman and Chief Executive have separate roles and the exchanges with, shareholders, investor bodies and analysts.
division of responsibilities between them is set out in a written statement of responsibilities approved by the board.
The roles of executive and non-executive directors Our executive directors are responsible for proposing strategy The Senior Independent Director serves as an additional contact andfor making and implementing operational decisions.
He is also available to fellow non-executive non-executive directors complement the skills and experience directors, either individually or collectively, to discuss any matters ofthe executive directors.
They bring independent judgement of concern in a forum that does not include the Chairman, the andconstructive challenge to the boardroom and contribute to executive directors or other members of the management team.
theformulation of strategy, policy and decision-making through The statement of responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman and their collective wealth of knowledge and experience of other Senior Independent Director was last revised following Guy Elliotts businesses and sectors.
appointment and was approved by the board at its meeting in March 2014.
The Group Company Secretary The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the board and Our Chairman and Deputy Chairman are both available to consult its committees and attended all meetings during the year under with shareholders throughout the year.
The board is kept informed review.
The current Group Company Secretary, Stephen Shapiro, of the views of shareholders through regular updates from was appointed on 1 November 2014, succeeding John Davidson the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the General Counsel and who stepped down from the role following the assumption of his Corporate Affairs Director, and the Group Company Secretary, additional corporate affairs responsibilities, but who still attends all board and committee meetings as General Counsel.
The boards committees and the executive committee The disclosure committee The board currently operates six committees.
The disclosure committee consists of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, any one The composition of the audit, disclosure and executive committees other non-executive director, the General Counsel and Corporate is set out below.
Affairs Director, and the Group Company Secretary.
The function of the disclosure committee, in accordance with our inside information The composition and work of the nomination, remuneration and policy, is to meet as and when required to ensure compliance with the corporate accountability and risk assurance committees are the companys obligations to disclose inside information under the UKs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules, included on pages 63 and 64. as guided by the General Counsel and by the Group Company Secretary.
It also aims to ensure that the routes of communication The audit committee between executive committee members, the disclosure committee, During the year under review the audit committee was chaired by the Group Company Secretarys office and investor relations are Mark Armour, who first joined the committee on 1 May 2010 and clear, and can enable any decision regarding potential inside hasbeen its chairman since 6 June 2013.
Mark Armour is a qualified information to be escalated rapidly to the disclosure committee, accountant and, as the former chief financial officer of Reed Elsevier, key advisers and the board.
has recent and relevant financial experience.
He was a partner of Price Waterhouse until 1995, and is currently a non-executive The executive committee director of Tesco plc, and a member of its audit committee, The board delegates responsibility for proposing and implementing and a director ofthe Financial Reporting Council.
the groups strategy and for managing the group to the Chief Executive, Alan Clark, who is supported by the executive committee Dinyar Devitre, Guy Elliott, Lesley Knox and Helen Weir also served excom, which he chairs.
Excom members are appointed by on the committee throughout the year.
Dinyar Devitre has been Alan Clark, after consultation with the board.
The other members amember of the committee since 16 May 2007, Guy Elliott since of excom are the Chief Financial Officer, regional managing directors 25July 2013 and Lesley Knox and Helen Weir since 19 May 2011. and directors of key group functions corporate finance and strategy, The board is satisfied that the Chairman, Dinyar Devitre, Guy Elliott, legal and corporate affairs, marketing, and integrated supply Lesley Knox and Helen Weir have recent and relevant financial and human resources.
Excoms purpose is to support the Chief experience.
Miles Morland served on the committee until his Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by theboard retirement at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on and, in that context, it executes the strategy and budget approved 24 July 2014. by the board and, through the Chief Executive, reports onthese matters to the board.
Biographical information concerning Mark Armour and members ofthe committee is set out on pages 52 and 53.
Excom also ensures that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process Further details of thework and responsibilities of the audit committee in operation throughout the group.
The audit committee reviews the are included inthe audit committee report on pages 70 to 73. risk management processes put in place by excom and the board reviews the groups significant risks, following excoms review of those risks.
