John Manser Chairman Member of: Corporate accountability Previous appointments: He was the 7.
Dinyar Devitre Non-Executive andrisk assurance committee Chief Financial Officer of Rio Tinto plc Director Appointed to the board: 1 June 2001 andRio Tinto Limited and the senior Executive committee Appointed to the board: 16 May 2007 John will be stepping down from the board independent director of Cadbury plc.
at the conclusion of the 2015 annual Skills and experience: Dinny brings both 3.
Jan du Plessis Independent Member of: Audit committee general meeting.
financial expertise and strategic counsel Non-Executive Director and Remuneration committee tothe group.
He has extensive experience Skills and experience: John was Chairman Designate of managing global fast-moving consumer appointed as Chairman in December 2013, Nomination committee Appointed to the board: goods corporations.
having been a non-executive director 1 September 2014 5.
He has a comprehensive Current appointments: A nominee Jan will become Chairman on 23 July 2015, Non-Executive Director understanding of the SABMiller group and ofAltria, he is a member of the board of replacing John Manser who is stepping Appointed to the board: 1 May 2010 of the global beverage industry.
He also Altria, a special adviser atGeneral Atlantic down at the conclusion of the 2015 Skills and experience: Mark brings has an extensive knowledge of the banking LLC, andadirector and chairman of the annual general meeting.
strategic and financial expertise to the and financial services industries and is an audit committee of Markit Group Ltd.
He Skills and experience: Jan has an board and has significant experience experienced chairman, having previously is also the Executive Chairman of Pratham excellent record as a chairman of major of managing an international group.
chaired the boards of a number of USA, serves as atrustee of the Brooklyn international groups with developing market listed companies.
Current appointments: He is a Academy of Musicand is a trustee footprints and a wealth of experience of non-executive director of Tesco plc, emeritus of the AsiaSociety.
Current appointments: He is the international consumer businesses.
andadirector of the Financial Reporting chairman of Hannam and Partners and Previous appointments: His career Current appointments: He is chairman Council, the UKs independent regulator thedeputy chairman of Marlborough with the Altria group of companies spans of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
responsible for promoting high quality College Council.
a 35 year period in which he served in Previous appointments: In his earlier corporate governance.
Before his Previous appointments: Previously the career he was Group Finance Director Previous appointments: He was retirement in2008, he served as the Senior chairman of Intermediate Capital Group plc, ofCompagnie Financire Richemont, previously Chief Financial Officer of Reed Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Shaftesbury PLC and deputy chairman theSwiss luxury goods group.
He was also a director and ofColliers CRE plc, he has also held a alsoserved as a non-executive director and Reed Elsevier in 1995 he was a partner chairmanof the Corporate Governance number of directorships in the financial subsequently chairman ofBritish American of Price Waterhouse in London.
and Public Policy Committee at Western services industry including chairman of Tobacco plc, as a non-executive director Union Company.
He is a former Member of: Audit committee Chairman and chairman of the audit committee member of the Presidents Committee of Remuneration committee Member of: Audit committee of Lloyds Banking Group plc and as a the British Banking Association, a director 6.
Lesley Knox Independent non-executive director and senior of the Securities and Investments Board Director Non-Executive Director independent director of Marks and is a past chairman of the London Appointed to the board: 1 August 2002 andSpencer Group plc.
Appointed to the board: 19 May 2011 Investment Banking Association.
Skills and experience: Geoff has held Member of: Nomination committee Skills and experience: Lesley brings a Member of: Corporate accountability senior roles in a number of multinational wealth of strategic and financial experience andrisk assurance committee 4.
Guy Elliott Deputy Chairman companies and has a wealth of experience across a range of businesses and is an and Senior Independent Director Nomination committee Chairman of global consumer products businesses.
experienced remuneration committee Appointed to the board: 1 July 2013 2.
Alan Clark Chief Executive chairman.
She qualified as a solicitor in Current appointments: He is a nominee Skills and experience: Guy has extensive theUK and as an attorney in the USA.
of Altria Group, Inc. Altria, and was Appointed to the board: 26 July 2012 experience of operating in both developed appointed to the board following Current appointments: She is a Skills and experience: Alan has and developing markets, having previously completion of the Miller Brewing Company non-executive director of Centrica plc an extensive knowledge of the global held a variety of finance, marketing, strategy transaction.
He is also a member of the where she chairs the remuneration beverage industry, having held a number and general management positions advisory board of Metalmark Capital LLC.
committee and is a trustee of the of management roles with the group, throughout his career.
Grosvenor Estates and chairman of Previous appointments: He is the former both in beer and soft drinks.
He became Current appointments: He is a Grosvenor Group Limited.
She is Managing Director, SABMiller Europe, in chairman and CEO of the Philip Morris non-executive director of Royal Dutch Shell involved with a number of arts and group of companies, the former chairman 2003 and was appointed as an executive plc and chairman of its audit committee.
director andChief Operating Officer of of Altria and Kraft Foods Inc. and a past is a member of the UK Takeover Panel and non-executive director of News SABMiller plc in 2012, before becoming Previous appointments: She was chairman of the Panels Code Committee.
Corporation Ltd. previously with British Linen Bank, becoming governor in 1999 and was Current appointments: He does not Member of: Nomination committee subsequently a founder director of have any external appointments.
Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee 3.
52 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance British Linen Advisers.
She was chairman Previous appointments: Before his director of Comunican S. A. Cine Colombia Previous appointments: She was of Alliance Trust plc, senior non-executive current appointment in the Civil Service, S. A. and the Queen Sofia Spanish Institute.
GroupFinance Director of the John Lewis director of Hays Plc and spent 15 years he was Chief Executive of the Major Partnership and has previously held a Previous appointments: He began his with Kleinwort Benson, first in corporate Projects Authority a partnership between number of senior positions at the Lloyds career in investment banking at Goldman, finance and then as chief executive of the the Cabinet Office and HM Treasury.
He Banking Group and Kingfisher plc.
She is Sachs & Company, subsequently working institutional asset management business.
was previously the chairman of Leyshon also a former member of the Accounting for SG Warburg & Co. where he served as Energy Ltd, President and Chief Executive Standards Board.
She spent her early Member of: Audit committee the Director of Overseas Advisory Division Officer of Talisman Energy Inc. an executive career at Unilever and McKinsey & Co. and Violy, Byorum & Partners, where he Remuneration committee Chairman director at BP plc and a member of the was Senior Managing Director.
Trevor Manuel Independent Accenture Energy Advisory Board.
Alejandro Santo Domingo Dvila Non-Executive Director Member of: Corporate accountability Non-Executive Director Corporate accountability and risk Appointed to the board: 1 March 2015 and risk assurance committee assurance committee Appointed to the board: Skills and experience: Trevor is a former Remuneration committee 9 November 2005 15.
Howard Willard Non-Executive minister in the South African Government.
Nomination committee Skills and experience: Alejandro has Director He brings a wealth of experience in 11.
Dambisa Moyo Independent adeep knowledge of the global beverage advising multilateral organisations on Appointed to the board: 1 August 2009 Non-Executive Director industry and of the Latin America region.
emerging market development and Howard will be stepping down from the sustainability.
Appointed to the board: 1 June 2009 Current appointments: He is a nominee board at the conclusion of the 2015 annual of the Santo Domingo Group, appointed Current appointments: He is Deputy Skills and experience: Dambisa is a general meeting.
tothe board following completion of the Chairman of Rothschild South Africa, global economist and commentator on Skills and experience: Howard has Bavaria transaction.
He is Managing serves on the International Advisory Board the macro-economy and global affairs.
considerable global business experience Director at Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. of the Rothschild Group and is a director She has wide-ranging expertise in and an extensive knowledge of the fastand serves on the boards of Valorem S. A. of Swiss Re AG.
economic and business trends on the moving consumer goods industry.
Comunican S. A. Caracol Television S. A. African continent, with a particular focus Previous appointments: He was a Current appointments: He is a nominee Millicom International Cellular S. A. and D. E on socially responsible business.
minister in the South African Government of Altria, becoming their Chief Operating Master Blenders B. V. He is the treasurer for more than 20 years, 13 of which he Current appointments: She is a Officer in 2015.
He serves on the Executive of Aid for AIDS charity, a member of served as Finance Minister.
During his non-executive director of Barclays PLC Advisory Council for the Robins School the board of trustees of The Metropolitan ministerial career he assumed a number andBarrick Gold Corporation.
of Business at the University of Richmond.
Museum ofArt and is also a member of the of ex officio positions at international bodies, Previous appointments: She was an Previous appointments: He has held board ofthe US-based DKMS Americas including the United Nations Commission economist at Goldman Sachs, where she anumber of senior roles throughout the Foundation, WNET Channel Thirteen for Trade and Development UNCTAD, worked for nearly a decade, and was a Altria family.
Prior to his current role he was and the Wildlife Conservation Society.
theWorld Bank, the International Monetary consultant to the World Bank in the Executive Vice President and Chief Previous appointments: He was Fund, the G20, the African Development Washington, D. C. Financial Officer of Altria.
Before joining employed at Violy, Byorum & Partners, Bank and the Southern African Member of: Corporate accountability Altria, Howard worked at Bain & Company Investment Bankers where he was Development Community.
andrisk assurance committee Chairman and Salomon Brothers Inc. focusedon mergers and acquisitions 10.
Carlos Prez Dvila intelecommunications, media and 16.
Stephen Shapiro Group Company Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director consumergoods.
Secretary and Deputy General Counsel Appointed to the board: 1 August 2004 Appointed to the board: Member of: Nomination committee Appointed as Group Company John will be stepping down from the board 9 November 2005 Secretary: 1 November 2014 14.
Helen Weir Independent at the conclusion of the 2015 annual Skills and experience: Carlos has Stephen joined SABMiller in 2002 and Non-Executive Director general meeting.
extensive experience of the global beverage wasappointed Group Company Secretary Appointed to the board: 19 May 2011 Skills and experience: John has industry and of operating in the Latin in November 2014.
He is Chairman of Skills and experience: Helen has extensive experience of leading global America region.
the International Chamber of Commerce extensive financial and retail expertise, operations and delivering complex UK Expert Committee on Anti-Corruption.
Current appointments: He is a nominee withsenior management experience in a challenging projects.
In his 24 years at BP, Heis also Deputy General Counsel, with of the Santo Domingo Group and was number of UK and international companies.
he contributed to the companys global responsibility for managing the internal appointed to the board following completion Current appointments: She is the growth and held senior strategic and commercial legalfunction, managing of the Bavaria transaction.
He isManaging operational leadership roles at global, Chief Finance Officer of Marks and Spencer material legal risk, and developing group Director at Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. Group plc, a trustee of Marie Curie and an regional and local level.
chairman of the board of Caracol TV S. A. independent non-executive director of the Current appointments: He is Chief and serves on the board and executive Rugby Football Union, the national body Executive of the Civil Service in the UK.
He is also a forrugby in England.
