Strategic report Key performance indicators The key performance indicators KPIs outlined below are used to monitor progress against our overall fi financial goal and our strategy, which defi fines how we will achieve this goal.
While our strategy naturally evolves and changes in line with market conditions, it continues to guide our short, medium and long-term growth.
Measuring our progress What we measure Why we measure How we performed Financial goal 2015 2014 2013 Total shareholder return in excess of the median To monitor the value created for our shareholders of our peer group over five-year periods over the longer term relative to alternative 36 % pts 98 % pts 140 % pts investments in the drinks industry, in line with our business performance goal Growth in adjusted earnings per share To determine the improvement in earnings per -1% 2% 11% share for our shareholders Growth in adjusted earnings per share To determine the improvement in underlying 1 5% 9% n a constant currency earnings per share for our shareholders Free cash ow To track cash generated to pay down debt, reward our shareholders and invest in US$3,233m US$2,563m US$3,230m acquisitions Commercial goals 2015 2014 2013 The proportion of our total lager volume To gain an overall picture of the relative strength from markets in which we have no.
2 of our market positions 94% 95% 95% national market share positions The proportion of group EBITA from To assess the balance of our earnings developing economies exposure between the regions of the world 72% 72% 73% economy with highest growth potential and more developed regions Organic growth in total beverage volumes To track the underlying growth of our business 1% 2% 4% Group net producer revenue growth To assess the underlying rate of growth in net 5% 3% 7% organic, constant currency sales value of our brand portfolios Net producer revenue growth in To monitor progress in building our portfolio 8% 3% 7% premium brands constant currency of global and local premium brands EBITA growth organic, constant currency To track our underlying operational pro t growth 6% 7% 9% EBITA margin progression organic, To monitor the rate of growth in our underlying 30 bps 90 bps 50 bps constant currency operational pro tability Hectolitres of water used at our breweries To gauge our progress in reducing the amount 3.3 hl hl 3.5 hl hl 3.7 hl hl per hl of lager produced of water used in our breweries Fossil fuel emissions from energy use at our To assess progress towards reducing fossil fuel 9.4 kgCO 2e hl 10.3 kgCO2e hl 11.1 kgCO2e hl breweries per hl of lager produced emissions at our breweries Cumulative financial bene ts from our cost To track the cost and ef ciency savings from 1 1 US$221m pa n a n a and ef ciency programme the programme to leverage our skills and scale 1 Not applicable not measured in the year.
Further detail is contained within the finance review and the sustainable development review.
Remuneration is linked to our KPIs as detailed in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 96.
Detailed fide nitions together with an explanation of changes from the prior year are on pages 188 and 189.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 15 Strategic report Principal risks Focused on managing our risks The principal risks facing the group and considered by the board and the executive committee are detailed below.
The groups well-developed risk management process is described in the corporate governance section while financial risks are discussed in the finance review on page 45 and in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal risk Context Speci c risks we face Possible impact Consumer tastes and behaviours Failing to develop and ensure the strength Topline growth progression Consistent are constantly evolving, and at an does not meet internal and and relevance of our brands with consumers, sustainable increasingly rapid rate.
revenue Failing to continue to improve our commercial Competition in the beverage industry Market positions come growth capabilities to deliver brand propositions is expanding and becoming more under pressure, market that respond appropriately to changing fragmented, complex and opportunities are missed consumer preferences.
The global brewing and beverages Failing to participate in the right opportunities.
Lower growth rates, Industry pro tability and financial industry is expected to continue to Paying too much to acquire a business.
There will continue to Not implementing integration plans successfully.
be opportunities to enter attractive Failing to identify and develop the capabilities Failure to maintain our growth markets, to realise synergy necessary to facilitate market and category entry.
competitive position bene ts from integration and to relative to our peers.
With an increasingly high pro le Unreasonable regulation places increasing Lower growth, pro tability Regulatory and reduced contribution debate over alcohol consumption in restrictions on the availability and marketing changes to local communities in many markets, the alcohol industry of beer.
is coming under more pressure Tax and excise changes cause pressure from national and international on pricing.
Loss of consumer goodwill regulators, NGOs and local Anti-alcohol advocates erode industry and public sentiment.
We believe that our people are Failing to identify, develop and retain an Failure to deliver the Management groups strategic and our enduring advantage and appropriate pipeline of talented managers for capability financial ambitions.
therefore it is essential that we the present and future needs of the group.
develop and maintain global Lower long-term management capability.
We continue to execute major Failing to derive the expected bene ts from Increased programme costs, Delivering ef ciency programmes that will the projects currently under way.
lower bene ts than planned, business delays in bene t realisation simplify processes, reduce costs Failing to contain programme costs or ensure transformation and business disruption.
and allow local management execution is in line with planned timelines.
teams to focus more closely Reputational damage on their markets.
and reduced competitive advantage in the medium term.
There is increasing sophistication Disruption of information technology IT systems Loss of competitive advantage Information and reputational damage of cyber-attack capabilities.
and a loss of valuable and sensitive information and cyber through the publicised loss Businesss increasing demand and assets.
security of key operating systems for consumers and customers Signi cant business disruption.
personal data means legislators Failing to comply with tightening legislation rightly continue to impose tighter poses a threat of signi cant financial penalties Adverse effect on pro tability, data management control.
cash ows or financial position.
A key aspect of the CUB Failing to deliver integration objectives and Lower growth rates, Acquisition acquisition was the delivery of commercial and operational excellence targets pro tability and asset values.
of CUB a turnaround plan with speci c communicated as part of the turnaround plan.
Damage to the groups and communicated financial Failing to achieve the synergy and cost-saving reputation for strong value creation.
commercial capability and for making value creating acquisitions.
16 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Mitigation Associated strategic priorities Continuous evaluation of our brand portfolios in every market to ensure that they target current and future Drive superior topline growth.
opportunities for pro table growth.
Actively shape our global mix Developing a beer category structure that enables us to grow both the value of the beer category, to drive a superior growth pro le.
Build a globally integrated Ensuring we have a deep understanding of changing consumer and industry dynamics in key markets, organisation to optimise enabling us to respond appropriately to opportunities and issues which may impact our business resources, win in market performance.
Building our brand equities through innovation and compelling marketing programmes: creating a pipeline of opportunities to support our premium offering.
Focusing on monitoring and benchmarking commercial performance and developing the critical commercial capabilities that are required in order to win in local markets.
Continued competitor and target analysis to consider strategic and financial implications of potential Actively shape our global mix transactions.
to drive a superior growth pro le.
Potential transactions are subject to continual and rigorous analysis.
Only opportunities with potential Drive superior topline growth.
to create value are pursued.
Proven integration processes, procedures and practices are applied to ensure delivery of expected returns.
Activities to deliver synergies and leverage scale are in place, monitored closely and continuously enhanced.
Development of non-traditional capabilities to enter and grow pro tably in new markets.
Rigorous adherence to the principle of self-regulation backed by appropriate policies and management review.
Building and maintaining licence to trade capabilities across the group to facilitate sound risk analysis and Actively shape our global mix mitigation plan development.
Constructive engagement with government and all external stakeholders on alcohol-related issues.
Build a globally integrated Working collaboratively with them to address the harmful use of alcohol.
organisation to optimise Investment to improve the economic and social impact of our businesses in local communities and working resources, win in market in partnership with local governments and NGOs.
Driving our Prosper shared imperatives to make a sustainable and measurable difference to the communities and ecosystems in which we operate.
Building the groups leadership talent pipeline through our Global Talent Management model, Build a globally integrated strategic people resourcing and long-term talent pipeline.
organisation to optimise Sustaining a strong culture of accountability, empowerment and personal development.
resources, win in market and reduce costs.
Senior leadership closely involved in monitoring progress and in making key decisions.
Build a globally integrated Mechanisms in place to track both costs and bene ts.
organisation to optimise Rigorous programme management and governance processes including independent programme resources, win in market assurance with dedicated resources and clear accountability.
Actively shape our global mix to drive a superior growth pro le.
Continued development, articulation and implementation of information security policies.
Build a globally integrated Increased investment to improve information security awareness, intelligence and implementation organisation to optimise of sound security processes.
resources, win in market Building and enhancing processes to deal with IT security incidents.
Embedding of the SABMiller Ways its processes, systems and tools throughout the CUB business.
Actively shape our global mix Commercial efforts in market to effectively deliver volume, value and market share gains.
Continued monitoring of progress to complete the integration objectives, including frequent and regular Build a globally integrated tracking of key performance indicators.
organisation to optimise resources, win in market and reduce costs.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 17 LATIN AMERICA Where Lager volumes Setting the pace on sugarcane we operate 44.2m hl 1st 1 1 % Our sugarcane farming Soft drinks volumes operation in Honduras became the fi first 19.9m hl producer in Central America to achieve 1 sustainable sugarcane certifi cation.
8% Group NPR Signi cant business with production operations 2 US$5,768m Selling operations and 8% major export markets 2 EBITA US$2,224m 7% Drive superior topline growth through our brands: Innovation accounted for 12% of group NPR in the region: Premiumisation supported by Club Colombia growth and expansion of the Miller franchise.
18 18 SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5
