Strategic report Operations review Europe Innovation has remained a key priority and our Innovation has remained a key priority and our efforts have included core brand efforts have included core brand renovations renovations along with innovations focused on serving more consumers on more along with innovations focused on serving occasions.
Among the many activities were the launches of new radler variants and more consumers on more occasions.
avours in a number of markets, including Peroni Chill Lemon radler in Italy, and the national launch of Kingswood cider in the Czech Republic.
Performance has been Sue Clark boosted by enhanced focus on effective Managing Director, sales execution in the marketplace and SABMiller Europe further ef ciencies.
EBITA grew 6% on an organic, constant currency basis, and was in line with the prior year on a reported basis.
Reported EBITA margin improved by 50 bps underpinned by cost savings delivered as we optimise our operating model.
In the integrated Czech Republic and Slovakia business, group NPR was up by 4% on a constant currency basis with volume growth of 5% re ecting strong performance ahead of the market in both countries and in both the on-premise and off-premise channels.
Volume growth was driven by the In Europe, group NPR grew by 2% on an off-premise channel due to good execution organic, constant currency basis with group of effective promotions and assisted by NPR per hl growth of 1%.
On a reported two Easter trading periods occurring in this basis, group NPR was down 4% impacted financial year.
The premium segment grew by the weakening of European currencies strongly, boosted by the performance of against the US dollar.
Total beverage volumes Pilsner Urquell during the key occasions of Performance was boosted were up 1% with soft drinks volumes up 5% Easter and Christmas and by the continued and lager volumes level with the prior year.
growth of Kozel 11, while our core by enhanced focus on Growth in the region was delivered against a mainstream brand Gambrinus continued effective sales execution backdrop of continued economic uncertainty to decline.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 4,574 281 105 4,398 2 4 1 EBITA US$m 703 42 39 700 6 EBITA margin % 15.4 15.9 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 43,590 5 43,595 Soft drinks 14,716 777 15,493 55 Total beverages 58,306 782 59,088 11 In 2015 before an exceptional charge of US$63 million being the groups share of Anadolu Efes impairment charge relating to its beer businesses in Russia and Ukraine 2014: US$11 million being capability programme costs.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic report Operations review Europe | | In Poland, volumes grew by 2%, marginally In Italy, group NPR declined by 1% on a Volume growth in a behind the market.
Group NPR declined by constant currency basis driven by a volume 2% on a constant currency basis re ecting decline of 1% re ecting particularly poor challenging market a sustained challenging pricing environment.
weather during the peak season and Channel dynamics have resulted in adverse the impact on consumer con dence of Strong local brands are helping mix with modern trade retailers and traditional continuing economic uncertainty.
These our Polish business, Kompania trade key accounts increasing their share of market dynamics impacted the performance Piwowarska, to capture growth.
Mainstream segment volumes of both the Peroni and Nastro Azzurro grew, driven by Zubr but partly offset brands, primarily in the on-premise channel, In the premium segment, by a decline in Tyskie.
Lech grew strongly, although this was partly offset by the stronger our speciality lager Ksia z ece bene ting from strategic repositioning performance of Peroni Chill Lemon radler.
increased volumes by 2%, along with reinvigorated marketing.
following a multi-layered marketing In Romania, group NPR was down 1% on campaign.
This involved Group NPR in the United Kingdom grew a constant currency basis with lower volumes introducing seasonal limited by 4% on a constant currency basis being offset by price increases and editions, building a stronger driven by the double digit volume reduced promotional support.
on-trade presence, and looking growth of Peroni Nastro Azzurro Volumes were down 2%, to strengthen the brands through increased rate of sale outperforming a declining connection and pairing with and distribution in key outlets market, with lower food.
In the mainstream segment, and assisted by good Timisoreana and Ursus 2% market leader Zubr gained volume summer weather, offset volumes partly offset by growth in group NPR market share.
This upswing was by a volume decline in the growth of Ciucas, which was on an organic, constant helped by a fresh and consistent Polish portfolio.
On 15 May supported by new packaging.
creative platform, an effective 2015 the group announced pricing strategy and improved it was to acquire 100% of Anadolu Efes group NPR in-store visibility.
Meantime Brewing Company Ltd, growth moderated in the full year a UK modern craft brewer.
We expect after a more challenging second half to complete the transaction in June 2015. year during which a decline in consumer con dence in Turkey suppressed soft drinks volumes while lager volumes continue to be impacted by the uncertain market conditions in Russia and Ukraine.
Pro tability bene ted from cost optimisation programmes.
An exceptional charge of US$63 million has been recognised, being the groups share of Anadolu Efes impairment charge in relation to its beer businesses in Russia and Ukraine.
32 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Tremendous tanks We are enhancing the perception of and demand for beer by showcasing the tank at the heart of the bar.
In parts of Europe, tanks have long been used to dispense beer.
We are now moving them into the spotlight by emphasising the taste of unpasteurised tank beer such as Pilsner Urquell, and in the year installed gleaming, branded tanks in selected outlets across Europe.
To enjoy tank beer, many consumers will travel miles, pay more and change brands.
Tanks are also enhancing the quality reputation of draught beer.
Prosper We continue to focus on improving resource Expanding the ef ciency across our breweries and value Peroni family chains in Europe.
Returnable bottles are in long-term decline in some European markets.
We are therefore devising new Birra Peroni is meeting the packaging solutions that meet changing changing tastes of Italian consumer needs while reducing our consumers and creating new environmental impact.
occasions for consumption with innovative brand extensions.
Europe leads the group globally in the purchase of HFC-free fridges.
We aim to To offer greater mealtime share lessons from Europe to help scale choice, in the year we introduced the use of HFC-free fridges in other regions, a larger, 50cl wine bottle for with the aim of being 100% HFC-free existing Peroni Gran Riserva buyers by 2020.
Sharing to save variants for special events and sharing: a pure malt Peroni Concerns about the effects of the harmful SABMillers diverse European product Gran Riserva extension, and a and irresponsible consumption of alcohol portfolio and diverse packaging formats gluten-free beer for the growing continue, and we remain committed to our makes improving carbon and water number of gluten-intolerant multi-stakeholder partnerships to address ef ciency particularly challenging.
To encourage social alcohol harm in the markets where we consumption outside mealtimes, operate.
Since 2007, SABMiller Europe has Our region-wide taskforce spearheaded we also launched Peroni Forte, an worked with the EU Alcohol and Health an energy and water ef ciency programme 8% ABV lager for after dinner.
This Forum to make voluntary commitments by sharing best practice and mentoring activity increased overall volumes on how we market our brands, and place ef ciency champions across our breweries.
and awareness and, in line with responsible drinking messages on our strategy, increased Peronis share products.
This year, we committed to list Collaboration has delivered signi cant of the premium segment.
ingredients and nutrition values for our results.
We have saved 45 million hl of water brands on our local websites.
This latest enough to ll 1,800 Olympic swimming commitment comes from our rm belief pools and 84,000 tonnes of CO2e that consumers have the right to be well equivalent to taking 17,200 small cars informed about our beers.
We are off the road since 2010. immensely proud of our products and the ingredients used to produce them.
Read more about regional and country sustainability priorities and performance at www.
com sam SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 33 NORTH AMERICA Where we operate Lager volumes 38.5m hl -2% Signi cant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Group NPR US$2,900m US$4,682m Spent with diverse 1 suppliers since 2008.
7% 0% EBITA US$858m 1 Organic, constant currency basis.
Landfi ll-free Drive superior topline growth through our brands: Redds grew volume by 36% the second largest fl avoured malt beverage in the above premium 7 8 segment: Seven of MillerCoors eight major Leinenkugels Summer Shandy is the largest breweries are now landfi ll-free, US seasonal craft beer.
with Milwaukee reaching this landmark in the year.
34 34 34 SABMiller S SABMiller ABMiller plc plc plc A An An nnua n nu ua alll R R Re e ep p por o or rt t t 2 2 20 0 01 1 15 5 5
