Governance Directors remuneration report continued | Remuneration policy continued Policy on external appointments Discretion and judgement Each executive director is permitted to accept a non-executive Discretion is necessary to ensure that outcomes remain appropriate directorship in another company, subject to the prior approval of the in all the circumstances, including those not anticipated by board.
This will normally be limited to one appointment.
Fees received the remuneration policy.
Mechanistic or formulaic remuneration in respect of external appointments may be retained by the individual.
outcomes are not always appropriate in context, and the committee Currently, no executive director has non-executive directorships in may exercise discretion to adjust a payment, performance metric external companies.
or targets in exceptional circumstances.
Judgement is applied by the committee in setting performance targets to ensure they are Pay and employment conditions across the group sufficiently stretching, and to alter performance metrics and targets The company operates in a number of different locations with if they are no longer considered a fair measure of performance employees paid by reference to applicable market rates, and base providing any new metrics and targets are not materially less pay reviewed annually.
The ratio between fixed and variable pay for challenging than the originals.
employees differs by level, geographic location and business unit.
Variable performance-related pay and share plans operate across The committee has discretion to interpret the rules of any the group but may differ in terms of structure, award levels and remuneration plan, and to determine the participation and level performance measures.
Long-term incentives on similar terms to of the awards including the extent of vesting of awards under certain executive directors are cascaded to the other executive committee leaver situations.
The committee also maintains discretion to adjust members, and to around 1,700 other employees in the group.
share awards in the event of a variation of capital, and to determine Employment conditions and benefits are determined according the treatment in the event of a corporate transaction, including to the local market to enable high standards of health and safety whether incentives vest in full, or in part, or lapse completely, and employee wellbeing.
or are rolled over into replacement awards, and how any special dividend might be treated.
The company does not consult directly with employees when determining directors remuneration, but undertakes regular If there is required to be a material restatement of financial results employee engagement surveys which provide a mechanism other than due to a change in accounting policy, misconduct for feedback on a number of issues, including remuneration.
or other action causing harm to the reputation of the company, Furthermore, many employees are also shareholders in SABMiller, the committee has the discretion to adjust, forfeit or clawback and are able to participate in the votes on directors remuneration.
payments and awards in respect of a participant, a group of participants, or all participants.
Remuneration comparison measurements are not used routinely, because of the inconsistencies in comparing pay levels across different geographies and workforce profiles.
End of remuneration policy which is unchanged except for context to show the policys application for the year under review for the three-year period commencing from the 2014 AGM on 24 July 2014.
