Governance Effectiveness The results of the performance and effectiveness assessment processes were reviewed in full and approved by the board.
Matters Composition of the board identified as requiring more focus in the coming year included senior The board continues to believe that its overall composition remains executive succession planning and talent development, and ensuring additional time on the boards agenda tofocus on the most important appropriate, particularly in regard to the independence of character issues such as deep dives into majormarkets, brand performance, and integrity of all our directors, and the experience and skills they innovation and plans to improve performance in markets facing bring to their duties.
It also believes that there is an appropriate headwinds.
As noted above, it was also suggested that the CARACs balance of skills, collective experience, independence, background, terms of reference be revised.
knowledge and gender among our non-executive directors to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
A review of the performance of the Group Company Secretary was carried out by the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, on behalf Independence of the board, and it concluded that both before and after the change The board considers eight directors Mark Armour, Jan du Plessis, inoffice holder on 1 November 2014, the performance of the Guy Elliott, Lesley Knox, John Manzoni, Trevor Manuel, Dambisa Group Company Secretary has been effective.
Moyo and Helen Weir to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
The board considers five non-executive directors not to be All directors, except for John Manser, John Manzoni and Howard independent for the purposes of the Code: Geoff Bible, Dinyar Willard, will be standing for election or re-election at this years annual Devitre and Howard Willard, as they are nominees of Altria, the general meeting.
The nomination committee confirmed to the board companys largest shareholder: and Alejandro Santo Domingo thateach of the existing directors offering themselves for election andCarlos Prez, as they are nominees of BevCo, the companys orre-election continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate second largest shareholder.
commitment to their role and that it believes that Javier Ferrn and Dave Beran who are offering themselves for election for the first Under the Code, a chairman is not considered to be an independent time, will bring considerable strategic, financial and international director but is required to be independent upon appointment.
When experience to the board.
John Manser retires as Chairman at the 2015 annual general meeting, Jan du Plessis, an independent non-executive director, will become Chairman.
Information and training Our Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, committee and director performance evaluation board, through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
Performance evaluations are carried out each year and are reported The board and its committees are supplied with full and timely in the subsequent annual report.
With the current Chairmans tenure information, including detailed financial information, to enable directors coming to an end at the AGM in July, the board intends to conduct to discharge their responsibilities, and for the committees to undertake an externally facilitated performance evaluation next year, early in their duties.
Alldirectors have access to the advice of the Group the tenure ofJan du Plessis.
Independent professional advice is also available to directors in appropriate circumstances, at the companys expense.
For the year ended 31 March 2015 a formal and rigorous evaluation During the year ended 31 March 2015 none of the directors sought of the performance of the board and its main committees audit independent external advice through the company.
committee, remuneration committee and CARAC has been carried out.
To facilitate rich, open and frank discussion the evaluation was When directors join the board, tailored induction programmes are performed by way of interview with directors and aided by a tailored arranged which involve industry specific training and include visits agenda.
These interviews were led by Guy Elliott, ourSenior to the groups businesses and, as appropriate, meetings with senior Independent Director and Stephen Shapiro, our Group Company management.
New directors are also briefed on their duties to the Secretary.
The performance evaluation of the board committees company and their obligations as directors of a listed company, was carried out through a tailored questionnaire.
Following the on internal controls at head office and business unit level and on interviews and the return of the questionnaires reports were compiled relevant company policies and governance related matters.
and presented to the respective committees and theboard.
The company is committed to the continuing development of The performance of board members was reviewed and appraised directors to help them build on their expertise and develop an ever by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, inconsultation deeper understanding of the business and the markets in which with the Group Company Secretary.
Members of board committees are encouraged to attend internal and external briefings and courses on In reviewing the performance of the board and its committees, aspects of their respective committee specialisms.
Regular updates theChairman and the Senior Independent Director both concurred on relevant legal, regulatory, corporate governance and technical that, measured against the principal duties expected of them, the developments are presented to committee members at each board and its standing and ad hoc sub-committees continued to meeting and, as appropriate, to the full board.
The Chairman operate effectively, including in their support of management, in considers the training and development needs of the board and monitoring of performance, and in maintaining the boards strategic discusses these with the respective directors as necessary.
The performance of each of the directors was considered to be more than satisfactory, with each director having applied him or herself diligently and been fully engaged in thedischarge of his or her responsibilities.
