Governance Directors remuneration report continued | Remuneration policy continued Remuneration policy table The table below sets out the remuneration policy that applies to executive directors from 24 July 2014, approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting.
Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Base pay Retirement benefits Other benefits Annual bonus plan Share option plan Share award plan Shareholding Non-executive requirement directors fees Purpose Provides a fixed level Provides a basis for Provides benefits and Incentivises and rewards the achievement of annual financial Provides a direct and transparent link The combination of a share option plan and share award plan enables Provides alignment with Compensates of earnings, appropriate savings to provide an allowances appropriate between executive pay and value creation executives to be incentivised and rewarded for achieving a broader shareholder returns performance balanced with the delivery of the companys non-executive directors and link to to the market and income in retirement.
to the market, and to assist strategic priorities.
range of performance measures, in addition to share price increase.
by ensuring a reduction for their responsibilities strategy requirements of the role.
executives in efficiently in executive directors and time commitment.
Share options may be structured as stock With base pay set at around median, the annual bonus plan carrying out their duties.
own wealth if there is ensures that above-market pay cannot be achieved unless appreciation rights SARs, which are a reduction in SABMillers economically equivalent to share options challenging performance targets are met.
but result in less dilution of share capital.
Base pay is reviewed SABMiller does not provide Benefits and allowances may The total bonus opportunity is split: Share options reward executive directors only if Share awards comprise performance shares and value shares.
Any shares arising from Fees are reviewed Operation annually with effect guaranteed retirement include a company car or car there is an absolute increase in the share price.
the exercise of share annually by the board, minimum of 60% annual financial performance: and Performance shares vest in a single tranche on the third anniversary from the start of each income defined benefit allowance, fuel card, family options or vesting of and the Chairmans fee maximum of 40% individual strategic objectives.
Furthermore, to ensure that any share price of the grant date, subject to achieving the performance conditions.
pension, but makes defined medical and dental insurance, share awards must be is determined annually increase is supported by a sustainable 25% of the shares vest at threshold, with 100% vesting at maximum.
This balance, with a significant proportion of the annual contributions towards long-term disability insurance, retained except those by the committee.
There is no obligation improvement in the groups underlying financial bonus opportunity based on longer term and sustainability Value shares vest only if SABMillers TSR out-performs the median pension savings.
life insurance, accompanied shares sold to pay the to increase base pay performance, additional performance conditions Fees are paid in cash, metrics ensures that the achievement of short-term financial of a comparator group.
No shares vest for median performance or travel, occasional overnight exercise price and any upon any such review.
In the UK, amounts up are applied before vesting of: but may be paid in shares performance is not at the expense of enabling future below, but for every 10 million of additional shareholder value created accommodation, legal and tax upon exercise or to the annual and lifetime having the equivalent Annualised base pay for shareholder value creation.
two-thirds of the share options after three being the percentage out-performance multiplied by the companys professional fees relevant vesting of any such allowances are generally value at the request of the the year ended 31 March years: and market capitalisation at the commencement of the performance to duties, club subscriptions, award until the relevant If overall business performance is not satisfactory, or if there contributed to the SABMiller non-executive director.
2015 and for the year one-third of the share options after five years period, a fixed number of shares will vest.
Value shares vest one-third and a beer allowance.
In shareholding requirement is required to be a material restatement of financial results plc UK Staff Pension ending 31 March 2016 on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date, Non-executive directors addition, executive directors is met, unless the other than due to a change in accounting policy, misconduct, Vesting at threshold cannot be greater than 65% Scheme a registered defined are shown on page 85. based on performance to these fixed dates.
are not eligible to may also participate in committee determines or other action causing harm to the reputation of the company, of the maximum award for the Chief Executive contribution pension scheme participate in any of the employee discount otherwise in exceptional all or part of any annual bonus not already paid may be forfeited, and 80% of the maximum award for other If the performance conditions are not achieved by the relevant dates, in which all UK employees companys incentive programmes and circumstances.
and any annual bonus already paid may be clawed-back.
executive directors but see note 4 below.
the appropriate proportion of the share awards will lapse, and there are eligible to participate.
plans, and receive no all-employee share plans If these performance conditions are not met, is no opportunity for retesting.
Any amounts in excess of benefits other than a on the same basis as other the appropriate proportion of share options will If there is required to be a material restatement of financial results these limits are notionally beer allowance which is employees.
Executive lapse, and there is no opportunity for retesting.
other than due to a change in accounting policy, misconduct, or credited to the companys at the same level as for directors also have access If there is required to be a material restatement other action causing harm to the company, all or part of any share unfunded retirement benefits UK-based employees.
to the same facilities as other of financial results other than due to a change award not yet vested may be forfeited, and any share award already scheme, or paid in lieu as UK employees, including in accounting policy, misconduct, or other vested may be clawed-back.
access to on-site staff car action causing harm to the reputation of the parking at certain locations company, all or part of any share award not yet and a company bar.
vested may be forfeited, and any share award already vested may be clawed-back.
Opportunity Around median for Pension contributions for Company car allowance is The policy maximum bonus opportunities for executive directors Grants are made annually at the discretion Grants are made annually at the discretion of the committee.
Shares owned outright Fees are set at around the relevant market executive directors are fixed fixed at 17,150 per annum.
at each performance level are: of the committee.
equivalent to: median for the FTSE-30.
and maxima Chief Executive: performance shares with a face value at grant up to a generally the FTSE-30 at 30% of base pay.
The maximum amount paid Maximum: 200% of base pay.
Chief Executive: share options with a face value maximum of 250% of base pay, plus value shares up to a maximum of Chief Executive: 300% Any increases will be for UK-based executive for other benefits will be the at grant up to a maximum of 500% of base pay.
125 shares for every 10 million of additional shareholder value created.
in the context of overall Target: 100% of base pay.
directors, while actual cost of providing those business performance, Other executive directors: share options with Other executive directors: performance shares with a face value at Other executive directors: recognising experience Threshold: 50% of base pay.
benefits which, particularly in and with reference to a face value at grant up to a maximum of 400% grant of up to a maximum of 200% of base pay, plus value shares up 200% of base pay.
the case of insured benefits, the market median.
The current bonus opportunities are: of base pay.
to a maximum of 100 shares for every 10 million of additional Any increases will be may vary from year to year, shareholder value created.
Chief Executive: up to a maximum of 175% of base pay, with Share option awards to executive directors, in the context of overall although the committee is 87.5% of base pay at target, and 43.75% of base pay at threshold.
for the year ended 31 March 2015, are shown Share awards to executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2015 business performance, mindful of achieving the best on page 93. are shown on page 93. with reference to the value from benefit providers.
Other executive directors: up to a maximum of 120% of base pay, market median and with 60% of base pay at target, and 30% of base pay at threshold.
any further increases will not exceed the average annual increase awarded to other UK-based employees.
The annual financial performance measures and weightings are A core financial performance measure being A core financial performance measure for performance shares Not applicable.
Performance reviewed each year, and may be changed to ensure that they EPS growth over periods of three and five years.
being EPS growth over three years.
measures continue to align with the companys key strategic priorities.
An external relative performance measure for value shares being TSR The range of performance measures will typically be selected out-performance of the median of a comparator group over three, from revenue, market share, volume, cost savings, profit, four and five years.
return on capital, cash, working capital, margin growth, EPS and sustainability metrics including water usage, reductions in fossil fuel emissions, and health and safety measures.
The performance measures for bonus payments for the year ended 31 March 2015 and for the year ending 31 March 2016 are shown on pages 86 and 87.
Remuneration policy notes 1 2 T he committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payment, notwithstanding the The remuneration policy for other UK employees is similar to that for executive directors policy set out in this report, where the terms of the payment were determined before the policy in accordance with our philosophy that remuneration should be appropriate to the local came into effect, or if the individual was not an executive director at the date the remuneration competitive market.
Certain components of remuneration for example, car allowance and was determined unless that remuneration was set in consideration or in anticipation of long-term incentives are paid only to certain levels of employees.
There are other variances becoming an executive director.
The committee may make minor amendments to the policy depending on geographic location and local market practice, but the general approach for regulatory, exchange control, or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change is consistent across the group.
inother legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that minor amendment.
78 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Base pay Retirement benefits Other benefits Annual bonus plan Share option plan Share award plan Shareholding Non-executive requirement directors fees Purpose Provides a fixed level Provides a basis for Provides benefits and Incentivises and rewards the achievement of annual financial Provides a direct and transparent link The combination of a share option plan and share award plan enables Provides alignment with Compensates of earnings, appropriate savings to provide an allowances appropriate between executive pay and value creation executives to be incentivised and rewarded for achieving a broader shareholder returns performance balanced with the delivery of the companys non-executive directors and link to to the market and income in retirement.
3 4 The specific financial performance measures applicable to short-term and long-term incentive The approved policy allows for threshold vesting of share options at up to 65% of maximum plans may be varied to align with the companys key strategic priorities.
The targets for each for the Chief Executive and up to 80% of maximum for other executive directors.
However, performance measure are set to be stretching, based on a number of reference points including the remuneration committee has confirmed that in applying the policy for share options granted company targets, analyst forecasts, and shareholder expectations.
from 2015, the percentage of any award capable of vesting at threshold performance will not exceed 25% of maximum.
