Strategic report Operations review Asia Pacifi c Beverage volume decline of 2% on an organic basis being offset by group NPR per hl growth of 3%.
In Asia Paci c, group NPR grew by 1% on In Australia, group NPR on a constant an organic, constant currency basis, with the currency basis declined by 2%, re ecting beverage volume decline of 2% on an organic a volume decline of 1% and marginally lower In Australia, the integration basis being offset by group NPR per hl group NPR per hl.
Consumer sentiment programme delivered savings growth of 3%, re ecting pricing together with remains subdued with continued pressure on premiumisation in China as well as a change consumer spending affecting beer category and capability build ahead in the relative weighting of volumes in Australia volumes, which declined by low single digits.
Reported group NPR While we gained share in a weaker market, declined by 2% re ecting the depreciation the lager volume decline re ected a softer of currencies against the US dollar.
EBITA mainstream segment, with declines in core declined by 4% on an organic, constant brands, which was only partially offset by currency basis and by 9% on a reported strong growth in our premium portfolio.
basis, re ecting declines in Australia together with China, where the volume decline in the first half of the year had a signi cant impact on pro tability.
Reported EBITA margin declined by 150 bps, an improvement on the first half of the year as our associate in China, CR Snow, returned to volume growth.
Volume and group NPR improvements in Ari Mervis China were seen particularly in the northeast, Managing Director, the west and the key central provinces with SABMiller Asia Paci c a favourable impact on pro tability for the Asia Paci c region.
In the second half of the financial year, we received the first dividend from our associate, CR Snow, amounting to US$228 million.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 3,944 34 141 30 3,867 1 2 1 EBITA US$m 845 1 44 34 768 4 9 EBITA margin % 21.4 19.9 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 71,493 1,449 1,761 71,181 2 Other beverages 110 17 93 15 15 Total beverages 71,603 1,449 1,778 71,274 2 In 2015 before exceptional charges of US$452 million being US$139 million 2014: US$103 million of integration and restructuring costs and impairments of US$313 million 2014: US$nil.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 27 Strategic report Operations review Asia Pacifi c | | Snow reaches Increased trade investment activities during some annualised bene ts to be realised the first half of the year, driven by investment in the next financial year.
We continue China milestone in key customer trading terms and to optimise our brewery network and promotions in a highly competitive retail production scheduling with the closure We celebrated the 20th anniversary of our trading environment, were largely of the Warnervale brewery and partnership with China Resources Enterprise, compensated by price increases the announced closure of CR Snow, in Chengdu this year.
Snow is the taken later in the year which, Port Melbourne brewery and market-leading beer in China and the biggest together with positive Campbelltown cidery, which global beer brand.
momentum in the will occur in two stages 1% contemporary and premium and will be complete by CR Snow has been pursuing a premiumisation segments, resulted in an the financial year ending Group NPR growth strategy, which includes evolving Snows improved group NPR per hl 31 March 2017. on an organic, constant positioning from that of a regional brand trend in the second half of the currency basis.
to a national one, re ecting the ambition and year.
Pro tability declined, In China, organic, constant growth of China.
More than 30% of CR Snows re ecting lower volumes and currency group NPR grew by 2% volumes are now in the premium segment, pricing pressures.
even though volume declined by led by variants Snow Brave the World and 3%.
Our associate, CR Snow, maintained Snow Draft.
The integration programme is now complete national leadership in a market that declined and has delivered both savings and capability during the second half of calendar 2014 due build ahead of expectations, with cumulative to an abnormally cold and wet summer peak annualised synergies of approximately A$210 period, especially in the central provinces of million by the end of this financial year and Hubei, Anhui and Jiangsu along the Yangtze Australians embrace Italian style Peroni Nastro Azzurro achieved 30% volume growth in Australia in the year, as demand for it and lower alcohol variant Peroni Leggera continued to rise.
Peroni now represents more than 8% of the countrys premium imported beer segment.
During the year, CUB kept Peronis pro le high with opinion formers and consumers with its sleek Stile Italiano website and sponsorship of the fashionable Portsea Polo meeting.
The brands association with the 2015 meeting, which attracts strong media coverage, delivered 36 million Peroni impressions across TV, print, radio and digital.
28 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report river.
A return to volume growth in the final quarter of our financial year re ected strong performances in the northeast and west, together with an improved trend in the key central region.
Group NPR per hl grew by 5% driven by the continued focus on premium brands and outlets led by Snow Draft and Snow Brave the World.
The Kingway acquisition has been fully integrated into the CR Snow production grid, combining distribution channels in four provinces and complementing the CR Snow portfolio of brands.
Authentic Australian brand rolls out nationwide Pro tability declined due to the costs CUB is building on the huge success of in February 2015, targets the contemporary associated with the integration of Kingway, regional lager Great Northern Original with the beer segment.
The Great Northern brand, the continued investment in marketing national rollout of a variant Great Northern which was named after CUBs first Queensland activities that focus on premium brands Super Crisp.
brewery and features the companys classic and occasions, and selling and promotional marlin logo, satis es growing consumer expenses which anticipated a more usual Great Northern Original became the fastestdesire for authenticity.
selling beer brand in Queensland after its 2010 launch, growing by 47% last year.
Great In India, group NPR on a constant currency Northern Super Crisp, which was launched basis grew by 6% with group NPR per hl growth of 5% driven by price increases taken across several states.
Pro tability declined re ecting the challenging operating Prosper environment resulting from changes in regulatory requirements and in ationary Water scarcity is a top priority for SABMiller input cost increases which exceeded price across the Asia Paci c region.
Yatala in realisation and state-constrained pricing.
Australia continues to lead the group as We have recognised an exceptional our most water ef cient brewery, using an impairment charge of US$313 million in average of just 2.5 hectolitres hl of water respect of our Indian business, primarily to make 1 hl of beer.
In India, our focus is re ecting our assessment of the impact of on partnering with others to tackle shared increasing regulatory and excise challenges water risks.
SABMiller has invested in the operating environment in India and the US$0.5 million to help tackle water risk in proposed partial introduction of a national Maharashtra, along with partners including goods and services tax GST which will not the International Finance Corporation.
apply to beer, so that GST on input costs is not expected to be recoverable.
Our beers are enjoyed by millions of consumers across the region but a minority drink alcohol irresponsibly, increasing the risks to themselves, their families and their communities.
In Australia, the hard-hitting DrinkWise social media campaign How to Drink Properly speaks directly to 18 to 24-year-olds to in uence them to drink responsibly.
The campaign aims to make Local barley for local beer binge drinking less socially acceptable among young drinkers, while encouraging In India, our Saanjhi Unnati Path to Progress those who drink moderately to continue programme supports more than 9,500 doing so.
smallholder farmers to grow malting barley and so access a new market, increase yields Find out more at and incomes, and improve environmental www.
The programme now provides 65% of our barley supply in India.
Read more about regional and country sustainability priorities and performance at www.
com sam SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 29 EUROPE Lager Soft drinks Where we operate volumes volume 43.6m hl 15.5m hl 1 1 5% 0% Signi cant business with production operations Associates Selling operations and major export markets NPR 3.1 hl water hl beer 2 US$4,398m 6% average 2 EBITA water use 2% US$700m across the region.
Drive superior topline growth through our brands: 75% Czech on-premise grew after several years of decline, supported by the introduction of Gambrinus unpasteurised: of fridges purchased in Signifi cant progress in core brands: Kozel and Radegast Europe are in the Czech Republic, Zubr and Lech in Poland.
30 30 SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5
