Governance Directors remuneration report continued | Remuneration policy continued Remuneration scenarios The scenario charts assume fixed pay comprising base pay for the The charts below provide an indication of the remuneration year ended 31 March 2015, retirement benefits, plus the anticipated opportunity for each director for the year ended 31 March 2015 value of other benefits assumed to be the same amount as for the the first year to which this policy applied, in accordance with the year ended 31 March 2014 for this purpose.
The value of short-term regulations, showing potential total remuneration at maximum, incentives is based on current bonus opportunity a maximum of on-target, and minimum performance levels.
175%of base pay for the Chief Executive and a maximum of 120% of base pay for the Chief Financial Officer, and the value of long-term Chief Executive incentives is based on the awards granted for the year ended Value of package m 31March 2015.
Assumptions for each performance scenario relating to short-term Maximum incentives and long-term incentives are shown in the table below.
Inaccordance with the regulations, no share price appreciation On-target hasbeen factored into these calculations, except for share options whereshare price growth of 33% is assumed for all performance Minimum periods and scenarios.
Short-term incentives Long-term incentives 0 5 10 15 Payout Share Performance % of options shares TSR out-performance maximum vesting % vesting % value shares vesting Chief Financial Officer Maximum 100 100 100 30% above median Value of package m 1 On-target 50 65 25 Median nil Minimum nil nil nil Below median nil threshold Maximum 1 25% for share options granted from 2015.
On-target Recruitment policy Minimum The committee will pay no more than it considers necessary to attract appropriate candidates, and it is not contemplated that remuneration 0 5 10 15 will need to be different from the structure or exceed the limits set out in the remuneration policy table.
The maximum variable remuneration will be in line with that set out in the policy table on pages 78 and 79.
Chief Executive For internal appointments, the committee may allow any unvested Composition of package % long-term incentive awards upon appointment to remain subject to the original performance conditions and vesting timescale applicable to those awards.
For external appointments, where a newly appointed Maximum executive director forgoes a bonus or long-term incentive award orsimilar upon leaving a previous employer, the committee will On-target determine the expected value of the amounts forgone taking into account any performance conditions and duration until vesting, and Minimum may pay compensation in cash, in SABMiller shares, or an award oflong-term incentives, but, in any event, the total compensation 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% amount will not exceed the expected value of the amounts forgone.
Furthermore, any such compensation will be subject to forfeiture and clawback if the executive director leaves the company voluntarily Chief Financial Officer within a fixed time period determined by the committee, being not Composition of package % lessthan two years.
Compensation for amounts forgone upon recruitment is not payable to non-executive directors.
Maximum Relocation policy To enable the company to move or recruit the appropriate individual On-target into a role, relocation assistance may be provided.
The extent of assistance provided will depend on the specific circumstances, Minimum butmay include payment of relocation costs, housing or temporary accommodation for a fixed period, childrens schooling, home leave, 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% tax equalisation and repatriation.
In respect of executive directors, the total cost provided in any year will not exceed one times base pay.
