Governance Corporate governance continued | Outside appointments Accountability Non-executive directors may serve on other boards provided that they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment to discharge As noted in the section describing matters reserved for the board, their duties effectively to SABMiller.
The nomination committee keeps the directors are ultimately responsible for corporate reporting, risk under review the extent of directors other interests to ensurethat management and internal control.
There is a regular schedule for the their external commitments do not compromise the effectiveness board to consider the groups principal risks and mitigating actions.
of the board and do not give rise to conflicts of interest.
The board is The principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are set out satisfied that all the non-executive directors commit sufficient time to onpages 16 and 17. their duties as directors of the company: the non-executive directors standing for election or re-election have confirmed that they have Risk management sufficient time to fulfil their respective obligations to the company.
The groups risk management system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The board firmly believes in the benefit to the group of our executive objectives.
There is a continuous process in place for identifying, directors and members of the executive committee accepting assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on the significant non-executive directorships of other companies to widen their risks faced by individual group companies and by the group as experience and knowledge.
Accordingly, subject to the agreement awhole.
This process has been in place for the year under review of the board, executive directors and executive committee members upto the approval of the annual report and accounts.
The groups are permitted toaccept external non-executive board appointments risk management system is subject to regular review to ensure and to retainany fees from those appointments.
compliance with the Code and the Financial Reporting Council guidance to directors on internal control and risk management During the year under review none of the executive directors held theFRC Guidance.
The Financial Reporting Council has recently any such appointment.
Of the executive committee members, updated the provisions of the Code on risk management and internal MarkBowman is a non-executive director of Tiger Brands Limited, control and has published new guidance.
The revised Code and acompany listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and new guidance do not apply to SABMiller in respect of theyear AriMervis is a director of the Melbourne Business School.
under review but apply in respect of the current year.
Retirement of directors Audit committee The companys articles of association require that new directors A description of the composition of the audit committee during aresubject to election at the first annual general meeting following the year is included in the section dealing with the board and its their appointment, and that directors are subject to retirement and committees.
Information on the responsibilities and work of the re-election by shareholders every three years.
The re-appointment auditcommittee is set out in the audit committee report on ofnon-executive directors is not automatic.
However, the board pages70 to 73. hasdetermined that all directors will stand for re-election annually.
Independent non-executive directors who have served for nine yearswill only be asked to stand for re-election if the board remains satisfied both with their performance and that nine years continuous service has not compromised their continuing independence.
Induction of new directors Upon appointment to the board Jan du Plessis right, centre received a tailored induction which included meetings with members of the executive committee and leaders of corporate centre and group functions.
As part of the board visits to China and Peru, he met with senior members of in-country management responsible forexecuting our sales and distribution strategies and visited breweries and outlets.
He will continue to meet with other executives throughout the year.
Trevor Manuels induction commenced with a briefing on his responsibilities as a director ofa company listed on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges, and meetings with the managing directors of SABMiller Africa and SAB Ltd. His induction into SABMiller will continue throughout the next 12 months.
66 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Governance Executive committee The excom has specific responsibility for implementing the groups Key features of the systems of internal control are: system of risk management and views the careful and appropriate management of risk as a key management role.
It reviews our the risk management system described above: significant risks and subsequently reports to the board on material written policies and procedures within our businesses: changes and the associated mitigating actions.
Reviews of the clearly defined lines of accountability and delegations effectiveness of the risk management system were carried out ofauthority: by excom in April and October 2014 and in March 2015, and management of operating risk by using appropriate reported tothe audit committee.
infrastructure, controls, systems and people throughout thebusinesses: Enterprise-wide risk management business continuity planning, including preventative and Managing business risk to deliver opportunities is a key element contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the ofallour business activities, and is undertaken using a practical purchase of insurance: andflexible framework that provides a consistent and sustained maintenance of a state of preparedness towards compliance approach to risk evaluation.
Business risks, which may be strategic, with Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act through the operational, financial, environmental, reputational, are understood identification and testing of key financial controls under the and visible.
The business context determines in each situation internal financial control IFC programme.
This is a voluntary initiative, which strengthens internal control systems and the level of acceptable risk and controls.
processes within the group: risk management policies and procedures including segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, Key features of our system of risk management are: financial and managerial review and comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved standards and budgets: group statements on strategic priorities, purpose, values a treasury operating framework and group treasury team, andethics: accountable for all treasury activities, which establishes clear business objectives and business principles: policies and manages liquidity and financial risks, including an established risk policy: foreign exchange, interest rate and counterparty exposures, a continuous process for identification and evaluation of and incorporates group and regional treasury committees significant risks to the achievement of business objectives: that monitor these activities and compliance with the policies.
management processes to mitigate significant risks toan Treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring procedures acceptable level: are reviewed regularly by the audit committee on behalf continuing monitoring of significant risks and internal and of the board, with the policy having been refreshed in the external environmental factors that may change our risk year under review: and profile: and a group tax policy and tax operating framework which forms a regular review of both the type and amount of external the basis of tax governance across the group and is managed insurance purchased, bearing in mind the availability of cover, by our group tax function which monitors tax risk and its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
implements strategies and procedures to manage it, and whichis also reviewed regularly by the audit committee on behalf of the board.
In addition to excoms bi-annual reports to the board on key risks, there is a process of regular reporting to the board through the audit committee on the status of the risk management process.
Strategic planning, internal audit and other risk control specialist processes are integrated into line managements risk processes and simplified Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control and on risk reporting.
their effectiveness is obtained through regular management reviews, reviews of key financial controls, internal audit reviews including Key reports include those that identify, assess and monitor strategic, programme assurance for large change projects, testing of certain financial, reputational and operational risks in each country, division, aspects of the internal financial control systems by the external and group function and on a group basis.
auditors during their statutory examinations and regular reports to the audit committee by the internal and external auditors.
Internal control Our regional and group function finance, control and assurance The FRC Guidance recommends internal control practices for committees consider the results of these reviews within each region UK listed companies to assist them in assessing the application and group function twice each year, together with feedback from of the Codes principles and compliance with the Codes internal country audit committees, to confirm that controls are functioning control provisions.
and to ensure that any material breakdowns and remedial actions have been reported to the appropriate boards of directors.
In relation Our systems of internal control are designed and operated to to our associated undertakings or joint ventures, these matters support the identification, evaluation and management of risks are reviewed at the level of the associates or joint ventures affecting the group.
These include controls in relation to the financial boards or other governing committees.
reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts, but extend across all areas of operations.
They are subject to continuous review as circumstances change and new risks emerge.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 67 Governance Corporate governance continued | Internal audit At the half year and year end the members of regional and country Our global internal audit function consists of the group internal audit business executive committees, each of our functional directors team, led by the Chief Internal Auditor, plus regional and country corporate finance and strategy: legaland corporate affairs: audit functions that operate in each of the groups principal areas of marketing: and integrated supply and human resources, each of business.
The regional and country functions are centrally directed the direct reports to the Chief Financial Officer finance and control, by the group internal audit team.
The country internal audit functions global business services including information technology, internal are jointly accountable to local senior finance management and audit, tax, treasury and investor relations are required to submit regional heads of internal audit.
They also have direct access to the Group Company Secretary, on behalf of the board, formal and accountability to local audit committees and the Chief letters of representation on compliance with internal controls Internal Auditor.
Notification of continuing or potential significant financial, regulatory, environmental and other exposures is also Internal audit reviews, all of which are risk-based and include required to be given.
These letters of representation are supported provision of assurance over financial, operational, IT and by back-to-back letters from the executive committees of all global transformation programme activities, are performed by teams of business functions and country operating businesses, and cover appropriately qualified and experienced employees.
Third parties the entire group.
Material matters reported in these letters are may be engaged to support audit work as appropriate.
The Chief reported to the audit committee.
Internal Auditor, who reports jointly to the audit committee and theChief Financial Officer, has direct right of access to, and regular Executive directors and executive committee members sit on meetings with, the audit committee chairman and prepares formal the boards or management committees of major associated reports for each audit committee meeting on the consolidated companies such as MillerCoors, CR Snow, Anadolu Efes and activities and key findings of the global internal audit function.
Directors and members of the executive committee also Theaudit committee also has unrestricted access to all internal make annual written declarations of interests and are obliged to audit reports, should it wish to review them.
report without delay any potential or actual conflicts of interest which may arise.
Our global internal audit function uses a standardised groupwide internal audit methodology which is in compliance with the The directors are responsible for the groups systems of internal International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
The board Auditing of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The function operates hasconducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups internal aformal global quality assurance and effectiveness programme.
controls covering material financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems for the year under review.
An annual process gathers feedback against specific performance Where necessary, actions were taken to remedy any weaknesses criteria from a broad range of executive management at the group, identified by the boards review of the internal control system.
regional and country levels and from certain board members.
This The systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives process, supplemented by results from the functions own quality and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against assurance reviews, provides a basis for the annual review of the material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing these, the board has effectiveness of the global internal audit function coordinated by taken into account the results of all work carried out by internal the Group Company Secretary and results in a report tothe audit and external auditors.
committee to support the committees formal annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, a periodic review The board, with advice from the audit committee, completed its of internal audit is undertaken, most recently in 2014, by an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control independent external consultant in accord with the guidelines of and risk management for the period since 1 April 2014, in the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The audit committee has satisfied accordance with the FRC Guidance.
itself that adequate, objective internal audit assurance standards and procedures exist within the group.
The internal audit function is responsible for facilitating the risk management and reporting processes across the group.
It also provides assurance on the effectiveness of the process to excom, the audit committee and the board.
