Strategic report Business overview SABMiller by numbers US$6,367m 8% 1 Group EBITA 2014 : US$6,460m.
72% The proportion of EBITA from developing markets.
2 EBITA by region % Latin America 35% US$2,224m Africa 29% 35% US$1,907m Restated.
Asia Pacifi c 12% 2 Absolute reduction in Before Corporate costs and South Africa: US$768m Hotels and Gaming.
Europe 11% carbon emissions from 3 Subsidiaries only, excluding home markets, US$700m on a constant currency basis.
on-site energy use North America 4 Subsidiaries only, excluding home markets.
US$858m 13% We have a balanced spread of businesses with a signifi cant presence in developing markets Latin America Africa Where we operate Where we operate Regional of ce: Miami, USA Regional of ce: Johannesburg, Our primary brewing and beverage South Africa operations cover six countries across On 1 July 2014, SABMillers South African South and Central America Colombia, and African regions were consolidated Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, into one region.
Our primary brewing Panama and Peru.
and beverage operations in Africa cover 17 countries including Botswana, What we do Mozambique, Nigeria, South Africa, In each of these countries we are the Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
A further number one brewer by market share.
21 are covered through our associate We have a brewery in Argentina, and interests in the Castel groups African we export to Chile and Paraguay.
beverage businesses and we also have We produce soft drinks across the an associated undertaking in Zimbabwe.
region including Coca-Cola products in El Salvador and Honduras.
What we do In most of these countries we are the Read more on p age 18 number one brewer by market share.
We produce Coca-Cola products in 23 of our African markets with Castel in 15 of these markets and through our associated undertaking in Zimbabwe.
Read more on page 22 2 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 140,000 94% Every minute of every day, more than The proportion of our total #1 1 40,000 bottles of SABMiller beer are lager volume from markets in enjoyed around the world.
Lager volumes level year on year.
Our global brands are Peroni Nastro Azzurro, 69,000 25% Miller Genuine Draft, Pilsner Urquell and Grolsch.
EBITA from 16% associates and NPR 3 growth joint ventures.
SABMiller has almost 69,000 11% employees and is in more Volume 4 growth than 80 countries.
Asia Pacifi c Europe North America Where we operate Where we operate Where we operate Regional of ce: Hong Kong Regional of ce: Zug, Switzerland Regional of ce: Chicago, USA Our brewing interests across Asia Paci c Our primary brewing operations cover eight MillerCoors is a joint venture with Molson cover four countries: Australia, China, countries the Czech Republic, Hungary, Coors Brewing Company, which was India and Vietnam.
Italy, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Spain formed in 2008 by bringing together Canary Islands and the Netherlands.
the US and Puerto Rican operations What we do of both groups.
What we do CR Snow, our partnership of more than In the majority of these countries we What we do 20 years with China Resources Enterprise, are the number one or two brewer by MillerCoors is the second largest brewer Limited, is the largest brewer in China.
in the USA, with 27% of the beer market.
Carlton & United Breweries CUB is We cover a further 16 countries including Our wholly-owned Miller Brewing the second largest Australian brewer.
Russia, Turkey and Ukraine in a strategic International business is based in We are the second largest brewer alliance with Anadolu Efes through Milwaukee, USA and exports our brands in India.
brewing, soft drinks and export operations.
to Canada and Mexico and throughout We have a brewery in Vietnam, and we We export signi cant volumes to a further the Americas.
export to numerous markets including seven European markets, of which the South Korea.
largest are the UK and Germany.
Read more on page 34 Read more on p age 26 Read more on p age 30 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 3
