Governance Base pay is a fixed cost for the company, and is therefore set at the upper decile pay for upper decile performance: level appropriate to recruit and retain individuals of the necessary upper quartile pay for upper quartile performance: calibre, but with no in-built premium for performance, which is median pay or lower for median performance: and otherwise rewarded through the companys incentive plans.
Shortfixed pay only for below median performance.
term incentives are structured to reward the achievement of annual financial performance balanced with the delivery of the companys At the end of each performance period, before any variable payments strategic priorities.
Long-term incentives are an integral part of the are confirmed, remuneration payable is compared with the expected companys approach to competitive performance-based pay, and are level of pay for actual performance achieved, to ensure that any aligned to shareholder returns to ensure a clear line of sight between payouts remain appropriate for overall business performance executive pay and value creation for shareholders.
For this reason, and shareholder returns.
long-term incentives with performance periods of up to five years are the component of pay which represent the largest opportunity Alignment of strategy, pay and performance for executive directors and executive committee members.
The companys key strategic priorities aim to deliver a higher return to shareholders than our peers.
Accordingly, these same strategic In practice, this approach means setting fixed pay at around median priorities determine the performance measures and targets for both for the relevant market, with a significant proportion of variable the short-term and long-term incentive plans.
performance-related pay to incentivise and reward performance, re-inforced by executive shareholding requirements.
The combination The financial performance measures for short-term incentives STI of these components ensures that high rewards are achieved only are selected as being the drivers of superior EPS growth, with strict for high performance and high shareholder returns.
control of cash flow enabling an attractive dividend.
The long-term incentives LTI measures reward the achievement of stretching EPS Before the quantum of awards is determined, extensive modelling growth targets and delivery of superior TSR.
In addition, sustainability of the potential outcomes is undertaken, and any necessary metrics including water usage and reductions in fossil fuel emissions, adjustments made, so that remuneration remains appropriate in all the and other strategic objectives, comprise the total bonus opportunity circumstances.
The targeted positions for each performance level are: for executives, to ensure that the achievement of short-term financial performance is not at the expense of enabling future shareholder value creation.
Alignment of strategy, pay and performance Operating Group LTI measures STI measures typical STI measures typical Revenue Market share Revenue growth Volume EPS growth Cost savings TSR out-performance Profit Margin growth Return on capital Cash generation Free cash flow Attractive dividend Working capital Water usage Fossil fuel emissions Sustainability Health and safety SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 77
