Governance Directors remuneration report continued | Remuneration policy This report covers the year from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015 and reproduces the remuneration policy unchanged except for context to show the policys application for the year under review forthethree-year period commencing from the 2014 AGM on 24 July 2014.
This report complies with the requirements of the Large and MediumRemuneration philosophy sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations The companys remuneration philosophy is to ensure that all 2008 as amended the regulations and the provisions of the UK employees are rewarded fairly and appropriately for their contribution.
Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration.
The format In setting remuneration levels, the committee takes into account and content take into account the Directors Remuneration Reporting appropriate market benchmarks, while also ensuring an emphasis Guidance of the GC100 and Investor Group, together with other on pay for performance.
This approach helps to attract, retain guidance issued by institutional investor and governance bodies.
and motivate individuals of the necessary calibre, while ensuring employees behaviours remain consistent with SABMillers values.
Directors remuneration report Total remuneration comprises fixed pay and variable  policy related pay, which is further divided into short-term incentives It is intended that the remuneration policy will be put to a shareholder with a one-year performance period and long-term incentives vote every three years unless a change of policy is proposed with three, four and five-year performance periods.
In addition, and will apply from the date of the relevant general meeting.
The executive directors are required to own outright shares in the policy described in the 2014 report took effect from 24 July 2014, company, toprovide further alignment with shareholder returns following shareholder approval at the 2014 annual general meeting.
byensuring areduction in their own wealth if there is a reduction No changes have been made to the policy during the year and inSABMillers share price.
accordingly the policy is not being put to ashareholder vote this year, but has been reproduced in its entirety unchanged except for Our remuneration philosophy context to show the policys application for the year under review.
Ensure employees are Attract, retain and motivate Role of the remuneration committee rewarded fairly and individuals with the necessary In accordance with its terms of reference which are available on the appropriately calibre and behaviours companys website, the committee determines the basis on which the executive directors and the members of the executive committee are to be paid and the amount of their remuneration.
In addition, the Fixed pay Short-term Long-term committee has oversight of the remuneration strategy for the group incentives incentives base pay asa whole, monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for annual bonus share option retirement senior management, and approving all awards under the companys plan one year plan 3 and benefits share incentive arrangements.
When determining executive pay, 5 years other benefits thecommittee considers the specific performance measures for Aligned to financial share award performance and eachincentive plan, as well as overall business performance and Appropriate to plan 3, 4 and strategic priorities shareholder returns, paying particular regard to environmental, recruit and retain, 5 years but no in-built social and governance issues, to ensure that the incentive premium for arrangements do not inadvertently motivate or reward inappropriate Aligned to performance shareholder outcomes or excessive risk.
In such circumstances the committee returns has the discretion to adjust, forfeit and clawback annual bonus payments and share awards.
High rewards are achieved only for high performance and high shareholder returns Key to colours The following colours are used throughout the directors remuneration report to denote the following: Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives 76 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015
