Strategic report Operations review Latin America Effective campaigns focusing on events and new occasions, as well as targeted consumer activations, supported our brands, while we continue to tap into new sources of growth through innovations.
In Latin America, group NPR grew strongly In Colombia, group NPR growth of 6% on an organic, constant currency basis at on a constant currency basis re ected We increased marketing 7% level on a reported basis.
Lager pricing total volume growth of 2%, selective price and growth in our premium and above increases and premiumisation, buoyed by investment behind our brands mainstream categories, together with strong strong non-alcoholic malt volume growth.
to support an expansion soft drinks volume growth, underpinned this Lager volumes were in line with the prior year, performance.
Effective campaigns focusing although our share of alcohol increased by of the beer category.
on events and new occasions, as well as 180 bps.
Our above mainstream brand Aguila targeted consumer activations, supported Light and bulk packs saw continued growth, our brands, while we continue to tap into together with strong performance in our new sources of growth through innovations.
premium brands, Club Colombia and Miller In Colombia our bulk pack expansion Lite, offsetting a decline in our mainstream continued successfully, while in Honduras we brands, Aguila and Poker.
have stepped up our efforts in making beer more affordable in line with our strategy of expanding the lager category.
Our financial performance was assisted by a reduction in Karl Lippert real unit production costs, notwithstanding President, SABMiller currency pressure on imported raw materials, Latin America and xed cost productivity, while we continue to simplify and drive ef ciencies in our businesses, including the disposal of non-core assets.
We have increased marketing investment behind our brands to support our expansion of the beer category and innovations, while currency headwinds, most notably in Colombia and Peru, diluted reported results.
Reported EBITA margin continues to grow, with a further 40 bps improvement in the year.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 5,745 9 348 380 5,768 7 1 EBITA US$m 2,192 2 132 166 2,224 81 EBITA margin % 38.2 38.6 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 43,586 570 44,156 11 Soft drinks 18,514 70 1,421 19,865 87 Total beverages 62,100 70 1,991 64,021 33 In 2014 before an exceptional credit of US$47 million, being the pro t on disposal of the Panama milk and juice business.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic report Operations review Latin America | | Our premium segment growth was In Ecuador, group NPR growth of 10% was underpinned by a new proprietary bottle underpinned by the continuing robust growth for Club Colombia, differentiated seasonal of our above mainstream brand Pilsener Light offerings and increased reach.
Trading, and price increases in the latter half of the generally, was negatively impacted by dry prior year.
We delivered 2% lager volume laws during the presidential elections and growth despite increased trading restrictions the soccer World Cup.
Soft drinks volumes and advertising bans, through new occasions bene ted from double digit growth driven by such as events and midweek outlet the success of our non-alcoholic malt brand activation, together with pack innovation and Pony Malta and the PET bulk pack offering.
the effective use of social media.
In addition Favourable raw material prices offset foreign our sales service model yielded better quality exchange headwinds and xed cost service and improved our coverage.
Our productivity resulted in strong margin growth.
share of alcohol volumes declined by 350 bps in the year, moderating the signi cant gains Perus group NPR grew by 5% on a constant achieved over the past few years, while currency basis driven by total volume growth Pilsener Light continues capturing share of 4%.
Lager volumes increased by within the portfolio as consumers 2% with our above mainstream trade up.
In addition to positive brand Pilsen Callao achieving mix, xed cost productivity double digit growth, as further enhanced our margin consumers continue to trade and financial results.
up from mainstream, more 7% Miller grows in than offsetting a decline in In Panama, group NPR Group NPR growth on our premium Cusquea grew by 3% on an organic Latin America an organic, constant brand.
Our international basis boosted by our currency basis.
premium brand offerings mainstream brand Atlas and Miller Lite and Miller Genuine Draft continued to expand their reach innovations in the light segment have delivered striking growth in with double digit volume growth.
with the launch of Balboa Ice.
Our share of lager market volumes Premium segment volumes were level continued to improve, up by 60 bps, re ecting strong price competition in the The Miller franchise sold almost underpinned by strong trade execution premium segment.
Our non-alcoholic malt one million hectolitres across the region during the summer and the World Cup brand, Malta Vigor, saw 12% growth boosted with 25% growth in the year, with particular soccer activities, which overcame the effect by the smaller PET pack offering, while success for Miller Genuine Draft in of adverse weather conditions and social other soft drinks volumes declined due to Panama.
In Latin America, all Miller disruption from activities against illegal mining heightened price competition.
In February variants are premium priced, with Miller in the country.
Soft drinks volumes were up 2015 we disposed of our interest in an Lite positioned in the premium segment by 13% with growth coming from Guarana, associated company involved in can and Miller Genuine Draft in super premium.
San Mateo and our non-alcoholic malt manufacturing for cash consideration In the past five years, the Miller franchise brand Maltin Power, all boosted by pack of US$7 million.
volumes have, off a low base, seen a innovations.
Further optimisation of our compound annual growth rate of 67% production grid, together with distribution and in Latin America.
sales ef ciencies, assisted financial results.
Light beer growth strengthens In Latin America, strong demand for our light beer brands is increasing their importance in our portfolio.
Light beer is growing faster than any other segment in Latin America, as consumers, particularly women, increasingly favour easy drinking beers.
We are meeting these evolving preferences, in line with our strategy of responding to trends and our aim to reach more consumers on more occasions.
In the year, in Ecuador, volumes of Pilsener Light grew by 185%, and it now represents 28% of the brand franchise: in Colombia, volumes of Aguila Light grew by 9%.
20 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Taking time out with friends and a beer Our Jueves fide Patas or Friends Thursday campaign has created new occasions for friends to meet in on-trade premises in Peru.
Peruvians traditionally drink at home rather than in pubs, with just 37% of beer sold on-premise.
Friends Thursday encourages consumers to catch up with friends for an affordable weekday Pilsen Callao beer outside the home.
Our Peruvian business Backus built excitement around the four-year campaign with quirky through-the-line media and by offering prizes and incentives to consumers, participating bars and the sales force.
Prosper Two of our Latin America regions top sustainability priorities are water security and accelerating growth and social development in our value chain.
In Honduras, group NPR growth of South America accounts for 28% of global 5% on a constant currency basis was fresh water and has the highest rainfall.
underpinned by lager volume growth of 2%, However, water is often in the wrong place, where double digit growth was achieved in prevalent in scarcely populated rainforest the last quarter with the impetus in driving and scarce in Lima, where nine million affordability through pricing and packs.
This people live in a desert.
SABMiller and came against the backdrop of unfavourable The Nature Conservancy TNC are working economic conditions, Sunday dry laws and together in three countries across Latin Building employee continuing security concerns which have America to build AquaFunds, which gather engagement impacted consumption particularly in the investments from water users and direct on-premise channel.
Against this tough the funding towards conserving ecosystems environment, our trade execution and brand that lter and regulate water supply.
In Our Latin America regions strong resonance with consumers remains strong, Colombia, our Bavaria business, along performance is underpinned by with a gain in alcohol volume share of 60 bps.
with TNC and other partners, has funded its commitment to developing a Soft drinks volumes grew by 5%, driven by eight projects to date.
people-centred business strategy still drinks, multi-serve packs and new and culture.
formats for sparkling soft drinks.
com aquafunds In our global employee opinion El Salvador delivered group NPR growth survey, the region delivered a of 8% driven by lager volume growth of 6% Small-scale shopkeepers tendero s 91% high engagement score with bulk packs growing strongly as a result are a vital part of our value chain, accounting outperforming fast-moving of our affordability strategy and strong trade for 40% of sales volumes across the region.
Lager growth was driven by our Our 4e Path to Progress programme has Latin America and SABMiller agship mainstream brand, Pilsener, together provided more than 7,600 tender os with norms.
Key to this impressive with above mainstream brand Golden Light.
business and leadership training, in result was the regions Meaningful In the premium segment our local brands partnership with the Inter-American Jobs initiative, which aims to continued to grow and the Miller range of Development Bank and FUNDES.
ensure its 36,000 employees and brands saw double digit growth.
Soft drinks contractors feel that they and their volumes grew by 6%, with particularly strong Read more on page 8. work matters.
The initiative tracks growth in sparkling soft drinks.
and where necessary takes Read more about regional and country follow-up action on eight criteria, sustainability priorities and performance at ranging from understanding www.
com sam expectations and the suitability of work tools to regular feedback and opportunities to learn and advance.
A complementary Meaningful Conversations programme has coached 3,500 leaders, at all levels, in effective communication.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 21 AFRICA Where we Lager volumes Soft drinks operate volumes 48.4m hl 34.9m hl 1 1 9% 4% Group NPR US$7,462m 2 Signi cant business with production operations 9% 5 markets Associates are driving local sourcing and affordable growth through our Eagle and Impala brands.
Drive superior topline growth through our brands: 2 Castle Lite: reached 5.5 million hl as it is rolled out across 6% the region: EBITA Hero in Nigeria: 1 million hl within two years of launch: and US$1,907m Strong growth of fl avour innovations in South Africa, such as Flying Fish and Castle Lite Lime.
