Governance Corporate governance continued | The remuneration committee The corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Lesley Knox Chairman of the Dambisa Moyo remuneration committee Chairman of CARAC During the year the remuneration committee consisted entirely Dambisa Moyo chaired the committee throughout the year, ofindependent directors: Lesley Knox Chairman, Mark Armour, with Geoff Bible, Alan Clark, John Manser, John Manzoni, Guy Elliott and John Manzoni.
John Manzoni will stand down and Helen Weir serving as members for the entire period.
Jamie fromthe committee on his retirement as a director at the 2015 Wilson was a member of the committee until 18 February 2015.
John Manzoni will step down from the committee on his retirement annual general meeting.
The committee is responsible for on 23 July 2015.
The General Counsel and Corporate Affairs the assessment and approval of a remuneration strategy for Director, John Davidson, met regularly with Dambisa Moyo to the group, for the operation of the companys share-based discuss the agenda and implementation and planning issues, incentive plans and for reviewing and approving short-term and and attends allmeetings of the committee.
long-term remuneration for executive directors and executive committee members.
The committees objective is to assist the board in the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to the groups alcohol policies The remuneration committee has implemented a strategy of and corporate accountability, including sustainable development, ensuring that employees and executives are rewarded for their corporate social responsibility and corporate socialinvestment.
contribution to the groups operating and financial performance More details of the committees activities areinthe sustainable atlevels which take account of industry, market and country development review section of this report andinourseparate benchmarks.
To ensure that executive and company goals sustainable development summary report, which isavailable are aligned, share incentives are considered critical elements on our website.
The terms of reference of this committee, and ofexecutive incentive pay.
During the year the committee in particular its role and responsibilities in relation to risk vis--vis engaged Kepler Associates, which hasno other connection the audit committee and board, are under review.
The recent with the company, as consultants.
The companys management board effectiveness evaluation identified this asan area that engages other consultants on a project basis at levels below would benefit from further clarification.
During the year the committee continued to focus on company Details of the companys remuneration policy and the work specific and industry issues that are critical to protecting our oftheremuneration committee during the year, including the licence to trade, and on risks in this area.
Particular areas of shareholder consultation on the vesting levels of share options focus included our longer term sustainable development aims.
atthreshold performance, are in the directors remuneration Thisculminated in the launch of Prosper, our new sustainable report on pages 74 to 96. development ambition which identifies five shared imperatives that impact on our businesses and local communities.
The committee also reviewed the implementation of our groupwide policy for health and safety.
The committee normally meets twice each year, but during the course of the year the committee changed the timing of its meetings from March and September of each year to May and November of each year, to align more closely with the groups external reporting calendar.
As a result, the November 2014 meeting was the only meeting held during the year ended 31March 2015.
