Strategic report Market overview Beer accounts for almost one-third of global retail sales value in packaged beverages, with attractive industry margins.
The global soft drinks market is slightly larger than that for beer, accounting for almost 40% of global retail sales value in packaged beverages.
For example, increased consumer demand for variety and new experiences has driven the higher growth of different beer styles outside of core lager, notably in the US craft beer segment but also across other developed markets.
Delivering topline growth in these markets is dependent on appealing to more consumers on more occasions, by: improving core mainstream lager to meet the needs of a wider range of consumers better: successful premiumisation, to drive revenue per hectolitre: innovating to evolve portfolios towards more attractive growth segments: and The global beer market is relatively markets, which are typically local spirits regaining share from other beverages.
consolidated, with the top four largest brewers or informal illicit alcohol: and ABInBev, SABMiller, Heineken, and Carlsberg demographics and drinking occasions Soft drinks accounting for around 50% of global volumes.
being skewed towards core beer Sparkling, or carbonated soft drinks CSDs, SABMiller is the number two globally, and consumers, with mainstream lager critical make up approximately 40% of total soft this gives us the opportunity to continue to to growth.
drinks global retail sales value.
Global soft leverage our scale, global brands and skills drinks volumes have been growing at around to improve in-market performance.
Given Ensuring the affordability, availability and 4% compound annual growth rate over the the importance of local brands and scale, quality of core mainstream lager is critical past 10 years, with the category demonstrating the strength of local market positions is to growth in these markets.
However, similar consumption characteristics and also important to sustainable long-term while the beer category is heavily focused growth dynamics to beer, with rapid growth performance in beer.
In this regard, 94% of on mainstream lager, the rise in disposable and increasing levels of per capita our beer volumes come from markets where incomes provides opportunities for consumption as markets develop.
we are the number one or two brewer.
nature of competition and competitive intensity From a category development perspective, varies by market, but we typically compete not Compared with our global competitors, soft drinks also show a similar overall only against some or all of the major global a greater proportion of our total pro t and dynamic to beer.
In developing markets, brewers, but also small and large local volumes come from developing markets.
CSDs and bottled water are the dominant brewers and with alcohol producers.
This has helped support our superior sub-categories, but fragmentation of the rates of organic topline growth.
category occurs as markets develop, with The global beer market has been growing still drinks, juices and premium bottled water at 2% to 3% over the past 10 years.
However, Developed markets becoming much more evident.
As with beer, there is a clear difference in growth, category In contrast with developing markets, volume scale and leadership in a market is critical to dynamics and characteristics between and consumption growth in more developed long-term sustainable success.
developing and developed markets markets have typically been at or have and, therefore, in the growth opportunities declined over the past decade.
This re ects they present.
both a general decline in alcohol consumption and a fall in beers share of total alcohol.
Developing markets There are many reasons for this shift and the Growth in beer consumption in developing increasing fragmentation of consumer choice, markets is driven by such factors as: including changes in the nature of drinking occasions and in the demographics of affordability, with per capita consumption alcohol consumers.
These changes include increasing sharply as consumer disposable the growth of mixed gender drinking income levels grow: occasions and ageing populations.
beer being an aspirational and higher quality beverage compared with other These dynamics are challenging, but they competing alcoholic beverages in these also represent future growth opportunities 14 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015
