Governance Whistleblowing measures During April 2014 our 20 largest shareholders in addition to those All our employees have the opportunity to make confidential represented on the board were invited to meet the Chairman disclosures about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing.
Country andDeputy Chairman to discuss any governance or other issues or regional ethics committees, the Group Company Secretary or which they wished to raise, and the invitations were taken up by the General Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director, in consultation 10 shareholders.
Matters raised in these meetings included executive with the Chief Internal Auditor if appropriate, decide on the method and non-executive succession planning, long-term sustainable and level of investigation.
The audit committee reviews the groups growth prospects in developing markets, prospects for future value-adding mergers and acquisitions in the light of the relative whistleblowing arrangements each year to assess whether they consolidation of the global beer industry, efficient capital allocation remain effective, is notified of all material disclosures made and and dividend policy, progress in recruiting a longer term chairman, receives reports on the results of investigations and actions taken.
the transition of responsibilities to Alan Clark as the new Chief The audit committee has the power to request further information, Executive, and relationships with the groups joint venture and conduct its own inquiries ororder additional action.
Our 20 largest shareholders were given a further opportunity to contact the Chairman in June 2014 if they wished Relations with shareholders to discuss any matters from our 2014 annual report and notice of annual general meeting.
Given that we had already carried out a All shareholders were again encouraged to attend our annual general consultation in April and May it was perhaps unsurprising general meeting in July 2014, which provided the opportunity to that no shareholders took up this offer.
ask questions of the board and chairmen of all board committees.
At the meeting, all resolutions were put to a vote on a poll, with Institutional and shareholder comment on the annual report is the results being published on the companys website, and on conveyed by the Group Company Secretary to the full board and the London and Johannesburg stock exchange news services.
tothe audit and remuneration committees and the CARAC in As the geographic spread of shareholders inevitably means relation tomatters within their respective terms of reference.
that they cannot all attend a meeting in the UK, a film and a full transcript of meeting proceedings were published onthe As described in our remuneration report, in each of the past three companys website.
Similar arrangements are planned for years, our 50 largest shareholders have been invited to meet or the2015 annual general meeting.
communicate withthe chairman of the remuneration committee to discuss our remuneration philosophy.
We maintain a dedicated investor relations function which reports tothe Chief Financial Officer.
The investor relations team builds Stephen Shapiro andmaintains long-term relationships with institutional investors Group Company Secretary andanalysts and, in partnership with our corporate and divisional For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc management teams and within the scope of regulatory constraints, 2 June 2015 gives presentations on group performance and regional businesses and strives to ensure these are understood across the global equity markets, including in one-to-one meetings with investors.
Dialogue on sustainable development and socially responsible investment matters is primarily handled by the General Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director and by the Director of Sustainable Development, who have focused meetings withinterested investors and stakeholders.
