Our strategic priorities 1 Expanding our Insurance footprint There is an opportunity for us to grow our market share by broadening our offer, particular in the motor market.
This will be achieved through the creation of a motor insurance panel, allowing us to source other providers of underwriting.
Historically, our potential to grow our share in the UK motor market has been constrained by the fact that we have underwritten the majority of the policies we provide and 73% of those customers that receive a quote for motor insurance sit beyond the tight specific expertise of AICL, our in-house underwriting business, and do not convert to a policy.
We are not moving out of underwriting.
AICL is an excellent underwriter and an important part of the Group.
However, introducing a motor insurance panel, in the same way we have done in our Home Insurance business, will allow us to increase our offer to customers by accessing different providers of underwriting broadening the cross-section of our target market we can provide solutions to without increasing the Groups risk appetite or use of capital.
Go to pages 31-32 for more information 2 Grow Travel Travel is at the core of our business.
It provides a unique This growth will come from refreshing the existing offering opportunity for us to meet our customers and deliver a by using our improved segmentation to help design personal service in a way that few, if any, of our competitors products we can sell to specific target groups and in other sectors can even dream of.
increasing our opportunities to put these products in front of customers through new routes to market and digital We have an attractive proposition to a key market segment marketing techniques.
based on a tour operating model with high levels of customer satisfaction and repeat business.
So we have set ourselves a tough goal of doubling EBITDA within the five Go to pages 33-34 for more information years from January 2014: challenging, but possible.
Saga plc 15 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Our strategic priorities continued 3 Expand Personal Finance Sagas target market of the over 50s currently holds 68% of all household wealth in the UK.
This fact, combined with the changes in annuity and pension policies brought into effect in April 2015, means consumers are looking for guidance, advice and clarity on financial matters.
Following the turbulence of recent years in the financial services sector, many consumers do not trust the majority of the brands in the space, and some brands have chosen to withdraw altogether.
With the largest dedicated database of names and perhaps the most trusted brand associated with great service, our customers tell us that they would welcome Saga doing more in this sector.
Go to page 32 for more information 4 Make more of our database and digital marketing We are continually enhancing our understanding of our customers to find ways to provide our customers with the products and services they want.
In terms of how this is done, it includes an enhanced, and revised, segmentation project that is well under way and is helping us to understand what drives our customers.
We are focused on digital marketing across the Group.
We have a rich source of information with the database and a target demographic that is, and becoming more so, highly digitally active.
We are looking at adjoining and cross-selling opportunities to understand where we can get the most out of what we already have.
We interact directly with our customers to build strong relationships and understand their wants and needs.
Our dedicated data analytics team model customer preferences, which helps drive the Groups pricing and marketing strategies and helps ensure the most appropriate products and services are offered to our customers at the right time.
Altogether this adds up to an increased understanding of the large and growing database so it can be even more important to us than it is at present.
Go to page 22 Saga plc 16 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 5 Grow innovation We are committed to fostering an environment that allows While some of these pilots will never progress beyond innovation and creativity to flourish.
that stage, we are confident some will go on to make a meaningful contribution to the Group in the long term.
We have set up a dedicated innovation team and a framework that allows them to take insights from the database to find new areas where our model may be effective.
The team can pilot new ideas on a small scale, in a real world environment, quickly and at low cost as we have seen with our ongoing pilots in the private home healthcare market.
Go to pages 36-37 for more information Our way ahead Our strategy is intended to deliver We have retained our capital efficient We will have expanded into new areas and some of these will be long-term shareholder value through business model and our excellent making material contributions short and medium-term benefits cash flows to maximise returns for to earnings, such as Saga and goals.
Investment Services our wealth With this in mind, we want to share our Our excellent insurance offer management joint venture.
view of where we believe we will be in will be bigger with an increased five years time: market footprint.
We will continue to be committed to the private home healthcare market.
We will have grown our Travel Our culture will continue to foster business, which plays a central role and reward innovation across in the Saga brand.
Saga plc 17 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
