Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy report Our remuneration principles Proposed changes to pay arrangements for 2016 The remuneration policy for executives reects the overriding remuneration philosophy and principles of the wider Group, including Alignment with but not limited to the principles on which salaries are reviewed andthe structure of performance-related incentive plans.
Details of pay the wider Group arrangements for executive directors are set out in the annual remuneration report on pages 83 to 91.
Our existing pay structure for executive directors and other senior management is heavily weighted towards share-based performanceAlignment with related pay which is designed to align executive and shareholder interests.
In order to enhance this alignment further, the Remuneration shareholders Committee will be introducing the following changes in 2016: Malus clawback From 2016, all incentives awarded to executive directors and Executive Committee memberswill be subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Details of the proposed implementation of those provisions in the forthcoming year are set out in the Directors annual remuneration report and policy.
Compulsory bonus deferral Under our current remuneration policy, if an executive director already holds Sage shares with a value of at least 150% of salary then their annual bonus is paid wholly in cash.
If the executive is non-compliant with this shareholding requirement then 20% of their annual bonus is normally deferred into shares under the Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan for three years.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that from 2016an element of the annual bonus should be compulsorily deferred into shares irrespective of an individuals existing shareholding.
Accordingly, with eect from the 2016 annual bonus, all executive directors will be compulsorily required to defer one-third of their bonus into Sage shares.
During a transitional period bonuses for 2016 and 2017, the deferral period will be temporarily reduced to two years before returning to three years with eect from 2018.
Enhanced shareholding requirement Our current shareholding requirement requires executive directors to build up a holding of Sage shares worth at least 150% of their base salary.
Eective from the 2016 AGM, the shareholding requirement will be increased to 200% of base salary and directors will be expected to achieve the guideline within a maximum period of five years from when they first become subject to the guideline.
Holding period for PSP awards Our new PSP, approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, contains the exibility for the Remuneration Committee to apply a holding period of two years to PSP awards or such other period as may be determined following the three year vesting period.
This exibility will be added into our new remuneration policy although there is no current intention to apply a holding period to the 2016 grant of PSP awards.
Some of these proposed changes cannot be implemented for the that is, with both targets and actuals calculated prior to the executive directors under our current shareholder approved changes in the application of revenue recognition policy.
Accordingly, we will be seeking shareholder Overall, the Commiee determined that 64% of the maximum approval for a revised remuneration policy at the 2016 AGM that will number of shares under award will vest in March 2016. permit the full implementation of these changes.
We have consulted with Guy Berruyer stepped down from the role of Chief Executive our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on the Ocer and as a director of the Company on 5 November 2014, proposed changeswho have been generally supportive of our proposals.
although he remained an employee until 31 March 2015.
Details of his remuneration during FY15 are set out on page 85 and 86.
Key remuneration outcomes for FY15 Remuneration disclosure Following the changes in the application of the revenue recognition policy to certain products, referred to on page 163, This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Mediumthe Commiee determined that the calculation of actuals on a like sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 for like basis with the targets that is, with both targets and actuals as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance calculated prior to the change in the application of the revenue Code September 2012 and the Listing Rules.
recognition policy to certain products was an appropriate and fair The report is in two sections: The Directors remuneration policy basis of assessment for the FY15 bonus.
On this basis, for the year pages77 to 82.
This section contains details of the new remuneration ended 30 September 2015, Group organic revenue growth was policy to be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM in March 2016.
6.7%, reecting good acceleration in growth on the prior year, and underlying pre-tax profit was 361.7m.
Combined with the The Directors annual remuneration report pages83 to 92.
This achievement of strategic objectives, this led to 67% of the maximum section sets out details of how our existing remuneration policy was bonus paying out for the Chief Executive Ocer and Chief Financial implemented for the year ended 30 September 2015 and how we Ocer.
More details on the bonus outcome are set out on page 84. intend the new policy to apply for the year ended 30 September 2016 and will bethe subject of an advisory shareholder vote at the Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in 2013 were based AGM in March 2016. on organic revenue growth, Earnings per share growth and relative TSR performance measured over the three-year period to 30 September 2015.
As with the treatment of the FY15 bonus, the Commiee determined that organic revenue and EPS growth should be calculated on a consistent basis with the original targets Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 76 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
