Divisional review Strong performance in our first year as a public company.
Saga plc 30 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 As highlighted, the Group is committed to growth whilst Financial Services at a glance maintaining a capital efficient and cash generative operating model.
We are therefore in the process of building a panel Financial Services is Sagas largest business within our Motor Insurance business that will allow us to segment and has been operating for over 25 years.
provide insurance products to more customers by utilising other sources of underwriting, capitalising on the power of Trading EBITDA our brand and market position but without needing to commit more of our own capital.
We also believe that this is an extremely attractive proposition for insurers joining the panel.
210.6m Not only do they gain access to a large pool of potential customers, but also access to select data which can have Up 7.4% significant pricing and proprietary value.
We already operate very effectively with this structure in our Home Insurance business and, although we are still in the Total policies sold early stages of development, we are seeing strong demand Total core Total add-ons from underwriters to be part of the motor panel and the indicative prices they are providing are very encouraging.
We will be providing further updates on our progress during 2,679k 1,999k the course of this year.
Down 0.7% Down 10.0% We announced earlier this year that we plan to acquire, subject to regulatory approval, Bennetts, the UKs leading motorbike insurance provider.
Upon completion we will add over 200,000 motorbike insurance policies to the 18,000 we Motor Insurance already provided under the Saga brand.
Alongside many of our peers, we have continued to experience challenging conditions in the motor market.
Prices stabilised In many ways this proposed acquisition encapsulates our in the second half of 2014 but since then, there have been no strategy: a growing UK insurance broker with a market-leading meaningful signs of any price increases.
We have built our brand, and where the combined customer base offers great strategy for the future on the premise that these market potential for both Saga and Bennetts.
77% of Bennetts conditions will prevail but, should that prove to be overly customers are over 40, 43% are over 50 and it is a growth pessimistic, we are very well placed to capitalise on market with nearly a third of all spending on motorcycling any improvement.
activities in 2014 coming from those over 50.
This is predominantly characterised by the second-time-around biker After a period during which the core motor book reduced in who, with disposable income available, is able to indulge in size as a result of our decision not to chase policy numbers their passion for biking.
Additionally, a large proportion of in unfavourable market conditions, I am pleased to report Bennetts customers have cars and we can now provide that core policy numbers for the period are up 1.5% on last Bennetts with access to 10.8 million potential new year.
This has been achieved through a renewed focus on customersby using the Saga database.
retention, targeting our marketing efforts and resources on maintaining the size of the overall book.
Bennetts is the leading brand in the motorbike market in the UK and will continue to trade under its own name in the same Over the past ten years, we have chosen to underwrite the way that has proved so effective with other brands within the majority of our core motor policies ourselves.
We have done Group, such as Titan in our Travel business.
this very successfully and it has been highly profitable forus.
However, our underwriting vehicle, AICL, has been deliberately highly risk averse.
As a result of this, we do not convert the Motor policies sold majority of the enquiries we receive on an annual basis for Motor core Motor add-ons motor insurance, despite them coming from Saga customers.
As a result we still have a relatively small market share of around 8.5% of the over 50s motor insurance market in the 1,077k 1,407k UK and we have constrained our ability to grow this.
Saga plc 31 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Divisional review continued Underwriting The Group has always taken a deliberately prudent approach Homes policies sold to underwriting and reserving.
As a result, our underwriting Home core Home add-ons business, AICL, is very well capitalised.
At 31 January 2015, we held solvency capital of 161. m, resulting in a Solvency I coverage ratio of 277%, which is well above the 200% 1,258k 587k minimum margin required by the regulator.
Down 3.4% Up 0.5% With regards to the potential impact of Solvency II, as we have stated before, our indicative results indicate that Solvency II will not require us to make any additional future capital Other Financial Services injections into AICL.
Within Other Financial Services we have continued to deliver Reserve releases were 57.8m in the period, compared with consistently strong growth.
Our activities here are driven by 57.0m in the prior year, without any erosion in the strength of Private Medical Insurance PMI and Travel Insurance, which, our reserves.
This is a result of our prudent approach to risk in in combination, account for 65% of our Trading EBITDA in challenging market conditions and a favourable development this segment.
Again, we predominantly focus on building products based on customer insight and ensuring the customer experience, sourcing the best possible third-party provider for product.
Combined operating ratio for Motor PMI remains an important area for us and we continue to grow policy numbers in a declining market by finding new 77.9% routes to market for our product.
Down 10.5 percentage points Our Travel Insurance product, which is separate to the travel insurance included in our Travel products, has performed exceptionally strongly in the past year.
This is a very important source of income for us but, equally as important, has Home Insurance become a key tool in the acquisition of new names onto the The market for home insurance continues to be highly database, adding 137,000 names during the period.
competitive and we have seen market rates fall by 5.7% over the twelve months to January 2015.
Finally, our high-quality Personal Finance business continues to make progress alongside the progress we have made in We operate a panel of 16 insurers in the home market.
AICL launching Saga Investment Services, our wealth management sits on that panel, but the risk it underwrites is 99% cojoint venture.
During the year we opened an additional 66,000 insured and 1% reinsured, meaning we take no underwriting new savings accounts, provided 158,000 Saga Credit Cards risk.
The panel continues to become ever more efficient, with on which 221m was spent last year and delivered 108,000 an increasing number of underwriters bringing a wide range of share trades.
different areas of expertise as well as increasingly competing with each other for the business.
This, in combination with our provision of proprietary predictive data from our database to Other Financial Services policies sold the panel the Saga factor, has led to a reduction in the net Other Financial Services core Other Financial Services add-ons rate at which we can source underwriting for these policies by 11.6% over the year, 5.9 percentage points more than market rates have fallen.
344k 5k We can therefore manage our approach proactively, either Up 3.0% Up 25.0% investing in growing our policy numbers by passing the savings on to the customer or retaining a greater margin.
Moving forward, we will continue to build and refine the panel and believe we can grow market share from a relatively low base of 6.8% of the UKs over 50s.
Saga plc 32 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Legal Services Travel at a glance During the year we launched a new product, Saga Legal Services.
Its development is a stand-out example of Saga has operated its travel business for over innovation at work within Saga and the highly effective use 60 years.
Travel is considered to be the centre of the business model and the brand.
We identified that of the Saga brand and provides positive brand the market for legal services, such as probate, wills and associations for the other products and services conveyancing, is fragmented, with no trusted dominant offered by Saga.
Additionally, it is a marketplace where Saga can differentiate its offer: service levels play a key role, our customer knowledge gives us a competitive advantage and Trading EBITDA cross-selling opportunities can flow from an initial relationship.
We therefore developed a range of products based on customer 26.0m feedback and found a market-leading supplier.
Saga Legal Services was launched as a pilot offering, testing the products Up 29.4% in a real world environment and backed with a small amount of marketing.
The success of the initial pilot, which attracted 36,000 quotes and 8,500 instructions, led to enhanced marketing support with the launch of a television advertising Number of passengers campaign in February 2015.
Early signs are that this has had a very positive impact and we have now had 45,000 quote enquiries and over 10,700 instructions since launch.
172k 336k Our insurance business is making good early progress on Holiday passengers Ship passenger days delivering the strategy outlined in January of this year.
We are Up 11.0% Up 6.7% on track to introduce the motor panel, helping us to deliver a broader range of products to customers we could not historically serve.
Wearetargeting an increased market share Travel in our Home Insurance business, driven by the flexibility We have an excellent, highly regarded travel business that provided to us bythe panel we already have in place.
We will includes our tour operator businesses, Saga Holidays, Titan continue to lookfor opportunities to expand our product and Destinology which we acquired during the year and our offering to solvecustomer needs, maximise our use of digital Cruising business which comprises of two ships, the Saga channels and continue our ongoing drive for efficiencies Sapphire and the Saga Pearl II.
Travel is central to the history of the Saga Group, a key element Outlook of our DNA and vitally important to our brand with high levels Trading across the insurance businesses has started strongly of customer satisfaction and 80% repeat business.
This and is line with our expectations.
excellence was recognised again during the year, when Saga, Titan and Destinology won a record 46 awards at the industry The UK motor and home markets remain highly competitive Oscars the British Travel Awards, making us the most and we have seen rates continue to be flat in early 2015. successful and most admired travel organisation in the UK.
The launch of our Motor Insurance broking panel later this year will allow us to offer even more competitive rates to However, in the past few years the team was consciously customers, as we have achieved with our Home Insurance given a remit to limit risk rather than focus on significant panel, and further grow our market share.
We expect growth, meaning Travel makes a relatively small financial continued strong profitability in the year ahead.
contribution to the Group as a whole.
Our proactive management of the home insurance panel With our renewed focus on growth throughout our core andour use of shared proprietary packaged data with businesses, this has changed and the Travel team, under thepanel, the Saga Factor, leave us well placed to the leadership of Andrew Strong, has been challenged to capitaliseonour pricing advantage for our customers in grow the business.
We have an encouraging start toyear although competitive pressures remain.
We have announced a strong start today with the Travel business enjoying an excellent year from a financial and Performance in Other Financial Services continues to be operational perspective.
Both our tour operating and Cruising strong, driven by the success of Travel Insurance and businesses expanded.
Overall revenues of 381.3m grew by PrivateMedical Insurance.
We expect acontinued robust 15.2% and Trading EBITDA of 26.0m by 29.4%.
We took just operating performance.
under 200,000 customers on a holiday or cruise in the last year.
Saga plc 33 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Divisional review continued Tour operating Cruising We are passionate about our Saga holiday brands, and our Cruising is a vital part of our Travel offering through our research shows there is significant additional demand within twoships, the Saga Sapphire and Saga Pearl II.
This gives us these businesses where our customers want us to take them an opportunity for customers to live in our brand for weeks, further afield and on more adventurous holidays.
and even months, atatime, trusting us with their wellbeing and treating us as a home away from home, is one of the In July, Saga Holidays successfully launched third party cruise mostexciting and unique aspects of this business.
products to complement our existing cruise business.
This We continue to make the investment required in our cruise part of the business is progressing well and we have taken offering to enhance the customer experience and maintain over 2,000 customer bookings on this type of cruise since the high levels of customer satisfaction that we see already.
Pleasingly, 74% have never cruised with us before.
A major refit of the Sapphire was successfully completed This is also a further strong example of our model in action: in December 2014, enhancing our service capability and using first-class third party providers we can offer a broader proposition on board.
Load factors were 85% 2014: 77% range of products to our current customer base, while across both ships and the number of shipping days at introducing new customers to the Saga experience.
336,000 was an increase of 6.7% against last year.
In October we launched the sale of Saga Holidays products through third party travel agents.
As over 50% of our core Looking forward, the team will continue to deliver on its customer demographic will book their holiday through a travel strategy for growth, including: agent, this additional distribution channel will drive further continuing to increase and improve the range of products bookings growth for the future.
offered to our customers through all of our holiday brands delivering an enhanced service proposition, including During the year we have also upgraded our Saga Holidays investment in our representatives in resorts and in website to improve the customer journey across PC, tablet optimising the journey for customers, integrating service and mobile.
Nearly 27,000 browsers have registered with us across customer channels through our website in the past five months.
To complement the continuation of the digital transformation throughout this we have further developed our contact centre capabilities theTravel business to enhance the customer journey offering more flexibility to our customers around choice of anddevelop on a multi-channel approach to our airport departure.
Outlook Trading across the Travel businesses has started strongly andwe expect positive growth across all business lines.
Saga plc 34 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Healthcare at a glance Media at a glance Sagas Healthcare Services segment provides The Groups Media and Central Costs segment private home healthcare.
includes Saga Publishing, which produces and markets Saga Magazine, and MetroMail, Sagas own print and mailing house.
Trading EBITDA Continuing Discontinued 2.2m 9.0m Healthcare Services Media We remain absolutely committed to continuing to explore the For three decades, Saga Magazine has played a vital role market for private home healthcare where we can build a connecting millions of Saga customers with content designed relationship directly with the customer.
This year we have split to enrich their lives.
As the UKs best selling paid-for monthly out the private pay care businesses that previously sat within magazine, Saga Magazine remains an integral part of our the Allied business Patricia Whites, Country Cousins and brand story and Sagas heritage, and a unique way for Saga Saga SOS and put them under the control of a dedicated to engage with more than a million people each month.
management team that is also managing our recently announced At the end of 2014, Saga Magazine celebrated its 30th agreement with Spire Hospitals and our private home healthcare anniversary, a testament to its relevance and longevity.
pilot which is now in market and making good progress.
As our customers increasingly migrate to mobile, digital and While the contribution of our ongoing Healthcare Services online platforms for content consumption and purchasing, our operations to the bottom line, with Trading EBITDA of 2.2m, Publishing business is accelerating its move to deliver a digital was relatively modest last year and will continue to be so in the and mobile-first approach to content, to ensure we remain as short to medium term, we are excited by the long-term prospects relevant to our audience as we were 30 years ago.
The domiciliary care market in the UK remains highly Saga Publishing aims to generate the content that fuels our fragmented and, after assessing our accumulated learnings customers thirst for life and be the number one source of from running Allied, we see a significant opportunity for a information, advice and entertainment to help Saga customers trusted brand offering a convenient, private, digital focused navigate lifes complex choices and decisions.
service to our target demographic on a national scale.
Our Publishing business is placing content at the heart of our However, we have decided that the public healthcare part customer relationships, using content to build customer journeys of the Allied business, where Saga has no direct relationship that bridge across all parts of the Saga Group.
Our aim is to with the consumer, does not fit with the Saga business model.
create seamless content and commercial journeys for our We therefore announced our decision to divest the parts of audience that support the Groups wider business objectives.
Allied Healthcare that focus on the provision of domiciliary care to local authorities and the NHS.
To meet our digital, business and customer challenges, our publishing team has been restructured with centralised This part of Allied is the leading provider of domiciliary care production, marketing and commercial teams supporting in the UK, employing more than 15,000 carers, looking after dedicated digital and print teams, creating engaging content the frail and elderly at home.
In the past 2-3 years, it has across all platforms.
A new leadership team has been put in developed the very highest standards of clinical care and place to transform Saga Publishing into a digital-first business, quality oversight of any such company, continues to win capitalising on commercial partnerships, platforms and new contracts from local authorities and the NHS and drive opportunities that digital engagement offers.
As a result of this it increased its Trading EBITDA in the last twelvemonths to Saga Magazine also aims to reinforce its relevance, and become 9.0m 2014: 7.9m, despite a 9.8% declineinrevenues.
a true advocate of the issues facing the UKs over 50s.
With a customer-centric view of the world, Saga Magazine will look Given this decision, we have written down the value of this to effect positive change to improve the lives of its audience.
part of the Healthcare business and, together with the other charges in respect of the discontinued business, this has Thirty years ago, the then-revolutionary idea of using content given rise to a total charge of 220.2m.
These operations to engage customers helped create the enviable relationship willbe reported as discontinued going forward.
We have that we possess with our audience.
The same holds true today, appointed advisers to facilitate the sale and we will keep and Saga Publishing is ensuring it continues to produce a themarket updated on progress.
vibrant and relevant magazine and digital content that has a clear role in inspiring our audience and broadcasting the Groups wider commercial offerings.
Saga plc 35 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Divisional review continued from the marketplace, creates an opportunity for a new Innovation at a glance provider with a customer-centric approach and a trusted brand.
Putting innovation at the centre of the business.
We have chosen a partner who shares our absolute commitment to the customer and, while it is early days, we are in the process of configuring a best-in-class set of products which we hope to be able to offer to customers towards the end of the year.
New opportunities Retirement villages While we are clear that our core businesses will be the key Another area we have highlighted our interest in is retirement drivers of the growth targeted in the Groups strategy, we villages.
These are extremely popular in other parts of the continue to identify and pilot new opportunities that we think world but are yet to gain significant traction in the UK.
We are the right fit for our business model, can provide attractive have partnered with Rangeford, a developer of retirement future growth potential and, most importantly, generate villages, to market Wadswick Green, their new village in exceptional customer satisfaction feedback.
Personal Finance We believe that we can add significant value via our marketing Personal Finance, which includes the recently announced expertise, insight and customer relationships and we are creation of Saga Investment Services, the 50 50 wealth continuing to evaluate the potential to offer ongoing services management joint venture with Tilney Bestinvest, represents across the areas we already specialise in through our Travel a particularly exciting opportunity.
The over 50s in the UK hold 68% of the nations wealth.
The changes to the rules in relation to pensions, combined with the fact that the changing regulatory environment RDR1 and RDR2 has led to many existing providers withdrawing The Saga opportunity: ideas generation illustrative examples Segment Opportunity Segment Opportunity Segment Opportunity Retirement villages, Housing Vehicle Takeaways home modification for Saga cars, mobility Ready meals, Costs Purchase independent living, services nutrition advice 5.3bn 31.9bn 11.2bn mortgages Energy Transport Health Energy supply Saga private Off peak rail travel Costs Fares switching for seniors healthcare services 5.7bn 16.8bn 5.0bn Garden & Already operating in Holidays Two biggest hobbies Pet UK Holidays this segment: UK short break Abroad on the Saga database, Equipment overseas retirement holidays 4.5bn online catalogues 14.9bn communities 7.2bn Saga MVNO, Telephone Sport & Wealth Single wealth smartphone with Services Leisure Fitness classes management platform specialised content 14.0bn 5.9bn 3.2bn services Maintenance Insurance Internet Already operating Saga trusted Digital switching & Repair in this segment tradesmen services 11.7bn 1.6bn 5.4bn Saga plc 36 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Innovation case studies Our pilot projects are longer-term initiatives and here Retirement villages alongside our partner Rangeford homes.
They build the homes and we find the customers.
It is early stages still but progressing well and we are learning quickly about how we can move into this fascinating space, offer Saga standards of service and make a profit.
Healthcare Our private home healthcare pilot is now under Legal services This is a great example of innovation at work way.
Over the coming months we will carefully scale it up, within Saga.
We identified that the market for legal services while we refine the pricing and consumer offer.
We know was both fragmented and fitted well with our business that there is a real unmet need in the market for high-quality, model.
We developed a bespoke service, tailored to the  care in the home.
We have identified the best providers in either do it right or not at all, so we willtake our time.
We themarket and we have now had over 10,700 instructions have signed a deal with Spire Hospitals to trial a home from todate.
This has now moved beyond the pilot stage, being hospital service, helping their patients resettle at home after supported bytelevision advertising and will increase in a hospital stay.
profile in the coming months.
Saga plc 37 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
