Strategy continued Winning in the Market Growing our share of an expanding market The importance of the cloud was recognised in the 2012 strategy, however we need to accelerate our development activities to continue to capitalise on the potential of cloud technologies.
Focusing our business and the need to invest in fewer core products was also recognised in the 2012 strategy and we have made some progress in that area, however there is more we can do to reduce the number of Growth products we identify to benefit from a greater share of sales and marketing and R&D spend.
Our priorities Why its important We are continuing to focus our business and concentrate our As business management software solutions evolve in a mobile first, investment on Growth products.
Our portfolio of cloud deployed cloud age, they become even more appealing and intuitive for Small & products caters for all sizes of Small & Medium Businesses.
These global Medium Businesses to exploit.
There is a huge white space opportunity products will be our growth engine in the medium term and will be the of software non-adopters, which we can open up by addressing business default product choice for new customers unless their particular needs needs with smart technology solutions.
We must continue to respond to are better served by a Local growth product.
Our priority is to make the the evolving needs of end users in an expanding market to win new entire customer sales experience from enquiry toproduct customers and realise our ambition.
We have established regional The risks that could impact our success CustomerBusiness Centres CBCs to coordinate the sales of our global Developing enhanced core product functionality, product integration products to new customers and to maintain relationships with and acompelling commercial proposition are all features which help to customers as they grow see page27 for details.
We are also investing in drive a competitive advantage but which present execution risks.
Read digital to ensure a consistent, modern and user-friendly online presence more about our Competitive Positioning and Product Development, and across Sage and are developing targeted, eective digital marketing Market  risks at page 40. campaigns.
Sage Impact, our onlineportal for accountants and our Global Partner Programmehave both been launched to support our How we will measure our progress community ofpartners.
As we aim for increased market share, the primary measure for winning in the market is the level of adoption of our global products.
Read more about our KPIs at page 28.
W inning in the market means building market share by earning more customers and a greater share of wallet.
We will do this by delivering innovative solutions and creating value for customers throughout their entire life, from startup to large multinational.
Santiago Solanas, CMO 20 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Sage One paying subscriptions increased by over 100% to 173,000 Customer Case Study Beauty Bike We are using smart technology solutions to appeal to new customers.
Alice Bailleul runs Beauty Bike, a mobile beauty treatment business in France.
Alice cycles with her equipment to her customers around Bordeaux so is travelling or busy providing treatments most of the time.
She uses Sage One on her tablet in order to keep on top of her business data and to issue quotes to customers when she is on the road.
Its really simple, everything is on the cloud, so I can use it from anywhere, and what reassures me is that all my data is stored somewhere and I know that I can always get it back.
When Im at my customers house its really fast, I just connect to her Wi, do her a quote and email it.
There is a dashboard which allows me to see where I stand for the month, the quarter or the year.
That means Ive got a complete picture of my accounts thanks to Sage One.
Alice Bailleul, Owner of Beauty Bike See more of Alices story at www.
com investors Alice Bailleul, Beauty Bike, France The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21
