Corporate Governance Statement Effectiveness The members of the Board Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement entered into between The Board considers its overall size and composition to be the Company and each of the Private Equity Investors as appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence defined and explained further on page 97 each Private Equity of character and integrity of all the Directors and the Investor appointed one Non-Executive Director to theBoard.
experience and skills that they bring to their duties, which Group Chief Financial Officer prevents any individual or small group from dominating its Stuart Howard, our Group Chief Financial Officer, has decision making.
We give due regard to the benefits of announced hisintention to retire by the end of 2015.
Stuart diversity in its widest sense as we consider our composition has provided the business with a significant period of notice both now and in the future.
prior to his departure, ensuring that he had the opportunity to assist theCompany with the recruitment and induction of his We consider that the skills and experience of our individual replacement.
We would like to acknowledge Stuarts immense members, particularly in the areas of insurance, financial contribution to Sagas development and to wishhimall the services, consumer services, brand management, corporate very best.
finance, mergers and acquisitions, and risk management, are fundamental to the pursuit of our strategic objectives.
In External search consultant, Russell Reynolds Associates, was addition, the quoted company experience of members ofthe engaged to conduct a confidential search for candidates after Board in a variety of sectors and markets is invaluable to Saga.
We reviewed and developed a Independence of Non-Executive Directors role description for the position and agreed the critical Of the current Directors of Saga, the Board considers four competencies required.
ofthe Non-Executive Directors to be independent of Sagas A wide range of candidates from a variety of national and executive management and free from any business or other multi-national companies, both publicly and privately owned, relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of were put forward by Russell Reynolds Associates for their independent judgement.
These directors are Philip Green, consideration and a shortlist was agreed upon for interview.
Ray King, Orna NiChionna and Gareth Williams.
Although After detailed interviews, thorough referencing and careful Philip Green serves on the Board of BakerCorp a Permira consideration of the experience and background of the portfolio company, the other Directors have concluded that potential candidates against the key responsibilities Philips judgement, experience and challenging approach andcritical competencies, the recommendation was to ensure that he makes a significant contribution to the work appointJonathan Hill as Stuarts replacement.
Jonathan ofthe Board and its Committees.
Therefore, the Board has joined theGroup as Group Chief Financial Officer Designate determined that Philip is of independent character and on 7April2015 and was appointed as a Director of the Board judgement and should be regarded as an independent on29April2015.
director for the purposes of the Code.
Russell Reynolds Associates is a signatory to the Voluntary As set out in the Explanations section on page 56, the Code of Conduct for executive search firms and has no other Board isworking towards at least half of its members being connection to the Company.
independent within 24 months of listing.
Future independent Non-Executive Directors will be selected to ensure that the Induction of the current Non-Executive Directors Group maintains abalance of skills appropriate for a group Our recently appointed independent Non-Executive Directors including insurance and financial services businesses.
followed an extensive induction programme which included half-day visits to each of the main businesses in London and Selection of the current Non-Executive Directors Folkestone.
In addition they attended strategy sessions for Four independent Non-Executive Directors were appointed each of our businesses to understand the short and long-term tothe Board with effect from 29 May 2014. goals of the Group and familiarised themselves with our MWM Consulting, an external search agency, assisted in the governance and risk management structure, Board and recruitment process.
MWM Consulting was selected after a Committee meeting terms of reference, strategy papers, competitive pitch process.
A role description for each of the recent analyst and broker reports, and our policies four appointments was developed and set out the capabilities andprocedures.
After MWM Consulting had identified a list of Annual re-election potential candidates, a shortlist was selected for interview.
The Directors are standing for election at the AGM.
Our view After detailed interviewing, thorough referencing and careful isthat each of the Directors standing for election should be consideration of the balance of the Board that would be appointed, as we believe that they have the skills required for created, the Directors were selected and put forward for the Board to discharge its responsibilities, as outlined in each board approval.
of their biographies set out on pages 60-61.
MWM Consulting has no other relationship with the Company.
Saga plc 62 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015
