Remuneration policy The current policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and can be found on our website www.
As outlined in the Statement of the Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Remuneration Committee is proposing a number of changes to the current policy primarily to ensure consistency with our future strategic and operational implementation plans.
Shareholder approval will be sought at the 2016 AGM for the new remuneration policy set out below.
Subject to shareholder approval, the new policy will take eect from the date of the AGM.
The key proposed changesfrom the current policy are: A minimum of one-third of the annual bonus paid to executive directors will be delivered in deferred shares.
Under the previous policy, executive directors were only required to defer 20% of their bonus into shares if they were non-compliant with their shareholding guideline The Remuneration Commiee will have exibility to apply an additional mandatory holding period beyond the expiry ofa performa nce period applicable toPSP awards In order to provide consistency with Sages future strategy, performance measures for future PSP awards will be based on recurring revenue growth and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance subject to underpin conditions.
Under the previous policy, PSP awards were subject to a combination of organic revenue growth, EPS growth and relative TSR performance measures Malus and clawback provisions will apply to all variable pay awarded to executive directors following the introduction of the revised policy Change of control and loss of oce policies have been updated for consistency with the new PSP rules that were approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Remuneration policy table The table below sets out the remuneration policy that the Company intends to apply, subject to shareholder approval, from 1st of March 2016 the date of the AGM.
Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Normally reviewed annually, with any Ordinarily, salary increases will be in line with None, although overall Supports the recruitment and increases applied from January.
increases awarded to other employees in performance of the retention of executive directors major operating businesses of the Group.
individual is considered When determining base salary levels, of the calibre required to deliver by the Remuneration consideration is given to the following: However, increases may be made above this the Groups strategy.
Committee when level at the Committees discretion to take Pay increases for other employees in setting and reviewing Rewards executives for the account of individual circumstances such as: major operating businesses of the Group salaries annually.
Increase in scope and responsibility The individuals skills and responsibilities Set at a level that allows fully Increase to reect the individuals Pay at companies of a similar size and exible operation of our variable development and performance in role e. g. for international scope to Sage, in particular pay plans.
a new appointment where base salary may be those within the FTSE 100 excluding increased over time rather than set directly at the top 30 the level of the previous incumbent Corporate and individual performance or market level Alignment to market level Accordingly, no monetary maximum has been set.
Pension Dened contribution plan with Company 25% of base salary for all executive directors.
Provide a competitive postcontributions set as a percentage of No element other than base salary is retirement benefit, in a way base salary.
that manages the overall cost An individual may elect to receive some to the Company.
or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Benets The Group provides a range of benets Set at a level which the Remuneration None.
Provide a competitive and which may include a car benefit or cash Committee considers: cost-eective benetspackage equivalent, private medical insurance, Appropriately positioned against comparable to executives toassist them to permanent health insurance, life assurance roles in companies of a similar size and carry out their duties eectively.
complexity in the relevant market Additional benets may also beprovided Provides a sucient level of benefit based in certain circumstances which may include on the role and individual circumstances, relocation expenses, housing allowance and such as relocation school fees.
Other benets may be oered if As the costs of providing benets will depend considered appropriate and reasonable by on adirector's individual circumstances, the the Committee.
Remuneration Committee has not set a monetary maximum The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy report continued Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Measures and targets are set annually 125% of salary.
80%of the bonus will be Rewards and incentivises the and payout levels are determined by the determined by measure s of achievement of annual financial Remuneration Committee after the year-end Group financial performance.
based on performance against those targets.
20%of the bonus will be based on pre-determined An element of compulsory The Remuneration Committee may, in financial, strategic or deferral provides a link to exceptional circumstances, amend the operational measures the creation of sustainable bonus payout should this not, in the view appropriate to the individual long-term value creation.
of the Committee, reect overall business director.
The measures that will apply A minimum ofone-third of any annual bonus for the financial year 2016 are earned by executive directors is delivered in described in the Directors deferred share awards, with the remainder annual remuneration report.
The length of the deferral period will be determined by the Remuneration Committee before the grant of anaward.
Performance Share Plan PSP Awards vest dependent upon the achievement Awards vest on the following basis: Performance is assessed Motivates and rewards the of performance conditions measured over a against two independentlyTarget performance: 20% of the achievement of long-term period of at least three years.
measured metrics which maximum shares awarded business goals.
are equally weighted: Following the end of the performance period, Stretch performance: 80% of the Supports the creation of the performance conditions will be assessed 50% recurring revenue maximum shares awarded shareholder value through and the percentage of awards that will vest growth Exceptional performance: 100% the delivery of strong market will be determined.
50% relative TSR of the shares awarded performance aligned with the performance against the The Committee may decide that the shares in With straight-line vesting between long-term business strategy.
FTSE 100 excluding financial respect of which an award vests are delivered to each level of performance.
services and extracting Supports achievement participants at that point or that awards will then Current annual award levels in respect companies of our strategy by targeting be subject to an additional holding period before of a financial year of the Company performance under our key participants are entitled to receive their shares.
At its discretion, the Committee for executive directors are 250% of financial performance indicators.
A holding period will normally last for two years, may elect to add additional base salary at the time of grant.
unless the Committee determines otherwise.
underpin performance Overall individual limit of 300% of conditions to one or both The Remuneration Committee has discretion base salary under the rules of the plan.
to decide whether and to what extent the The Committee retains the discretion to performance conditions have been met, and Details of the targets that will make awards up to the individual limit if an event occurs that causes the Committee apply for awards granted in 2016 under the PSPand, as stated in previous to consider that an amended or substituted are set out in the Directors remuneration reports, would expect performance condition would be more annual remuneration report.
to consult with significant investors if appropriate and not materially less dicult awards were to be made routinely above to satisfy, the Committee may amend or current levels.
All-employee share plans UK-based executive directors are entitled to UK participation limits are those set by None.
Provides an opportunity for participate in a UK tax-approved all-employee the UK tax authorities from time to time.
directors to voluntarily invest plan, The Sage Group Savings-Related Share Currently this is 500 per month.
Option Plan, under which they make monthly for participants in overseas schemes savings over a period of three or five years linked would be determined in line with any to the grant of an option over Sage shares with local legislation.
an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM, an overseas-based executive director would be entitled to participate in any similar all-employee scheme operated by Sage in their jurisdiction.
78 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Chairman and non-executive Fees are reviewed periodically.
director fees The fee structure is as follows: Reects the commitment and Provide an appropriate contribution that is expected reward to attract and retain The Chairman is paid a single, from the Chairman and high-calibre individuals.
consolidated fee non-executive directors The non-executive directors are paid a basic Non-executive directors Is appropriately positioned against fee, plus additional fees for chairmanship do not participate in any comparable roles in companies of Board Committees and to the Senior incentive scheme.
of a similar size and complexity Independent Director in the relevant market, particularly Fees are currently paid in cash but the companies of a similar size and Company may choose to provide some international scope to Sage, of the fees in shares in particular those within the FTSE 100 excluding the top 30 The Chairman has the use of a car and driver.
Overall fees paid to directors will remain Non-executive directors may be eligible for within the limit stated in our articles of benets such as company car, use of secretarial association, currently 1m.
support, healthcare or other benets that may be appropriate including where travel to Actual fee levels are disclosed in the the Companys registered oce is recognised Directors annual remuneration report as a taxable benefit in which case a nonfor the relevant financial year.
executive may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
Notes: Annual bonus performance measures have been selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising directors to meet profitability and other financial targets for the year and achieve strategic operational objectives.
The measures and targets are selected every year by the Committee.
Performance Share Plan: recurring revenue growth is a key measure of the success of the execution of our long-term strategy.
TSR is considered a key measure for a number of our shareholders and provides further alignment with value created for shareholders.
Awards granted under the deferred bonus plan and the PSP may: a be made in the form of conditional awards or nil-cost options and may be settled in cash: b incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid or payable on the shares that vest in the period up to vesting or, where PSP awards are made subject to a holding period, the end of the holding period.
This amount may be calculated assuming the dividends were reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: and c be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event which may, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, aect the current or future value of the Companys shares.
Provisions to withhold malus or recover clawback sums paid under the annual bonus and PSP in the event of material negative circumstances, such as material misstatement in the Companys audited results, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss to theCompany as a result of the participants misconduct, an error in assessing the performance metrics relating to the award or the participants gross misconduct, will beincorporated into both the PSP and deferred bonus plan the Company intends to adopt in 2016.
These provisions may apply up to three years from the date a PSP award vests is released or a minimum of two years from the date a cash bonus is paid or a deferred share award is granted.
Details of the proposed implementation of those provisions in the forthcoming year are set out in the Directors annual remuneration report.
While our remuneration policy follows the same principles across the Group, packages oered to employees reect dierences in market practice in the dierent countries the Group operates in and also dierences in size of role.
All directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Remuneration Commiee intends to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors on their original te rms, including outstanding incentive awards, which have been disclosed in previous remuneration reports and, where relevant, are consistent with a previous policy approved by shareholders.
Any such payments to former directors will be set out in the Remuneration Report as and when they occur.
The Remuneration Commiee reserves the right to make any r emuneration payments and payments for loss of oce including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the date the Companys first remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into eect: ii before the policy set out above came into eect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Remuneration Commiee may make minor amendments to the policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative pur poses or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79
