Our key performance indicators We use several key performance indicators KPIs to track The usage of key performance indicators varies by operation.
and measure the financial and operating performance of our These measures are derived from the Groups internal business against our strategy and to enable our shareholders operating and financial systems.
Because some measures to clearly see how we perform against our strategy.
are not determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, they may not be comparable with other similarly titled measures of performance of other companies.
Group Trading EBITDA Pro forma operating earnings per share 227.4m 12.6p Performance Performance Group Trading EBITDA up by 6.0%.
Definition Definition Earnings before interest payable, tax, depreciation and Earnings per share presented to exclude non-recurring amortisation, profit or loss on disposal of non-current exceptional items and by measuring prior to net fair value assets, exceptional expenses and fair value gains or gains and losses on derivatives, but including pro forma losses on derivative financial instruments.
adjustments for interest charges and plc costs to allow comparison between the periods on a like-for-like basis.
Earnings per share from continuing operations Like-for-like profit basic 195.5m 8.6p Performance Performance Up 9.6%.
Down 46.3% as a result of the exceptional expenses and Definition new interest costs incurred in the period.
Profit from continuing operations, which is shown before Definition tax, one-off IPO expenses, new debt costs and derivative Profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to fair value gains and losses.
ordinary equity holders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Saga plc 18 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Go to the financial review on pages 38-53 for more information Available operating cash flow Debt ratio 170.9m 2.5x Performance Performance A strong cash flow performance, with 72.3% of Strong profit delivery and continued high levels of cash TradingEBITDA becoming available operating cash conversion meant the Group beat its target reduction flow.
Areduction of 13.1% against last year as a greater of the net debt to Trading EBITDA ratio of 0.5% per year.
proportion of the Groups Trading EBITDA has been Definition achieved within the restricted businesses within Financial The ratio of bank debt net of available cash to Services and Travel, coupled with increased capital Trading EBITDA.
investment in IT systems in the Insurance business.
Definition Net cash flow from operating activities after capital expenditure but before tax and interest paid and exceptional expenses during the period, which is availableto be used by the Group as it chooses andisnot subject to regulatory restriction.
Active customers Average number of products held 2.63m 2.63 Performance Performance Broadly stable during the year.
Down by 2.7% 2014: 2.71 as a result of a reduction in the number of ancillary products sold in the Motor Definition Insurance division.
Active customers in the twelve months to 31 January 2015.
Definition Average number of Saga products held by each active customer as at 31 January 2015.
Saga plc 19 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
