Our strategy applied P roduct portfolio management Eectively managing our product portfoliogenerates capacity for growth and focuses ourinvestment to truly revolutionise business.
FRAMEWORK FOR PRODUCT GROWTH PRODUCTS MANAGEMENT Global products We apply a framework for managing our product portfolio Global products are our primary tool to attract new customers unless which enables us to focus on the drivers that will influence we establish through the sales process that their needs would be better growth.
Allocation of investment is particularly important met by a Local growth product.
for directing our Sales and Marketing S&M and Research and Development R&D spend.
We previously used three product groups, Invest, Harvest and Sunset, to categorise productsbased on their potential to create value via revenue growth or profitability.
Product prioritisation remains essential to our strategy, and has led to renement of the categorisation from three to two.
More detail onpages 32 to 33 We now categorise products as Growth or Heritage.
There isno pressure on our customers to migrate to Local growth products a Growth product our aim is to protect and support Under our target global operating model, the commercial proposition our customer base and be there as a trusted partner of a Local growth product is owned by Global Marketing, which works throughout their business life.
We are developing migration with each country to ensure consistency.
This includes the pricing of tools for our growth products, such that if a customer the product and the way in which it is sold.
decides to move, the process is seamless.
These Local growth products are popular, functionally rich solutions Growth products in their local market.
We have no immediate intentions to migrate Growth products include both Global products and customers from these to our Global products, unless they themselves Local growth products.
In these products, we will invest the majority of our The best features of the Global products will be applied to the Local R&D resources to increase features and functionality, growth products, and vice versa.
Examples of this are Contaplus in and nearly all of our S&M spend.
Spain, Ciel in France, Symphonia in Poland, and Sage 50 in the UKI, Germany and Canada all having been signicantly modernised.
Sage There will typically be one Growth product for each category of oering Accounting, Payroll & HR, Payments Drive will continue to be rolled out across Europe and North America throughout FY16, delivering value to our on-premise customers that in a country for each size of business that we serve.
still love their well-known on-premise software whilst wanting to Heritage products leverage the benets of collaboration and mobility.
All products not classied as Growth products are Heritage For our larger customers, we are continuing to invest in cloud versions products.
We will not end-of-life any product which has of our business management solutions such as Sage 200 in the UKI, satisfied on-plan customers.
There will, however, be Sage Murano in Spain, Sage Oce Line in Germany, Sage 100 in minimum S&M investment as it is not our intention to grow France, and Sage 100 and 300 in North America.
These products oer these products.
R&D will be limited to compliance, minor customers a clear migration path to the cloud whilst retaining enhancements, bug xes and building migration tools.
time, it is our expectation that customers will opt to migrate to a Growth product to obtain enhanced functionality.
R&D and S&M spend in FY15 Growth products 90% Heritage products 10% 30 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Growth Product Portfolio UKI Illustration Our customers in the UKI range from sole traders and small owner managed businesses through to larger multi-national businesses.
We dont believe in labelling our customers, but we understand their charateristics and have a portfolio of products to suit any size or complexity of Small & Medium Business.
Our product range functionalities grow with the customer.
To demonstrate the choice of Growth products in the UKI, we have considered an illustrative customer lifecycle and the solutions Sage can oer depending on where in the cycle the customer sits.
One Accounting 50 Accounts Live 200 X3 Payments Pay One Payroll 50 Payroll HR Online Increasing employee numbers geographic spread complexity of organisation Our illustrative business is starting out in fashion retail, selling via social media: Sage One is the ideal solution to manage this start-up.
Automatic bank feeds and a business performance dashboard allow the business owner to focus on their success.
Integrating Sage One Accounting with Sage Pay enables them to take online payments via their website and using a virtual terminal.
Sage One Payroll allows the business owner to pay employees with ease, providing automated payroll calculations and straight-forward legislative compliance.
Now selling goods from two premises and online, the business has grown its employee base.
Sage 50 Accounts, Sage Live or Sage 200 could be used to manage business nances, depending upon the requirements of the customer and how they prefer to deploy their software.
Sage 50 Payroll can handle a larger employee base, allowing customisable payroll reports, management of holidays and automatic calculation of wages.
The pensions module is a useful add-on, allowing the customer to easily comply with UK Pensions Auto Enrolment legislation.
Sage Payments can be integrated with Sage 50 Accounts or Payroll to simplify paying suppliers and employees.
Payees can be added and approved directly from the Sage software package and payments are released from an e-money account securely, saving time and administration.
Having grown signicantly and now with an extended oering, the business operates out of five locations in the UK and three in Europe.
Sage X3, our global business management solution, would be an ideal product choice.
The business needs to react to changing conditions, rapidly, and Sage X3 allows them to do just that.
Sage X3 handles cross border transaction between group companies.
The exible accounting structure enables a real-time global view of the business, while accommodating local operational requirements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31 PAYROLL & HR PAYMENTS ACCOUNTING Our strategy applied continued Gl obal products We are using global products to appeal to new customers as we target winning in the market.
Our cloud deployed global product which isideally suited to Our cloud deployed global product which isideally suited start-ups and businesses up to around 10 employees in size.
to Small & Medium Businesses with around 10 to 200 Everything that Sage One does as a product is designed to employees.
Launched in summer 2015, Sage Live breaks make customers lives easier, for example connecting to bank down the walls between the front and the back oce, accountsand automatically reconciling records to make creating one oce where business owners, their tracking expenses and income easy.
Intuitively designed accountant, and everyone either serving customers or with a mobile first mind-set, the Sage One Accounting helping to serve customers, contribute to the business.
mobile app lets users create and send invoices and access At the heart of Sage Live is a next generation accounting their data from anywhere with an internet connection.
engine designed for real-time processing and with social collaboration and mobile access in mind: users can see The Sage One global roll out has extended to 14 counties and enterinformation in real-time on their smartphones, and the product complies with local regulations as watches and connected devices.
During the year we introduced our global accounting core GAC, a common technology stack Developed in partnership with Salesforce, Sage Live which enables a global accounting application to deliver is built on the Salesforce1 platform, which enables the core product with limited local compliance tailoring.
businesses to run completely in the cloud, integrating Updates, which are principally customer demand driven, seamlessly with Salesforce CRM tools and a multitude are made live via the GAC every14 days.
GAC is already of other third party applications.
the basis of the product in the UK and North America with further roll-outs planned for 2016.
With Sage One I c an have an oce on a beach.
Its that How I engage my cus tomers is very important, the social easy to use integration has given me the ability to bring our customers into the conversation Eduardo Caperta, Geckosurfhouse, Portugal Jody Padar, New Vision CPA Group, US Live updates delivered every One 14 da ys Oce Via the global accounting core No more front and back oce divide MAKES ACCOUNTING AND INVOICING THE START OF A REAL-TIME, SOCIAL SIMPLE FOR STARTUPS ACCOUNTING REVOLUTION FOR SMALL& MEDIUM BUSINESSES 32 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Our global business management solution is ideally Our global product solution for accountants.
Launched suited to larger businesses.
Unlike traditional ERP in May 2015, Sage Impact is the result of collaboration systems, Sage X3 simplies business processes with with accountants and bookkeepers to review and rethink rich functionality, oering multi-currency, multi-company, the changing role of accounting professionals, as core multi-language and multi-legislation support.
It is sold areas such as tax and compliance have become more globally, both direct by Sage and with the support of automated.
It brings together many of the everyday tools our network of business partners.
thataccountants and bookkeepers need to manage their business in a single online interface, generating eciencies Since the launch of the latest version in Summer 2015, X3 for accountants and enabling them to broaden the range can now be deployed either on-premise or in the cloud with of services they can oer to clients.
Developed on an open the same rich functionality from either service.
We oer platform, the product integrates with many of the everyday the cloud service in addition to the traditional on-premise tools that accountants currently use to run their businesses.
service to maximise customer choice andultimately we As it is accessible on any device, it enables accountants to will deliver whichever solution is right for the customer.
access their practice and client information wherever they go.
Sage Impact is free to use for accountants and its integration with Sage products is intended to bring more accountants into our network, which numbers around 100,000, in order to make customer collaboration more ecient and ultimately to promote Sage products.
Sage Imp act is my one stop online resource.
I have all my Planning pr oduction on Sage X3 has saved us a lot of time, Sage One client information and Accountant apps in one and were much more accurate.
place together with my diary so I dont forget anything.
Cyd Smith, CS Accounting, UK David Sher, Universal Papers and Plastics, South Africa Maximum Designed to support Customer Choice 100k Consume on-premise or as a cloud service Accountants currently in our network TAKES THE COMPLEXITY OUT ALL OF THESE TOOLS YOU NEED TO RUN OF RUNNING MID-SIZED ANDLARGER YOUR PRACTICE IN ONE PLACE BUSINESSES The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 Our strategy applied continued L ifting our eyes to the future Weanticipate the shape of our business will evolve as we implement our strategy and will remain focused on generating strong free cash ow supporting our progressive dividendpolicy throughout.
TRANSITION PHASE Priorities: Earn customers for life bymaintaining and enhancing our customer experience through the transition Continue our progressive transition to subscription relationships Implement our target global operating model to generate capacity for growth Revolutionise business by investing in Global and Local growth products, optimising product integration and creating seamless migration pathways for growing customers Revenue mix Subscription revenue growth is expected to outpace overall recurring revenue growth via Recurring a combination of new and existingcustomers opting for subscription and a corresponding reduction inrevenue generated by stand alone maintenance and support contracts.
SSRS Subscription revenues are expected to decline, but eventually atten.
We expect that there will always be some demand for SSRS pricing of software, especially amongst larger customers, as well Traditional maintenance asprofessional services and training, which will continue to be a feature of our value proposition.
and support Software and software related services Processing Revenue growth We expect to continue to grow organic revenues at around 6%, but will drive the quality of the Organic revenue growth growth by delivering more value to customers.
The sources of this growth will be execution of the of at least cross-sell, migration and reactivation initiatives amongst our on-plan and o-plan installed customer base and growth in new customers.
6% Margin We will see a shift in our spending mix through the transition phase.
The implementation of Organic operating profit our global operating model will introduce some savings, for example leveraging our purchasing of at least powerthrough a newly establishedglobal procurement function.
These savings will be reinvested in other global priorities, such as enhancing our digital presence within the global marketing 27% function.
We therefore expect to maintain an operating margin of at least 27%, it will become a better quality margin withgreater eciency andcapacity for growth.
34 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 ACCELERATIONPHASE Priorities Continue to put customers at the heart of everything we do Leverage our global operating model to accelerate new customer acquisition Driveecient development cycles to continue to bring the latest technologies and features to our customers Revenue mix The transition of relevant relationshipstowards subscriptionis expected to be largely Recurring complete, witha base of SSRS and standalone maintenance and support revenue remaining.
Global product uptake and cross-selling ofmultiple services is expected to accelerate, further Subscription contributing tosubscription and processing within the revenue mix.
Traditional maintenance and support Software and software related services Processing Revenue growth Revenue from Local growth products is expected to continue to grow at mid-single digit Organic revenue growth rates, while revenue from Global productsis expected tobecome more material due to the  of new customer acquisition.
The supressing eect of migrating 6% SSRSrevenues to a predominantly subscription model is expected to diminish as the transition Increasing progresses to an advanced stage.
These features combined are expected to yield overall revenue growth in excess of 6%.
Margin After the transition phase, the heightened investment in marketing functions as a proportion Organic operating margin of revenue is expected to diminish as we leverage the newly installed global operating model.
Disciplined spending combined with accelerating revenue growth is expected to lead to margin 27% expansion from 27%.
Increasing The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35
