Strategy continued Revolutionise Business Smart technology that simpliesour customers lives Capturing the technology opportunity was a cornerstone of our 2012 strategy and revolutionising business builds on our solid technology foundations.
Where we have implemented this 2012 cornerstone, it has been executed soundly however we must continue to innovate as the market evolves.
For instance, we developed Sage One, our global SaaS solution for start-up and small businesses, which is an intuitive, customer demand driven solution available in 14 countries.
Our programme of core product modernisation has brought the power of the cloud to on-premise customers read more opposite.
Our ambition is toprogress further and faster with our development.
requirements can be best and most eciently met by consuming a suite Our priorities of integrated best-in-class applications rather than an expensive, one We believe emphatically in bringing the power of the cloud and size ts all single enterprise resource planning ERP solution.
connected services to all of our customers, but will continue to oer them choice in method of deployment of their core system.
We will take Revolutionising businesses not only responds to all of these market the very best technology and features of our global products and apply trends but also anticipates how the future needs of Small& Medium them to local growth products which will serve existing customers and Businesses will evolve and can be best served.
It is criticalin maintaining some new customers.
We will continue to select the most appropriate, the competitive position of our product range and growing our share of industry leading development platforms for each of our products in wallet by delivering additional featuresand services.
order to broaden our ecosystem of partners and integrated services.
For instance, we recently developed Sage Live, a real-time integrated The risks that could impact our success accounting solution, on the Salesforce1 platform.
An open application Working collaboratively and with agility is key to ensuring our product program interface API approach has been adopted which allows development can outpace an evolving market.
We also need to work independent software vendors ISVs to develop pre-integrated vertical tirelessly to support our ecosystem and partner network so that solutions which interact seamlessly with Sage Live.
Small & Medium our customers can integrate our products with other solutions Businesses will be able to adopt best-of-breed combinations on to suit.
Read more about our Competitive Positioning and Product a single platform.
Development, and Strategic Partnership principal risks at page 41.
"Why its important How we will measure our progress Worldwide data creation is growing exponentially but only a fraction of it ""Revolutionise business"" strongly supports our business model growth is being eciently analysed and exploited."
Accounting reports, although drivers of Activate and Grow see page 4 for the business model.
backward looking, often take days or weeks to produce and even then Whether new technology is delivered to existing customers via Features are often not shared and exploited widely by businesses.
A new as a Service FaaS or additional users are added to Sage Live contracts generation of entrepreneurs is emerging the millennials who as front and back oce divides are removed, the lead indicator that we represent a technology savvy, mobile first consumer base.
More are delivering on the strategy is our annualised software subscription and more businesses are realising that their particular needs and base ASB.
R evolutionising business means not only meeting our customers needs, but changing the game for them completely.
The Sage ecosystem will be businesses indispensable ally and the go-to source for advice.
Well surpass our customers expectations with solutions to enable them to work faster, smarter and more profitably.
Klaus Michael Vogelberg, CTO 22 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Sage 50 Drive Customer Case Study Davora We are bringing the power of the cloud and our best features to growth products however they are deployed.
The latest version of Sage 50 Accounts in the UK was enhanced in December 2014 with the addition of Drive, a feature which liberates desktop data to the cloud in order to back-up and share information with colleagues via web-interfaces.
The feature is central to our program of core product modernisation and is also available in France, Germany, Spain and Canada.
Rajeev Arora runs Davora cards, a leading ethnic greeting card publisher.
He upgraded to Sage 50 after his business expanded, having outgrown a previous package.
Sage 50 A ccounts with Sage Drive gives us the best of both worlds.
It gives us a very robust accountancy package which can help with the operation of our business from end to end and it allows us the exibility to work remotely.
Im on the road a lot at exhibitions and have the tracker app on my phone, so I can access my Sage account data and all my customers records, supplier records, anywhere in a secure manner.
We took on a sales manager who is based remotely and she takes orders through Sage Drive.
I wouldnt have been able to hire her without it.
Sage 50 is the backbone of our business.
Rajeev Arora, MD Davora Ltd, UK See more of Rajeevs story at www.
com investors Rajeev Arora, Davora Ltd, UK The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23
