In order to facilitate the variable pay opportunity and buyout awards Recruitment remuneration arrangements mentioned above, the Committee may rely on the exemption in LR 9.4.
In the event of hiring a new executive director, the Remuneration of the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in Commiee will seek to align the remuneration package with our exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a director.
The Committee remuneration policy, which may include the elements outlined in the may also rely on the rules of the PSP, which permit the grant of two PSP policy table above.
However, the  retains awards in the first year of employment, with the individual limit from the the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside plan rules applying separately to each PSP award.
the standard policy to meet the individual circumstances of the recruitment.
This may, for example, include the following circumstances: Where an executive director is an internal promotion, the normal policy is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the An interim appointment is made to ll an executive director role on original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive director is a short-term basis appointed following Sages acquisition of or merger with another Exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a noncompany, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
executive director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis In the event of the appointment of a new non-executive director, An executive director is recruited at a time in the year when it remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with the structure would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or PSPaward for that set out in the policy table for non-executive directors.
year as there would not be sucient time to assess performance.
The quantum in respect of the months employed during the year Change of control may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided The rules of the PSP provide that, in the event of a change of control, on a fair and appropriate basis unvested awards would vest to the extent determined by the An executive is recruited from a business or location that oered Remuneration Commiee taking into account the extent to which it some benets that the Committee might consider appropriate to buy determines the performance conditions have been satisfied based on out but that do not fall into the denition of variable remuneration all factors it considers relevant at the date of such event.
The extent to forfeited that can be included in the buyout element under the which the Remuneration Committee allows awards to vest would also, wording of the regulations unless it determines otherwise, take into account the period of time The executive received benets at his previous employer which the that has elapsed between the grant of the award and the date of the Committee considers it appropriate to oer change of control as a proportion of three years or such other period the Remuneration Commiee considers to be appropriate.
However, The Committee may alter the performance measures, performance the Commiee may vary the level of vesting of awards if it believes period and vesting period of the annual bonus or long-term incentive, that exceptional circumstances warrant this.
Awards that are subject subject to the rules of the plan, if the Committee determines that the to a holding period at the time of the change of control will be released circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
The rationale at that time.
Awards granted under the deferred bonus plan will vest in full upon In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new a change of control.
Awards held under all-employee plans would executive director, the Committee will take into account relevant factors: be expected to vest on a change of control and those which have to this may include the calibre of the individual, local market practice, meet specic requirements to benefit from permitted tax benets the existing remuneration arrangements for other executives and the would vest in accordance with those requirements.
The Committee seeks to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Sage and its shareholders Alternatively, the directors may exchange their awards over Company and seek not to pay more than is appropriate.
shares for equivalent awards in shares of the acquiring company if the terms of the oer allow this.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new executive directors in respect of their recruitment, excluding If the Company is wound up or in the event of a demerger, delisting, buy-out arrangements, is 500% of base salary in the first year of special dividend or other event which in the Remuneration Committees employment.
Variable pay in subsequent years will be in line with opinion, would materially aect the current or future value of the the policy table above.
Companys shares, the Remuneration Committee may allow deferred share and PSP awards to vest and be released early on the same basis The Remuneration Committee may make awards on hiring an external as for a change of control.
candidate to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 81
