Cha mpioning Business We believe in doing business the right way.
Small & Medium Businesses are the lifeblood of economies around the world.
Despite their contribution to the global economy, we know that small businesses can struggle to be heard by those debating and deciding the policy issues that aect them.
Wherever possible, we campaign to improve the business environment for our customers.
Time to pay fair Supporting entrepreneurs Small businesses continue to be aected by late payments.
We sponsored Web Summit 2015, the annual technology conference event Our latest research from canvassing over 300 small hosted this year in Dublin that brings together established tech companies, business owners in the UK this year, showed that more exciting start-ups and investors all under one roof.
Over 30,000 people from than two thirds of rms 68% have to wait for 60 days or 100 countries attended across the three day schedule which included more for payment in 2015 and more than half are having 700 speakers and 1,500 journalists.
to wait for over 90 days to receive the money they are owed.
We have launched a Late Payments Manifesto and We supported the MentorHours program where Stephen Kelly and other an e-petition to raise awareness of the issue.
At the heart executives elded one to one meetings with small business owners, oering of our campaign is a deeply held belief that all people and advice on running and managing their businesses.
businesses should adhere to 30 day payment terms.
Supporting women in business We are proud sponsors of the Womens Leadership Exchange WLE in the US which oers conferences for women business owners to connect them with a network of advisers, business experts and corporate leaders.
The WLE mission is to provide the knowledge, the tools and the connections women need to be successful in their own businesses.
Jennifer Warawa, Global VP Product Marketing for the Accountants channel, spoke at the Boston WLE Summit in September 2015, oering her perspective as a successful leader within Sage.
Raising awareness for entrepreneurs We are a founding member of the campaign lobbying to have National Entrepreneurs Day nationally recognised in Canada.
Far more than just a celebration, we want to promote widespread awareness by harnessing partnerships with innovation centres, corporations, accelerators, schools, government, and in the media to support small businesses.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 57 Directors approval of strategic report Our 2015 Strategic report, from page 2 to page 57, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on2 December 2015.
Steve Hare Chief Financial Ocer 58 58 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
