Strategy continued Customers for Life Knowledgeable support and advice, any time Weve been listening to customers and responding to their needs for more than 30 years.
In 2012, we identied the numerous benets of subscription, both for Sage and for our customers.
Subscription relationships including support will continue to oer great value and benets to our customers and over time we expect more and more customers to adopt subscription.
Our transition to subscription has never involved forced migration however and oering a choice to our customers is an example of how we support them for life.
Our priorities Putting customers at the heart of everything we do to drive exceptional We have a privileged position with our existing customers and an levels of service and support delights them and enables everyone to opportunity to grow with them by continuing to provide additional value benefit from the continuity of a long-term partnership.
and making their lives easier.
Our priorities are to deliver more integrated solutions, implement hassle-free migration for customers who are ready The risks that could impact our success to move up to the next product solution and to relentlessly drive Failing to recognise the changing needs of our customers and exceptional levels of customer service.
the evolving compliance landscapes faced by customers in our geographies would inhibit our ability to satisfytheir needs.
If the move Why its important to a subscription delivery model is not executed collaboratively then Providing Accounting, Payroll &HR and Payments services to customers we risk alienating customers.
Read more about our Market Intelligence who have a need for all those services represents a compelling value and Licensing Model Transition principal risks on page 40. proposition: the Golden Triangle of money movement made eortless with seamlessly integrated solutions.
How we will measure our progress Recognising when customers have outgrown their product and oering If we succeed in delighting our customers, they will respond by simple migration pathways is important to enable us to bring maximum continuing to use our services, so our KPI linked to this pillar is and appropriate functionality to our customers and to help them to our contract renewal rate.
Read more about our KPIs on page 28. grow further.
I rrespective of product, location or size of business, were passionate about our customers and want to serve them for life: providing unparalleled choice, indispensable advice and the right solutions for them.
The principle of supporting customers for life is at the heart of everything we do.
Brendan Flattery, President Europe 24 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 30,000 Calls answered every day Customer support We know from speaking to our customers that two of their most critical demand drivers are access to a knowledgeable person for support and peace of mind around legislative compliance.
Whether it is help with completing the monthly payroll or advice on tackling a significant change in legislation, our customers rely on our support every day and we are available for them online, over the phone or even in person.
Most entrepreneurs dont go into business to be a bookkeeper or tax specialist, yet maintaining good records and complying with regulations isimportant.
We know how strongly valued our telephone support for Sage One is amongst start-ups where an owner manager might only get around to performing the pay-run on Sunday evening: local knowledge and supportis always on handto help them succeed.
Liam Watson runs Canny, a naturally avoured milk brand and has experienced Sage One support first hand: One o f the best features of Sage One is the support.
Always available, 24 7, I cant get enough of that.
Liam Watson, Canny, UK The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25
