Remuneration policy The current policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and can be found on our website www.
As outlined in the Statement of the Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Remuneration Committee is proposing a number of changes to the current policy primarily to ensure consistency with our future strategic and operational implementation plans.
Shareholder approval will be sought at the 2016 AGM for the new remuneration policy set out below.
Subject to shareholder approval, the new policy will take eect from the date of the AGM.
The key proposed changesfrom the current policy are: A minimum of one-third of the annual bonus paid to executive directors will be delivered in deferred shares.
Under the previous policy, executive directors were only required to defer 20% of their bonus into shares if they were non-compliant with their shareholding guideline The Remuneration Commiee will have exibility to apply an additional mandatory holding period beyond the expiry ofa performa nce period applicable toPSP awards In order to provide consistency with Sages future strategy, performance measures for future PSP awards will be based on recurring revenue growth and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance subject to underpin conditions.
Under the previous policy, PSP awards were subject to a combination of organic revenue growth, EPS growth and relative TSR performance measures Malus and clawback provisions will apply to all variable pay awarded to executive directors following the introduction of the revised policy Change of control and loss of oce policies have been updated for consistency with the new PSP rules that were approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Remuneration policy table The table below sets out the remuneration policy that the Company intends to apply, subject to shareholder approval, from 1st of March 2016 the date of the AGM.
Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Normally reviewed annually, with any Ordinarily, salary increases will be in line with None, although overall Supports the recruitment and increases applied from January.
increases awarded to other employees in performance of the retention of executive directors major operating businesses of the Group.
individual is considered When determining base salary levels, of the calibre required to deliver by the Remuneration consideration is given to the following: However, increases may be made above this the Groups strategy.
Committee when level at the Committees discretion to take Pay increases for other employees in setting and reviewing Rewards executives for the account of individual circumstances such as: major operating businesses of the Group salaries annually.
Increase in scope and responsibility The individuals skills and responsibilities Set at a level that allows fully Increase to reect the individuals Pay at companies of a similar size and exible operation of our variable development and performance in role e. g. for international scope to Sage, in particular pay plans.
a new appointment where base salary may be those within the FTSE 100 excluding increased over time rather than set directly at the top 30 the level of the previous incumbent Corporate and individual performance or market level Alignment to market level Accordingly, no monetary maximum has been set.
Pension Dened contribution plan with Company 25% of base salary for all executive directors.
Provide a competitive postcontributions set as a percentage of No element other than base salary is retirement benefit, in a way base salary.
that manages the overall cost An individual may elect to receive some to the Company.
or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Benets The Group provides a range of benets Set at a level which the Remuneration None.
Provide a competitive and which may include a car benefit or cash Committee considers: cost-eective benetspackage equivalent, private medical insurance, Appropriately positioned against comparable to executives toassist them to permanent health insurance, life assurance roles in companies of a similar size and carry out their duties eectively.
complexity in the relevant market Additional benets may also beprovided Provides a sucient level of benefit based in certain circumstances which may include on the role and individual circumstances, relocation expenses, housing allowance and such as relocation school fees.
Other benets may be oered if As the costs of providing benets will depend considered appropriate and reasonable by on adirector's individual circumstances, the the Committee.
Remuneration Committee has not set a monetary maximum The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77
