Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement Group highlights for the 2014 15 financial year Gareth Williams Chairman, Remuneration Committee Since April 2014, considerable work has been done by Andrew, Lance and the senior management team to bring further clarity to the ambition and strategy of the Company.
This has resulted in increased investor interest, activity and anuplift in the share price as we closed the fiscal year.
The effectiveness of the strategy has been substantiated inthe key performance highlights of the year.
The Groups capital efficient, cash generative strategy, hasled to strong trading performance.
In the 2014 15 financial year, Trading EBITDA increased by 6% to227.4m 1 2014:214.5m.
Dear Shareholder, Strong profit delivery and continued high levels of cash I am conscious that this is the first Remuneration Report conversion meant the Group beat its debt reduction target for Saga as a listed company.
We started our work as a for 2014 15 and now has a net debt to Trading EBITDA new Remuneration Committee following the initial share ratio of 2.5x.
This has allowed the proposed final dividend offering on 29 May 2014.
The Remuneration Committee of 4.1p per share to come in at the top end of the range reviewed and built on the remuneration work done by detailed in the IPO prospectus.
theBoard in the lead up to the IPO and published in The Groups acquisition of Destinology, the digitally focused theProspectus.
travel company and proposed acquisition, subjectto regulatory approval of Bennetts, the UKs leading motorbike Our goal is to have a Remuneration Policy and strategy insurance broker, will allow the Group toexpand its footprint which stimulates sustainable, value creating growth in areas with significant synergies forthe current business.
andperformance for the business and rewards the When completed Bennetts willadd over 200,000 motorbike performance of management accordingly.
This has policies and highly complementary customers to the Saga guided our thinking and actions in our initial work database, while Destinology enhances the range of travel togetherand our dialogue with senior management.
The Groups strategy of expanding into new areas whilst This report lays out the core principles of our Directors maintaining its capital efficient model saw a joint venture Remuneration Policy and our practice over the past year.
with Tilney Bestinvest and a partnership with Rangeford Itrust we have done this with the transparency and clarity signalling moves into the wealth management and that aids your understanding of both our intent and our retirement villages sectors.
I would appreciate any feedback you have to offer on this point my contact details are at the end Remuneration decisions and activity of thestatement.
in the 2014 15 financial year The Remuneration Policies and practices that were outlined Attendance during the year indetail at the time of the Companys listing in May 2014 have Member Attendance been largely maintained.
However, we have taken the opportunity 1 Gareth Williams 2 3 to review all the key components of remuneration and amend a number of areas in service of our goal ofstimulating sustainable Philip Green 3 3 growth and performance.
The Remuneration Committee is Ray King Chairman 3 3 satisfied that the execution of the policies andpractices is in Orna NiChionna 3 3 line with the intent of the remuneration governance framework.
1 Non-attendance was due to prior commitments, which could not be In particular we: rescheduled, or for compassionate reasons.
commissioned an updated benchmarking study to Structure of the Report auditthe compensation position that was outlined in Annual Statement pages 73-74 thelisting information.
This confirmed to us that Sagas Directors Remuneration Report at a glance pages75-79 senior executives are appropriately positioned to be well Directors Remuneration Policy pages 80-89 rewardedfor delivering stretching and sustainable Annual Report on Remuneration pages 90-95 businessperformance.
Our core principles of remuneration made an adjustment to the 2014 15 annual incentive for Sustainable long-term value creation theExecutive Directors, adding a second financial measure Profitable growth and strong cash generation of debt reduction.
We have made further adjustments Attraction, retention and motivation of a talented for 2015 16, with 80% of the incentive linked to PBT and leadership cadre to deliver the business strategy cash flow targets, and 20% linked to key strategic and performance goals which will be determined by the Remuneration Committee, in conjunction with management, each year.
Further details can be found on pages 79 and 91.
1 Adjusted to allow like-for-like comparison between the two periods.
Saga plc 73 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement continued modified the cash bonus deferral terms for 2015 16, Under the voting regime that now governs these matters, introducing a uniform 33% deferral across the total bonus two resolutions will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
achieved rather than the previous arrangement where We will first seek approval for the Remuneration Policy deferral of bonus commenced when bonus payout Report Part A: pages 80-89.
This outlines the Companys exceeded 60% of salary whereby one-third of the total Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors effective from bonus achieved was deferred into shares.
The vote is binding on the Remuneration can be found on pages 79 and 91.
Committee and has a duration of up to three years.
increased the shareholding requirement for the Executive Directors.
This is now 200% for the Executive Chairman The second is seeking approval for the Annual Report on and Group Chief Executive Officer previously 100% and Remuneration Part B: pages 90-95.
It details decisions 150% for the Group Chief Financial Officer previously andactions taken by the Remuneration Committee over the 100%.
Theshareholding requirement for the Executive past 12 months and the performance and remuneration Team is75% of salary.
This section of the Report is voted reviewed the two measures in the Long-Term Incentive uponannually.
Plan LTIP comparative total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS and concluded that they Our goal has been to be thoughtful and clear in the layout remain appropriate.
The targets for the 2014 15 and of both parts of the Report and I ask for your support on 2015 16 awards areoutlined on page 79. both resolutions.
In addition, we have undertaken the following: I welcome any feedback from the Companys shareholders and you can contact me on gareth.
co. uk if you determined the Remuneration Committees terms have any questions or comments on this Report.
ofreference reviewed and reaffirmed the appointment of PwC asadvisors to the Remuneration Committee formulated the Companys Remuneration Policy as a listed company Gareth Williams drafted the Companys first Remuneration Report Chairman, Remuneration Committee as a listed company Allocation of time spent on matters at Remuneration Committee meetings for year ended 31 January 2015 1.
P rocedure terms of referenceand policy 9% 1 2.
F ormation of remuneration 3 policy report 29% 4 5.
Employee share plans 12% An evaluation of the Remuneration Committees effectiveness will be conducted after a full year of operation.
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I also talked with a number of our top shareholders in late March 2015.
Itwas a valuable opportunity to have a discussion, and Notes This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large receive feedback, on our Company and Remuneration Policy.
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the current Corporate We have many valued Saga customers included in our Governance Code and taking into account the new UK Corporate Governance shareholder register, so for the benefit of everyone, let me Code applying for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014 the Code and the Listing Rules.
The report consists of three sections: summarise the process for considering this Remuneration The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and Report at our forthcoming AGM on 23 June 2015. associated At a glance section The Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the Companys remuneration policy for Directors and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
This policy will apply for three years from its date of approval at the 2015 AGM The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out payments made to theDirectors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration for the 2014 15 financial year.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committees Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
The Remuneration Policy will be subject to abinding vote.
Saga plc 74 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015
