Strategy continued One Sage New ways of working collaboratively, at pace We identied in 2012 the need for global skills, for example global expertise in pricing, and sharing what works well locally on a global basis.
We also recognised the value of establishing group-wide priorities such as developing global products and leveraging a unied brand.
Some progress has been made in these areas, for instance the establishment of a global pricing team which shares best practicebetween countriesand the launch in 2014 of a global brand campaign.
We will celebrate measured success where it has been achieved but recognise that we have further to go in developing a consistent One Sage culture to support our strategy.
Our priorities Why its important Our key priority is embedding the principles which guide a One Sage Establishing a global culture unlocks the power of our people and having culture, starting with putting customers at the heart of everything we do them all driving towards a common set of goals and principles enables and focusing on their success.
One Sage is about working with pace and us to realise our ambition eciently.
Without a common culture, agility, which helps us to not just deliver, but to overachieve.
We have success occurs in isolated pockets and progress is slow.
We have introduced a global performance management system to harmonise a privileged position serving so many customers and One Sage will how we measure performance and set objectives read more at page enable us to consistently delight them all.
Doing the right thing and making a dierence extends beyond our The risks that could impact our success customers to our colleagues and communities, and we are increasing As we introduce new ways of working, there is a risk of inconsistency engagement in this area with the launch of Sage Foundation read more developingin our culture, which is relevant to all of our principle risks.
To deliver on our strategy, innovation has to be the new For example, our global brand must deliver a consistently excellent normal.
We are developing new ways of working collaboratively to customer experience at every touchpoint.
Read more about our deliver compelling solutions and to focus on positiveoutcomes for our Sage Brand principal risk at page 41. customers.
Chatter, an online social tool for colleagues to communicate, has been introduced globally to facilitate collaboration: all of our people How we will measure our progress on one platform sharing data and ideas.
Internally we will use multiple qualitative measures, surveysand focus groups to track progress in areas such as brand strength andemployee engagement.
One Sage supports our entire strategy and enables all the other strategic pillars, therefore does not have association with any single measure in the KPI suite.
One Sage empowers our colleagues to live our values and place customers at the heart of our thinking and actions.
Our winning culture drives ambition, simplication and bias for action.
We feel immense pride in putting our customers first.
Stephen Kelly, CEO 18 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Sage Live:26weeks from idea to customer test-drive Case study New product development The development of Sage Live is the embodiment of the One Sage way of working.
Sage Live is a cloud proposition that combines social, mobile and real-time technologies with a state-of-the-art accounting engine to provide business management to a new generation of entrepreneurs and fastgrowing companies.
Read more about Sage Live on page 32.
In December 2014, the challenge was set to create a next generation proposition intime for launch at Sage Summit.
The pace of the project was a departure from established development cyclesand raised our ambition enormously.
The product concept was established in January 2016.
A small team of experts within Sage was gathered from vecountries, all with a distinguished background, great expertise of accounting and a complete determination to succeed.
The project team employed agile working practices and instilled a rapid pace of collaboration across Sage, without country boundaries.
A working practice of co-creation was established with customers, partners and experts torene the product and accelerate to the right solution.
The team averaged three customer collaboration sessions per week where productdevelopment progress was reviewed.
Over 685 prospective customers, partners and experts participated and we announced availability at Sage Summit in July 2015.
Jennifer Ku owns and manages LaundryLaundry, a clothes servicing business which focuses on its customers by providing pick-up and drop-o services: The mobility and exibility of Sage Live allows me to run my business from anywhere.
Access to real-time information has allowed us to focus more on our customers.
com The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19
