Our business model At the heart of our business model is our ability to listen and Our business model is most effective when: gather insight about our customers to create products and a trusted brand is important, permitting us to provide services that fulfil their needs.
This ability, in combination with a premium product at a fair price the trusted Saga brand, our access to customers through our our superior customer knowledge gives us a competitive unique database and our relentless focus on customer edge service, sits at the heart of what we do.
we can differentiate our offer.
We do not sell me too products in any market that we operate Once we have designed and tested these products and service levels play a key role.
We want our customers to services, we decide how best to source them for our have outstanding service and to recognise it when they do customers.
In practice a majority will be provided by the cross-selling opportunities can flow from the initial leading providers in a chosen market.
When we assess the relationship.
best possible partners to supply products and services, we compare them for service and value.
Over time we can move Our model is robust and has demonstrated over time that it if more appropriate, or better, partners become available.
can grow, even in the face of the many economic challenges Our partners work with us in this way because it is a mutually of the past ten years.
It gives us protection against a number advantageous relationship they benefit from our brand, of risks: we have multiple earnings streams, allowing us to customer knowledge and access to a very attractive market.
shift investment and returns: our target market is growing, Saga, and its customers, benefit from their expertise and our customer base is loyal and resilient and is largely spending resources.
This also means that we maintain responsibility money it has already earned: and we have a capital efficient for delivery and continue to own the relationship with our structure which means that a vast majority of the EBITDA we customers, ensuring we can manage the customer experience generate turns into cash.
We deploy this cash through re-investment in growth, enhancing This approach also gives us flexibility and speed.
When we our technology and services, rewarding our employees and identify a new and interesting category, we enter that market providing a progressive return to our shareholders.
with an exceptionally high-quality product quickly and at low cost and low risk to Saga.
Go to pages 24-29 for more information on the key risks and uncertainties to our business model The Saga model Third party suppliers Product Customers Insights design In-house Motor underwriting Shipping Saga plc 13 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
