Our business model The model we apply to create value Our business model is the means by which we can deliver on our strategic objectives.
As with everything we do, the customer is at the heart of our business model which aligns with the customerjourney and experience.
KEY INPUTS TO OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model operates eectively utilising key inputs that are fundamental to our success as follows: Talented people Trusted brand Market and Resource allocation Local knowledge technologyinsight We rely on thecollaboration Small & Medium Focusing our resources on Our deep knowledge of andtechnology expertiseof Businesses are at the heart Our constant focus growth products enriches the regulatory landscapes over 13,000 of our people of our economies and Sage on technology over the the functionality of our we operate innot only around the world.
last 30 years has developed agship products and ensures our customers a deep understanding maximises the technology remain compliant but lets of what is important to opportunity.
usplan for new legislation our customers.
VALUE CREATED FROM OUR BUSINESS MODEL Group Organic Revenue Growth Organic Revenue Organic Operating profit 1,400m 380m Revenue streams: Shareholder Returns Recurring: Revenue on a contract basis predominantly for Dividends and share repurchases maintenance and support services or bundled subscription services 146m Software and related services SSRS : Software licences and related products and services e. g. training, implementation or hardware Processing: Revenue for processing services which is volume driven Society Community e. g. payments or payroll processing Tax charge for the year Employees enabled to volunteer Full denitions of our revenue streams are on page 163 90m 5 days per annum 4 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 E T A R V E I T T A C I A N Routes to market Our multi-channel approach is supported by a network of direct Attract new customers by Develop deeper customer sales channels, business relationships by bringing winning in the market, partners and accountants.
oering customer choice, the latest technology and other benets of supporting a strong partner and accountant subscription to inactive customers ecosystem and providing first class support OUR CUSTOMER Create Grow with our JOURNEY exceptional customers by customer revolutionising experiences to business, earn customers providing additional for life.
Identify when a customer The lifecycle is supported would benefit from by our One Sage culture migrating up to the next and Capacity for Growth product solution strategic pillars One Winning in the Revolutionise Customers for life Capacity for growth Read our strategy Sage market business on page 16 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5 T C G A R R O T T W A
