Strategy continued Capacity for Growth A global operating model that scales We identied the opportunity to focus our business within the 2012 strategy in order to better leverage our resources.
Certain products were identied as non-core and disposed of and remaining products were categorised as Invest, Harvestor Sunset in order to direct resources in relation to priorities.
We also recognised the requirement for disciplined execution in areas such as application of our brand and strategic partnering.
Our successes in executing on this cornerstone have tended to be local successes, mainly as aresult of our decentralised structure.
Strategic priorities are now dened globally, whereby, forinstance, we are replicating the success of local product marketing with global campaigns.
We are working to reduce the number of legacy systems and are Our priorities implementing best in class systems globally, including the Salesforce We will continue to focus our investment on our strongest and CRM solution as well as our own X3 general ledger.
most promising products but will only use two categories, Growth and Heritage products.
Growth products include both global products Why its important and local on-premise growth products.
Read more about our product There are many facets to implementing our Capacity for Growth portfolio strategy on page 30. plansbut ultimately, this pillar of our strategy is centred on improving As well as focusing ourinvestment on the Growth product category, we eciency to drive a consistently exceptional customer experience.
will also focus our spending by function and establish a global operating Spreading our investment too thinly between too many products model.
The model starts with the customer who will continue to be the restricts our ability to truly revolutionise business.
A global operating responsibility of the country managing director MD who leads the model is essential to leverage our resources and achieve our ambition sales and service experience and this will be their primary focus.
of winning in the market to gain market share.
The country MD will also represent Sage in the country and as the The risks that could impact our success champion of Small & Medium Business.
Business Model transition has been identied as a principal risk Marketing, Product Delivery and Technology will be run globally but considered on page 39. will be strongly connected to the country and the customer.
This allows a more eective deployment of our investment and will over time drive How we will measure our progress a stronger return on investment.
Our KPI linked to capacity for growth is the ratio of general and administration spending as a percentage of revenue G&A%.
Wewill The support functions will be run globally and will be targeted to improve work  release savings into global front oce both service and eciency.
 costs will be reduced functions such as marketing.
Reshaping the structure of our operating and processes and systems re-designed.
Country MDs will be internal margin willensure thatour organisation has capacity for growth.
customers for our global back-oce functions and will no longer be Read more about our KPIs on page 28. burdened with having to oversee these functions.
Sa ge will be organised to best serve our customers, removing duplication of eort, simplifying processes andworking together as one team.
We will sharedata, expertise and resource to accelerate innovation and delight our customers.
Steve Hare, CFO 26 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Building deeper customer relationships CBCs opened in Atlanta and Dublin We have opened the first of our new Customer Business Centres CBCs to revolutionise the way we attract and support customers around the world.
CBCs will establish a new benchmark for customer support and service, under the One Sage global operating model.
Marking an end to working in silos, teams will be able to collaborate to serve customers quickly and eectively.
The CBC in Dublinwill serve the Europe region and the CBC in Atlanta will serve North America as well asserving as ourNorth American headquarters.
This is the first step to building deeper, life-long relationships with customers globally.
CBCs house all teams involved in marketing, lead qualication, sales, service and renewals in one place, with a combined focus on providing outstanding service toour customers.
Working on the Salesforce1 platform, the teams are collaborating to make sure that customers have a fantastic experience from enquiry to sale and beyond.
Initially, the CBCs are supporting customers of Sage Live.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27
