Our remuneration principles for executive directors and the Executive Committee Our key remuneration principles are as follows: Motivate and reward Remuneration at Sage is designed to create a strong performance-oriented environment and reward achievement of our Company strategy and business objectives We oer competitive rates of pay and benets to attract and retain the best people in a competitive international Attract and retain market which includes private-equity backed organisations as well as listed companies Alignment with the Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group are considered when determining executive base salary wider Group and bonus reviews The interests of our senior management team are aligned with those of shareholders by having a significant Alignment with shareholders proportion of remuneration performance-based and delivered through shares Delivering our remuneration principles in 2016 A detailed remuneration policy, approved by shareholdersat the 2014 AGM, underpins the delivery of these four key remuneration principles.
At the heart of this policy is a relatively straightforward remuneration arrangement for our most senior executives comprising base salary and benets, an annual bonus plan and a long-term incentive plan the Performance Share Plan PSP.
At our Capital Markets Day CMD in June 2015, we outlined our future strategy and operational implementation plans.
In parallel, the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the pay arrangements for the executive directors and Executive Committee membersto ensure they were consistent both with our future strategy and with our remuneration principles more generally.
Following that review, the Remuneration Commiee is proposing a number of changes to the pay arrangements of the executive directors for 2016 as summarised below.
Where appropriate, these changes will also apply to Executive Committee members.
Our remuneration principles Proposed changes to pay arrangements for 2016 The existing performance measures that apply to executive directors performance-related pay were put in place following the Motivate and reward last major strategic review in 2012.
In order to ensure consistency with our revised strategy, the following changes are proposed to performance measures in 2016.
2016 annual bonus For the past three years, executive directors annual bonuses have been determined by a mixture of underlying profit before tax, organic revenue growth and individual objectives.
Following the Remuneration Committees review, the annual bonus measures for 2016 are Group recurring revenue growth 80% of overall bonus and strategic measures 20% of overall bonus.
Payout under the recurring revenue measure will be dependent upon the satisfaction of underpin conditions based on organic revenue growth, operating margin and subscription growth.
2016 PSP awards Most PSP awards granted in the past three years are subject to a combination of three equally weighted performance measures relative Total Shareholder Return TSR, earnings per share EPS growth and organic revenue growth.
Following the Remuneration Committees review, it is proposed that: half of the 2016 PSP award will be subject to a performance measure based on relative TSR performance.
This measure will help to ensure managements continued focus on overall Group growth and delivery of shareholder value half of the 2016 PSP award will be subject to a performance measure based on recurring revenue growth.
The introduction of recurring revenue growth as a medium-term performance condition provides close alignment with the medium-term strategic priorities outlined at the CMD to grow our subscription-based services and acquire new customers for any of the recurring revenue growth element of the 2016 PSP award to vest, two underpin performance conditions based on EPS growth and organic revenue growth will also need to be achieved Proposed targets for these performance measures are set out in the Directors annual remuneration report on page 88.
An independent market benchmark exercise commissioned by the Remuneration Committee indicated that Sage oers Attract and retain market-competitive levels of pay for our most senior executives.
Accordingly: no changes are proposed in 2016 to our maximum level of performance-related pay under either the annual bonus plan or the PSP the CFO will receive asalary increase of 3% eective 1 January 2016, consistent with increases for employees based in the UK.
The CEOs salary will remain at its current level until the next review, with any changes eective 1 January 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 75
