Corporate Governance Statement Compliance Statement The Board recognises the importance of high standards of B.
7.2 The chairman should confirm to shareholders when corporate governance and is committed to managing Sagas proposing re-election that, following formal performance operations in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be Code 2012 the Code.
A full version of the Code can effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website As we have had less than one full year of Board meetings, www.
The Company complied with all ofthe provisions wefeel that it is too early to assess the performance of the of the Code throughout the year, except forprovisions A.
2.1, Chairman or conduct a formal Board evaluation.
1.1. during the period since listing, the Chairman has maintained regular contact and dialogue with theNon-Executive Directors The Group has adopted elements of the UK Corporate and his performance will be assessed during the evaluation Governance Code 2014 in relation to remuneration and the which will take place following afull year of operation.
long-term success of the Company, minimum number of shares to be held and clawback malus.
1.2 The Code recommends that at least half the board that the Remuneration Committee supports the changes in ofdirectors of a UK-listed FTSE 350 company, excluding the 2014 Code and wishes for Sagasfirst Remuneration thechairman, should comprise non-executive directors Policy as a listed entity to adhere tocorporate governance determined by the board to be independent in character best practice.
andjudgement and free from relationships or circumstances Explanations which may affect, or could appear to affect, the A.
3.1 The Code recommends that the roles of directors judgement.
chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the During the period being reported on, the Company was same individual.
The division of responsibilities between the notcompliant with this provision of the Code, as the Board chairman and chief executive should be clearly established, structure consisted of four independent Non-Executives, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
The Code also threeExecutives and three Non-Executive Directors appointed recommends that the chairman of the board should meet the by the Private Equity Investors referred to in the Relationship independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment.
We feel that this was the correct balance for the Board to be effective during the first Andrew Goodsell acts as Executive Chairman the Chairman and, asdetailed in the prospectus dated 8 May 2014 the year following listing.
However, we intend to become fully Prospectus, was not independent on appointment, having compliant with the Code in this respect within a period of previously been the Group Chief Executive and Chairman.
Andrew is responsible for the leadership and overall B.
6.1 The Code recommends that the board should state effectiveness of the Board and setting the Boards agenda.
in the annual report how performance evaluation of the Andrew is working with Lance to transition the majority of board, its committees and its individual directors has theday to day management of the Group to him as the been conducted.
In due course, Andrews responsibilities willbe aligned with those normally undertaken As we have had less than a full year as a Board, we felt it by a Non-Executive Chairman, as recommended by the wastoo early to carry out an effectiveness review of our Code.
During the period that Andrew has been Executive performance and work and therefore this disclosure has Chairman, Philip Green, our Senior Independent Director, notbeen made.
A full evaluation of the Board, its Committees hashad certain responsibilities which go beyond those and its individual Directors will be conducted in the next contemplated in the Code, notably in relation to the financial year.
appointment of independent Non-Executive Directors totheCommittees.
E. 1.1 The Code recommends that the senior independent director should attend sufficient meetings with a range The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman ofmajor shareholders to listen to their views in order to and the Group Chief Executive Officer was set out in writing, helpdevelop a balanced understanding of their issues considered and approved by the Board on 22 May 2014. andconcerns.
This will be reviewed annually.
The Senior Independent Director has not attended meetings A.
4.2 The Code recommends that the chairman should hold with our major shareholders to date.
Our focus was on meetings with the non-executive directors without the ensuring that the Senior Independent Director and all executive directors present and that, led by the senior Non-Executives first gained a thorough and comprehensive independent director, the non-executive directors should understanding of our business prior to holding such meetings.
meetat least annually to appraise the chairmans performance Notwithstanding this, we have maintained dialogue with and on otheroccasions as deemed appropriate.
Details can be found on page 72 of this report.
6.3 The Code recommends that the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, should be responsible for performance evaluation of the chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Saga plc 56 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 The Company applied the main principles of the Code as follows: A.
Effectiveness A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board B4 Development The Board met formally five times since The Nomination Committee is All Directors receive an induction on listing.
There is a clear schedule of responsible for regularly reviewing the joining the Board and the training and matters reserved for the Board, together composition of the Board.
In making development needs of each Director with delegated authorities throughout appointments to the Board, the willbe assessed as part of the annual theGroup.
Nomination Committee considers the effectiveness evaluation.
wide range of skills, knowledge and A2 Division of responsibilities B5 Information and support experience required in order to maintain The Board is moving towards a clear The Chairman, in conjunction with the an effective Board.
division of responsibilities, as set out Company Secretary, ensures that all inthe Explanations section above.
B2 Appointments to the Board Board members receive accurate and The appointment of new Directors to the timely information.
A3 The Chairman Board is led by the Nomination The Chairman sets the agendas for B6 Evaluation Committee.
Further details of the meetings, manages the meeting The Board will conduct a formal and activities of the Nomination Committee timetable in conjunction with the rigorous annual evaluation of its own can be found on page 63.
Company Secretary and facilitates performance and that of its Committees open and constructive dialogue during B3 Commitment and individual Directors after a full year of the meetings.
On appointment, Directors are notified of operation, as set out in the Explanations the time commitment expected from section above.
External directorships, which may The Chairman promotes an open and B7 Re-election of Directors impact on the existing time commitments constructive environment in the All Directors are subject to shareholder of the Executive Directors, must be boardroom and actively invites the annual re-election.
agreed beforehand with the Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management and meet regularly withoutthe Executive Directors.
C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders D1 The level and components C1 Financial and business reporting E1 Dialogue with shareholders of remuneration The Strategic Report is set out on pages The Board takes an active role in The Remuneration Committee sets levels 02-53 inclusive and this provides engaging with shareholders.
The Board of remuneration appropriately in order to information about the performance of particularly values opportunities to meet attract, retain and motivate the Board, theGroup, the business model, strategy with shareholders and the Chairman butalso structures remuneration to and the risks and uncertainties relating ensures that the Board is kept informed linkitto both corporate and individual tothe Groups future prospects.
performance, thereby aligning C2 Risk management and E2 Constructive use of the AGM managements interests with those internal control The AGM provides the Board with ofshareholders.
The Board sets out the Groups risk animportant opportunity to meet appetite and annually reviews the D2 Procedure withshareholders.
effectiveness of the Groups risk Details of the work of the Remuneration Details of how the Board engages with management and internal control Committee and the approach to setting shareholders can be found on page 72. systems.
The activities of the Risk the Remuneration Policy can be found in Committee, which assists the Board the Directors Remuneration Report on withits responsibilities in relation to the pages 73-95 inclusive.
management of risk, are summarised onpages 70-71.
C3 Audit Committee and auditors The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes, internal controls and the work undertaken by the external auditors.
The chairmen of the Risk and Audit Committees are Board members and provide regular updates tothe Board regarding Committee business.
Saga plc 57 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
