Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited Going concern consolidated financial statements for the year ended The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules 31January 2015 in accordance with section 415 of the and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is set Companies Act 2006 which were approved by the Board out in the Directors statements on page 99. on29 April 2015.
Political donations Management report No political donations were made during the year.
The Directors Report, together with the Strategic Report Directors interests set out on pages 02-53 form the Management Report for A list of the Directors, their interests in its long-term thepurposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
performance share plan, contracts and ordinary share capital Statutory information contained elsewhere in the of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration annual report Report on pages 73-95.
Information required to be part of this Directors Report can Rules on appointment and replacement of Directors be found elsewhere in the annual report as indicated in the All Directors will seek re-election at the AGM in accordance table below and is incorporated into this report by reference: with the Companys articles of association and the recommendations of the Code.
Location in Information annual report A Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Likely future developments in the business Pages 02-53 shareholders in a general meeting following nomination by of the Company or its subsidiaries theBoard or a member or members entitled to vote at such Corporate social responsibility Page 22 a meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director Greenhouse gas emissions Page 23 to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next AGM.
Employees employment of disabled Page 21 persons, employee engagement A Director may be removed by the Company in certain and policies circumstances set out in the Companys articles of Corporate Governance Statement Pages 54-72 association or by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Directors details Pages 58 and 60-61 Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement entered into between Related party transactions Note 37 on page 168 the Company and each of the Private Equity Investors as Directors statements Page 99 defined on page 97 each Private Equity Investor is entitled to appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long Statement of disclosure of information Page 99 to the Auditor asit is entitled, either directly or indirectly through its voting rights in Acromas Bid Co Limited, to exercise or to control the Employee share schemes Note 32 on pages exercise of the equivalent of 10% or more of the votes able to 161-163 be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings Financial instruments: Information on the Note 2.3 on pages of the Company.
Groups financial instruments and risk 118-121 management objectives and policies, Directors indemnities and insurance including our policy for hedging As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under Additional information Pages 174-176 which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys articles Responsibility statements of association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in As required under the Disclosure Rules and Transparency connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and Rules DTRs, a statement made by the Board regarding the responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or any of its preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 99. subsidiaries.
No amount was paid under any of these This statement also provides details regarding the disclosure indemnities or insurances during the year other than the of information to the Companys auditors.
Directors and officers liability insurance is in place as at the date of this Report, at an Results and dividends amount which the Board considers adequate.
A review was The Group made a loss after taxation of 133.8m for the carried out in May 2014 and takes place on an annual basis.
The Board proposes to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM, a final dividend of 4.1p net per share in respect of the year ended 31 January 2015.
Saga plc 96 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Share capital and substantial shareholdings The Relationship Agreement between the Company, Acromas The Companys share capital is set out on page 160.
At the Bid Co Limited the Principal Shareholder and certain funds date of this report the Companys issued share capital managed or advised by Charterhouse Capital Partners, CVC comprised a single class of share capital which is divided Capital Partners and Permira the Private Equity Investors intoordinary shares of 1p each.
As at 31 January 2015, remains in force until the later of i any of the Private Equity 1,110,705,405 ordinary shares of 1p each have been issued, Investors together with its associates being entitled to are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
exercise or control the exercise, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially At 31 January 2015, in accordance with DTR5, the Company all matters at general meetings of the Company: and ii the has been notified of the following interests in three per cent Principal Shareholder together with its associates being or more of the Companys total voting rights: entitled to exercise or control the exercise, directly or indirectly, of 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or Name Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
There are also provisions that provide for the Relationship Acromas Bid Co 799,974,283 72.02 Direct Limited ABCL Agreement to be automatically terminated if the Companys shares cease to be listed on the premium listing segment of On 27February 2015, the Company was notified that the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange ABCLsold111,000,000 shares in aggregate, pursuant to plcs main market for listed securities.
There are no provisions transactions which took place on 26 and 27February 2015. in the Relationship Agreement which allow the Principal Following such transactions, ABCL held 688,974,283 ordinary Shareholder or the Private Equity Investors to terminate the shares, representing 62.03% of capital at 20 April 2015. agreement in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Relationship Agreement The rules of the Companys employee share plans generally The Company has entered into an agreement with Acromas provide for the accelerated vesting and or release of share Bid Co Limited as its controlling shareholder as required under awards in the event of a change of control of the Company.
2A R 2 a, complies with the independence provisions set out in LR 6.1.
4D R and has a constitution that The Company does not have any agreements with Directors allows for the election and re-election of independent Directors or employees which would pay compensation in the event to be conducted in accordance with the election provisions of a change of control.
2F R. Conflicts of interest Each Director is obliged to disclose any potential or actual As far as the Company is aware: conflict of interest in accordance with the Companys the controlling shareholder and its associates have also conflict of interest policy.
Such declarations are subject complied with the independence provisions referred to annual review.
to above the controlling shareholder has complied with its Authority to allot purchase own shares agreement to procure compliance with the independence A shareholders resolution was passed on 7 May 2014 which provisions referred to above by another controlling authorised the Company to make market purchases within shareholder and its associates.
the meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 up to 10% of aggregate nominal share capital of the share capital Change of control significant agreements of the Company following Admission: subject to a minimum A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon price of 1p and a maximum price of the higher of 105% of the achange of control of the Company including following a average mid-market quotations for five business days prior to takeover bid, for example insurance, commercial contracts purchase or price of last individual trade and highest current and distribution agreements.
None is considered to be individual bid as derived from the London Stock Exchange significant in terms of its impact on the business of the trading system.
The Company did not exercise this authority during the year The Senior Facilities Agreement provides the Group with ended 31 January 2015.
The above authority will expire at the loan and revolving credit facilities for general financing forthcoming AGM and a resolution proposing renewal will be purposes.
In the event of a change of control the facilities proposed.
would either require repayment or re-negotiation.
Further details on banking facilities are shown in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Saga plc 97 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Report continued Rights attaching to shares Save as set out above, the Company is not aware of any The rights attached to the shares are governed by applicable agreement which would result in a restriction on the transfer law and the Companys articles of association which are of shares or voting rights.
co. uk assets downloads Articles of association corporate-governance .
Any amendment to the Companys articles of association Ordinary shareholders have the right to receive notice, attend mayonly be made by passing a special resolution of the and vote at general meetings: receive a copy of the shareholders of the Company.
Companys report and accounts and a dividend when Branches outside the UK approved and paid.
On a show of hands, each shareholder The Company does not have any branches outside of the UK.
present in person, or by proxy or an authorised representative of a corporate shareholder, shall have one vote.
In the event Post-balance sheet events of a poll, one vote is attached to each share held.
There have been no important events affecting the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings since 31 January 2015.
The notice of the AGM the Notice states deadlines for exercising voting rights and for appointing a proxy proxies.
Auditor A resolution to re-appoint Ernst and Young LLP who have No shareholder owns shares with special rights as to control.
indicated their willingness to act as our auditor will be Restrictions on the transfer of shares proposed at the 2015 AGM.
Other than where imposed by law or regulations, or where the Annual General Meeting Listing Rules require certain persons to obtain clearance The AGM will be held on Tuesday 23 June 2015 at 10am before dealing, there are no restrictions regarding the transfer atEnbrook Park, Sandgate, Folkestone, Kent, CT20 3SE.
of shares in the Company other than as stated below.
TheNotice contains an explanation of special business to Pursuant to the underwriting agreement entered into between, beconsidered at the meeting.
amongst others, the Company, Acromas Bid Co Limited and A copy of the Notice will be available on our website, the Companys Directors on 8 May 2014 the Underwriting http: corporate.
Agreement, the Company and Acromas Bid Co Limited each agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, during the By order of the Board period of 180 days from the completion of the IPO on 29 May 2014, not, without the prior written consent of a majority of Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, Goldman Sachs International and Merrill V Haynes Lynch International being the joint global co-ordinators to the Secretary Company on the IPO, to issue in the case of the Company 29 April 2015 only, offer, lend, sell or contract to sell, grant any option, rightor warrant to subscribe or purchase or allow any Saga plc encumbrance to be created over or otherwise dispose of, Company no.
08804263 directly or indirectly, or announce an offer of any of the Companys ordinary shares or any interest therein or in respect thereof or enter into any transaction with the same economic effect as, or agree to do, any of such things, or publicly announce any intention to do any of the foregoing.
Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, each of the Companys Directors has agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, during the period of 365 days from the completion of the IPO on 29 May 2014, not, without the prior written consent of a majority of Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, Goldman Sachs International and Merrill Lynch International being the joint global co-ordinators to the Company on the IPO, to offer, lend, sell or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to subscribe or purchase or allow any encumbrance to be created over or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or announce an offer of any of the Companys ordinary shares or any interest therein or in respect thereof or enter into any transaction with the same economic effect as, or agree to do, any of such things, or publicly announce any intention to do any of the foregoing.
Saga plc 98 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015
