Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited Financial viability statement consolidated financial statements for the year ended In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK 30 September 2015.
Corporate Governance Code, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the group will continue to operate and The Annual Report & Accounts contains statements that are not meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next five years.
A period of five based on current or historical fact and are forward-looking in nature.
years has been chosen for the purpose of this viability statement, in line Please refer to the Disclaimer on page 97. with the groups 2020 Strategy as announced on 24 June 2015 and Strategic report reecting a typical life of the on-premise products without an upgrade.
The information that fulls the reporting requirements relating to The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups the following matters can be found on the following pages of the current position and prospects, the 2020 Strategy, the Boards risk Strategic report: appetite and the groups principal risks and how these are managed, Subject maer Page as detailed in pages 16 to 43 of the Strategic report.
Future developments 10 to 11Chief Executivesreview The Strategy and associated principal risks, which the Directors review Greenhouse gas emissions 55 to 56 Environment section at least annually, are a foundation of the Group's strategic plan and scenario testing.
The plan makes certain assumptions about the Corporate governance statement uptake of subscription services, the ability to renance debt as it The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR require certain falls due and the acceptable performance of the core revenue information to be included in a corporate governance statement in streams and market segments.
This information can be found in the Corporate The plan is stress tested using sensitivity analysis which reects governance report on pages 59to 73, which is incorporated into this plausible but severe combinations of the principal risks of the Directors report by reference and, in the case of the information business, primarily through reducing revenues and cash-ows.
Research and development Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 During the year, we invested 141m 2014: 131m in research Information on allotments of shares for cash pursuant to the Group and development.
employee share schemes can be found on page 145 within the notes to the Group financial statements.
Political donations No political donations were made in the year.
Results and dividends The results for the year are set out on from page 104.
Full details of the Directors and their interests proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 30 September 2015 A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the are set out on page 151.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.65p Company, their interests in its long-term performance share plan and per share following the payment of an interim dividend of4.45p per details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company share on5 June2015.
The proposed total dividend for the year is are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 89.
No director therefore 13.10p per share.
had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its Going concern operating companies at any time during the year.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Sage has adequate resources to continue in operational existence The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months.
directors of the Company can be found on pages60 to61 under Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Board of Directors and Changes to the Board.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors have had due regard to the following: the cash generated from operations, available cash resources and commied bank facilities and their maturities, which taken together, provide confidence that Sage will be able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
Further information on the available cash resources and commied bank facilities is provided in Note 12 to the financial statements.
the financial position of Sage, its cash ows, financial risk management policies and available debt facilities, which are described in the financial statements, and Sages business activities, together with the factors likely to impact its future growth and operating performance, which are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2-58.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 93 Directors report continued As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third-party On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in place under have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class Company and the former directors of the Company who held oce meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other during the year ended 30 September 2015, to the extent permitted sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
by law and by the Companys articles of association, in respect of all Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of their duties as a director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these Deadlines for voting rights indemnities are available for review at the Companys registered oce.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held Employment policy on1 March 2016 will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their Dividends and distributions respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, the continued employment of those who may become disabled during by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but their employment and the provision of training and career development no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement by whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the making information available to employees on maers of concern Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and to them.
Employees regularly receive updates on the financial and paid pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
economic factors aecting the Group from both central and local Liquidation management.
Many employees are stakeholders in the Company through participation in share option schemes and a long-term If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority performance share plan.
Further details of employment policies of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required are given on pages 52 to 54. by the statutes as dened in the articles of association : Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the Substantial shareholdings assets of the Company: or At 30 September 2015, the Company had been notied, in accordance Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts with the DTRs, of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, Name Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding shall think t. Standard Life 75,201,413 7.004% Direct and Indirect Schroders plc 55,221,546 5.020% Indirect Transfer of shares Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all In the period from 30 September 2015 to30 November 2015, we or any of his or her certicated shares by an instrument of transfer received further notications from Standard Life and from Blackrock, in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
Inc. As at the date of this report those notications indicate that the The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any holdings of Standard Life and Blackrock stood at 6.993% and 5.03% of instrument of transfer of a certicated share which is not a fully paid capital respectively.
Information provided to the Company under the share although not so as to prevent dealings in shares taking place DTRs is publicly available via the regulatory information service and on an open and proper basis or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certicated share Share capital unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the oce, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by The Companys share capital is as set out on page 145.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary the certicate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the shares of 1 477p each.
intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held Voting in uncerticated form and, subject to the articles of association, title to In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of uncerticated shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system the articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an to voting aached to any class of shares in the Company of which uncerticated share may be refused where permied by the statutes there are none : as dened in the articles of association.
On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the representative of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy of a member shall have one vote, except that a proxy has one vote for and one vote against a resolution if the proxy has been appointed by more than one member and has been given conicting voting instructions by those members, or has been given discretion as to how to vote 94 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Repurchase of shares Powers of the directors The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual General The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may Meeting 3 March 2015 to buy back up to 107,683,190 ordinary shares.
The exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of minimum price which must be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal the Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and value and the maximum price is the higher of 105% of the average of the any ordinary resolution of the Company.
middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the Shares held in the Employee benefit Trust London Stock Exchange Daily Ocial List for the five business days The trustee of The Sage Group plc Employee benefit Trust EBT has immediately before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
by article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each If any oer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee case exclusive of expenses.
Share repurchases are used from time to will not be obliged to accept or reject the oer in respect of any shares time as a method to control the Groups leverage and decisions are which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard made against strict price, volume and returns criteria that are agreed to the interests of the award holders and will have power to consult by the Board and regularly reviewed.
them to obtain their views on the oer.
Subject to the above the In the year under review, the Company repurchased a total of 3,457,020 trustee may take action with respect to the oer it thinks fair.
ordinary shares of 1 4 77p each at prices between 347.0p and 390.7p per share.
Following repurchase, these shares were held in treasury.
significant agreements Furthermore, the Employee benefit Trust purchased a total of 377,860 The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the ordinary shares of 1 4 77p at a price of 546.2p per share.
The aggregate counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of amount of consideration paid was 14.6m.
The movement in earnings a change of control of the Company: per share comprises profit growth and a change in the weighted average Under a dual tranche US$551 million and 218 million five-year share base as a result of share repurchases and movements in shares multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 26 June held by the Employee benefit Trust, the impact of which is as follows: 2014 between, amongst others, Sage Treasury Company Limited Underlying and Lloyds Bank plc as facility agent and guaranteed by the Company, % change basic EPS on a change of control, if any individual lender so requires and after FY14 22.19p having consulted with Sage Treasury Company Limited in good faith Due to change in weighted average share base 1.6% 0.37p for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility Due to change in underlying profit after tax 11.0% 2.44p agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to Sage Treasury FY15 12.6% 25.00p Company Limited, cancel the commitment of that lender and declare the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together In the year under review no treasury shares were cancelled.
Total with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the share awards of 2,138,554 were made out of shares held by the finance documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon Employee benefit Trust.
the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all such outstanding amounts will become immediately due and payable.
Amendment of the Companys articles of association Under a note purchase agreement dated 11 March 2010 relating Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be to US$50 million senior notes, Series B, due 11 March 2016 and made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 US$50 million senior notes, Series C, due 11 March 2017 between the by way of special resolution.
Company and the note holders, on a change of control, the Company will not take any action that consummates or nalises a change of Appointment and replacement of directors control unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
have given to each holder of notes written notice containing and Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or constituting an oer to prepay all notes on a date specified in such by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds oce only until oer which shall be a business day occurring subsequent to the the next Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by eective date of the change of control which is not less than 30 days the shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or or more than 60 days after the date of the notice of prepayments.
more directors to hold employment or executive oce for such period Where a holder of notes accepts the oer to prepay, the prepayment subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may shall be 100% of the principal amount of the notes together with determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be made on the Under the articles of association, at every Annual General Meeting of the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment under a change of Company, every director shall retire from oce but shall be eligible for control shall include any premium of any kind.
election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove and the Board, by unanimous decision, may remove any director before the expiration of his or her term of oce.
The oce of director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may remain so for more than three months and the Board resolves that his or her oce is vacated: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her oce is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or makes an arrangement or composition with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from oce pursuant to the articles of association.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 95 Directors report continued Under a note purchase agreement dated 20 May 2013 relating to Capital risk US$50 million senior notes, Series D, due 20 May 2018, US$150 million The Groups objectives when managing capital dened as net senior notes, Series E, due 20 May 2020, US$150 million senior notes, debt plus equity are to safeguard our ability to continue as a going Series F, due 20 May 2023 and US$50 million senior notes, Series G, concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benets for due 20 May 2025 between Sage Treasury Company Ltd and the other stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders through an note holders and guaranteed by the Company, on a change of appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its control of the Company, the Company will not take any action that capital structure and makes adjustments to it with respect to changes consummates or nalises a change of control unless at least 15 in economic conditions and our strategic objectives.
The Group has set business days prior to such action it shall have given to each holder of a long-term minimum leverage target of 1x net debt to EBITDA and will notes wrien notice containing and constituting an oer to prepay all work to maintain this going forward.
notes on a date specified in such oer which shall be a business day occurring subsequent to the eective date of the change of control Liquidity risk which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the date of The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing cash the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts the oer resources required to meet business objectives through both short and to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal amount of long-term cash ow forecasts.
The Company has commied facilities the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes shall be made on the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment including working capital.
The Treasury function has responsibility under a change of control shall include any premium of any kind.
for optimising the level of cash across the business.
Under a note purchase agreement dated 26 January 2015 relating to Credit risk 55 million senior notes, Series H, due 26 January 2022, 30 million The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
senior notes, Series I, due 26 January 2023 and US$200 million senior The Group has a very low operational credit risk due to the transactions notes, Series J, due 26 January 2025 between Sage Treasury Company being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
Limited and the note holders and guaranteed by the Company, on a The Group has no significant concentration of operational credit change of control of the Company, the Company will not take any risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties action that consummates or nalises a change of control unless at and customers.
least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given to each holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an oer The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the to prepay all notes on the date specified in such oer which shall Board-approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be be a business day occurring subsequent to the eective date of invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
the change of control which is not less than 30 days or more than All counterparties must meet minimum credit rating requirements.
60 days after the date of notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts the oer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of Interest rate risk the principal amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on oating rate deposits and interest thereon and any applicable net loss and, in each case, borrowings.
The US private placement loan notes, which comprise 87% including the deduction of any applicable net gain and shall still of borrowings, are at xed interest rates and bank debt, which comprises be made on the proposed payment date.
No prepayment under 13% of borrowings, are at oating interest rates.
At 30 September 2015, a change of control shall include any premium of any kind.
the Group had 263m 2014: 145m of cash and cash equivalents.
Under the terms of all four agreements above, a change of control The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, cash and cash equivalents occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains and interest rates to monitor this risk.
Interest rates on debt and control of the Company.
deposits are xed when management decides this is appropriate.
At 30 September 2015, the Groups principal borrowings comprised The platform reseller agreement dated 31 January 2015 relating to US private placement loan notes of 525m 2014: 432m, which the Companys strategic arrangements with Salesforce.
com EMEA have an average xed interest rate of 3.48%, and bank debt of 82m Limited contains a change of control right enabling Salesforce to 2014: 111m, which has an average oating interest rate of 0.93%.
terminate the agreement in the event there is a change of control in favour of a direct competitor of Salesforce.
Foreign currency risk The agreement contains post termination requirements upon Although a substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and profit Salesforce to support a transition for up to a specified period.
is earned outside the UK, operating companies generally only trade in In respect of the platform reseller agreement with Salesforce.
The Group is therefore not subject to any significant foreign exchange transactional exposure within these subsidiaries.
EMEA Limited, change of control occurs where a corporate transaction results in the owners of the subject entity owning less than 50% of the voting interests in that entity as a result of the corporate transaction.
Financial risk management The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk are summarised below.
96 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency lies in the translation In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: of overseas profits into sterling, this exposure is not hedged.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently The Groups external US Dollar and Euro denominated borrowings are Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the State whether IFRS as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK US and Eurozone.
The foreign exchange movements on translation Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material of the borrowings into Sterling have therefore been recognised in departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company the translation reserve.
Certain of the Groups intercompany balances financial statements respectively have been identied as part of the Groups net investment in foreign Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, operations.
Foreign exchange eects on these balances that remain unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will on consolidation are also reected in the translation reserve.
The continue in business Groups other currency exposures comprise those currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement, reecting other monetary The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the that are sucient to show and explain the Companys transactions and functional currency of the entity involved.
At 30 September 2015 and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 30 September 2014, these exposures were immaterial to the Group.
the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply Disclaimer with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial The purpose of this Annual Report & Accounts is to provide information statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards to the members of the Company.
The Annual Report & Accounts has Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps body, and no other persons.
The Company, its directors and employees, for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may Directors statement come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors on pages60 to 61, confirm that to The Annual Report & Accounts contains certain forward-looking the best of their knowledge, the Groups financial statements, which statements with respect to the operations, performance and have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause profit of the Group.
results and developments to dier materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reect knowledge and information To the best of their knowledge, the Directors report and the Strategic available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report & Accounts report include a fair review of the development and performance and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardof the business and the position of the Group, together with a looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report & Accounts should description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces be construed as a profit forecast.
Each director as at the date of this report further confirms that, so far as Statement of directors responsibilities the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts, including the Directors remuneration report and the The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken Group and parent Company financial statements, in accordance as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant with applicable law and regulations.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with In addition, the directors as at the date of this report consider that the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups position law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of and performance, business model and strategy.
aairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of By Order of the Board the Group and the Company for that period.
M J Robinson Company Secretary 2December 2015 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 97 Contents Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the to the members of The Sage Group plc 99 Group financial statements Consolidated income statement 104 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 105 Consolidated balance sheet 106 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 107 Consolidated statement of cash flows 109 Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements 110 Supplementary notes to the Group financial statements.
Earnings per share 124 Operating assets and liabilities 6.
Deferred income tax 137 Net debt and capital structure 12.
Group subsidiaries 154 98 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
