Our market Understanding our market Small & Medium Businesses are the lifeblood of the global economy and make up an estimated 99% of all businesses.
They have led the way in terms of job creation in recent times and are a key element of the global economic recovery.
Population of Small & Medium Businesses CURRENT ADDRESSED MARKET Oneinten of the 72 million Small & Medium Businesses in our markets uses a purchased business management application for either Accounting, Payroll & HR, Payments, or a full suite of business management solutions.
Most software packages are eitherinstalled and hosted locally on customer hardware on-premise deployed or hosted on a public server and consumed via a web-browser cloud deployed.
Cloud adoption in x 1m the current addressed market is not uniform between countries, with the US showing the highest prevalence of cloudadoption whilst other country marketsare less mature.
WHITE SPACE OPPORTUNITY Most Small& Medium Businessesuse alternative means of managing their records, such as pen and paper, or spreadsheets: these businesses represent the white space opportunity.
Onein 10 adopting packaged solutions Cloud applications are key to reaching this white space, allowing the consumer to purchase instantly via the internet, without installation, via a standard browser and with easy conguration.
Nine in 10 the white space opportunity GROWING THE ADDRESSED MARKET IDC forecaststhat cloud spending willgrow at a rate of c. 17% per annum to 2017, however this growth is largely attributable to expansion in the market rather than displacement of traditional software spending, which is expected to stay broadly at.
Analysis indicates that both forms of deployment will remain material components of the overall market for the foreseeable future.
We are commied to ourthree million customers and will continue to 17% support them, however they choose to deploy their software, by investing in smart technology for both cloud and on-premise deployment.
Growth in public cloud spend year on year Market analysis performed by IDC for our top ten geographies and for the end user market ofbusinesses in the 0 to 1,999 employee range.
14 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 MARKET FRAGMENTATION & LOCAL KNOWLEDGE Top 3 providers Sage operates in a relatively fragmented market, with the top account for only three providers accounting for only one quarter of market spend.
Whilst individual competitors are strong in a small number of geographies, there is no provider yet dominating on a truly global scale.
Relative market fragmentation combined with our globalreach and 1D deep-set local knowledge position us well to capture the white of market spend space opportunity.
A STRATEGY REACTIVE TO THE MARKET OPPORTUNITY Our privileged and trusted position with Small & Medium Businesses is enhanced by the 30,000 conversations we have with our customers each day.
Access to a knowledgeable person for support This has led to a deep understanding of their demand drivers, which were integral to developing our strategy.
Peace of mind around legislative compliance Thevemost consistentthemes we hear from our customers are shown opposite.
Appealing and intuitive software Our strategy responds to market opportunity whilst at the same Control to achieve time addressing the customer demand drivers via a combination success and grow of intuitive technology solutions and exceptional levels of More ecient working customer support and advice.
Turn to pages 16to 27for more on our strategy The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15
