Board of Directors Andrew Goodsell Executive Chairman Andrew has spent the last 23 years with Saga which he joined in 1992 as Business Development Manager, Saga Services.
He became Saga Group Business Development Director in 1995, Chief Executive of Saga Services andSaga Investment Direct in 1999, Deputy Group Chief Executive in 2001 andChief Executive and Chairman in 2004.
He has led two management buyoutsat Saga.
The second, in 2007, brought together Saga and the AA underthe holding company Acromas Holdings.
Andrew was Executive Chairmanofboth Saga and the AA from 2007 until Acromas Holdings sold theAAin 2014, he remains Chairman of Acromas Holdings.
Andrew brings great experience of the Group to his Board role.
Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer Lance joined Saga as Group Chief Executive Officer in March 2014.
Prior to that he wasCEO of Dominos Pizza Group plc from 2011-2014 and CEO of Tesco Mobilefrom 2008-2011.
His earlier experience includes senior marketing rolesatProcter & Gamble, Amazon.
Lances first career wasasa Royal Navy submarine officer.
He holds an MBA from Harvard BusinessSchool, and is a Trustee of the National Gallery.
Lance brings a wealth of senior operational experience in listed companies to his role at Saga.
Stuart Howard Group Chief Financial Officer Stuart has spent the last 15 years with Saga, which he joined in 2000 as Group Chief Financial Officer.
In2007, Stuart became Chief Financial Officer of Acromas.
Prior to joining Acromas, he worked for twoyears at the advertising group Cordiant Communications plc as Deputy Chief Financial Officer and for ten years prior to that at the advertising group WPP Group plc in various positions.
Stuart qualified asa Chartered Accountant at KPMG in London.
He brings his financial acumen to the Board table, but isalso able to advise the Board on numerous other matters outside of the purely financial sphere.
Jonathan Hill Group Chief Financial Officer Designate Jonathan joined Saga in April 2015 as Group Chief Financial Officer Designate from Bovis Homes Group plc where he was Group Finance Director.
Prior to that, he held various senior roles within TUI Travel and Centrica.
Jonathan qualified as a Chartered Accountant at Price Waterhouse in London.
Hebrings a wealth of senior financial operational and corporate listed experience to his role at Saga.
Philip Green Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Philip is currently Chairman of Carillion plc.
He is also Chairman of BakerCorp, a USindustrial services company owned by Permira, and Chairman Designate of Williams & Glyn.
Previously, Philip was Chairman of Clarkson plc, Chief Executive ofUnited Utilities Group plc and Chief Executive of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV.
His earlierbusiness experience includes serving as Chief Operating Officer of Reuters Group plc and Chief Operating Officer of DHL for Europe and Africa.
Philip is alsotheUK Prime Ministers adviser on corporate responsibility and Chairman ofSentebale, a charity set up by HRH Prince Harry.
Philip brings his experience of runningavariety of complex international organisations and acting as an executive and non-executive director of many public companies to the Board.
Ray King Independent Non-Executive Director Ray is currently a Non-Executive Director of Infinis Energy plc and Rothesay Life Limited.
Previously, he was Chief Executive of Bupa from 2008-2012, after serving as Group Finance Director from 2001-2008.
Before Bupa, Ray was a Non-Executive Director of Friends Provident plc, Deputy Chief Executive of Parity Group plc, Director of Group Finance and Control at Diageo plc and Group Finance Director of Southern Water plc.
Ray is also a Reporting Panel Member of the Competition and Markets Authority and a member of the Audit and Assurance Council of the Financial Reporting Council.
His financial experience coupled with his knowledge of running a business similar to Saga, and his recent Non-Executive Director experiences including that of chairing an Audit Committee are all immensely helpful to the Board.
Saga plc 60 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Orna NiChionna Independent Non-Executive Director Orna is currently Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail plc.
Previously, she was Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of HMV plc, Northern Foods plc and Bupa and a NonExecutive Director of the Bank of Ireland UK Holdings plc and Bristol & West plc.
Orna is also currently the Deputy Chairman of the National Trust and a former Partner at McKinsey & Company.
Whilst at McKinsey & Company, she looked after many consumer facing clients and brings these skills to the Board along with her considerable experience in other Non-Executive Director roles.
Gareth Williams Independent Non-Executive Director Gareth is currently a Non-Executive Director of YSC Limited and WNS Holdings Limited.
Previously, he was Human Resources Director of Diageo plc and heldaseries of key positions in human resources at Grand Metropolitan plc.
Gareths contributions to the Board are on all aspects of human resources andhisexperience of working at Director level in a consumer facing organisation also allows him to contribute to all other subjects of debate.
James Arnell Non-Executive Director James has been a Partner at Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP since 1998.
Hewas involved in the acquisition of Saga by the Charterhouse Funds in 2004 andin Charterhouses investment in the Acromas Group in 2007.
He has been a member of the Saga and Acromas Boards throughout the period of Charterhouses investment.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of various other companies and hasbeen involved in Charterhouses investments in the UK, France and Germany.
Jamess role on the Board is to represent the views of Charterhouse, but his professional and business experiences also ensure that he makes a very valuablecontribution.
Peveril Pev Hooper Non-Executive Director Pev is a Partner at CVC Capital Partners.
In addition to Saga, Pev is responsible for CVC funds investments in Merlin Entertainments, the AA, Virgin Active, Domestic & General, and SkyBet and has been a non-executive director on the board of these and other CVC fund portfolio companies.
He joined CVC in 2003 after working in mergers & acquisitions at Schroders and Citigroup.
Pev represents the views of CVC on the Saga board, but also brings broader experience of public and private company boards across numerous consumer facing businesses.
Charles Sherwood Non-Executive Director Charles has been a Partner of Permira Advisers formerly Schroder Ventures since1985.
He has served on the firms holding company board and investment committee.
Charles has been a Non-Executive Director of Acromas and Saga since 2007.
He has also served as a Non-Executive Director on the boards of a number of Permiras investments including Homebase, the AA Group, Provimi and Just Retirement.
Charless role on the Board is to represent the views of Permira: he has served on the boards of many other companies during his career and brings this knowledge and wide experience to his Board role with Saga.
Saga plc 61 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
