Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy report continued Executive director service contracts PSP All current executive directors have service contracts, which may be If the director leaves as a result of his death, ill health, injury or disability, terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or by giving redundancy or retirement, because his employing company or business 12 months notice by the Company or the individual.
is sold out of the Group or in any other circumstances the Remuneration Commiee determines, any unvested awards will vest and be released Service contracts for new directors will generally be limited to 12 months from any holding period at the same time as if the individual had not notice.
However, the Commiee may agree a longer period, of up to left the Group, unless the Commi#ee determines the award should 24 months initially, reducing by one month for every month served vest and be released following his cessation of oce or employment.
The extent to which awards vest in these circumstances will be Terms and conditions for non-executive directors determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the The appointment of the non-executive directors is for a xed term of extent to which it determines the performance conditions have been three years, during which period the appointment may be terminated satisfied at the end of the original performance period or following by the Board on six months notice.
The Chairmans term of appointment the directors cessation of oce or employment as appropriate and, is five years.
There are no provisions on payment for early termination in unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the period leers of appointment.
of time that has elapsed between the grant of the award and the date of the cessation of oce or employment as a proportion of three years The letters of appointment of non-executive directors and service or such other period the Remuneration Committee considers to be contracts of executive directors are available for inspection at the appropriate.
The Commiee may allow awards granted before Companys registered oce during normal business hours and will 3 March 2016 to vest on any other basis if it believes there are be available at the Annual General Meeting.
exceptional circumstances which warrant that.
Payments to departing directors For example, it can be in the interest of the Company for the Board There are no pre-determined special provisions for directors with regard toorganise succession and manage an executives departure.
When to compensation in the event of loss of oce: compensation is based determining the treatment of outstanding awards in those cases, the on what would be earned by way of salary, pension entitlement and Commiee will take into account the executives level of performance other contractual benets over the notice period.
In the event that and contribution to the transition.
a contract is to be terminated, and a payment in lieu of notice made, Unvested PSP awards will lapse in any other circumstances e. g. if payments to the executive director may be staged over the notice the executive director leaves as a result of his termination for cause.
period, at the same interval as salary would have been paid.
During that period the executive director must take all reasonable steps Where an executive director leaves whilst holding PSP awards that are to obtain alternative employment and payments to the executive subject to a holding period, those awards will normally be released director by the Company will be reduced to reect payments received at the end of the relevant holding period, unless the Committee in respect of that alternative employment.
determines the award should be released following his cessation of employment.
If, however, an executive director is summarily There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus.
Executive directors dismissed, any outstanding PSP awards he holds will lapse.
may receive a bonus in respect of the financial year of cessation, based on performance against pre-determined targets.
Where an executive director leaves by reason of death, disability or ill-heath they would receive a pro-rata bonus for the year of cessation.
The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
Deferred bonus plan If an executive director ceases to hold oce or employment within the Group during the vesting period of a deferred share award as a result of his death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy or retirement, because his employing company or business is sold out of the Group or in any other circumstances the Remuneration Committee determines, his award will vest on the normal vesting date unless the Remuneration Commiee determines the award should vest following his cessation of oce or employment.
Awards will normally be accelerated in the event of a participants death.
If the individual ceases to hold oce or employment with a member of the Group in any other circumstances, any unvested deferred share awards he holds will lapse.
82 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
