Regulator External audit Corporate Governance Statement Accountability Risk management and internal control The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control framework and receives regular reports from the Group CEO on the Groups business risk profile and key risks.
All key risk, compliance and control activities are considered at either the Risk or Audit Committees.
This framework is designed to manage and mitigate risk rather thaneliminate it and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material loss or misstatement.
Thisframework is regularly reviewed and complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors formerly The Turnbull Guidance.
Sagas three lines of defence risk governance model Governing body Board Audit and or Risk Committee Senior management 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Financial control Security ManageInternal Internal ment control Risk management audit controls measures Compliance Health and safety The three lines of defence work as follows: 1st line of defence Risk taking by management, in line with agreed risk appetite, risk policies and procedures.
Various governance forums in each business review all risk exposures and risk mitigation activities on a regular basis, supported bythe2nd line of defence oversight functions.
Consideration of business risks are a standing agenda item at each executive meeting within the Group.
2nd line of defence Independent oversight provided by the various control functions, including risk, compliance and health and safety.
Specific duties include advice on Group and business risk appetites, independent review of both the rating ofkey risks, and approach and adequacy of business risk management strategies.
The 2nd line of defence is also responsible for reporting on the management of principal risks and uncertainties to the Risk Committee and Board.
3rd line of defence Independent assurance on the operation and effectiveness of internal control throughout the Group, including consideration of the effectiveness of the risk management process.
The 3rd line of defence reports to the Board by way of the Audit Committee.
The Committee structure and flow of risk, compliance and internal control information is shown on page 24.
Sagas spread and variety of business operations require risk and internal control issues to be considered at both specialist business level and aggregated Group level.
Risk and internal control oversight is provided at all Committees and key concerns are raised to the Audit and Risk Committees and ultimately to the Board if required.
Two further Group Committees are in force to consider specialist risks and issues in the following key areas: Financial crime, data and information security Business continuity Saga plc 64 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Risk management process Group strategy Business-specic Group risk appetite risk appetites Group risk policy Business-specic policies Independent Risk assessment policies assurance Ongoing monitoring Risk review Risk oversight Risk management cycle Risk assessments are reviewed at business risk committees The Group risk management cycle is an iterative cycle of and the principal risks are subject to independent review by activities, comprising the following: the RiskCommittee.
Identification of risk appetite Risk registers have been created for each business to Saga defines risk appetite as the amount and sources of risk capturetheir key risks, associated controls and incidents.
which we are seeking, willing to accept or looking to avoid in These registers are typically sub-divided by function or pursuit of our business objectives over a set period of time.
The highest rated residual risks in terms of Group risk appetite is derived from our strategic objectives impact andprobability for each business are aggregated at and is used as a measure against which all of our current and Group level to produce a list of principal risks and uncertainties, proposed activities are tested.
Group risk appetites are further assessed at residual level againstGroup risk appetite.
defined within the Principal risks and uncertainties section Risk review pages 24-29.
Reports on key risks and controls, and incidents, are Business risk appetites are separately crafted, complementary presented to each governance forum meeting specified in to Group appetites but customised to reflect the specific theCommittee structure, flow of risk, compliance and internal needs and characteristics of each business.
Business risk control information chart on page 24.
In addition, checks appetites may be different to Group appetites but cannot against control effectiveness, and any exceptions or overdue exceed them.
Each of these governance meetings is attended by key 1st and 2nd line of defence Group and business risk appetites are reviewed at least managers and the actions are minuted and followed up at annually to ensure that they are aligned with any changes thenext meeting.
Significant control weaknesses or failures in strategy or specific strategic initiatives.
are escalated to the individual business board in question or, ifof sufficient scale and seriousness, to the Risk Committee.
Risk policies Each risk committee also considers cross-Group risks and Saga has a Group risk policy, defining our risk management incidents to ensure the risk of contagion is minimised.
strategy, framework, governance structures, and detailed assessment and mitigation processes.
Beneath this Group Risk oversight document, individual business policies are created, Independent oversight of the risk management process, customised to reflect specific business characteristics but including key risks and their associated management, stillconsistent with the overall risk management framework.
incidents and compliance, is provided by the Chief Risk All risk policies are reviewed at least annually and approved Officer and the risk team, the compliance team, the Risk atbusiness or Group boards as appropriate.
Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
Risk assessment and risk registers Risk monitoring All Saga businesses assess each risk for likelihood and All risk registers are independently reviewed by the risk impact.
Most use a common risk assessment matrix, although team at least quarterly to test for completeness of risk and several have a customised impact scale to reflect their size or control capture, effective testing of key control measures, the highly specialist nature of their risks.
Each business then and recording and reporting of any exceptions and creates appropriate controls to manage such risks.
rated on both an inherent and residual basis and are rated on a red, amber, yellow and green scale.
Saga plc 65 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Corporate Governance Statement Accountability continued Risk information The Group undertakes an annual strategy process which All risk data, including risks, controls, control tests and updates the plan for the next five years, and produces incidents, is captured in an internet-enabled risk portal.
This adetailed budget for the next financial year.
Throughout portal produces risk reports for all governance meetings.
each year, detailed reforecasts are performed by each area of the Group each month and are consolidated to provide an Independent process assurance updated view of expected performance for the current year.
Sagas internal audit function Internal Audit provides Each reforecast covers the income statement, cash flow and independent assurance of the completeness and balance sheet positions phased on a monthly basis through effectiveness of the risk management procedures atboth to the end of the year.
Regular weekly and monthly reporting cycles allow Process feedback management to assess performance, and identify risks and Outputs from the risk management cycle are fed back to the opportunities at the earliest opportunity.
Trading performance Risk Committee to assist with necessary revision of the Group is formally reviewed on a weekly basis by the management risk management policy and framework.
They may also be of the trading subsidiaries, and monthly by the management used to inform future iterations of the Groups strategy.
Performance is reported to the Board at each Board meeting.
Performance is assessed against budget Internal control and against the latest forecast expectations.
rd Internal Audit acts as the 3 line of defence within Sagas three line of defence risk management framework.
The The Group has an established and well-understood objective of Internal Audit is to help protect the assets, management structure with documented levels for the reputation and sustainability of the organisation by providing authorisation of business transactions and clear bank independent, reliable, valued and timely assurance to the mandates to control the approval of payments.
Control of Board and executive management.
To preserve the the Groups cash resources is operated by a centralised independence of Internal Audit, the Head of Audits primary treasury function.
reporting line is to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Internal management reporting and external statutory andthe staff of the function are prohibited from performing reporting timetables and delivery requirements are well operational duties for the business.
Control of these is maintained All activities of the Group fall within the scope of Internal centrally and communicated regularly.
Audits remit andthere are no restrictions on the scope of Internal Audits work.
Internal Audit fulfils its role and The Group maintains computer systems to record and responsibilities by delivering the annual, risk-based audit plan.
consolidate all of its financial transactions.
These ledger Each audit within the plan provides an opinion on the control systems are used to produce the information for the monthly environment and details ofissues found.
Internal Audit works management accounts, and for the annual statutory financial with the businesses to agree remedial actions necessary statements.
The trading subsidiaries within the Group prepare to improve the control environment, and these are tracked their accounts under UK GAAP and the central consolidation to completion.
processes capture the additional information required to convert subsidiary performance to IFRS, to consolidate it, The Head of Audit submits reports to, and attends, board and andto prepare the relevant disclosure notes.
audit committee meetings for the subsidiary Saga businesses, The accounts production process ensures that there is a clear as well as the Audit Committee.
audit trail from the output of the Groups financial reporting Financial reporting systems, through the conversion and consolidation The Group maintains a control environment that is regularly processes, to the Groups financial statements.
The principal elements of the control environment include comprehensive management and Statement of review financial reporting systems and processes, defined operating The risk management process detailed above was in place controls and authorisation limits, regular Board meetings, for the year under review and up to the date of approval clear subsidiary board and operating structures, and an of this report.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness ofSagas risk management and internal control systems, Internal control and risk management systems relating to the including all material financial, operational and compliance financial reporting process and the process for preparing controls, and concluded that these are acceptable.
consolidated accounts ensure the accuracy and timeliness of internal and external financial reporting.
Saga plc 66 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015
