Our strategy To operate where our model works best, providing Our focus and strategy products and services directly to our target market.
We aim to deliver balanced and profitable growth, measured by EBITDA and Operating EPS, on a capital efficient and cash generative basis thereby supporting a progressive dividend policy and ensuring long-term value for shareholders.
To capitalise on the high-quality growth opportunity in our 1.
Expanding our insurance footprint: insurance is the core businesses.
We believe we can achieve growth most significant part of the Saga Group and an through doing more of what we do best: excellent operation.
However, we still have a relatively small share of the over 50s market in the UK and we can expand our footprint by providing insurance products, sourced through a panel of suppliers.
Doing more to grow our Travel business: Travel is a core part of Saga and central to the spirit of the brand.
However, it is currently relatively small in profit terms and there is significant potential to grow this business.
C ontinuing to expand our high-quality but small Personal Finance offering, for example through our new wealth management joint venture, Saga Investment Services.
Continuing to optimise the use of our database: it is anexceptionally valuable tool and has been used very effectively to help build the business we have today.
However, we can do more with it.
Increased segmentation, digital marketing and distribution will be an ever more important part of our activities to ensure we are providing our customers with the right products at the right time.
Putting innovation at the centre of the business: allowing us to develop products and services based on customer insight in areas where our model can operate effectively, such as Legal Services and private home healthcare.
Our strategic priorities 1 2 3 4 5 Expanding our Grow Travel Expand Personal Make more of Grow Insurance footprint Finance our database and innovation digital marketing For more information on principal risks and For more information on KPIs go to pages 18-19 uncertainties go to pages 24-29 Saga plc 14 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015
