Company fundamentals Our investment case We believe in delivering superior shareholder returnsthrough acommitment to doing business the right way.
A GLOBALLY RECOGNISED BRAND 23 countries We have established a strong and trusted local brand in each of our markets as the champion of Small & Medium Businesses, the lifeblood of our economies.
Millions Supporting millions of  our presence in 23 countries andgenerating revenues of customers trust Sage to support them based on our of 1.4 billion understanding of the Small & Medium Business space and local regulatory landscapes, gained through over 30 years of operational experience.
IN A MARKET WITH ENORMOUS POTENTIAL 72 million potential customers There are 72 million Small & Medium Businesses in our currentgeographies and an estimated 10% of them use packaged software solutions to manage their business.
The opportunity to expand the addressed market through 200 0 9 10 199 intuitive, smart technology solutions is vast.
employees employees employees 68m 4m 150k FOCUSING INVESTMENT IN OUR CUSTOMER R&D and S&M spend in FY15 Growth products 90% VALUE PROPOSITION Heritage products 10% Our product focus is on Accounting, Payroll& HRand Payments solutions and we seek to maximise our customer value proposition through our portfolio investment strategy.
Byconcentrating our resources on growth products, including global products and local growth products, we seek to ensure that functionally rich solutions exist for all customers, regardless of how they choose to deploy their software.
Analysis covering Sage current top ten geographies measured by physical presence 6 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 GENERATING SUSTAINABLE REVENUE GROWTH 2% 6% We have increased our organic revenue growth rate since FY12 from 2% to 6% in FY15.
As we continue to transition towards a higher qualityrevenue model, FY12 FY15 we have confidence in maintaining our revenue growth by attracting new customers and deliveringgreater value, functionality and features to our existing customers.
STRONG FREE CASH FLOW FCF to revenue Our attention to underlying cash conversion and a 20.6% disciplined approach to capital expenditure yields strong levels of free cash ow FCF.
Generating strong FCF is important in order to fund shareholder returns and 14 16.9% we aim to generate FCF as a proportion of revenue in the 15% to 20% range.
15 20.6% AND A PROGRESSIVE DIVIDEND 15 year dividend history We remain focused on shareholder returns and believe 13.10p that sustainable earnings growth, a disciplined approach Growing the annual dividend to capital allocation and progressive dividend policy, per share will drive superior returns for shareholders.
Central to our shareholder returns is the annual dividend which has increased every yearsincewe joined the FTSE 100.
