Principal risks and uncertainties Bal ancing risks and rewards We are transitioning the business to bring together all parts of the organisation as a connected whole One Sage, while at the same time the external risk environment in which we operate continues to evolve.
In light of this transition and these changes, we seek to ensure that the risk management framework continues to develop to meet our global needs.
We have continued to implement a number of enhancements during the year to drive greater consistency in activity, and improve governance surrounding these activities.
This ensures that risks continue to be managed appropriately and within agreed appetites.
As part of this process, the directors have carried out anassessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Risk environment Risk is inherent within our business activities, and we continue to prioritise and develop our risk management capability in recognition of this.
Timely identication of risks, combined with their appropriate management and escalation, enables us to successfully run our business and deliver strategic change, whilst ensuring that the likelihood and or impact associated with such risks is understood and managed within our dened risk appetite.
Risk governance We operate a formal governance structure to manage risk, which has been supplemented during 2015 with the introduction of two tiers of Risk Commiee.
Board Audit and Risk Commi'ee Executive Committee Read pages 69-72 for Audit and Risk Commiee Report Global Risk Committee Group Risk and Assurance Director Global Risk Team Regional Risk Commi'ees 36 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Its membership includes representatives from the key Board support functions, and primary external facing business The Board has overall responsibility for risk management, stakeholders, including marketing and the three regional the setting of the overarching risk appetite and the presidents.
Further to the dened membership, both the implementation of the risk management policy.
The Chief Executive Ocer and Chairman of the Audit and Board reviews the output from Global Risk with focus Risk Commiee may attend as they desire.
on the identied principal risks.
Regional Risk Commiees Audit and Risk Committee Three Regional Risk Committees have been identied, one The remit of the Audit Committee was formally expanded in each of the three business regions, Europe, International during 2015 to become the Audit and Risk Committee.
One committee was established in The Commiee reviews and challenges output from Global Europe during 2015, and the remaining two will be Risk, which is submitted to the Board.
It reviews all principal established in 2016.
They will meet quarterly in advance risks and associated appetite statements and metrics of the Global Risk Commi&ee and have responsibility for at each meeting, ensuring these remain aligned to the supporting the operation of the Global Risk Committee achievement of Sages strategic objectives, and assesses and the management of principal and local risks within the adequacy of assurance delivered.
The Audit and Risk their regions.
In addition to managing regional risk, they Commiee is responsible for the independent review of also monitor the deployment of risk management activities the eectiveness of risk management systems and related throughout the countries within their regions, and provide internal controls, and to ensure that issues that have arisen associated escalation and reporting.
are properly dealt with, and that going forward systems are t for purpose.
Group Risk and Assurance Director The Group Risk and Assurance Director is responsible for Its membership includes five non-executive directors and it is also attended by the Chair of the Board, the the facilitation and implementation of the risk management approach across Sage.
The Group Risk and Assurance Chief Executive Ocer and the Chief Financial Ocer.
Director chairs the Global Risk Commiee, and is Executive Committee responsible for consolidating the risk reports from the The Executive Committee is responsible for establishing the Regional Risk Commi$ees, and the creation of the output risk agenda, for the reporting and on-going management from Global Risk for the Global Risk Commiee, the Audit of risks and for the stewardship of the risk management and Risk Commi!ee, and the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee identies and assesses Group Risk and Assurance Director attends the quarterly Sages principal risks on an on-going basis, and for each Audit and Risk Commi$ee meetings, and also meets with principal risk, ownership is assigned to a member of the the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Commi$ee outside the Executive Commiee.
The outputs of these assessments formal confines of the Audit and Risk Committee during are communicated with each country for inclusion in their the year.
Global Risk Global Risk Committee Global Risk consists of a network of risk colleagues, The Global Risk Committee was introduced during 2015, throughout the organisation, who work together and with responsibility for the risk agenda, providing direction are co-ordinated from a single point.
It works to support and support to Global Risk in transforming and embedding the operation of the commi$ees at both a regional and risk across One Sage.
It meets on a quarterly basis and global level, and further to guide, support and challenge works to: the business, and embed risk management within business activities.
Oversee cultural change Establish clear governance and accountability for risk, and any associated remediation activities Provide global direction to regions and countries, including creation and deployment of common methodologies and practices Provide a point of escalation Ensure inclusion of the wider business in risk management decision making Drive the inclusion of risk management into performance management Enable the Company to eectively operate as One Sage Provide the Board and Audit and Risk Commi'ee with sucient eective information to enable them to discharge their risk reporting requirements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37 Y A F N I T A N L Y E S D I E Principal risks and uncertainties continued How we manage risk Culture Our risk management framework has been built to identify, The Board is aware that the eectiveness of risk evaluate, analyse, manage and mitigate those risks which management is dependent on behaviours.
During 2015 threaten the successful achievement of our business we launched a revised Code of Ethics, re-enforcing our strategy and objectives, within tolerable appetites.
Risks are required values and behaviours, and in turn strengthening owned and managed within the business, and formally our risk culture.
This is now supported by our ethics and reviewed on a quarterly basis.
compliance programme, which aims to ensure compliance with our ethical standards.
To supplement business as usual risk management activities, Global Risk undertakes a number of targeted In parallel, Sage recognises the behavioural benets that in-depth reviews against identied risks each year.
In 2015 clear expectations bring to the business, and as such is these were conducted against three of the principal risks, re-enforcing a 100% compliance culture with policies and namely Third Party Reliance, Information Management and procedures across the business, and wrapping this within Protection including cyber, and Legal and Regulatory a broader Sage Way of working.
The results of these reviews feed into the is reported through Global Risk and Assurance, and during quarterly reporting cycle.
2016 plans are in place to enhance existing capabilities through the formation of a dedicated Compliance function.
Risks continue to be owned and managed within the business, and are overseen and supervised through the How we identify risk Global and Regional Risk Committees.
During 2015 risk Our risk identication processes follow a dual resources around the business were brought together to approach, seeking: operate as a global function.
This move seeks to drive To identify risks using a top down approach at the greater consistency, and toavoid any conicts of interest global level.
These principal risks are those which between local reporting lines and global requirements.
threaten delivery of our Strategy.
To identify risks using a bottom up approach at the country level.
Such risks are those which threaten local business activity, and they are managed at the local level.
To provide visibility of wider issues within the business, these are consolidated at the global level.
To further improve the visibility of local risks at a regional and global level, the Risk Management Policy was revised during 2015, and formal requirement for escalation of higher rated risks to the Regional and Global Risk Commiees was introduced.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Our risk appetite We use an assessment of the level of risk and our associated risk appetite to ensure that appropriate focus is placed on the risks we face.
Identied risks are measured on a gross and net risk basis using our pre-dened scoring matrix.
Risks are then prioritised for mitigation by considering these scores against our risk appetite.
The principal risks, of which there are currently ten, are reviewed by the Board on an on-going basis, and monitored and managed through the Audit and Risk Commi#ee and Global Risk Commiee.
Our risk management activities The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the To assist with the monitoring and management of these eectiveness of our risk management activities from a identied principal risks, work was undertaken with risk financial, operational and compliance perspective.
These sponsors and owners to establish a set of Risk Appetite activities are designed to identify and manage, rather than Statements for each identied principal risk.
Behind each eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives statement a series of Risk Metrics and their measurement or to successfully deliver the business strategy.
Our risk were identied and agreed, in order to provide oversight of management strategy supports the successful running whether we are working within identied tolerance, and of the business by identifying and managing risks to an whether additional executive attention may be required.
acceptable level and delivering assurance on these.
These metrics have been incorporated within our quarterly reporting activities.
38 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 E E V T A A L G U I A T I T M E
