Key performance indicators M easuring our progress The measurement of progress in delivering our strategy is important.
We track a range of KPIs to measure performance.
Our top level KPIs have been rened in line with our refreshed strategy.
ONE SAGE We use numerous qualitative methods internally to monitor our people engagement and understanding of the strategy, such as the global people survey read more at page 53.
The One Sage strategic pillar enables the entire strategy and as such is associated with all KPIs rather than a single measure.
WINNING IN THE MARKET Adoption Description: 173,000 of Sage One We are using global products to attract new customers.
Our KPI considers the revenue FY14: 86,000 generating global products and includes the number of paying subscriptions at the end of Paying subscriptions the year for Sage One all editions and revenue growth for Sage X3.
Adoption of Sage Live will be included during FY16 once the product has been available for a full financial period.
Adoption 11% of Sage X3 Performance: FY14: 7% Revenue growth The Sage One global roll-out has continued throughout the year, driving the number of paying subscriptions up by 100% to 173,000.
X3 adoption has continued to progress with 11% revenue growth for the year.
Growth was particularly strong in the International and North America regions.
Sage Live was fully launched during Q4 leading to a small number of paying customers as at year-end.
REVOLUTIONISE BUSINESSES Description: Annualised Software 344m Subscription ASB is the leading indicator for how our move to subscription is progressing.
Growth is Base ASB FY14: 268m supported by our latest technology features, which are delivered on subscription.
ASB is the amount of organic software subscription revenue in the last month of the period multiplied by twelve.
Performance: Our progressive move to subscription continues as evidenced by growth in ASB of 28% for the year to 344m.
Multiple initiatives are driving the growth in software subscription, however we have had particular success with core product modernisation during the year.
Introducing mobile data sharing features, on subscription, to products such as Sage 50 enabling customers to work more eectively.
CUSTOMERS FOR LIFE Renewal Description: 84% rate If we are successful in delighting customers with technology and service levels, they will FY14: 83% respond when it is time to renew their contracts.
Calculated as the number of contracts successfully renewed in the year as a percentage of those that were due for renewal.
Performance: Our renewal rate has been consistently high at over 80% for a number of years, which is testament to the value customers place on our service.
Software subscription drives even closer relationships and the continuation of our transition to subscription has helped to drive our renewal rate up to 84%.
As with all financial measures throughout this report, KPIs both current and prior year are stated after accounting changes described on page 44.
28 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CAPACITY FOR GROWTH Description: General and Administrative 19% Expense Ratio G&A% Our general and administrative expense for the period expressed as a percentage FY14: 19% of our total revenue for the period.
We have begun the transition towards our target global operating model, havingestablished leaders for each global function during the year.
We have established a baseline from which to drive savings from.
As these structures develop through FY16, savings achieved in our G&A expense will be reinvested in areas which have the best potential to drive growth and enhance the customer experience.
FINANCIAL MEASURES Description: Underlying 12.6% EPS growth Underlying basic EPS is dened as underlying profit after tax divided by the weighted FY14: 8.2% average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares.
Underlying profit after tax is dened as profit attributable to owners of the parent excluding: Recurring items including amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition related items, fair value adjustments and imputed interest Non-recurring items that management judge to be one-o or non-operational All of these adjustments are net of tax.
The impact of foreign exchange is neutralised in prior year gures.
For a reconciliation of underlying basic EPS to statutory basic EPS, turn to page 45.
Performance: Underlying EPS growth primarily reects growth in underlying operating profit, a decrease in the weighted average share base due to the repurchase of shares during the year, and a reduction in the eective rate of tax.
Description: Underlying 106% Cash Conversion Underlying cash conversion is underlying cash ow from operating activities divided by FY14: 101% underlying operating profit.
Underlying cash ow from operating activities is statutory cash ow from operating activities less net capital expenditure and adjusted for movements on foreign exchange rates and non-recurring cash items.
In the prior year, underlying cash ow from operating activities was calculated before net capital expenditure and included movements on foreign exchange, which would have shown underlying cash conversion of 110% in FY15 FY14: 106%.
Performance: Underlying cash conversion has increased by 5% in FY15.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29
