The Saga difference... We understand our customers because we listen to them.
This allows us to develop the products and services they want.
We either produce these products and services ourselves or find the best partners to produce them onour behalf.
Wemaintain responsibility for ensuring they aredelivered with the very highstandards ofcustomer service our customers expect.
02 02 Saga plc 02 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Our key strengths Tailored products Customer service and services and satisfaction developed through at the heart of the customer insight business and delivered by Our customers expect the atrusted brand best.
We know what they consider is excellent service By gaining insight into our and we aim to deliver it in customers, we are better every case whether thats an able tounderstand them and insurance claim, a holiday or so identify products to meet care in their home.
their needs from a new home insurance product to a South American cruise.
We then design and develop tailored products and services, either delivering them ourselves or through third partysuppliers.
Case studies Call centres Legal services For the staff in Sagas UK call This is a great example of centres, nothing is too much innovation at work within Saga.
We identified that the market for legal services was both The customer is at the heart fragmented and fitted well of Sagas approach.
There is with our business model.
We no automated call answering developed a bespoke service, system so calls are answered tailored to the over 50s needs.
Callcentre We have identified the best staff are judged on the quality providers in the market and ofoutcomes for customers rather we have received over 10,700 than the speed of call handling.
Sagas insurance call centres handled over 4.6 million calls in the past year, achieving customer satisfaction ratings of over 90% and reducing complaints by For more information go to page 33 afifth on the prior year.
Saga plc 03 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
