Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued The actual target ranges for 2015 for the financial performance measures have not been disclosed as this is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information, bearing in mind that many of our competitors are unlisted companies who do not provide this level of disclosure.
An indication of where actual performance fell within each range is given in the table below.
Retrospective disclosure of the target ranges will be made in next years Remuneration Report once the information is no longer considered commercially sensitive by the Board.
Bonus measure % Weighting Threshold Target Stretch Performance outcome as a % of maximum bonus 1 Underlying PBT 50 Achievement of 361.7m for FY15 was ahead of the target range, resulting in 61% of the maximum bonus in relation to underlying PBT becoming payable.
Organic revenue 30 Organic revenue growth was 6.7%, exceeding the commitment to deliver 6% in 2015, 2 growth and the underlying PBT underpin wasalsoexceeded, leading to 74% of the bonus relating to the organic revenue growth measure becoming payable.
Strategic measures 20 Stephen Kellys achievement of strategic objectives for FY15 led to 72% of the bonus relating to strategic measures becoming payable.
see table below Steve Hares achievement of strategic objectives for FY15 led to 72% of the bonus relating to strategic measures becoming payable.
Overall assessment Stephen Kelly received a bonus equal to 84% of salary 67% of the maximum.
No bonus was deferred into shares as the CEO has met the Companys shareholding requirement under the 2015 remuneration policy of 150% of annual salary.
Steve Hare received a bonus equal to 84% of salary 67% of the maximum.
20% was deferred into Sage shares under the Companys shareholding requirement of 150% of annual salary.
1 Underlying PBT is dened on page 163 It has been calculated with revenue accounted for on the previous accounting basis, which is consistent with the basis that was used for setting targets at the start of the year.
2 Organic revenue is dened on page 163.
It has been calculated with revenue accounted for on the previous accounting basis, which is consistent with the basis that was used for setting targets at the start of the year.
Executive directors personal strategic objectives CEO measures CFO measures Organisational capability  Increase organisational capability andsuccession planning, and execute Achieveorganic revenue growth and operating margin whilst driving improvement planswhilst completing material elements of the 2012 strategy operational eciencies Global product leadership Risk management framework Increase Sage One paying subscribers worldwide andgrow the Implementation of arisk management framework plan to theAudit and enterprise business Risk  Improve customer satisfaction Sage One Improvement demonstrated incustomer retention andsubscription rates, Increasepaying subscribersworldwide and colleague engagement during transition year Bonus for Guy Berruyer As noted in the 2014 annual remunerationreport, Guy Berruyer is entitled to a bonus for the period 1 October to 5 November 2014.
Given the short period of time between the beginning of the financial year and Guy Berruyers stepping downas CEO, the Commiee determined that no bonus will be paid to him in respect of the financial year ending 30 September 2015.
Disclosure of 2014 bonus targets The target ranges for financial measures used to determine the 2014 bonus were not disclosed in last years Annual Report & Accounts as this was considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information.
Last years Report also stated that it was intended for retrospective disclosure to be made after a period of three years i. e. in the 2017 Annual Report & Accounts.
The Board has since reviewed this issue and agreed that this information is commercially sensitive for a shorter period than previously determined.
Accordingly, the policy for retrospective disclosure of bonus financial targets has been accelerated so that disclosure will be after a period of one year.
The table below therefore sets out the target ranges for the financial measures that were used to determine the 2014 bonus.
84 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
