Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Segmental reviews The Savills Group advises on commercial, rural, residential and During the year we opened new residential offices in Earls Court, leisure property.
We also provide corporate finance advice, Shoreditch and Ealing, all of which are focused on the Core London investment management and a range of property-related financial market.
In addition, outside London we took on a number of mixed services.
Operations are conducted internationally through four service offices, such as Petworth, Taunton and Lichfield with the business streams: acquisition of Smiths Gore.
Transaction Advisory The 2015 Autumn Statement heralded some significant further changes to the taxation of Residential Property in the UK, which take Revenue Underlying pro t effect from April 2016.
In the intervening period we have experienced 618.0m 25% 76.9m 13% a noticeable increase in transaction volumes.
Contribution to Group revenue Services Asia Pacific Residential a.
Transaction Advisory 48% Acquisitions The Residential Transaction Advisory business in Asia is focused b.
Rest of Group 52% Divestments primarily on new developments and secondary sales and leasing Leasing and rentals ofprime properties in selected markets.
Sales and leaseback developments, which represent a significant proportion of the Capital raising regions activity and are accounted for within the Commercial Transaction Advisory business.
Overall, the Asia Pacific Residential 2015 clearly demonstrated the strength of our geographic spread business recorded a 41% increase in revenue to 30.5m ofbusinesses as improved performances in a number of countries 2014:21.6m.
Growth in our existing Australian business, together outweighed the anticipated reduction in activity in mainland China, with the acquisition of the business of Cordeau Marshall in Sydney, and Singapore.
This, in conjunction with the performance of our were the principal drivers of growth in addition to strong USbusiness and further recovery in certain Continental European performances from the Prime markets of Shanghai and Hong Kong.
markets together with a strong performance in the UK commercial Singapore markets experienced continuing decline in volumes as market, successfully offset the reduction in activity in the UK theimpact of controls, particularly on overseas buyers, and excess residential market and resulted in the increase in revenue, profit and supply negatively affected demand.
This not only affected our margin delivered by our Transactional Advisory business as a whole.
principal Singapore business but also materially reduced the Revenue grew by 25% to 618.0m 2014:494.6m and underlying contribution from our minority stake in Huttons, our mid-market profit increased by 13% to 76.9m 2014: 67.8m.
associate company in that market, and led directly to the region reporting a 16% decrease inunderlying profit to 3.1m 2014: 3.7m.
The effect of a weak Singapore Market and expansion costs in Asia Pacific Residential, together with the reduction in volumes in the UK Asia Pacific Commercial Residential business reduced the underlying profitmargin of the The Asia Pacific Commercial business enjoyed a somewhat stronger Transaction Advisory business as a whole to 12.4% 2014: 13.7%.
year than we originally expected, driven by substantially improved earnings in Hong Kong, Mainland China, Singapore and Korea, UK Residential which largely offset the impact of revenue shortfalls in Japan, Taiwan Our UK Residential business revenue declined by 1% to 127.9m and Australia.
Our market share in a relatively quiet Hong Kong 2014: 129.2m.
This performance was driven by slightly weaker resale investment market grew significantly to circa 50%.
The policy of volumes, as anticipated, largely offset by stronger sales of development strengthening connections between the financial markets of projects and a significant increase in the growing Private Rental Sector Shanghai and Hong Kong led to us advising many Chinese financial PRS and Housing and Residential Healthcare transaction revenues.
services businesses on the lease or acquisition of office space in The prime residential market, where Savills is amarket leader, was Hong Kong.
The underlying markets of Mainland China and Hong adversely affected by the fiscal changes of the 2014 Autumn Statement Kong remained relatively subdued, particularly in the retail sector.
and the impact of the General Election on our overall volume of UK Revenue rose by 16% to 111.9m 2014: 96.3m.
transactions, which decreased by 1% year on year.
In mainland China, where we have 15 offices, the investment In the resales market, the focus on growing our share in the core marketremained weak but greater activity in leasing and tenant London market, with average selling prices in the range representation transactions, including office and mid-tier retail brands, resulted in a 21% increase in Transaction Advisory revenues 0.8m1.5m, largely mitigated the reduction in market volumes in year on year.
It is clear that in recent months activity has focused the Prime and Super Prime end of the market, so that our overall strongly on the Tier 1 Cities of Beijing and Shanghai.
Our Hong Kong volume of resale transactions in London decreased by approximately and Korean Commercial transaction revenues increased by 58% and 4.5% year on year with a 15% reduction in Savills average sales value 19% respectively, helping to offset reductions in revenue inJapan, to 2.8m.
In the Country market both the volume of exchanges and Australia and Taiwan.
The relative difference in profitability between the Savills average value, at 1.1m, were unchanged year on year.
Japan and Hong Kong, together with business development and These trends were reflected in the reduction in the overall value of UK service expansion costs in the region led to the Asia Pacific residential property excluding new developments sold by Savills Commercial Transaction Advisory business recording a2% during the year to 5.9bn 2014: 6.6bn.
In the new development market we saw a significant increase in UK Commercial transactions with the value of property exchanged increasing by Revenue from UK commercial transactions increased 17% to 7%to 3.0bn, buoyed by continued strong interest in high quality 98.8m 2014:84.1m.
This performance reflected another strong developments in both the London and Country markets and good year for the UK investment market as a whole, with high activity levels of stock availability.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 33
