Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Despite turbulence in the global economy, the US has maintained its moderate growth in 2015.
Harman Hiring activity accelerated in the last several 2015 was a great year for the ever expanding months, supporting steady leasing activity relationship between Savills and Harman.
inmany late recovery markets such as Sixseparate transactions were concluded across Atlanta, Chicago and Los Angeles.
Demand theEMEA and APAC regions through the Savills for the highest-quality space has been Studley global relationship manager, Steve strong.
Landlords are breaching rent Walbridge, from Hungary to Singapore and Tel thresholds that were previously considered Avivto the Netherlands.
2016 looks set to continue unthinkable in Atlanta, Denver and Raleigh to build on this fantastic track record with three Durhams highest-calibre properties.
opportunities already secured in France and Mexico with more on the horizon, which further demonstrates that a tenant rep relationship built US office sales volume rose for the sixth ona track record of success and trust leads to Open Table consecutive year, totalling $145.8bn.
Volatility referral business within the wider Savills network.
Following an introduction from Savills Studley, in global equity markets, Chinas hardlanding theLondon tenant rep team pitched and were and improving fundamentals have enhanced successful in securing an instruction to source a the appeal of assets in the US Foreign 15,000 sq ft loft style space with high technical institutional investors continue to focus much infrastructures for Open Table.
The team of their attention on prime properties in subsequently delivered by securing a pre-let Manhattan, Boston and San Francisco, but option in the only building meeting the technical some domestic investors feel that pricing has criteria required with advantageous commercial peaked in these gateway markets.
A few have terms agreed against significant competition for the space.
cashed out in these metros and re-deployed some of their gains inAtlanta, Chicago and Denver.
Investors seeking higher yields will have to take a chance on more peripheral locations, buy andimprove lower-grade assets or undertake lengthy development conversion projects.
United States US Office Sales Volume National Overall Rental Rate Regions $145.8bn $32.37 5 1 7 2 8 4 6 3 Manhattan Office Sales Volume National Overall Availability Rate 1 New York 5 New Jersey 2 Chicago 6 Orange County $26.9bn 17.0% 3 Houston 7 San Francisco 4 Los Angeles 8 Washington SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 17
