Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements KEY RISK 9: NEW ACQUISITION INTEGRATION RISK Strategic objective: Business diversification Geographical diversification Strength in residential and commercial markets Financial strength Description Mitigation The structuring and integration of acquisitions is critical to realising The application of the Group acquisitions policy and procedures the benefits sought.
People, systems and processes are key andthe use of professional advisers in the due diligence process, components together with clear allocation of responsibility and accountability toindividuals for integration.
Post-acquisition reporting keeps the Boardaware of progress against plan.
Viability Statement In accordance with C2.2.
of the 2014 revision of the Corporate The Boards assessment has been made with reference to the Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups strategic plan, Group.
The Directors assessment was over a three-year period, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how taking account of the Groups current position and the potential these are managed, as detailed in the Strategic Report on pages impact of the principal risks documented in the Strategic Report 10 to 32.
The strategy and associated principal risks underpin onpages 27 to 31. theGroups three-year plan, which the Directors review at least annually.
The three-year plan, including financing projections, is The Directors have determined that the three-year period is an subject to sensitivity analysis which involves applying different appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement, assumptions to the underlying forecast both individually and being consistent with the period covered by the Groups strategic inaggregate.
planning process and with the cyclical nature of property markets.
In making this statement the Directors have considered the Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable resilience of the Group, taking account of its current position, the expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation principal risks facing the business, the potential impact on market and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period.
conditions of a severe economic downturn analogous to that experienced during the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 2009, The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial andthe effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
The assessment statements on the going concern basis as explained in Note 2.1 to considered the potential impacts of these risks on the business the accounts.
model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 31
