Market overview continued 2015 was another strong year for the UK commercial property markets, with improving levels of leasing and investment activity across all sectors in the UK.
Central London continued to perform well, Following a prolonged period of strong with leasing volumes in the City and West performance the prime residential markets End ahead of long-term average levels, faced a number of headwinds in 2015.
While though not quite at the record levels seen the threat of a mansion tax was removed, earlier in the recovery period of this cycle.
theuncertainty surrounding it prior to the The volume of investment into central General Election in May suppressed market London offices in 2015 was also well above activity in the first half of the year.
This was average at just under 19bn, though this compounded by the higher rates of stamp wasdown on the record high levels of duty introduced for high value properties in activityseen in 2013 and 2014. the 2014 Autumn Statement, which caused the market to remain price sensitive even in The Leadenhall Building The notable change in the UK commercial the post election period.
This particularly Savills has advised MS Amlin, Fidelis and Brit markets in 2015 was the rise in occupational affected the higher value residential markets onleasing a collective total of 170,000 sq ft at activity and investor demand for markets of prime central London, where values fell by TheLeadenhall Building in the City of London, outside London.
Recovering local economies 3.4% over the course of the year.
By contrast which represents approximately 30% of the drove a 16% increase in office leasing activity prices across the remainder of the prime entirebuilding.
in the key regional office markets.
This, London market rose by 2.3%, supported in combined with falling vacancies and rising particular by growth in the lower tiers of the prime market.
Outside of London values rents, lead to an increase in investor interest alsoincreased by a modest 2.4%, with in markets outside London, and we primeproperty in high value town and estimatethat 45% of the 70bn invested in citylocations performing the most commercial real estate in 2015 was outside strongly, supported by demand coming Greater London.
Of particular note is the outof the capital.
risein non-domestic investor interest in themarkets outside London, which reachedits highest ever level in 2015.
UK Total investment in UK commercial property in 2015 70bn a record total Non-domestic investment in commercial property outside London 15.5bn Cannon Hall, Hampstead This magnificent Grade II listed house is one of of celebrated writer Daphne du Maurier and used the highest ever level the finest homes in Hampstead Village.
Arranged as a key location for the 1965 thriller, Bunny Lake over three floors and dating back to 1730, it enjoys isMissing, starring Laurence Olivier.
Sold in mid a generous garden setting and is of architectural 2015, Cannon Hall was guided at 28 million.
It was the childhood home 16 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
