Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Group overview What we do Savills is a global real estate services provider listed on the London Stock Exchange.
We have an international network of over 700 offices and associates and over 30,000 staff throughout the Americas, the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East, offering a broad range of specialist advisory, management and transactional services to clients all over the world.
Our services Transactional Consultancy Property and Investment Advisory Facilities Management Management The Transaction Advisory Provision of a wide range of Management of commercial, Investment management of business stream comprises professional property services residential, leisure and commercial and residential commercial, residential, including valuation, building agricultural property for property portfolios for leisure and agricultural and housing consultancy, owners.
Provision of a institutional, corporate or leasing, tenant representation environmental consultancy, comprehensive range of private investors, on a pooled and investment advice on landlord and tenant, rating, services to occupiers of or segregated account basis.
development, planning, property, ranging from See page 35 See page 33 strategic projects, corporate strategic advice through services and research.
project management to all See page 34 services relating to a property.
See page 35 Pages 2-9 are examples of the services we provided to our clients in 2015.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 1 2 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements How do you regenerate one of Londons oldest business areas into a new residential and cultural centre?
TELEVISION CENTRE WOOD LANE, LONDON W12 Savills is marketing the residential scheme Television and will be a combination of studios, one, two Centre on behalf of developers, Stanhope and Mitsui andthree bedroom apartments and penthouses.
The scheme, part of the wider White City Amenities include underground parking, residents regeneration, provides circa 950 homes in two lounge and private screening room, 24 7 concierge phases.
It will also include 500,000 sq ft of office service, fully equipped gym and pool.
The space, operational December 2017, and three redevelopment will also include a new branch of television studies which will be live by early 2017. members club, Soho House, along with rooftop pool, terrace and hotel.
Savills provided residential consultancy together withsales and marketing expertise throughout the planning process for this mixed use scheme.
The residential scheme has a GDV of circa 500 million SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 3 How do you sell an office property in central Paris?
HERMS HEADQUARTERS CENTRAL PARIS Savills acted as the exclusive agent for the sale of Herms Internationals headquarters in Paris, France, on behalf of a private investor.
The sale price was in excess of 100m.
The property is let entirely to Herms International under a nine-year lease.
It was restructured in 2006 and offers a total area of 5,848 sq m, distributed over a ground floor and nine upper floors, with good natural light and high-end finishes.
4 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 5 Where is the right place to locate my business?
CHINA LIFE INSURANCE KOWLOON, HONG KONG Savills secured the headquarters for China Life Insurance One HarbourGate, the whole 395,000 sq ft development, for the sale price of HK$5.8bn, achieving the biggest en bloc commercial transaction in Kowloon.
6 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 7 How do I procure project management services across the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific?
GLOBAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS COMPANY Leading global MIS company, providing healthcare The PMO services consists of a fully dedicated leader, clients with end-to-end technology and information responsible for sourcing, on-boarding and supporting solutions to measure and improve their performance.
local Savills project managers in the delivery of projects, Employing over 15,000 people across 100 countries.
from real estate transaction feasibility analysis to occupation.
The PMO tracks project progress and Savills Studley was formally appointed in August 2015 assists with issue resolution, reporting directly to the as one of two Global Real Estate partners.
We perform Global Head of Real Estate.
the following services across the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific: Projects are typically commercial office fit-outs, moves and changes and relocation, ranging from 5,000 to Global Project Management Office PMO services 100,000 sq ft.
Annual project volume of approximately over Savills project assignments 80 projects with annual managed spend of c. US$80m.
Local Project Management assignments as a Upon completion of the year 1 transition, Savills Studley preferred provider expects to manage 50-75% of that volume.
Workplace Consulting and Tenant Rep Brokerage services on an opportunistic basis 8 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 9
