Group Chief Executives review continued BUSINESS MODEL A global network Market intelligence and of connected people local knowledge Brand Strong cash generation Our people, our clients Sustainable growth and and relationships shareholder value Financial discipline, risk mitigation and strong governance Reputation Advisory, management A diverse and and transactional coherent offer services Our business model above illustrates in simple terms how we prudent capital structure to enable us better to withstand the overall createshareholder value through improving the strength of our cyclicality of our core transactional markets.
premium brand, and through the delivery of profits and dividends toshareholders.
We treat every client as an individual and take time Our culture, people and relationships tounderstand what they need and how we can best service them.
We have built our brand and reputation on the quality of our people, Wedo this by: relationships, resources and processes.
Savills has a strong and well embedded culture, founded on an entrepreneurial approach and Delivering value underpinned by our values and operational standards.
All that we do We aim to deliver consistently high quality, client-focused real estate is underpinned by strong governance, a disciplined approach to risk advisory services, offering a broad range of specialist advisory, management and high standards of responsibility, which supports management and transactional services in the key global markets in the sustainable development of our business.
More detail of our which we operate.
We deliver these services through the continuous governance structure, policies and practices can be found later improvement in our capabilities, which creates opportunity and inthis Annual Report on pages 39 to 54. progressively enhances our service offering in our chosen markets.
Approximately 48% of our revenue is generated by Transaction We are committed to delivering a high quality service and creating advisory fees: the remainder comes from non-transactional business long-term relationships with our clients.
Because of our personal approach to business, our people are fundamental to our business by way of fees for Property and Facilities Management and and we encourage an open and supportive culture in which every Consultancy services and the remainder from Investment individual is respected.
We strive to provide an environment in which Management fees.
our people can flourish and succeed.
This allows us to recruit, motivate and retain talented people and build on our status as A diverse, coherent offer anemployer of choice.
We work hard to ensure that our people We actively diversify from a business and geographic perspective enjoyworking at Savills promoting their personal and professional with the aim of mitigating the risk of exposure to any one economy development.
We encourage them to develop their careers within ormarket.
We have cultivated a diverse client base drawn from theGroup, nurturing the entrepreneurs and leaders of the future localbusinesses, private individuals, global blue-chip investors and toshare in the success of the business.
occupiers, national and local government and health authorities.
Wehave built and maintained our position as a leading player in We firmly believe that our people are key to delivering excellent boththe prime residential and prime commercial real estate markets service to our clients and achieving our objectives, they give us a in the worlds leading cities, aligning with the global trend amongst unique perspective of the markets in which we operate and connect private and institutional investors to recognise both types of real our clients with real estate opportunities and market intelligence.
estate as an investment asset class.
Tobe the real estate adviser of choice in our markets, and deliver superior financial performance, we aim to employ people of the This also supports our ability to advise on all aspects of multi-use highest quality supporting the delivery of the highest standards development schemes worldwide.
We recognise that real estate ofclient service.
By choosing Savills, our clients have access to transaction markets are cyclical, so we seek to provide a combination over30,000 staff with a broad range of experience, skills and local of services, in part to mitigate transactional volatility with less cyclical knowledge, based in offices in key real estate locations across the offerings.
This is combined with our ongoing drive for operational globe and benefit from our extensive market research material.
efficiency and margin improvement and the maintenance of a 14 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
