Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements In 2015 office demand strengthened slowly fuelled by business expansion.
In most European countries development activity remained subdued, hence the average vacancy rate has been falling consistently since 2010 and reached a low last year.
This means that in many European CBD Theshare of regional investment continues locations high quality office space remained to expand in most cases thanks to portfolio under supply pulling rents upwards and deals.
Some retailers are looking to unload pushing incentives down.
Since good quality real estate to invest back into their core space is becoming more expensive in many business.
Thus, 2015 has witnessed the European cities occupiers are looking saleof numerous retail portfolios, some beyond the CBD, where rents are lower but pan-European.
Demand for logistics space are increasing faster than in CBD locations.
strengthened, backed by increasing retail needs.
Since capital values are above their Commercial real estate remains one of long-term average and quality assets are thebest places for investors to earn decent becoming rare some investors look beyond Ellipse building, Belgium yield.
In 2015 the total volume invested in thetraditional commercial sectors to achieve Savills acted on the acquisition of the Ellipse office commercial properties totalled nearly the desired returns.
Last year investments building in Brussels for 215m on behalf of the 245bn which is 22% higher than the outside the traditional commercial sectors Taiwanese insurer, Fubon.
Based in Espace Nord previous year.
were about a quarter of the total activity.
in Belgiums capital city, the 21-storey building Theaverage prime office CBD yield moved comprising 53,209 sq m was developed by The UK, France and Germany remained inby 52 basis points year on year and AGInsurance in 2006 and is currently 99% let thedominant destinations for real estate currently stands at 4.36%.
Yield gaps are totwo public tenants.
investment although their collective share of slowly closing, between core and peripheral investment volume decreased slightly from countries, between capital and regional cities, between A and B locations and 71% in 2014 to 65% in 2015.
More than half between assets classes.
of the turnover originated from overseas, up from 42% last year, of which 70% is directed into two countries: the UK and Germany.
Europe Regions 1 Brussels 2 Paris 3 Frankfurt 4 Munich 5 Dublin 6 Milan 10 7 Amsterdam 8 Warsaw 9 Madrid 5 7 8 10 Stockholm 1 3 2 4 6 9 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 19
