Strategic Report Our Strategy 09 Our Strategy In 2014 we carried out a root-and-branch Strategy Review and in 2015 we have been implementing it.
Rupert Soames OBE Group Chief Executive Officer The strategy is set out in detail Towards the end of the decade, in this section, but like all good however, the public outsourcing The objective of the Strategy strategies, it can be simply market matured and conditions Review was to give us a firm expressed.
Our strategy is to be a became more difficult.
Margins superb provider of public services, came under pressure as first foundation upon which we by being the best managed generation contracts were could build a company capable business in our sector.
We are a retendered and governments, of delivering increasing value focused business to government having gained experience from to our stakeholders: to our B2G business, specialising across early contracts, became more customers and service users, by five sectors: Defence, Justice & sophisticated purchasers.
At providing excellent, reliable and Immigration, Transport, Health the same time, the competitive innovative public services: to and Citizen Services.
We deliver landscape became more intense, our shareholders, by providing these services internationally as companies from outside the sustainable and growing returns from our operating units in the UK public service sector were attracted on the capital they entrust to our & Europe, North America, Asia by the rapid growth and attractive care: to our lenders, by providing Pacific and the Middle East.
margins, and existing operators them with a solid and secure We live by clear values Trust, expanded into new segments.
credit: and to our colleagues, Care, Innovation and Pride.
Overlaid upon this came the by giving them interesting and consequences of the financial crisis rewarding careers.
The historical context in 2008, which led to an intense From 2000 to 2010, Serco grew focus on public expenditure rapidly through a combination of deficits.
In the UK, the election organic growth in existing markets, in 2010 of a new government expansion into new countries and determined to cut spending to acquisitions.
Governments were reduce the fiscal deficit, combined keen to benefit from involving the with US budgetary constraints private sector in the provision of leading to a series of continuing services, and many areas of activity resolutions and reductions in were contracted out for the first military expenditure, resulted time.
As Serco and others were in a sharp reduction in the rate able to reduce costs and improve of growth of the public sector services, contract margins grew and outsourcing market.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 10 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Strategy continued Faced by these challenges, in reputational damage when it was outside their jurisdictions, and 2010 Serco devised a strategy alleged by the UK Government we had failed to add value to the to reduce its dependence on that it had overcharged on a major private sector business by using frontline services and the public contract.
A 64m settlement was our public sector distribution sector by building, largely through paid to the customer, a large and and brand.
It became clear acquisition, a private sector profitable contract was taken that the disciplines required Business Process Outsourcing away, and for a period of time, for international success in the BPO business.
The thinking was Serco was effectively unable to private and public sector BPO that a private sector business could win material new work from the UK markets are different, and to build bring skills and additional services Government.
The consequences a business that could have the to the public sector business, and of these factors are most scale to be good at both would the core Serco business could add obviously reflected in the financial require significant investment.
sales team distribution, brand and performance and share price of We therefore decided to focus scale to provide enhanced value to the Group.
Trading Profit fell from investment and effort on our core the private sector business.
At the a high of 311m in 2012 to 113m market of serving governments, same time Serco sought to combat before the impact of the Contract where we can further develop a a slowing public sector market by and Balance Sheet Review in 2014. strong and differentiated position.
bidding aggressively for new work, The market capitalisation of the Attractive public service markets and entered new sectors such business over the same period fell The 2014 Strategy Review as clinical healthcare in the UK from over 3bn to less than 1bn.
identified that whilst the public and providing housing for asylum It was in this context that the new service market presents a number seekers.
Serco also sought to gain management team commenced of challenges, it also has many efficiencies and reduce costs by a Strategy Review in May 2014 to attractions.
Most particularly, we investing in an enterprise-wide analyse the current market and see the market for the provision SAP enterprise resource planning competitive situation, develop of public services by private ERP system and building a shared a strategy that would offer companies as being underpinned services infrastructure covering the greatest opportunity for by structural growth.
There information technology, human value creation for shareholders, are only two things we need to resources and finance.
customers and employees, and believe for this hypothesis to Whilst this strategy was a logical identify how best to implement be correct: first, that in many reaction to challenging conditions, the strategy.
areas of public service provision, in practice it proved extremely private companies, properly New strategic focus difficult to implement because managed, can deliver services In terms of strategic options, the synergies between the private of higher quality and lower only two were worthy of detailed and public sector businesses were cost than governments can examination.
First, we could not as expected, and the business themselves.
Second, we believe continue with the existing strategy also lost, or saw reductions in, that governments will continue of operating both in the private some of its largest government to face huge pressures to deliver and public sector: or we could contracts.
In addition, some of the more and better public services, focus on one and exit the other.
contracts we had won between for less, and that these pressures This was a difficult decision, 2010 and 2014 began to lose will lead them to focus relentlessly because our private sector money: how many contracts, and on value for money and the quality operation was a high quality how much money they were losing of service provision.
As described business, with some excellent and likely to lose in the future on page 7, we have named these prospects.
However, it represented only became truly apparent in pressures the Four Forces.
a very small proportion of our the second half of 2014, following economic profit, and the hard fact Whilst there has been great focus a comprehensive Contract on austerity as a factor affecting was that Serco was not making a and Balance Sheet Review that good job of owning it: our public public finances in the short-term, resulted in us taking provisions we believe that these Four Forces sector customers have proved and write-downs amounting to extremely resistant to moving will continue to bear on public 1.3bn in our accounts for 2014. policy for many years to come, and middle or back office functions Inaddition, in 2013, Serco suffered Strategic Report Our Strategy 11 will drive growth in private sector we are being paid for narrowly expertise in staff rostering and provision of public services in defined sectors, from which they time management is globally our sectors at a projected sector might be able to extrapolate applicable across sectors, as is aggregate currently estimated to contract pricing.
Other factors that make higher, building deep capability So we ask stakeholders to accept the public services marketplace in continuous improvement is the fact that while the markets in attractive to us are that it is unlikely globally applicable.
Finally, will the which we intend to focus are huge, to be disrupted by technology or fact that we have deep expertise our market share is generally small, other exogenous factors: absent in running urban transport in although in some geographies catastrophe, we can be very one territory give us credibility and sectors it is large, and we have confident that the world will still in another?
Will the fact that the plenty of headroom to grow.
need prisons, will still need to governments in the US and the manage immigration and provide UK trust us with some of their Diversified portfolio healthcare and transport, and most secret and sensitive projects Core to our strategy is the belief that these services will be highly help us when bidding for defence that having a diversified portfolio people-intensive.
projects in the Middle East?
Will of exposures to different sectors our proven track record in reducing and jurisdictions is an advantage.
People will ask: how large is the recidivism amongst offenders in In a world where political priorities market?
Beyond saying that it is the UK and Australia be of interest of changing governments can huge, truthfully, we dont really to authorities in other countries?
switch resources from defence know, as it is fiendishly hard to We believe the answer to all these to immigration to healthcare, define.
Does the support of a questions is yes.
and back again, being diversified mainframe computer supplied by by segment and jurisdiction is IBM but operated by government valuable in reducing risk and fall within our definition of the volatility, and enabling us to share market?
What about services best practice.
Many of our closest provided by government-owned competitors are specialists in agencies operating on an armseither a particular sector, or within length basis?
Although focused we count supply and support of on public services, we feel we missile systems, or just the types of can deliver better risk-adjusted services we supply even if we could returns and lower volatility in the get a number for either ?
And how long-term if we have the capability do we disentangle wildly different to operate across more than one definitions of expenditure used sector within the public services by the various governments with market, and in more than one whom we deal?
If global market share was a But management of risk is only determinant or measure of one reason we like a strategy success, we might be more of operating across a number exercised by the question: but of jurisdictions and sectors.
We it is not, and with revenues from believe that governments across government of around 3bn, it the world face similar challenges would be so small against the total at many levels.
At a detailed global market as to be not worth operational level, providing measuring.
Within some segments cleaning and catering services for example, prisons in the UK in a hospital is very similar in we can be more precise, but then Western Australia and Abu Dhabi, we get into issues of commercial likewise escorting prisoners to sensitivity.
We are not inclined to court.
At a higher level, having share with competitors how much Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 12 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Strategy continued Our core sectors Our business in the public Total Revenues 2015 sector is focused on five sectors: continuing operations Defence, Justice & Immigration, including joint ventures Transport, Health and Citizen Services.
In 2015, our revenues in each of these sectors were: 3,914m Justice & Defence Transport Health Citizen Services Immigration Jurisdictions UK & Europe, UK & Europe, UK & Europe, UK & Europe, UK & Europe, Americas, Asia Pacific Americas, Middle East, Americas, Middle East, Middle East, Asia Pacific Middle East, Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Revenues 2015 continuing operations including joint ventures 1,069m 529m 837m 416m 1,063m 27% 14% 21% 11% 27% Strategic Report Our Strategy 13 Implementing the strategy whatever the slings and arrows of and risk: to equip customers and fortune, well-managed businesses colleagues with more accurate Serco combines people, processes do better than poorly managed and timely information so that we and technology to deliver superb businesses, and the best-managed can measure performance better: services.
Since the last two of these businesses do best of all.
we can improve the efficiency of depend entirely on the first one, it our internal processes: we can can be simply said that the success So, we can define our ambition as reduce costs: we can strengthen of our strategy will depend upon wanting to be the best-managed our business development how well we manage, organise, business in our sector from a capability: and we can invest more motivate, develop, select and position where we believe that, in developing innovative solutions enable people.
So the answer through a process of continuous to public service challenges.
is: by being the bestimprovement and capacityof this comes easy or quickly, and managed business in our sector.
building, we can improve service we need to steer a tricky course delivery and efficiency to the Having such an ambition may between the urgent need to reduce benefit of both our customers sound trite, but we believe that our costs in line with reduced and ourselves.
We can use our it is a worthy and value-creating revenues in the short-term and ambition to be the best-managed objective, and one that we can use investing in systems and processes business in our sector to improve to inspire our management teams.
that will produce sustainable the way we manage contracts In any given circumstances, and benefits in the long-term.
Timeline of strategy implementation At the time of reporting on the Strategy Review, we set out how we saw our strategy being delivered successfully over three distinct but dependent phases: Stabilise, Transform and Grow.
2014 Stabilise 20152017 Transform 20182020 Grow Hire new management Strengthen balance sheet H arvest benefits of transformation Identify issues Rebuild confidence and trust Leverage scale and capability D evelop strategy and Improve risk management implementation plan B uild out geographical Rationalise portfolio footprint U ndertake Contract and Mitigate loss-making Balance Sheet Review Move into new sub-segments contracts Stabilise morale Continuously review portfolio Strengthen sector Roll out corporate renewal propositions Re-build business development and pipeline Build differentiated capability I mprove execution and cost efficiency Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 14 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Strategy continued Those elements essential to on re-building Sercos business stabilise the business were all development functions and bid delivered in 2014.
Also critical pipeline, strengthening our sector to stabilisation, but the bedrock propositions, and consolidating from which to properly fund the our differentiated capability in transformation stage, was the order to win.
We will also continue strengthening of the balance to improve operational execution sheet, completed in early 2015 with and drive further cost efficiencies.
the Rights Issue and refinancing.
Only when these transformational The ongoing exercise to rebuild elements are all in place will we be confidence and trust was also able to harvest the financial benefit.
cemented by the much improved You can read more about executing financial standing of the business, the strategy in 2015 and beyond as well as all the prior work to in the Chief Executives Review on deliver corporate renewal and pages 34 to 42 and the Divisional the ongoing operational and Reviews on pages 43 to 50.
More relationship improvements that we information is also included in our are implementing.
Our Corporate results and other presentations to Governance Report on pages 85 investors, available at www.
to 143 also provides details about com investors.
the many steps being taken to improve risk management across What strategic success the Group.
will look like The tangible evidence of our In 2015 we rationalised the success or otherwise will be a portfolio with the conclusion return to industry rates of growth of our disposal programme, and margins.
Our current best which was an essential step to estimate is that the market delivering a strategy focused segments to be focused on are on public service delivery.
We likely to grow at an aggregate of also made inroads to mitigating 57% per year and that industry loss-making contracts and other operating margins across Sercos liabilities, resulting in a net credit mix of business are likely to be in of some 21m being achieved in the range of 56%.
If this turns out 2015 as we were able to adjust to be correct, and markets turn out some of the Contract and Balance as expected, we believe that after Sheet Review items, including the initial years of restructuring an improved view of some of the and transformation, it will be onerous contract provisions.
possible to achieve growth rates Transformation continues and margins towards the average through 2016 and 2017, and of the Groups peers.
increasingly this will be focused
