144 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors' Report Annual Report and Accounts The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Comparative figures used in this report are for the year ended 31 December 2014 unless otherwise stated.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 85 to 143 forms part of the Statutory Directors Report.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to 6 and the Chief Executive's Review and Divisional Reviews on pages 34 to 50 report on the activities during the year and likely future developments.
The information in these reports which is required to fulfil the requirements of the Business Review is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
Articles of Association The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with the details of shares issued during the year is shown in note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In April 2015, an additional 549,265,547 ordinary shares were issued, as a result of the Rights Issue, on a basis of one new ordinary share for every one existing share previously held.
In addition, 28,687 shares have been issued in the year to 31 December 2015 to satisfy the exercises of options and vesting of awards pursuant to the terms of the Company's employee share and incentive schemes.
The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares are restricted to those approved at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders approved the issue of shares for cash up to 5% of the existing issued share capital and an additional 5% only to be used in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment in each case without the application of pre-emption rights.
The Company intends to seek shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM to renew this authority for a further year and details will be contained in the Notice of AGM.
Rights attaching to shares Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Dividends No interim dividend was paid in respect of the 2015 financial year 2014: 3.10p per ordinary share.
The Directors do not recommend a final dividend to be paid for 2015 2014: Nil.
Directors Report Directors' Report 145 Interests in voting rights At 31 December 2015 the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares: Number of shares millions % held as at date of Nature of as at 31 notification holding December 2015 GIC Private Limited 65.0 Direct 5.9 JPMorgan Chase & Co. 39.1 Indirect 3.6 9.4 Right of Recall 0.9 12.4 Equity Swap 1.1 Total 5.6 Lancaster Investment Management LLP 77.5 Swap 7.1 Majedie Asset Management Limited 56.0 Direct 5.1 Marathon Asset Management LLP 58.3 Indirect 5.3 MSD Partners, L. P. 109.9 Indirect 10.0 Odey Asset Management LLP 2.4 Direct 0.4 25.0 Contract for 4.6 Difference Total 5.0 Orbis Holdings Limited 33.1 Indirect 3.0 Templeton Global Advisors Limited 109.8 Indirect 9.99 Notes: Between 1 January 2016 and the date of this report, the Company has been advised of the following changes of interests in shares: both Valarc Master Fund Ltd and Woodford Investment Management LLP notified that they no longer had a holding of shares, at 31 December 2015 or subsequently, that is notifiable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: on 13 January 2016 Tameside MBC re: Greater Manchester Pension Fund notified the Company that they have a 3.11% direct interest in voting rights: on 16 February 2016 JPMorgan Chase & Co. notified the Company that their interest in voting rights had changed to 5.9% 3.6% indirect and 2.3% cash settled equity swap : and on 18 February 2016 GIC Private Limited notified the Company that their holding had reduced from 5.9% to 4.81% direct interest in voting rights.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 146 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors' Report continued Directors The current members of the Board together with biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 88 to 89.
On 28 May 2015, the Company announced the appointment of Sir Roy Gardner as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1July2015, joining the Board as Non-Executive Director from 1 June 2015 to enable a handover period with the outgoing Chairman, Alastair Lyons.
Alastair stepped down from the Board on 1 July 2015.
Sir Roy will stand for election at the Companys AGM on 12May2016.
As in previous years, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Directors interests With the exception of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment, there are no contracts in which any Director has an interest.
Certain change of control conditions are included in the service contracts of Directors which provide compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options over the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31December2015 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 140.
Between 1 January 2016 and the date of this report there were no changes in Directors' interests in ordinary shares and options.
Directors indemnities Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
As permitted under the Articles of Association and in accordance with best practice, deeds of indemnity were executed in 2015 indemnifying each of the Directors and Secretary of the Company in respect of their positions as officers of the Company as a supplement to the Directors and officers insurance cover.
The indemnities, which constitute a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, remain in force for all current Directors and the Secretary of the Company.
Branch offices In certain jurisdictions, the Group will operate through a branch.
Authority for the purchase of shares As at the date of this report authority granted at the Companys AGM in May 2015 remains in force, as set out in the 2015 Notice of Meeting which is available on the Companys website.
Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Given the business to Government nature of many of the services provided by the Company and its subsidiaries, many agreements contain provisions entitling the other parties to terminate them in the event of a change of control, which can be triggered by a takeover of the Company.
The following agreements are those individual agreements which the Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole that contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a change of control.
Directors Report Directors' Report 147 Material customer contracts Australian Immigration Services: On 11 December 2014, Serco Australia Pty Limited entered into a contract with the Commonwealth of Australia acting through the Department of Immigration and Border Protection for the provision of detention services at all onshore immigration facilities in Australia.
The contract has an initial five-year term, with two available two-year extension options.
In the event of a change in control or ownership of Serco Australia Pty Limited, which in the reasonable opinion of the Commonwealth adversely affects the Companys ability to perform the Services, the contract may be terminated by the Commonwealth.
AWE: Serco Holdings Limited is a shareholder in AWE Management Limited the AWE JV.
Serco Holdings Limiteds joint venture partners and the other shareholders in the AWE JV are UK subsidiary companies of Lockheed Martin Corporation and Jacobs Engineering Group.
The AWE JV oversees the design, development, maintenance and manufacture of warheads for the UKs strategic nuclear deterrent.
This work is carried out by the AWE JV under a management and operation contract with the Secretary of State for Defence the AWE Contract.
The AWE Contract was entered into on 1 December 1999 and has a 25-year term.
In the event that there is a change of control of Serco Holdings Limited or the Group then the other shareholders in the AWE JV are entitled to purchase the AWE JV shares and loans held by Serco Holdings Limited and any other member of the Serco Group.
SSA: In order to bid and perform on certain classified contracts involving US national security, Serco Inc. was required to mitigate its foreign ownership through a Special Security Agreement SSA between the US Government, Serco Inc. and Serco Group plc.
The effective date of the SSA is 18 June 2008.
In the event of a sale of Serco Inc. to a company or person that is under Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence FOCI, the SSA may be terminated by the US Department of Defense.
Financing facilities Revolving credit facility: the Company has a 480,000,000 revolving credit facility dated 28 March 2012 amended and restated 12March 2015 with the Bank of America Securities Limited, Barclays Bank PLC, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, DBS Bank Limited, HSBC Bank PLC, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.
Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC as mandated lead arrangers, and Barclays Bank PLC as Facility Agent.
The facility provides funds for general corporate and working capital purposes, and bonds to support the Groups business needs.
The facility agreement provides that in the event of a change of control of the Company each lender may, within a certain period, call for the prepayment of the amounts owed to it and cancel its commitments under the facility.
US Notes: the Company has notes outstanding under three US Private Placement Note Purchase Agreements the USPP Agreements dated 9 May 2011, 20 October 2011 and 13 May 2013, respectively.
The total amount of the notes outstanding under the three USPP Agreements was $551,873,649 at 31 December 2015, and their maturity is between 9 May 2016 and 14 May2024.
Following the disposal of the offshore private sector BPO operations, the Group was required to offer disposal proceeds less certain deductions to the debt holders in prepayment.
Two thirds of the proceeds were offered to private placement note holders at par and one third to repay any outstanding drawdowns on the revolving credit facility nil outstanding at 31 December 2015.
As a result of this process, $166,566,681 of private placement notes were repaid on 16 February 2016, leaving $385,316,967 of private placement notes in issue at that date.
Under the terms of the USPP Agreements, if a change of control of the Company occurs it is required to offer to prepay the entire principal amount of the notes together with interest to the prepayment date but without payment of any make-whole amount.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 148 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors' Report continued Share plans The Companys share plans contain provisions in relation to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company, in accordance with the rules of the plans.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at the Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5ED on 12 May 2016 at 10.00am.
Financial risk policies A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is on pages 211 to 217.
Employment policies The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually valued and recognised.
Group companies and divisions operate within a framework of human resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their own market sector and country of operation, whilst subject to Group-wide policies and principles.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual, and fostering partnership and trust in every working relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote diversity, respect for human rights and equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The Group promotes diversity so that all employees are able to be successful regardless of their background.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment, career development and promotion received from the disabled, and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled during their service with the Group, arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue their employment and training.
The Group recognises the importance of protecting human rights.
We respect the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and its Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as the national laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
These are embedded in the Companys policies and standards and considered when reviewing business opportunities.
The Group remains proud of its record of managing employee relations and continues to believe that the structure of individual and collective consultation and negotiation is best developed at a local level.
Over the years, the Group has demonstrated that working with trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows improvements to be delivered in business performance as well as in terms and conditions of employment.
Where employees choose not to belong to a trade union, employee communication forums such as works councils exist to ensure involvement of staff within the business.
These mechanisms ensure employees views are considered in decision-making and that they have a common awareness of Group strategy, matters of concern to them and the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company.
Participation by staff in the success of the Group is encouraged by the availability of a share option scheme, and long-term incentive arrangements for senior management, which effectively aligns their interests with those of shareholders by requiring that performance criteria are achieved prior to exercise.
Directors Report Directors' Report 149 Corporate responsibility The Group maintains a focus on corporate responsibility through a model that is applied across the business focusing on our people, safety, the environment and the communities we serve.
This model forms an integral part of our Serco Management System and is supported by defined policies in all of the areas it covers.
More information on Corporate Responsibility, including Greenhouse Gas Emission reporting, can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 72 to 83.
Research and development Serco undertakes a limited amount of research and development R&D, given that our primary business model is the delivery of public services through our people.
In 2015, we spent 4.3m on R&D on IT related projects, which compared to 21.5m in 2014, of which over 85% in 2014 was accounted for by our contract at the National Physical Laboratory, which was operated by Serco on behalf of the UKs Department for Business Innovation and Skills BIS and which ended on 1 January 2015.
Political donations During the year neither the Company nor the Group made political donations and they intend to continue with this policy.
However, it is possible that certain routine activities may unintentionally fall within the broad scope of the Companies Act provisions relating to political donations and expenditure.
As in previous years, the Company will therefore propose to shareholders that the authority granted at the 2015 AGM regarding political donations be renewed.
Details will be included in the notice of AGM.
Within the US business there exists a Political Action Committee PAC, which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
The Serco PAC and its contributions are administered in strict accordance with regulatory requirements.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
Financial statements At the date of this report, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 150 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors' Report continued Index of Directors Report disclosures The information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report can be found in this Annual Report on the pages listed below.
4C, the information required to be disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is marked with an asterisk.
Amendment of the Articles Page 144 Appointment and replacement of Directors Page 114 Board of Directors Pages 88 to 89 Change of control Pages 146 to 147 Community Pages 78 to 79 Directors insurance and indemnities Page 146 Directors inductions and training Pages 94 to 95 Directors responsibilities statement Page 151 Disclosure of information to auditors Page 151 Diversity Pages 75 to 76 Dividends Pages 37 and 144 Employee involvement Pages 74, 75 and 148 Corporate responsibility Pages 72 to 83 Employees with disabilities Page 148 Future developments of the business Pages 9 to 14 Going concern Pages 102 and 164 Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 33, 82 and 83 Independent auditors Pages 153 to 158 Long-term incentive plans under Listing Rule 9.4.
3 Pages 120 to 143 Political donations Page 149 Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares Page 144 Powers of the Directors Pages 90 to 93 Research and development activities Page 149 Restrictions on transfer of securities Page 144 Rights attaching to shares Page 144 Risk management and internal control Pages 16 to 29 and 97 to 101 Share capital Page 144 Significant agreements Pages 146 to 147 Significant related party agreements Page 231 Significant shareholders Page 145 Statement of corporate governance Pages 85 to 86 Strategic report Pages 5 to 83 Viability statement Page 30 Voting rights Page 144 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 25 February 2016
