118 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board Oversight Committee Report Annual statement by the Chair of the Board Oversight Committee After joining the Board in June 2015, one of my first tasks was to receive a detailed briefing on the Corporate Renewal Programme Programme, which was developed in the last quarter of 2013 and started to be implemented in 2014.
The key components of the Programme were as follows: revising Sercos Code of Conduct, Values Statement and Governing Principles, supported by extensive training and formalised induction processes and appropriate performance management: comprehensively reassessing and reissuing the Serco Management System SMS, being the Companys framework of management control, to include more prescriptive guidance on required operational processes and procedures, and providing updated training on the SMS for management across the organisation: strengthening contract level governance, including improved contract bid processes to ensure appropriate levels of risk assessment, senior management scrutiny and technical and operational input: enhancing transparency, with robust reporting of operational and financial contract KPIs to both executive management and, in summary, to the Board and its Committees: achieving greater engagement of public sector customers at contract and government departmental level: creating a separate division for our UK Central Government work to achieve both focus on, and openness with, the UK Government as a collective customer: strengthening risk management compliance and internal audit processes and capabilities: appointing three additional Non-Executive Directors to the Board: creating the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee of the Board to formalise the process of guidance and decisionmaking on ethical issues: establishing Ethics Officers in each division, accompanied by the redesign and relaunch of our whistleblowing process: measuring the progress of attitudinal change throughout the organisation with ongoing independent culture and ethics reviews: and implementing a comprehensive set of global training programmes to reinforce the various elements of the Programme.
It is clear that a huge amount of progress has been made in delivering the Programme, which has been very important for the Group.
As a direct result of the Programme, the Group now has significantly improved governance policies and procedures in place.
I can see that there is still work to be done to ensure that these policies and procedures become fully embedded across the Group and it will naturally take time for this to happen but very good progress has been made to date.
I can also see that all employees that I have had the pleasure to meet with want to do the right thing in the right way for our customers, which will ultimately be for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
The Board has retained the Board Oversight Committee to ensure that the embedding of the Programme continues to happen across the Group.
As previously set out in this Annual Report, the responsibilities of the Committee will increase in 2016 to include governance and ethical standards, which is one of the elements that resulted from the Programme, as well as corporate responsibility matters, and the Committee will become the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
This change to the Committee is due to be put in place after the AGM in May 2016.
Committees responsibilities The principal areas of responsibility of the Committee are as follows: overseeing the embedding of the Corporate Renewal Programme across the Group: overseeing ethical standards across the Group: approving the Groups Code of Conduct: overseeing the Groups whistleblowing process: and overseeing the compliance and assurance of the Programme.
Directors Report Board Oversight Committee 119 Principal activities during the year During the year under review, the principal activities of the Board Oversight Committee were as follows: oversight of activities associated with the Programme including: the SMS self-assessment process: contract management performance management and reporting: compliance assurance: the global personnel training programmes: and the review of culture and values present in the business.
assessing and reinforcing the Groups ethical compass: and assessing the commitment of the Groups leadership throughout the business to do what is right in the way it conducts business with its customers and suppliers, and in the way it manages its employees and other stakeholders.
Governance in action Lord Gold is an independent third-party member of the Committee providing independent oversight of the planning and implementation of the Corporate Renewal Programme.
In addition to his work on the Board Oversight Committee, Lord Gold assessed Sercos approach to governance and ethics in the Group during 2015 and this will continue into 2016.
Lord Gold has attended a meeting of the Executive Committee, he has met separately with each of the Executive Committee members and he has met with other key employees both in central functions and in operations.
He also attended a conference at which approximately 250 senior managers from the UK were present.
Lord Golds independent reporting to the Board Oversight Committee enables the Committee to better understand the depth to which the Corporate Renewal Programme is being embedded across the business.
Membership and meetings The Board Oversight Committee is chaired by me.
The other members are Ed Casey, Ralph Crosby and Malcolm Wyman.
In addition, Lord Gold is an independent third-party member of the Board Oversight Committee.
The majority of members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met three times during 2015.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Sir Roy Gardner Chair of the Board Oversight Committee 25 February 2016 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report
