Strategic Report Our Business Model 07 Our Business Model What we do, how we do it and where Serco serves governments and other bodies who serve the public or protect their nations interests.
We focus on five sectors of public service: Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services, and deliver these internationally from our operating units in the UK & Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
We have clear values of Trust, Care, Innovation and Pride which underpin how we operate.
Nearly all governments are under For less: Citizens are highly Since we were founded more intense pressure to do more, and resistant to providing governments than 50 years ago, we have better, with less, as a result of what with the means of deficit reduction delivered services through we call the Four Forces.
These are: by way of tax increases.
people, supported by effective processes, technology and The more: The relentless increase, In the face of these challenges, skilled management.
Our governments have to find everat rates above GDP growth, of customers define what outcomes demand for healthcare and social more inventive and sophisticated or services they want to deliver ways of providing better public welfare, largely as a result of to their service users, and we ageing populations.
services at lower cost, and long find new and more effective ways experience tells them that people to deliver them.
Over the years The better: The increasing employed by the state do not we have delivered innovative expectations citizens have of have a monopoly of wisdom or solutions to some of the most the quality, accountability and expertise in terms of innovation accessibility of services.
complex challenges of the and management of service day, bringing our experience, delivery.
Many companies choose For less: High levels of public innovation and scale to deliver to focus their intellectual and sector debt and debt service the financial, service and policy management energy on their core costs, combined with continued mission, and ask others to provide outcomes our customers want.
current account deficits, make cost the support and execution of In partnership with our reductions a necessity.
In a similar customers, we make a positive of example, the UK Government vein, a modern army or navy wants difference to the lives of millions expects to add some 75bn to the to concentrate its efforts on its of people around the world, National Debt in 2015 16, and the fighting capability, not on running and help nations safeguard current cost of servicing the National the facilities or payroll.
Debt is estimated at 45bn, which is more than state expenditure on either defence or education.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 08 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model continued Serco constantly looks for ways to a public service ethos that means Throughout 2015 Serco operated improve the services we deliver.
we gain the trust of our customers.
through six divisions, five of which We can transfer our skills, As a consequence, we are granted UK Central Government, UK insights and ideas from one contracts to provide services of the and Europe Local and Regional sector or region to another, so utmost sensitivity, from supporting Government, Americas, Asia Pacific we can anticipate and meet new strategic nuclear weapons to and the Middle East provide a challenges for customers.
In our caring for asylum seekers to being broad range of frontline public markets we are a rarity: a company responsible for healthcare facilities service operations to customers that offers services covering or transport systems.
in various geographic regions, front, middle, and back-office and one being the Global Our business model starts requirements, across multiple Services Division which provides with identifying a pipeline of areas of government service, and private sector Business Process opportunities that we anticipate we offer these internationally.
Outsourcing BPO services will be procured by customers.
On 31 December 2015, A key part of our value proposition The Serco Management System we completed the disposal of the is that we provide a bridge has policies and controls to ensure majority of our Global Services between the drive, energy and that the opportunities pursued are division, and in 2016 we will innovation of the private sector, in line with the Groups strategy, operate exclusively through our and the very specific requirements with review gates to approve the five regional businesses.
More of the public sector.
Providing risk profile and expected financial information on our divisions and services to the public and returns as a tender progresses their performance in the year being predominantly funded by through its various stages.
Our can be found in the Divisional taxpayers, is different, brings services are ordinarily delivered Reviews on pages 43 to 50.
More particular responsibility and in through a commitment to a longbackground on our markets, many ways is more demanding term contract with the customer, the Serco Management System than only providing services including specified pricing, and our business operations is to the private sector or direct service levels and scope of available at www.
Throughout a contracts as politics, transparency and life we would look to continuously accountability to multiple improve our efficiencies and stakeholders are seen only dimly in service outcomes.
On contract the private sector, but writ large in expiry, we would either seek the public sector, and need skilful to secure an extension under management.
Serco has deep existing contractual terms or to expertise in providing this bridge: win a competitive rebid process, overlaid on our private sector or be required to manage a techniques, drive and energy, is contract exit process.
