GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE AND HSE COMMITTEES 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 40 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT 5.
MIKE SHEPPARD The Executive Committee, although not formally A US citizen, he has worked for the Group for HSE COMMITTEE appointed as a Committee of the Board, oversees over 30 years and is the Chief Executive of The HSE committee is also not formally the running of all Senior Group operations.
A qualified engineer, Mikes previous appointed as a Committee of the Board, but positions within the Group included operational officially oversees all health, safety and The purpose of the Executive Committee roles at the two largest Flexonics businesses, environmental matters across the Group.
istoassist the Group Chief Executive in the Pathway and Bartlett.
performance of his duties, including: Throughout 2015, the members of this committee were: Mark Rollins Chairman until the development and implementation his retirement on 31 May 2015, David Squires ofstrategy, operational plans, policies, 6.
BINDI FOYLE Chairman from 1 June 2015, Mike Sheppard procedures and budgets: A Chartered Accountant, she joined the Chief Executive of Flexonics, Jerry Goodwin the monitoring of operating and financial Groupin 2006 as the Group Financial Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures, Controller.
In August 2014 she was appointed performance: Launie Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace Head of Investor Relations & Leadership Fluid Systems and James Pomeroy Group the assessment and control of risk: Development.
Prior to joining Senior, she held HSE Manager.
James Pomeroy left the Group the prioritisation and allocation of resources: a number of finance positions at Amersham plc on 31 December 2015 and the recruitment and GE Healthcare.
and process to find his successor is underway.
The Committee met three times during the year.
the monitoring of competitive forces in eacharea of operation.
DAVID BEAVAN The Committee is also responsible for the David took up the role of Group Head of 1.
DAVID SQUIRES consideration of all other matters not specifically Business Development in April 2014.
He joined See biography on page 39. reserved for consideration by the Board.
A report the Group in 2004, when he was appointed the on the activities of the Executive Committee is Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace BWT.
provided to the Board by the Group Chief Prior to joining Senior, David had general Executive at each Board meeting.
DEREK HARDING management experience within automotive See biography on page 39. and commercial aircraft 1st tier supplier The Committee is comprised of two members industries.
of the Board, David Squires and Derek Harding, together with Launie Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems, Jerry Goodwin Chief 3.
LAUNIE FLEMING Executive of Aerospace Structures, Mike A US citizen, he has worked for the Group for 8.
ANDREW BODENHAM Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, David around 18 years.
He joined the Executive See biography on page 39.
Beavan Group Head of Business Development Committee upon his appointment as Chief and Bindi Foyle Head of Investor Relations & Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems in Leadership Development.
Bindi Foyle also acted September 2008.
Prior to that appointment he had as Secretary to the Committee until Andrew been Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace SSP.
Bodenham Group Company Secretary was appointed to the Committee and became its Secretary on 1 January 2016.
JERRY GOODWIN Mark Rollins sat on the Executive Committee until his A US citizen, he joined the Group in June 2007 retirement from the Board on 31 May 2015, when he as the Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace was succeeded by David Squires.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures in December 2010.
Prior to joining Senior, Jerry served as Vice President and General Manager at C & D Zodiac, a composites aerospace manufacturing company.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41
