STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL STATEMENT The Terms of Reference TOR of the During the year, the Committee reviewed its Committee had not been subject to a full stance with regard to the disclosure of annual review for a number of years and following the bonus targets for Seniors executive Directors.
change of Group Chief Executive it was felt The policy of the Committee is not to disclose appropriate to revisit them to ensure that they specific targets while still commercially were still appropriate and unambiguous.
Taking into consideration comments amended TOR of the Committee can be found received from some shareholder bodies, as in the Corporate Governance area of the Senior well as the commercial issues, the Committee plc website www.
com within the agreed that they would continue not to disclose Committees of the Board section.
the specific targets for the year in which they operate.
However, from now on the specific In January 2015, the Committee reviewed the bonus for the year being reported on will be appropriateness of the performance conditions fully disclosed retrospectively: this information relating to the performance shares granted can be seen on page 63. under the Senior plc 2014 Long-term Incentive Plan the 2014 Plan.
Taking due Having taken due consideration of the consideration of the prevailing economic and development and performance of the Finance market conditions, the Committee decided that Director since his recruitment in 2013, the the performance conditions used for the grant Committee in line with the approved policy has DEAR SHAREHOLDER in 2014 were still suitably stretching for the decided in 2016 to regularise the quantum of Seniors primary strategic objective of creating 2015 award of performance shares.
However, the long term incentive grant and the pension long-term sustainable growth in shareholder having reviewed and considered the out turn of allowance with the other executive Director, to value has remained constant during 2015.
2015, the Companys strategic goals and the 150% and 20% of basic salary respectively.
Seniors culture of empowerment of current uncertainty in the markets, the The Committee believes these changes will aid autonomous, but collaborative, operations Committee has decided to amend the EPS the retention of a key executive.
working within a well-defined control performance condition for the performance framework is a key element to realising its We have retained the same structure as last shares to be granted in 2016 under the 2014 strategic goals.
Seniors variable remuneration years Remuneration Report, whereby it Plan: details which can be seen on page 68. arrangements for the executive Directors are in consists of three sections: In making this amendment, the Committee our view aligned with those of our considers the new targets are no less 1. this Annual Statement: shareholders, whereby executives are challenging in the light of current incentivised to meet both longand short-term 2. a P olicy Report, which describes the circumstances and within the approved earnings growth, as well as cash flow targets.
Companys policy for the Remuneration of Remuneration Policy.
executive and non-executive Directors and The Committee is satisfied that the Furthermore, the Committee reviewed the key isunchanged from that which was approved remuneration framework reinforces the link performance indicators KPIs for the 2015 by shareholders for three years at the 2014 between pay and performance and rewards annual bonus and it was agreed that the Annual General Meeting and which is not senior executives appropriately.
No changes to earnings per share and cash flow targets were subject to audit: and the Policy are being proposed for 2016, still appropriate and that the target levels were 3. t he Annual Report on Remuneration on however for ease of reference we have stretching without encouraging inappropriate included the Policy once again in the 2015 pages 60 to 68, produced in accordance levels of risk.
The outturn of the 2015 annual withthe 2013 Regulations and the relevant Annual Report, although we will only be inviting bonus for the executive Directors was 15% of shareholders to approve the Annual Report on provisions of the Listing Rules of the annual salary which is considerably lower than Financial Conduct Authority.
Parts of the Remuneration, in accordance with the Large 2014, which reflects the difficult trading and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Annual Report on Remuneration are subject conditions experienced throughout the year.
to audit, which provides details of the Accounts and Reports Amendment The vesting of long-term incentives has also Regulations 2013 the 2013 Regulations, at Directors emoluments, shareholdings, reduced, based on the Companys 2015 long-term incentive awards and pensions the AGM 2016. financial performance.
The Committee has not forthe year ended 31 December 2015 and exercised any discretion to adjust performance intentions for 2016. targets as a result of events that have taken place during the year.
The Committee will be reviewing the structure of the annual bonus Celia Baxter during 2016 to ensure that the performance Chair of the Remuneration Committee indicators remain appropriate.
Any potential changes would be proposed and implemented in 2017.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 53
