30 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Viability Statement In accordance with provision C2.2 In assessing the prospects of the this point, the Group would look of the UK Corporate Governance Group over the three-year period, the to address the issue by exploring a Code, published by the Financial Directors have also considered the range of options including, amongst Reporting Council in September Groups current financial position as others, a temporary or permanent 2014, the Directors have assessed well as its financial projections in the renegotiation of its debt covenants: the prospects of the Group over the context of the Groups debt facilities disposals of parts of the Groups three-year period to 31 December and associated covenants.
These operations to reduce net debt: and 2018.
The Directors believe that the financial projections are based on a or raising additional capital in the three-year period is appropriate bottom up Budget exercise for 2016 form of equity, subordinated debt or for Serco since it reflects the fact and 2017, and a more top down other such instruments.
that the Group has limited visibility view for 2018.
Subject to these qualifications, of contract bidding opportunities The Group is delivering on the and on the basis of the analysis beyond three years and that strategic priorities it set out at undertaken, the Directors have a approximately 30% of current year the time of the Rights Issue and reasonable expectation that the revenue relates to contracts where continuing to embed these into the Group will be able to continue in the contract term comes to an end business.
Crucially, the combination operation and meet its liabilities within three years.
Furthermore, of the proceeds of the Rights Issue as they fall due over the three-year the Group is in the early stages of and the disposal of our offshore period of their assessment.
In doing implementing a new strategy to turn private sector BPO business has so, it is recognised that such future its performance around.
In addition, enabled us to reduce net debt from assessments are subject to a level the three-year period also coincides 682m to 78m meaning that we of uncertainty that increases with with the maturity of the Revolving have greatly increased headroom on time and, therefore, future outcomes Credit Facility, which is in April 2019. our key financial covenants.
Going cannot be guaranteed or predicted Assessing the longer-term viability forward, given the weakness of the with certainty.
The Directors have of any company at this early stage contract pipeline, the Group is likely made the following key assumptions of new strategy implementation is to experience net revenue attrition in connection with this assessment: inevitably a challenge, particularly for a period of time, which will in turn there is no significant unexpected given the recent history of the Group impact profit and cash generation.
contract attrition and bid conversion as explained in previous shareholder Our base projections indicate that rates are not significantly lower communications including the our debt facilities and projected than anticipated: Prospectus issued by the Company in headroom are adequate to support relation to the Rights Issue and the the Group over the next three years.
the Group is able to execute its new onerous contracts that exist within strategy and deliver forecast margin The Groups financial plan has been the Group.
improvements: and stress-tested against severe but During 2015, the Board carried out plausible scenarios, on their own the Group is not subject to any a robust assessment of the principal and in combination, to evaluate material penalties or direct and risks facing the Group, including those the future viability of the Group.
It indirect costs and or losses arising that would threaten the execution of is unlikely, but not impossible, that from the current SFO investigation.
its strategy, business model, future the crystallisation of a single risk performance, solvency and liquidity.
would test the future viability of Management and mitigations of the Group: however, unsurprisingly, those principal risks have been taken and as with many companies, it into consideration when considering is possible to construct scenarios the future viability of the Group.
The where either multiple occurrences of Groups principal risk review, as set the same risk, or single occurrences out on pages 16 to 29, considers the of different significant risks, could impact of these principal risks and the put pressure on the Groups ability mitigating controls that are in place.
to meet its financial covenants.
