Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 04 Chief Executives review CUSTOMER CUL TURE Liv Gareld, Chief Executive, WV WKH HQG RI P UVW HDU DV &KLHI [HFXWLYH RI Severn Trent and I have enjoyed every minute of the challenge of getting our business in the best SRVVLEOH VKDSH IRU WKH QH[W YH HDUV We are now facing the future with confidence, despite one of the toughest price settlements in our history.
When I took up my role in 2014, I was clear that in order to create the most trusted company in our sector we needed to focus on transforming our culture, driving operational excellence and putting customers at the heart of what we do.
Its what successful businesses do, its what we all want and itcreates value for our customers and our shareholders.
The changes we have made over the last year have built those foundations, and I have been out to meet everyone in our business personally, to listen to their views and share our vision of the kind of awesome company we want to create.
Its been a huge journey condensed down into a single year, but I genuinely believe that creating the right culture is how well get the whole organisation aligned as one and ready to deliver for the future.
Performance in 2014 15 Our performance over the last year has demonstrated where we are strong and the areas where we need to drive improvement.
Looking at our improvement areas first, no one in our business is in any doubt that water quality is a key focus area for us.
Weve made progress in the year, but our performance hasnt been as good as we would like it to be.
So we have put together a seven point improvement plan and reprioritised 35 million of investment to replace and refurbish water quality assets nearing the end of their life, which will also provide a greater degree of resilience in both our networks and to our water treatment works.
We will also put significant focus on investing in the professional expertise of our people and developing our process analytics to improve the reliability and availability ofour assets.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05 Lowest average combined bill 2014 15 Leakage over AMP5 efficiencies identied 333 -1 0% 300m The other area where we think we can do better is around 12 We have also improved our customer service performance.
hour interruptions to water supply to our customers.
We are During the year we created approximately 100 new frontline good at managing three hour interruptions, but we are not roles and have focused on resolving customer issues faster.
as sharp as we could be on the bigger, more complex events.
Together with the lowest average bills in Britain, our customers Weve done a lot of work over the last year to improve on that increasingly feel that they are receiving good value for money, and we will continue to invest and use better technology to help which is an encouraging sign that we are getting the balance our teams to improve our service for customers.
right: although, of course, there is much more for us to do.
On waste water services, we are very good at the majority of All of this makes us confident that Severn Trent will be one of measures, but if theres one area where we can do a better job, the winners in the new world of ODIs from 1 April 2015, and in its around sewer blockages and we have set the bar very high areas where we arent currently doing as well as we would like, for the next few years.
we have an opportunity to improve and then earn rewards.
Aside from these matters, there are also many highlights from A year of transformation the last year, where we are pleased with our performance.
My fundamental belief is that successful organisations are customer focused ones, so we are focusing on operational Leakage performance has been very good over recent years excellence and embedding the customer in all that we do.
and we have hit our target of a 10% reduction over AMP5.
Weve set ourselves tough targets and were challenging ourselves The strategy we have put in place over the last year is designed to improve further.
We remain confident about our continuing to deliver an outstanding customer experience, the best value performance where we are strong and on many of our waste service and environmental leadership.
In doing so we will water measures we are already upper quartile in the industry.
create long term value for all our stakeholders, our customers, our communities, our employees and our investors.
Weve been recognised by the Environment Agency as the only 4 rated company in 2014 across the entire sector for This is the bigger vision and the bigger context which is driving environmental performance.
Were also proud of our focus on our thinking as we look forward to the future.
and commitment to catchment management and we are one We want to be in the best possible shape to deliver our of the few companies to have put in serious investment in the strategy so we made the decision over the year to create a coming five year period.
different organisational structure and put in place a new management team.
No one else in our sector has a structure like this and we believe it will give us an edge in an increasingly competitive world.
Together with the lowest average bills in Britain, our customers increasingly feel that they are receiving good value for money, which is an encouraging sign that we are getting the balance right.
