Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Market and industry overview continued This will give business customers increased choice and encourage companies to provide a better service to them.
An evolving industry The non-regulated market We expect the industry landscape to continue to evolve in the Our non-regulated markets provide additional opportunities coming years.
In addition to the opening up of non-household for growth in the next few years.
We are already active in the retail competition, as discussed under The non-regulated UK operating services market providing waste water and water market, theres scope for more competition in the wholesale treatment for clients.
We also have a small presence in the business.
For example, we believe customers would benefit Scottish water retail market.
Competition for non-household from a greater role for water trading, which would allow retail in England will open up in April 2017 and we are preparing companies with surplus water to sell it to those with resource for this.
This will give business customers increased choice constraints, saving the significant capital investment required and encourage companies to provide a better service to them.
for capital solutions such as desalination plants.
We are positioning our business to succeed in this market and working with the rest of the industry to support OpenWater.
The regulatory regime also makes consolidation less difficult OpenWater is the body charged by the government with than before.
This could encourage companies to take innovative developing the market rules, framework and systems that will approaches to consolidation, for example by merging their be needed for effective non-household retail competition.
wholesale operations to deliver efficiencies, while demerging their retail businesses.
In the US operating services market, the large majority of customers are municipalities which are looking to outsource the management of their treatment facilities to companies such as Severn Trent.
There are signs that the market could create new opportunities, as municipalities turn to the private sector for expertise and funding in response to increasing demands from customers and regulators.
We are looking at how we can take part in this market, as it develops.
The renewable energy market also has growth potential for us.
We see scope to increase our electricity generation from sources such as food waste digestion and solar, allowing us to sell any electricity not used by our regulated business to National Grid.
Similarly, we can sell surplus gas generated by our waste treatment works to the grid.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 CASE STUDY For example, since September Working in partnership to 2013 weve been working with protect our watercourses.
farmers in two catchment areas, to reduce their use of pesticides Our customers top priority is having containing metaldehyde.
a reliable supply of high quality water.
To achieve that at an affordable price, Treatment of this chemical with we have to protect our watercourses conventional methods is difficult.
Wevetherefore engaged with farmers and encouraged them to The traditional way to tackle raw work together with us.
By incentivising water pollution is to invest in new them to use alternative treatments treatment processes, which is often and rewarding them for reducing expensive.
However, by working in pollution, weve cut metaldehyde partnership with landowners and levels in the two areas by up to 90%.
users, were stopping pollution at Were now looking to expand this source at a fraction of the cost.
approach during AMP6, with the aim of having 12 successful catchment management schemes by 2020.
FUTURE IS SUSTAINABLE Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18 Regulated Our business model The role of Severn Trent Water Limited Severn Trent Water Limited is a regulated business.
We work The company earns a return on its asset base.
We can within five year planning cycles, with customer prices generate additional returns if we outperform Ofwats setby our economic regulator, Ofwat.
This allows us to fund assumptions by becoming more efficient in the delivery of our our investment programme and cover an efficient level of capital programme, managing our operational costs more operating costs.
effectively, and by nancing our business at a lower cost.
We are also subject toregulation by two quality regulators Our operating performance is assessed and benchmarked the Drinking Water Inspectorate and the Environment Agency.
against the sector by Ofwat.
Over the period 2015 2020 there will be scope to earn additional income, or incur penalties, Our prices and asset base are adjusted by RPI ination each based on ourperformance as discussed on page11.
In certain circumstances we can ask for prices to be reviewed within the five year period due to costs associated with notied items orrelevant changes of circumstance.
Customer bad debt and the adoption of private drains and sewers PDaS are included inthese categories for the current veyearperiod.
Severn Trent has absorbed the costs associated with PDaS and has not sought to review prices for this reason during 20102015.
1 Water is collected abstraction We pay the Environment Agency for the water we collect from reservoirs, rivers and underground aquifers across our region.
2 6 Waste water is treated Water and returned to the environment is cleaned Waste water is carefully screened, ltered Our 134 groundwater and and treated in our 1,019 sewage treatment 18 surface water treatment works to meet stringent environmental works clean raw water to the standards.
We pay the Environment highest standards making Agency an annual consent fee it safe to drink.
547m to return the treated water to the water system.
Networks invested and maintained As an investment led industry, our capital programme this year was 547million, or around 165 per connected property.
Waste water Clean water is collected isdistributed Our 92,000 km of sewers and A 47,000 km network of pipes pumping stations collect waste and enclosed storage reservoirs water from homes and businesses, bring a continuous supply and surface water from outside of clean water right to our properties and drains.
3 5 Customers enjoy our services We bill 3.3 million businesses and households a year.
Inreturn, we provide a safe, reliable supply of water and the collection of waste water 24 hours a day, 365 days ayear.
4 C T N A E P I M T T A S L E I V N N V I E L S A T T I M P E A N C T Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 Life cycle of water 1.
Waste water is collected cleaned is distributed our services is collected treated and returned to the environment Regulatory framework Ofwat Ofwat Ofwat Ofwat Ofwat Ofwat Natural England Drinking Water Drinking Water Consumer Council Environment Natural England Inspectorate Inspectorate for Water Agency Natural Resources Natural Resources Wales Health and Safety Health and Safety Drinking Water Health and Safety Wales Executive Executive Inspectorate Executive Environment Environment Agency Agency Health and Safety Health and Safety Executive Executive Risks Failure of key assets Failure of key assets The performance Failure to improve Failure to deal with We may suffer may result indamage or processes may of our distribution our customer service customer waste operational to property, injury result in adecline network may fall and meet customer effectively may lead failurein our waste to people and or in water quality, below the standards expectations.
water operations disruption to our disruption in our expected by DWI which results in Principal Risk Ref 1 Principal Risk Ref7 ability to supply our supply to customers or Ofwat, resulting damage to the local customers.
or failure to meet in poor service to environment.
our customers and Principal Risk Ref 6 Principal Risk Ref 7 increased leakage and 7 Principal Risk Ref 6 from our network.
and 7 Principal Risk Ref 7 Hazardous processes Failure of one of our We may be unable to Hazardous orchemicals may key assets could respond effectively processes may result inpeoplebeing result in disruption to to the opening up result inpeoplebeing injured.
retail market to Principal Risk Ref 6 Principal Risk Ref 7 Principal Risk Ref 7 competition.
Principal Risk Ref 2 Investment and maintenance Networks invested and maintained Our capital programme this year was 547million, or around 165 per connected property, reecting a decreased investment year on year 20132014: 602 million in our water and sewerage networks.
This included nding and xing more leaks and reducing the number ofsupply interruptions, improvements to our water andsewage treatment plants and upgrades to our sewer network to reduce incidents of sewer ooding.
We fund this investment programme from the profits we generate, and also by borrowing money from the capital markets.
Capital investment is added on to our asset base, called the Regulated Capital Value RCV.
Our asset base also rises in line with ination each year.
The returns that we generate for shareholders on that asset base are set by our economic regulator, Ofwat, over five year planning cycles.
We can increase these returns by outperformance in future years through Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs.
Regulatory framework Risks Ofwat We operate within a complex legal and regulatory environment Health and Safety Executive as a water and sewerage service provider in England and Wales.
Environment Agency Asaresult we face a number of risks including those associated with Drinking Water Inspectorate possible non-compliance with our legal and regulatory framework, and enforcement by our regulators e. g. DWI, EA and Ofwat and failure to meet the terms of our regulatory contract as set out in our agreed business plan for 20152020.
We also face risks associated with possible future changes in legislation which may result in our business plans becoming unsustainable or uneconomic.
Principal Risk Ref 3, 4 and 6 Principal Risk Ref 1 and 2 on page 40.
Principal Risk Ref 3, 4, and 5 on page 41.
Principal Risk Ref 6, 7 and 8 on page 42.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20 Regulated business performance review Our goal is to provide a reliable service that our customers, Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism SIM is an important communities and investors can trust.
This will enable us indicator of how good our customer service is.
The SIM score to generate long term sustainable growth, by delivering an has two elements qualitative and quantitative.
During the year, outstanding customer experience, the best value service and we improved both parts of our score.
The qualitative element captures our customers views of In this section, we explain how our regulated business ourservice.
This year, our qualitative score, as an average performed during the last 12 months, as well as the over the whole year, was 4.36.
This is based on Ofwats new actions were taking to position us for success over the next methodology for 2014 15 and ranks us sixth among the regulatory cycle.
18companies in our sector, up from thirteenth last year.
In the final wave of results we came third a great foundation Embedding customers at the heart of what we do for continued improvement through AMP6.
Over the last In recent years, weve worked hard to improve our service.
12 months, weve introduced around 35 initiatives to deliver These efforts are reected in rising customer satisfaction abetter customer experience.
However, we recognise that weve got a lot further to go and we intend to make significant progress during AMP6.
For many people, being able to afford our services is key.
Household budgets remain under pressure.
Were therefore pleased to have had the lowest average combined water and Providing the service our sewerage bills in Britain for the last six years.
Our average bill customers want means we in 2014 15 was 333, which is lower in real terms than at the start of AMP5.
need the right resource, Were confident that well continue to have the lowest bills for so weve added approximately the next five years, with customers seeing further reductions in real terms.
At the same time, were introducing an enhanced 100 front-line roles.
special tariff, which will offer customers discounts of up to 90%, depending on their circumstances.
Well continue our other The quantitative metric reflects the number of customers who support for our customers, such as our WaterSure tariff for have had to contact us.
Our performance here improved by 26.6%.
those in financial need, which caps bills for people who use a lot of water because they are ill or have a large family.
Well also We also capture customer satisfaction data by directly be introducing water health checks, to promote the support surveying thousands of customers each month to get available and make sure customers are on the right tariff.
To broaden our understanding of our Every year this will mean that help is available to around 50,000 performance, weve expanded these surveys to cover our customers who are struggling nancially.
Our partnership customer operations contact centre, as well as the billing with Coventry Citizens Advice Bureau is an important part of contact centre and weve seen our scores steadily increase.
Consistent with rising customer satisfaction, weve seen a 20% Keeping bills affordable also means ensuring that everyone reduction in complaints this year.
An important contributor was who can pay does, so they dont increase the burden on others.
the new resolutions team, which looks at the underlying causes This year, weve improved bad debt levels to around 2.0%.
of complaints and ensures we x them.
This continues to be one of the best performances in the industry.
Weve made more effective use of our contact centres, making more calls to customers to engage with them and help them to manage their liabilities.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 1.
We have achieved an underlying improvement in interruptions to supply, reducing the average number of minutes that customers are without supply from 16 minutes to 9 minutes 54 seconds.
We answer at least 80% of calls within 20 seconds.
Providing the best possible service to our customers means we Driving operational excellence and  need the right level of resource, so weve added approximately Our overall operational performance continued to improve 100 frontline roles.
Weve created a customer strategy and during the year.
Weve developed a culture of delivering against experience department, bringing together the training, quality performance metrics and have achieved a stable or improved and complaint handling functions from across our contact performance in 12 of Ofwats 14 non financial KPIs during the centres.
This gives us a more consistent approach to best last year.
In addition, weve reviewed the role of our frontline The quality of our drinking water is high but our performance managers, to help them to coach and develop our agents.
is not as consistent as we would like.
In 2014, our overall Another important focus this year has been reducing the work compliance with the DWIs quality standards was 99.96%.
The changes weve made are helping us to meet However, we had 41 significant events, according to the industry standard of answering at least 80% of calls within categorisations by the DWI, against a target of 15, while the 20 seconds, which we didnt always manage in the first part serviceability of our water non infrastructure assets above of the year.
Were also responding to customer emails more ground assets such as water production works is rated as quickly, cutting the time it takes us to answer from five days deteriorating.
To improve performance, weve undertaken a toless than 12 hours.
significant amount of work at our water treatment works and boreholes, inspecting the sites and increasing our maintenance Improving customer service means offering more ways to and capital replacement.
We also increased our programme of interact with us, so customers can choose the channel that water pipe cleaning, from around 1,000 km in a typical year to suits them best.
We want to be a digitally savvy organisation, so around 1,500 km last year.
weve invested heavily in our capabilities this year.
This includes enhancing our web and mobile offerings, making them easier In relation to leakage we have achieved our regulatory and more attractive to use.
As part of this, weve been trialling commitment for the fourth year running.
Performance this web chat, which we plan to expand during the coming year.
year benefited from the continuation of our mains replacement programme and our new way of working, which we call Valuing Going forward, well help our customers to adopt new Every Drop.
This came from our Safer Better Faster approach channels, by using analytics to gain insight into why they contact to continuous improvement, which we use to diagnose us and how we can encourage them to self-serve.
As part of issues, redesign our processes, train our people and equip our digital strategy, weve also been investing in understanding them differently.
the key points when our customers contact us.
By analysing how best we can engage with them at each point, well know Valuing Every Drop has signicantly reduced our time to how to deliver the brilliant service they expect.
process and react to leaks.
By the end of the year, we were xing 38% of all leaks within 24 hours, up from around 25% Enhancing intelligent use of customer data and the way we use earlier in the year.
it will be an important part of our approach during AMP6.
Were investing in a new customer relationship management system, We have also achieved an underlying improvement in which will draw together customer information from across our interruptions to supply, reducing the average number of systems.
This will help our agents to resolve more queries first minutes that customers are without supply from 16 minutes to time.
Increasing our knowledge of each customer will also help around 10 minutes.
However, a single very large mains burst, us to predict their likely needs, so we can offer them a more which affected 2,111 properties early in the year, meant that the relevant and personalised service.
number of properties with a supply interruption longer than 12 hours was 3,365, compared with 2,699 in 2013 14.
Weve Developing customers trust also means engaging with our continued to work to reduce the impact of interruptions, for communities and being increasingly open and transparent to example by faster despatch of emergency tankers.
Were also using channels such as social media to keep customers better informed about issues that may affect their service, so they know when they are likely to be resolved and any action they need to take.
We are delighted that we are already ranked in the top ten in the empathy index for UK companies using Twitter.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22 23 CASE STUDY FUTURE IS As its Birminghams main water Securing Birminghams RESILIENT supply, we can only turn it off for short water supply for the periods, giving us a maximum of three days at a time to work on it.
To give the aqueduct the attention The Elan Valley Aqueduct has brought it needs, well have to provide a water to Birmingham for more than a second major source of water for century.
Now we need to modernise Birmingham.
That means investing and refurbish it, so it can serve around 340 million in AMP6, so our customers for at least the next we can take water from the River 100 years.
Severn during its peak ow in the The aqueduct carries water 74 miles winter months and pump it 25km from Wales.
Its an amazing piece of to our treatment works at Frankley.
Victorian engineering but it wasnt This complex project is our biggest designed with long term maintenance ever.
It will allow us to rebuild entire in mind.
sections of the aqueduct, giving it another century of life and a secure water supply for the people of Birmingham.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24 Regulated business performance review continued Although very rare, internal sewer ooding is one of the worst HELPING OUR ENGINEERS TO WORK SMARTER things that can happen to our customers, so we were pleased to have further reduced the number of customers who suffered repeated ooding.
Weve continued to invest in capital solutions, enabling us to protect 192 properties from the risk ofrepeated ooding this year and a total of 746 over AMP5.
As our overall waste water infrastructure below ground assets serviceability assessment by Ofwat remains marginal, weve continued to focus on the areas that affect this.
We reduced the number of sewer blockages by 8.4%, through initiatives such as First Time Resolution.
Rather than simply unblocking the sewer, we provide a more holistic customer service by sending a sophisticated vehicle, capable of diagnosing and removing the problem, surveying the sewer and carrying out minor repairs.
Weve also trialled different ways of engaging with customers, to raise awareness of the problems Were equipping all our engineers with robust and caused by putting the wrong things down the sewer.
The devices include satellite navigation, connectivity through video calling and instant Pollution incidents happen when there are unplanned messaging, and administrative functions such as discharges of water or sewage into the environment.
Our engineers will soon be able the Environment Agency assessed our overall environmental performance as 4, the highest score possible.
We aim to access job and customer histories, so they can serve to maintain this strong performance by further reducing our customers better and complete more jobs first time.
By working smarter, well enable our managers to spend more time in the eld, while motivating and empowering We had a record-breaking year for compliance at our waste our workforce.
water treatment works, directly contributing to the health of our rivers.
Only one of our 704 consented sites failed to reach its compliance limits, giving us 99.9% compliance, up from Adapting how we work 99.29% in 2013 14.
Weve continued to invest to maintain this During the year, we took an important step in preparing strong performance.
for AMP6, by bringing together our water and waste water Our pollution performance also benefited from our Safer wholesale operations.
Combining them enables us to take Better Faster approach.
During the year, we ran a series of 12 advantage of cross skilling between water and waste, to reduce week improvement interventions.
This included developing our support and management costs, and to put more emphasis and launching an e-learning package for everyone working on on network control and asset management.
This helps us to our sewerage infrastructure, including our subcontractors.
better understand risks, target our investment more effectively This educates them on how to spot problems, react quickly and drive improved performance for customers.
Being efficient andbetter resolve customer issues.
also requires us to adapt the way we work.
For example, were standardising our operating processes, while ensuring that we can adapt them quickly in response to new ideas.
Technology has an important role as we look to improve our performance during AMP6.
Weve started to rollout the next generation of handheld smart devices to our work crews, to give them better information about the sites theyre visiting and the assets theyll be working on, so they can resolve problems more effectively.
They can also update the data on our system, to ensure its as accurate as possible.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Renewable energy which is self generated allows us to keep costs down and bills low for customers.
Were also developing apps to enhance what we call the This years expenditure also included 60 million of investment colleague journey.
This helps us to provide the information we brought forward from AMP6.
We used this to improve our our people need at each stage of responding to and completing sewer ooding performance and to invest in mains resilience.
Theyll be able to complete jobs faster and first time, It also enabled us to accelerate some of our planned water improving life for our customers.
As part of this, were asking quality schemes for AMP6 by 18 months, by carrying out our people to tell us what apps they want, so they can do their feasibility studies and design work ahead of schedule.
Our investment programme for the next five years will total A new system weve introduced this year allows our customers 3.3 billion based on 2012 13 prices and will deliver further to give us immediate feedback on our work crews quality of benets for customers, in terms of service quality and value for service and workmanship.
This allows us to talk in real time money, as well as improving the environment.
Well spread this to work crews about where theyre doing well and how they investment across our asset base, to improve its serviceability, can improve, so we can shorten improvement timescales and reliability and resilience.
share best practice more quickly.
The largest single scheme in our plan, and the largest by any Were continuing to invest in our telemetry system, so we can company during AMP6, is the first phase of the Birmingham get more information on the performance of our pipes and Resilience Scheme.
A major source of Birminghams water treatment sites.
By developing our analytics capability and is the Elan Valley aqueduct, which is more than 100 years old.
combining this data with other information, such as weather Over the next five years, well be constructing a scheme to patterns, well be able to be more predictive about future allow us to abstract water from the River Severn and treat it at performance, so we can tackle problems before they affect Frankley, providing a new supply for Birmingham.
AMP6 sees Ofwats KPIs replaced by ODIs, which allow Innovation has always been important for us.
Weve brought companies to earn more for outperformance or suffer penalties together our water and waste research and development R&D for underperformance.
The ODIs reect our customers teams, to give us an integrated programme that supports our priorities and our focus on them will ensure we deliver better Wholesale Operations business more efficiently.
Were now value, better services and a healthier environment over the reviewing our R&D plans and making sure we only focus on next five years.
Given our track record of delivering against projects that contribute to our customer commitments either in performance metrics we are confident that were well placed to the AMP6 plan or in the future.
perform well against the ODIs and to succeed in AMP6.
Our AMP6 plan requires us to achieve 372 million of Investing responsibly for sustainable growth efficiencies at 2012 13 prices, which is a significant challenge.
In 2014 15, we successfully completed our AMP5 investment Excellent procurement will be an important component of programme.
Investment of 547.4 million during the year these savings and weve developed joint efficiency plans with brought the total for the last five years to 2.6 billion.
our One Supply Chain partners.
This will help us to deliver Our 2014 15 programme included: our capital programme more effectively, by standardising investment in mains replacement: the products we buy and by planning more carefully with our suppliers, so we spend less time on-site and work more improving the resilience of our water treatment works, efficiently while were there.
Were also looking at our second including our largest at Frankley, in Birmingham: level suppliers, so we can understand them better and work further improvements at our waste water treatment more directly with them, where it adds value.
works, to ensure we continue to comply with regulatory requirements: Before we commit to capital expenditure, were investigating expenditure on sewer replacement and sewer ooding whether we could solve the problem by operating our existing schemes: and assets better or differently.
We need to become ever more efficient and only build the assets we need to solve the continuing to grow our renewable energy assets within our problems were facing, and get the best value.
At the same regulated business, by installing more combined heat and time, were developing methods to help us understand whether power plants.
Capex or Opex will enable us to deliver the best outcome an essential component of the new Totex regime in AMP6.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26 Regulated business performance review continued In AMP6, well invest in the next stage of enhancing our Our long term impact on the environment also depends on treatment works.
This includes 234 million to help us meet the our customers.
With this in mind, we put considerable effort requirements of the Water Framework Directive: in what we into educating our current and future customers, so people believe is the most ambitious programme in the sector, well be understand how to use water efficiently and what can be safely looking to make the biggest impact on as many watercourses disposed of in our sewers.
As part of this, we run a schools as possible.
education programme, which teaches children each year about the value of water.
Weve also continued our volunteering Our catchment management approach allows us to work in programme.
This engages our local communities in what partnership with our stakeholders to protect our raw water we do, whilst improving our peoples skills and building sources from pollution.
For example, weve encouraged working relationships.
farmers to produce clean run-off from their land, as well as removing metaldehyde from one of our catchments.
The suppliers we work with also have an important part to play This approach is both better for the environment and for our in our sustainability efforts.
While weve always taken care to customers, as it reduces our need to spend money to clean select suppliers with, for example, strong health and safety affected water.
Weve also agreed to host two partnerships, records, we havent specifically focused on other aspects of covering the Tame, Anker and Mease rivers and the Lower their sustainability performance.
To address this, we have Trent and Erewash catchments.
Working as a partnership with a new programme to review our suppliers sustainability other industries, regulators and NGOs allows us to have a more credentials, so that we understand their performance in key positive impact than when we work on our own.
areas such as the environment and human rights.
Treating water and sewage is energy intensive.
The majority Creating a great place to work of our carbon emissions come from pumping water around To achieve our objectives, we need Severn Trent to be our network and treating sewage at our works.
This year a greatplace to work, and for our people to be exible, we reduced our emissions by 4% to 491 kilotonnes of CO e. 2 toembrace new ways of working and skills and to focus We also met our 2009 commitment to have no net increase in onourcustomers needs.
emissions, with an overall 12% reduction over the period since This was a year of considerable change, as we positioned the this commitment.
More information on our greenhouse gas business to succeed during AMP6.
We put our water and waste impact can be found in the Directors report on pages 87 and 88. water operations into one wholesale and engineering function.
Renewable energy is an important part of our approach and a We also created a Chief Customer officer role to bring our number of our processes use by-products or essential features customer and digital ambitions together.
A key part of these of our water or sewage treatment.
In 20142015, renewable changes was to reduce the number of layers in our organisation energy provided 28% of our regulated businesss energy needs.
This gives our people more control over their We intend to increase this further over the next few years.
roles and empowers them to do more.
Empowerment and More on our renewable energy initiatives can be found in the trust will be important themes for us going forward and we non-regulated performance review on page 35. have teams looking at how we can further embed them into our culture.
The organisational change also reduced the number of roles in our business by approximately 500.
We consulted widely with employees during the process and ran a comprehensive outplacement programme, to support those of our people whose roles were removed.
Despite the amount of change, we ran our annual employee engagement survey during this period and achieved our highest ever completion rate of 85%.
The survey showed that our people remain highly committed, with our engagement index coming out at 79%, compared with 81% last year.
This is a very creditable performance in the circumstances.
We are determined to improve our scores next year.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 1.
Turning Severn Trent into an awesome company.
Visible and accessible leadership is key to building trust.
Protecting our peoples health and wellbeing is one of our core responsibilities.
Our lost time injury rate during the year was 0.21 per 100,000 hours worked.
Highlights from the survey included our employees strong TURNING SEVERN TRENT INTO AN loyalty to Severn Trent, how much they enjoy their work and AWESOME COMPANY their willingness to go the extra mile for customers.
However, our people would like more opportunities to share their views before we make changes that affect their jobs and they want more inspirational leadership from our senior team.
Our engagement survey highlights the importance of our senior team being visible and accessible across the business, so we are complementing what already happens with leadership led sessions called Friday Focus at our largest sites.
This will allow our people further opportunities to ask our leaders questions about anything they want to complement their day-to-day dealings with their team managers.
In addition, our CEO, Liv Gareld, hosted more than 60 sessions during the year, meeting more than 5,000 of our people.
She used these sessions to explain our performance challenges in AMP6 and how we need to adapt to meet them.
These sessions were extremely well received by attendees and helped to align our With the challenges of AMP6 fast approaching, our CEO people on the areas of focus.
Liv Gareld met more than 5,000 employees on her Awesome Company Tour.
Over more than 60 sessions, As the world becomes more complex, we need to have more talented people in our organisation and provide she engaged our people in our journey to become an more opportunities for them to reach their potential.
She set out how well delight our Our apprenticeship programme brings in new talent each customers and give them the cleanest water, with brilliant year and we currently have 80 apprentices.
Weve adapted people who work safely and take a digital first approach.
the programme so that it now takes three years instead of The outcome will be fab nancials, which will fund our four, by changing the way we train our apprentices and their plans and reward our investors.
college work, so they can reach the required technical level faster.
Our graduate programme is also going from strength to strength.
We took on 27 graduates in 20142015, our largest intake for some years.
As at May 2015, Severn Trent Water Limited is one of thejobscrowds Top 100 Companies for Graduates to Work for in 20152016 ranking at no.
Thejobscrowd is the only graduate employer ranking based on realtime feedback and reviews from current graduates, so reects actual graduate employee engagement and experience.
As the only water company represented in the larger intake category, this is a great result for the first year of entering the survey.
The performance challenges we face in AMP6 are greater than in AMP5, so weve redesigned our performance framework.
Our goal is to inspire everyone to achieve great performance, with a clear plan of how they can develop the skills and behaviours needed to achieve performance excellence.
Individuals will discuss and review their performance every quarter to identify successes and areas where improvements can be made.
Were aiming to create a culture thats performance led, and which encourages our people to achieve their full potential.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28 Regulated business performance review continued We also need leaders who can challenge and engage.
TRAINING THE ENGINEERS OF THE FUTURE During the year, we completed our Leading for Performance programme, which aims to make leaders confident in driving high performance and creating an environment ofempowerment.
In total, weve trained 400 managers.
With our greater focus on performance comes the need to recognise and reward it.
Our employee awards scheme reinforces a culture of continuous improvement and recognition, with more than 500 people nominated this year.
We also offer exible benets, which are very popular.
For example, employees can buy or sell holidays to suit their needs.
Most of our people are shareholders in Severn Trent, meaning they benefit directly from our good performance.
Nearly 48% of those eligible have joined our Sharesave scheme.
Protecting our peoples health and wellbeing is one of our Severn Trent Water apprentice maintenance technician, core responsibilities.
Our lost time injury rate was 0.21 Hannah Black is one of 80 young people who has joined per 100,000 hours worked, which is the same as last year.
us in operational apprentice roles.
For Hannah it made Our performance remains industry leading but is not as good perfect sense to become an apprentice giving her an as we hoped for, given our considerable focus on health and opportunity to learn whilst she earned money to kick start safety.
Minor accidents are a continued reminder of the need to her career.
New apprentices will also gain a brand new remain focused and the need to refresh our approach to health Trailblazer qualication, which weve designed with our and wellbeing.
We continue to prioritise reductions in minor industry colleagues and the Sector Skills Council.
accidents, such as slips, trips and falls, as well as safety in our supply chain.
In 2014 15 we ended the year with a RIDDOR score of 0.12 on our major construction programme delivered by our One Supply Chain team.
This is 40% better than the construction industry average and 25% better than the industry benchmark programme of work the London 2012 Olympics.
Were also creating a stronger central health and safety function, which will help to direct how our operational teams should work and provide more assurance that theyre doing the right things.
We also address employees wellbeing, paying attention to factors such as workplace stress and other mental health issues.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 1.
We sponsor the Big Bang Fair, which provides 719 year olds with a fun and educational experience to help inspire them towards careers using their science and maths subjects.
Weve taken action to encourage diversity among job applicants, for example by revamping our recruitment website to prole a broader range of employees and addressing the language we We take a long term view use in our job descriptions.
Weve been successful in attracting more female graduates, which will give us a greater female of our business, so were talent pool for future senior management team appointments.
However, we have more work to do in attracting more female big supporters of the science, apprentices for operational roles.
technology, engineering and More information on our gender diversity can be found in the Nominations Committee report on pages 61 and 62. maths agenda in education.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee report on pages 66 to 68 contains information on human rights issues for the group.
We recognise that diversity and inclusion are important for our success and have made them a business imperative over We take a long term view of our business, so were big the last 18 months.
As a customer focused organisation, we supporters of promoting science, technology, engineering and need our workforce to reect the customers and communities maths in education.
We encourage young people to study these we serve, so we can understand and respond to their needs.
subjects, so they can become the engineers and technicians Our workforce remains slightly more diverse than the sector of the future.
For example, we support initiatives such as average, with female employees making up 30.4% of the total, Tomorrows Engineers and work with universities and technical compared with 26% across the industry.
7.8% of our employees colleges to make their curriculums more relevant to industry.
are black, Asian and minority ethnic BAME, against an We also support the Big Bang, a national programme to get industry average of 3.4%.
children interested in technology and science careers.
To help us make meaningful progress during AMP6, we have Outlook prioritised three key areas: During 2014 15, weve put in place the foundations for success in AMP6.
We have a plan that will deliver better value and women in operational leadership positions: better services for customers and a healthier environment for women and BAME people in engineering positions: and all.
By achieving our plan, well deliver long term sustainable BAME people in technical operator positions.
growth and real benets for our customers, communities and investors.
We continue to take action to improve diversity, for example by training managers in how to interview effectively and fairly.
More than 400 managers have been through this training, which has a strong focus on unconscious bias in the recruitment process.
More than 130 leaders in our Wholesale Operations business have attended awareness-raising sessions, focusing on the benets of diverse teams and building an inclusive environment.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30 31 CASE STUDY FUTURE IS RENE WABLE By digesting this food waste, were Using food waste preventing around 8,000 tonnes of to power our processes.
carbon dioxide emissions each year.
Thats equivalent to taking 3,300 At our Coleshill sewage treatment cars off the road.
And were enabling works, were turning food waste into local businesses to save money and enough electricity to make the site meet their environmental goals.
The National Exhibition Centre is one Weve invested 13 million in an of the first to send its food waste to anaerobic digestion plant, which uses Coleshill.
Well be taking around 120 food waste from local businesses to tonnes of its waste each year, helping create methane gas.
We then convert to ensure it sends zero to landll.
this gas to green energy, sufficient to power over 4,000 homes or the whole of the works and more.
Nothing is wasted, with plastic packaging going for recycling and the leftover material becoming fertiliser for local elds.
