Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or nor its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred terminate upon, a change of control of the Company, such as political expenditure in the financial year under review.
commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these is Referendums Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on are now contained in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, the business of the group as a whole.
There are no agreements shareholder authority is required for political donations to be between the Company and its directors or employees that made or political expenditure to be incurred by the company provide for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that or any of its subsidiaries in the EU and disclosure of any such occurs because of a takeover bid.
payment must be made in the Annual Report.
The legislation gives a wide denition of what constitutes political donations Substantial shareholdings and political expenditure including sponsorship, subscriptions, As at 31 March 2015 the Company had been notied in payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fullling public accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency duties and support for bodies representing the business Rules of the following major shareholdings: community in policy review or reform.
of ordinary Percentage of voting therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as shares of rights and issued 17 a precautionary measure to allow the Company to continue Name of Holder 97 19p each share capital supporting the community and such organisations without Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% inadvertently breaching the legislation.
Legal & General Group Plc 9,523,698 3.99% At the 2014 AGM, shareholders gave the Company authority to make political donations or to incur political expenditure As at 21 May 2015, the Company had been notied of the in the EU which would not ordinarily be regarded as political following holdings of voting rights in the ordinary share capital donations up to an aggregate annual limit of 150,000 for the of the Company: Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% : Legal & Company and its subsidiaries.
Pursuant to those authorities, General Group Plc 9,523,698 3.99%.
during the year ended 31 March 2015 the group incurred costs of nil 2014: nil.
Those authorities will expire at the 2015 AGM Authority to purchase shares and, in line with market practice to renew the authorities on an The Company was given authority at its AGM in 2014 to make annual basis, the board has decided to put forward a resolution market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum to this years AGM to renew the authorities to make donations number of 23,949,741 ordinary shares.
Similar authority to political organisations and to incur political expenditure up will again be sought from shareholders at this years AGM.
to a maximum aggregate of 150,000 per annum.
As permitted On 13 February 2015, the Company announced that it would under the Companies Act 2006, this resolution also covers any commence a share repurchase programme.
Following that political donations made or political expenditure incurred, by announcement, during the year ended 31 March 2015 market any subsidiaries of the Company.
purchases of 966,578 ordinary shares were made with all of these shares being cancelled following their purchase at an Supplier payment policy average price of 2,031 pence.
Following the year end, a further Individual operating companies within the group are 882,678 ordinary shares have been repurchased to 21 May 2015 responsible for establishing appropriate policies with regard at an average price of 2,139 pence.
In total 1,018,092 ordinary to the payment of their suppliers, in accordance with the shares have been cancelled with 733,946 ordinary shares being Prompt Payment Code PPC.
The companies agree terms held in treasury at 21 May 2015 to satisfy future share based and conditions under which business transactions with awards under long term incentives plan and no ordinary shares suppliers are conducted.
It is group policy that provided a having been transferred from treasury to satisfy the exercise of supplier is complying with the relevant terms and conditions, share options.
including the prompt and complete submission of all specified The share repurchase was considered a low risk method documentation, payment will be made in accordance with of returning capital to shareholders, satisfying future share agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers awards and moving gearing in Severn Trent Water Limited know the terms on which payment will take place when towards the 62.5% net debt RCV notional level used by Ofwat in business is agreed.
The share repurchase has had minimal impact on EPS, with less than 0.5% of issued share capital Report on greenhouse gas emissions cancelled during the year, increasing EPS by 0.1%.
This is the second year Severn Trent has been required to report greenhouse gas GHG emissions in the Directors report.
Contributions for political and charitable purposes Severn Trent is committed to reducing its GHG emissions.
Donations to charitable organisations during the year For Severn Trent Water Limited, which accounts for 98 % of amounted to 157,648 2014: 108,000.
Donations are given our total group emissions, we have been publicly reporting to charities whose projects align closely with our aim to on our emissions since 2002.
In that time we have reduced promote the responsible use of water resources and waste our emissions primarily by being more energy efficient and water services which provide the opportunity for longer term generating more renewable energy.
In addition, we provide donations to employee nominated charities through a matched funding scheme and Our continued investment in renewable energy over the past health and safety reward schemes.
We are also committed to decade and beyond now allows us to generate 250 GWh per supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major charity dedicated to annum, the equivalent of 28% of Severn Trent Water Limiteds improving access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation in the electricity needs over the year.
During the last year, we began generating renewable electricity Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political from food waste, increased generation from energy crops and purposes in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur wind power and began injecting renewable biogas from sewage EU political expenditure.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc directly into the national gas grid.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 88 Directors report continued In 2009 we set ourselves a target to generate the equivalent For Severn Trent Water, we have calculated our emissions of 30% of Severn Trent Waters electricity needs by 2015. using the Carbon accounting in the UK Water Industry: In February 2015 we met that target, generating the equivalent methodology for estimating operational emissions, Version9.11 of 31% in the month, which rose to 33% in March.
This is a peer reviewed calculation tool to lead the UK water industry in renewable energy production.
developed and used by all the major water companies in the Our aim is to retain this leading position by generating the UK.
It is updated each year to include the latest available equivalent of 50% of our electricity needs by 2020. emissions factors.
For Severn Trent Services, we have used the latest Defra Emissions factors which include the relevant Severn Trent Water has held the Carbon Trust Standard conversion factors for overseas electricity.
since 2009 in recognition of consistent emissions reductions and effective carbon management processes.
Our Gross Our long term aim is to be carbon neutral and energy self Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions have continued to reduce sufficient, provided that this is the best value option for our sincewe first achieved the standard because of our reduction customers and investors.
We plan to continue to reduce our in energy consumption and our increase in self supplied emissions within Severn Trent Water by a further 7% between renewable energy.
This year, Severn Trent Water used 885 GWh 2015 and 2020, primarily by reducing our energy use.
We plan of electricity, which is 17 GWh 2% less than in 200910. to continue to increase our renewable generation mainly within our non-regulated business.
Pursuing these measures will Our approach of generating more of our own energy and continue to reduce our key sources of emissions, reduce our reducing the amount we use reduces our costs and our reliance on the electricity grid and bring financial benets for reliance on the electricity grid.
Further details about our approach to climate change and Internal controls the risks and opportunities it presents to our business are The board is responsible for the groups system of internal set out in our Carbon Disclosure Project CDP submission control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The CDP request information about climate reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control, change from companies each year on behalf of investors and including risk management, financial, operational and score each company on the quality and completeness of their compliance aspects, in accordance with the requirements of responses.
We have seen a year on year improvement in our the Governance Code.
The internal control system can provide CDP score and in 2014 we achieved 85%, compared to the only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material average score of 77% across FTSE 350 companies.
misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Our GHG emissions are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e, for the period 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015.
2 The Audit Committee reviews the groups risk management Our total net emissions have risen this year, due entirely to an process and the effectiveness of the system of internal controls 11% increase in the emissions intensity of grid electricity: a on behalf of the board and keeps under review ways in which to factor over which we have no control.
On a like for like basis our enhance the control and assurance arrangements.
The Audit emissions from the use of fuel and operation of our facilities Committee receives reports every six months from the Chief and our total energy consumption decreased by 1% compared Executive detailing the significant risks and uncertainties faced to last year.
by the group, an assessment of the effectiveness of controls over each of those risks and an action plan to improve controls The GHG data we report is reported internally during the year where this has been assessed as necessary.
During its review to the Corporate Responsibility Committee and to the board.
of risk management during 2014 15, the board explicitly We have subjected our GHG data and processes to external considered the target position for significant risks.
The board assurance by Atkins.
considered whether target risk positions are appropriate and confirmed that suitable timescales are agreed for reaching Severn Trent Plc Direct Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions tonnes CO2e 2014-15 2013-14 these target positions.
Emissions from combustion of fuel and During the course of its review of the system of internal control operation of facilities Scope 1 154,644 169,844 in 2014 15, the Audit Committee has not identied nor been Emissions from electricity purchased advised of any significant failings or weaknesses which it has for own use Scope 2 357,756 330,697 determined to be significant to the group.
Total Annual Gross Operational Emissions 512,400 500,523 The Internal Audit department provides objective assurance Emissions benefit of the renewable energy on risk management, governance and control matters.
we export including biomethane exported forwhich we hold green gas certicates 38,878 21,672 The external auditors Deloitte report significant financial control issues to the Audit Committee.
Total Annual Net Operational Emissions 473,522 478,851 An independent reporter Atkins provides objective assurance Annual GHG intensity ratio t CO2 unit 2014-15 2013-14 in relation to the Severn Trent Water Limited Annual Regulatory Operational GHG emissions of Severn Trent Compliance Statement and Annual Regulatory Performance per m turnover 269.7 269.6 Report.
Deloitte performed calculations of the financial KPIs Our approach to reporting is based on the GHG Protocol included in the Annual Regulatory Compliance Statement and Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and we have the Annual Regulatory Performance Report.
included only emissions from the assets which we own and The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing operate and which we can directly influence and reduce, known process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal as the financial control boundary.
In accordance with the risks and uncertainties faced by the group has been in place reporting regulations, we have not reported on emissions we for the year to 31 March 2015 and up to the date of approval can influence, but which we are not responsible for, referred to of the Annual Report, which is in accordance with the revised as indirect emissions.
guidance on internal control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 The groups procedures for exercising control and managing Going concern risk in relation to financial reporting and preparation of The groups business activities, together with the factors likely consolidated accounts include: to affect its future development, performance and position and the business reviews of Severn Trent Water Limited and Severn the formulation and communication of group accounting Trent Services are set out in the Strategic report, from the policies which are regularly updated for developments in inside front cover to page 35.
The financial position of the group, IFRS and other reporting requirements: its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are specication of a set of financial controls that all of the described in the Financial review on pages 43 to 46.
The groups groups operating businesses are required to implement as objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital a minimum: and its financial risk management objectives are described in deployment of a group-wide consolidation system with the Financial review on pages 43 to 46 and in the Governance controls to restrict access and maintain integrity of data: report.
Details of the groups financial instruments, hedging activities and exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are recruitment, training and development of appropriately described in note 35 to the group financial statements.
qualied and experienced financial reporting personnel: oversight by the Disclosure Committee of the groups The groups principal operating subsidiary, Severn Trent Water compliance with its disclosure obligations: and Limited, is a regulated long term business characterised by multi year investment programmes.
The groups strategic monthly reviews by the board of financial reports from the funding objectives reect this.
The group therefore seeks to groups operating businesses.
attain a balance of long term funding or commitment of funds Relevant audit information across a range of funding at the best possible economic cost.
The directors confirm that: Average debt maturity is 15 years and the effective average interest cost during the year was 5.6%.
The group is in a strong so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit liquidity position and had 176.7 million in cash and liquid information of which the companys auditors are unaware: reserves and 745 million of undrawn committed bank facilities and at 31 March 2015, which are expected to be sufficient to fund its each of them has taken all the steps that he she ought to investment and cash ow needs at least until July 2016 in the have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any normal course of business.
relevant audit information and to establish that the companys Severn Trent Water Limited operates in an industry that is auditors are aware of that information.
currently subject to economic regulation rather than market This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in competition, although Ofwat have signalled an intention to accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies introduce more competition in their 2020 water purification sector.
Ofwat, the economic regulator, has a statutory obligation to set price limits that it believes will enable the water companies to External auditors finance their activities.
As a consequence the directors believe that Having carried out a review of their effectiveness during the the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
year, the Audit Committee has recommended to the board the reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
The reappointment and After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable a resolution to that effect will be on the agenda at the AGM.
expectation that the Company and the group have adequate Deloitte LLP indicated their willingness to continue as auditors.
resources to continue in operational existence for the The Audit Committee will also be responsible for determining foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going the audit fee on behalf of the board.
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Annual General Meeting The information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The AGM of the Company will be held at the International can be located in the following pages of this Annual Report Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at and Accounts: 11am on Wednesday 15 July 2015.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the business to be considered Section Information to be included Location and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed 1 A statement of the amount 112 separately to shareholders.
It is also available on our website ofinterest capitalised www.
4 Details of long term 79 incentiveschemes 8 Section 7 in relation to any 145 By order of the board majorsubsidiary undertakings Not applicable 2, 5, 6, 7, 9 14 Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited Bronagh Kennedy Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are Group General Counsel and Company Secretary prepared and sent to Ofwat.
A copy of these accounts will be available on the website of Severn Trent Water Limited 21 May 2015 www.
co. uk or on request to the Company Secretary.
There is no charge for this publication.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 90 Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets are required to prepare the group financial statements in of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the group financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard integrity of the corporate and financial information included 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are preparation and dissemination of financial statements may satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for Responsibility statement that period.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: In preparing the parent company Financial Statements, the the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the directors are required to: relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair select suitable accounting policies and then apply view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or them consistently: loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal material departures disclosed and explained in the financial risks and uncertainties that they face: and statements: and the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will the information necessary for shareholders to assess the continue in business.
companys performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing the group financial statements, International This responsibility statement was approved by the board of Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: directors on 21 May 2015 and is signed on its behalf by: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Andrew Duff James Bowling provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable Chairman Chief Financial officer users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 21 May 2015 other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
