Additional statutory information Directors Liability insurance and indemnification ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services Appointment and replacement In the year under review, the Group Guernsey Limited the Trustee, trustee Directors may be appointed by the maintained an insurance policy for its of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust the Company by ordinary resolution or by Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities Trust, has waived its entitlement to any theBoard.
Non-Executive Directors are arising out of any act, error or omission dividends which become due and payable, appointed ordinarily for a term of two whilst acting in their capacity as Directors from time-to-time, in respect of shares or years, subject to shareholder approval.
Qualifying third party indemnity other securities which are registered in the Re-appointment of Non-Executive provisions were also in place during the name of the trustee or its nominee s. Total Directors following the expiry of their year under review for the benefit of Directors dividends waived by the Trustee during the termof appointment is subject to Board in relation to certain losses and liabilities year amounted to 189,432.79. approval.
The Board may, from time-towhich they may potentially incur to third Shares time, appoint one or more Directors for parties in the course of their duties.
These Share capital such period and on such terms as it remain in force at the date of this report.
As at the year ended December 31, 2015, maydetermine and may also revoke Interests in material contracts the Companys issued share capital orterminate any such appointment.
Other than the insurance indemnity comprised 601,075,964 Ordinary Shares of The Companys Articles of Association provisions disclosed under Liability 5 pence each of which 8,527,703 Ordinary theArticles provide that at each Annual insurance and indemnification above, Shares were held in treasury.
General Meeting AGM all those Directors noneof the Directors had a material interest Rights and obligations attaching who have been appointed by theBoard in any contract of significance to which toshares since the last AGM, or who heldoffice at theCompany or any of its subsidiary The rights and obligations attaching to the the time of the two preceding AGMs and undertakings was a party during the Ordinary Shares are set out in the Articles who did not retire at either ofthem, or who periodunder review.
which are available on the Companys held office with the Company, other than Dividends website.
The Articles may only be executive office, foracontinuousperiod Subject to the provisions of the Companies amendedby special resolution of the ofnine years or more atthe date of the Act, the Company may by ordinary members of the Company.
meeting, shall retirefromoffice and may offer resolution, from time-to-time, declare themselves forre-election by the members.
Variation of rights dividends not exceeding the amount Subject to the Companies Act, rights Notwithstanding the provisions in the Articles, recommended by the Board.
Subject to the attached to any class of shares may be in accordance with the UK Corporate Companies Act, the Board may pay interim varied with written consent of the holders Governance Code 2014, all Directors will dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, of not less than two-thirds in nominal be subject to annual re-election.
whenever the financial position of the valueof the issued shares of that class Company, in the opinion of the Board, Powers calculated excluding any shares held in justifies its payment.
Subject to the provisions of the treasury or with the sanction of a special Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended The Board may withhold payment of all or resolution passed at a separate meeting the Companies Act, the Articles and any part of any dividends or other monies ofthe holders of those shares.
At each directions given by the Company in general payable in respect of the shares from a such separate general meeting, except an meeting by special resolution, the business person with a 0.25% interest as defined adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be of the Company is managed by the Board inthe Articles if such person has been two persons holding or representing by which may exercise all the powers of served with a restriction notice as defined proxy not less than one third in nominal theCompany whether relating to the in the Articles after failure to provide the value of the issued shares of that class management of the business of the Company with information concerning calculated excluding any shares held Company or not.
In particular, the Board interests in those shares required to be intreasury.
may exercise all the powers of the provided under the Articles.
Issuance of shares Company to borrow money and to Shire has put in place income access Subject to applicable statutes and subject mortgage or charge all or any part of the sharearrangements which enable to and without prejudice to any rights undertaking, property and assets present shareholders to elect to receive their attached to existing shares, shares may be and future and uncalled capital of the dividends from a Group company resident issued with such rights and restrictions Company and, subject to the Companies for tax purposes in the UK.
Further asthe Company may by special resolution Act, to issue debentures and other information is available in Note 22 to the decide or, if no such resolution has been securities, whether outright or as collateral consolidated financial statements.
passed or so far as the resolution does not security, for a debt, liability or obligation make specific provision, as the Board ofthe Company or of a third party.
In respect of the six months to December maydecide.
Subject to the Articles, the 31, 2015, the Board resolved to pay Companies Act and other shareholders aninterim dividend of 22.16 US cents rights, unissued shares are at the disposal 2014:19.09 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Together with the first interim dividend payment of 4.21 US cents 2014: 3.83UScents per Ordinary Share, thisrepresents total dividends of 26.37UScents 2014: 22.92 US cents perOrdinary Share for the year ended December 31, 2015.
102 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Restrictions on transfer of shares Purchase of own shares purposes, a change of control occurs if There are no restrictions on the transfer At its AGM held on April 28, 2015 the any person or group of persons acting in ofshares in the Company, except i that Company was authorized, until the earlier concert gains the ability to control more certain restrictions may, from time-to-time, of July 27, 2016 or the conclusion of the than half the votes at a general meeting be imposed by laws and regulations 2016 AGM, to make market purchases of the Company or holds more than half forexample insider trading laws : and ofup to 59,126,620 of its own Ordinary the equity share capital of the Company.
ii pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Shares.
Further details regarding A waiver of the mandatory prepayment UKFinancial Conduct Authority whereby purchases by the Company of its own provision would require the consent of certain Directors and employees of the shares can be found in Note 22 to the each lender under the agreement.
As at Company require the approval of the consolidated financial statements.
February 23, 2016, the facility had been Company to deal in the Companys repaid in full.
Under the $5.6 billion term facilities As at the year ended December 31, 2015, agreement dated November 2, 2015, Voting the Company had been notified of the between, amongst others, the Company, It is the Companys practice to hold a poll following holdings of 3% or more in the Morgan Stanley Bank International on every resolution at general meetings.
issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company: Limited and Deutsche Bank AG, London Every member present in person or by Branch acting as mandated lead arrangers proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every Percentage and bookrunners, upon a change of share held by him.
In the case of joint Number of of issued control any lender may, following not holders of a share the vote of the senior Ordinary share lessthan 30 days notice, cancel its 1 who tenders a vote, whether in person Shares capital commitments and require prepayment of orby proxy, shall be accepted to the BlackRock, Inc. 55,345,849 9.99% its participation in any outstanding loans.
exclusion of the votes of the other joint FMR LLC 29,421,281 4.97% For these purposes, a change of control holders and, for this purpose, seniority 1 occurs if any person or group of persons Excluding treasury shares.
shall be determined by the order in acting in concert gains the ability to control whichthe names stand in the register of No further interests have been disclosed more than half the votes at a general membersin respect of the joint holding.
tothe Company as at the date of this meeting of the Company or holds more Restrictions on voting Annual Report.
than half the equity share capital of the No member shall, unless the Board Company.
A waiver of the mandatory Significant agreements otherwise decides, be entitled to attend prepayment provision would require The following significant agreements orvote at any general or class meeting in theconsent of each lender under the contain provisions entitling counterparties respect of any shares held if any call or agreement.
As at February 23, 2016, an to exercise the following rights in the event other sum payable by that member remains amount of $5.6 billion was outstanding of a change of control of the Company: unpaid.
Also, a member may not be entitled under the agreement.
to attend or vote if served with a restriction Under the $2,100 million credit facility Under the $18 billion bridge facilities notice as defined in the Articles.
agreement dated December 12, 2014, agreement dated January 11, 2016, between, amongst others, the Company between, amongst others, the Company, The Company is not aware of any agreements and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank PLC and Morgan Stanley between holders of securitiesthat may Barclays Bank PLC as the facility agent International Limited as mandated lead result in restrictions onvoting rights.
and the banks and financial institutions arrangers and bookrunners, upon a named therein as lenders, upon a The Company maintains an American change of control any lender may, change of control any lender may, Depositary Receipt ADR program in the following not less than 30 days notice, following not less than 30 days notice, US.
Each American Depositary Share cancel its commitments and require cancel its commitments and require ADS represents three Ordinary Shares.
prepayment of its participation in any prepayment of its participation in any An ADS is evidenced by an ADR issued by outstanding loans.
For these purposes, outstanding loans.
For these purposes, Citibank, N. A. as Depositary, and is listed achange of control occurs if any person achange of control occurs if any person on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
or group of persons acting in concert or group of persons acting in concert Each ADS holder is entitled to the financial gains the ability to control more than gains the ability to control more than rights attached to such shares although the halfthe votes at a general meeting of halfthe votes at a general meeting of ADR Depositary is the registered holder of theCompany or holds more than half theCompany or holds more than half the underlying Ordinary Shares.
theequity share capital of the Company.
A waiver of the mandatory prepayment As at December 31, 2015, the Trust held Awaiver of the mandatory prepayment provision would require the consent of 0.18% of the issued share capital of the provision would require the consent each lender under the agreement.
As at Company on trust for the benefit of ofeach lender under the agreement.
February 23, 2016, the bridge facilities participants in the Companys employee AsatFebruary 23, 2016, an amount agreement was undrawn.
The voting rights in relation to of$1,185million was outstanding under these shares are exercised by the Trustee.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from Under the $850 million term facility voting in any way it thinks fit and in doing agreement dated January 11, 2015, so may take into account both financial between, amongst others, Citibank andnon-financial interests of the International Limited as the facility beneficiaries of the Trust or their agent, upon a change of control any dependants.
Historically the Trustee lender may, following not less than hasnot exercised its right to vote.
30days notice, cancel its commitments and require prepayment of its participation in any outstanding loans.
For these Shire Annual Report 2015 103 Additional statutory information continued Earnings guidance Acquisition of Dyax Corp Dyax Branches The following extracts were published by OnJanuary 22, 2016, Shire acquired all Details of branches of group subsidiaries the Company during the year in its of the outstanding share capital of Dyax can be found in Note 31 to the quarterly earnings releases: for $37.30 per share in cash.
Under the consolidated financial statements.
terms of the merger agreement, Dyax February 12, 2015 We expect Non Audit information shareholders may receive additional GAAP diluted earnings per ADS growth Each of the persons who is a Director value through a non-tradable contingent in the mid-single digits in 2015 high atthe date of approval of this report value right worth $4.00 per share, single digit growth on a CER basis.
confirms that: payable subject to FDA approval of April 30, 2015 We reiterate our DX-2930.
Further details can be found in so far as the Director is aware, there is guidance for the full year 2015, and Note 4 to the consolidated financial no relevant audit information of which remain confident in delivering Non GAAP statements.
theCompanys auditor is unaware: and diluted earnings per ADS growth in the Bridge facilities agreement the Director has taken all the steps that mid-single digits in 2015 high single digit OnJanuary 11, 2016, the Company the he she ought to have taken as a growth on a CER basis.
entered into an $18 billion bridge Director in order to make himself herself July 23, 2015 Weve increased our facilitiesagreement with certain financial aware of any relevant audit information earnings guidance for the full year 2015, institutions related to the announced and to establish that the Companys and now expect to deliver Non GAAP combination with Baxalta.
Further details auditor is aware of that information.
diluted earnings per ADS growth in the can be found in Significant agreements Directors Report mid-to-high single digits in 2015 low on page 103.
The Directors Report comprises pages double digit growth on a Non GAAP Term facilities agreement On January 1to104 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
22, 2016, the Company fully utilized the October 23, 2015 We reiterate our $5.6 billion term facilities agreement Approved by the Board and signed on its fullyear Non GAAP diluted earnings per dated November 2, 2015, related to the behalf by: ADS guidance of mid-to-high single digit acquisition of Dyax.
Further details can growth in 2015 low double digit growth be found in Significant agreements on on a CER basis.
1 The Non GAAP diluted earnings per ADS Political donations Bill Mordan growth in respect of the 2015 financial Shire did not make any donations to Company Secretary yearwas 10 per cent: one percentage political parties during the year ended pointahead of the most recently published December 31, 2015 2014: $nil.
Further commentary on the Information required under 9.8.
4 R of the performance of the Company during the Listing Rules LR year can be found starting on page 48.
Location within Post year-end events Annual Report The following important events affecting Information requirement 2015 the Company occurred between December 31, 2015, and the date of this report: Details of information required by LR9.2.
18 R. Page 104 Announced combination with Baxalta, Details of any contract of Inc. Baxalta On January 11, 2016, significancein which a Director is, the Company announced that the orwas, materiallyinterested.
Page 102 Boards of Shire and Baxalta had agreed Details of any arrangement under on the terms of a recommended which a shareholder has waived, combination of the two companies.
Page 102 Under the terms of the agreement, Where a shareholder has agreed to Baxalta shareholders will receive waive future dividends, details of such $18.00in cash and 0.1482 Shire ADSs waiver together with those relating to per Baxalta share.
Based on Shires dividends which are payable during closing ADS price on January 8, 2016, theperiod under review.
Page 102 this implies a total value of $45.57 Other information requirements set out in perBaxalta share, representing an LR 9.8.
4 R are not applicable to the Company.
Further detailscan be found in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
1 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
For reconciliation to US GAAP please see page 159.
