Responsibility We aim to be responsible leaders.
Demonstrating Responsibility is a fundamental part of responsibility being a leading global biotech delivering Our responsibility programs and innovative medicines to patients with rare activities include: Improving access to our rare diseases and specialty conditions.
disease medicines where they arent currently available.
We focus on making a difference where Raising awareness among itreally matters, aiming to live up to all physicians and patients of the signs of many rare and specialty ourresponsibilities, organizing for greatest conditions and providing the extra support often required with effect, and setting forward-looking priorities.
Increasing awareness around Binge Eating Disorder, the most frequently occurring eating disorder among US adults.
Educating policy makers on the serious social impact of untreated ADHD on families, education, the criminal justice system and society as a whole.
Advocating to discourage the misuse, abuse and diversion of ADHD medications.
Providing easy-to-understand information on our clinical trials including current trials underway as well as information on findings from completed trials.
Reducing our environmental impact Read more online at: through a series of locally-based shire.
com shireplc en resp initiatives and programs.
Providing funding for humanitarian aid to our NGO partners following the Nepal earthquakes.
Donating more than $13 million to charitable organizations in the US.
Gaining recognition Supporting and encouraging diversity within our company by In 2015, Shire remained a constituent of the fostering a culture which respects FTSE4Good Index Series, a leading responsibility and values contributions from a investment index.
wide spectrum of experiences and individuals.
We were also included by Corporate Knights for the Providing all full-time Shire second year running among the 100 Most Sustainable employees with one fully-paid day Corporations in the World, in 2016 being ranked 52nd in off per year to spend volunteering the Global 100 and 2nd in the Pharmaceuticals sector.
for a non-profit organization in addition to an opportunity to participate in our first Global Day In 2015 we equaled our prior years performance in the of Service.
CDP results achieving a disclosure score of 91% A and Helping support minority and small a B for Performance, both above the pharmaceutical businesses through a Supplier industry and FTSE averages.
Diversity program in the US.
Respecting and protecting the We were proud to be ranked as the #2 greenest human rights of all the individuals company in the world in Newsweeks 2015 Green our business touches from Rankings of the worlds largest companies based on employees to partners: and corporate sustainability and environmental impact.
patients who participate in our clinical trials.
30 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Focusing on core areas We continue to focus on the three highest priority areasidentified in our 2014 materiality assessment: accesstomedicines, disease awareness and transparency.
Access to Disease Transparency medicines awareness We are committed to leading Our products treat often We focus on transparency the way in improving access to extremely rare conditions across many aspects of our medicines for those with rare thatare not well or widely business, notably clinical trials, and specialty conditions.
understood, so we know how grants and donations and important it is to increase reporting.
disease awareness and build athorough understanding.
Championing early diagnosis of Disease awareness Clinical trials rarediseases We aim to share our expertise and provide We recognize the importance of transparency For those with rare diseases, diagnosis balanced, reliable and scientifically sound in clinical studies and are committed to isamajor challenge.
To help, in 2015 information to help improve understanding theresponsible sharing of clinical data welaunched a new education initiative, and appreciation of difficult and lifewithpatients, physicians and researchers.
Diagnosis Doesnt Have To Be Rare.
com, we provide Weworked in partnership with the rare patients, physicians and researchers with In 2015, one of many examples of how disease community sharing educational asingle portal to access information on wedid this was through a Spotlight on materials to highlight the issues and raise Shires trials current and past.
Gaucher film contest to mark International awareness to help ensure early diagnosis Gaucher Day on October 1, supported Grants and donations of rare diseases.
The We publish details on shire.
com regularly Exploring new treatments contest encouraged people whose lives about our educational grants as well as We view the development of orphan drugs have been touched by Gaucher disease donations made to patient groups and and treatments for specialty conditions toshare a video to raise awareness of the charitable organizations.
In 2015, Shire with significant unmet needs as a core condition and share a message of hope.
provided $8.6 million in educational grants, responsibility.
In 2015, we had 20 unique Awinner and runner up were selected an increase of $2 million from 2014, and programs in our pipelines testing fromthe entries submitted from across made more than $13 million in donations treatments for conditions that currently theworld including Argentina, Colombia, toUS charitable organizations.
Israel, Japan, Jordan, Russia, Rwanda Reporting andthe US.
Improving access to existing treatments In 2014, Shire ranked in the top 25 of We also work to improve access to our We also continue to encourage responsible 60companies in the UK evaluated by existing treatments by reducing barriers, use of our ADHD products, through a Transparency International for transparency such as affordability and geographic coalition of medical, mental health, higher in corporate reporting based on companies access.
We have several programs to education, students and industry experts.
publication of anti-bribery and corruption assist patients with affordability challenges efforts, disclosure of subsidiaries operations in the US.
Outside the US, we have Named and disclosure of financial data on foreign Patient programs and work with our NGO operations.
In 2015, they also rated Shire partners Direct Relief and Project HOPE to as above average in overall transparency provide charitable access.
Our publications include an Annual Responsibility Review which captures Shires approach to responsibility, sets forth goals in key focus areas and provides progress made to date.
Shire Annual Report 2015 31 Responsibility continued Living up to our responsibilities Throughout Shire, we seek to live up to our responsibilities and take the lead in making a real difference across significant areas.
Fostering an open, supportive culture Encouraging diversity We do not have diversity targets or quotas Shire plc Directors Our success continues to be driven by our and we do not focus exclusively on one gendersplit diverse employee talent around the world.
group of employees over and above any as at Dec 31, 2015 We value all genders, ages, cultures, 11 other group of employees.
However, we do experiences and backgrounds as we build focus very strongly on fostering our culture, 8 73% and grow our global organization.
The which aims to provide all our employees 2015 3 27% benefit of our diverse workforce comes with a supportive work environment that from respecting, considering and including values diverse opinions and experiences, 7 78% 2014 different views into our work every day.
and enables individual, group and 2 22% Ourgrowing global reach gives us the organizational success.
opportunity to bring to our business, and Supporting supplier diversity for the benefit of our patients, greater depth Beyond our immediate workforce, we of experiences and capabilities.
alsoactively seek and select suitable and Shire senior managers Providing equal opportunities qualified suppliers from all segments of the gender split Shire is an equal opportunity employer and business community in all of the markets as at Dec 31, 2015 strives to ensure there is no discrimination 190 inwhich we operate.
In the US, we have a against anyone applying for a job or once Supplier Diversity Program, which provides employed for reasons related to race, 133 70% opportunities for minority or disabled and 2015 57 30% religion, national origin, gender, disability, veteran-owned businesses.
Shires total 2015 sexual orientation or any other personal US spend in support of these businesses 140 70% 2014 characteristic.
We are also committed to was 13%, exceeding our goal of 11.3%.
63 30% the fair treatment and reasonable accommodation of applicants or employees disabilities in accordance with all applicable laws in the respective locations of all Shire facilities.
Shire global overall gender breakdown 5,548 as at Dec 31, 2015 2,789 50% 2015 2,759 50% 2,555 51% 2014 2,461 49% Male Female 32 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Supporting strong performance Promoting health and safety Valuing our people We believe we are better able to achieve We provide a safe work environment as We are proud of the commitment and talent our goals and continuously improve by well as promoting healthy lifestyles and of our people around the world.
They are supporting a strong performance culture.
We also take health and safety atthe heart of our journey to become the Research has shown that the most factors into consideration when working leading global biotech focused on rare important factor here is an employees with our partners and suppliers.
relationship with their manager, and we Recognizing and rewarding devote considerable resources to help Attracting and promoting Our pay for performance philosophy provides ourmanagers be the best they can be.
We aim to attract and retain great people managers with a variety of programs to and give them the environment and Implementing a smart new recognize and reward employee contributions, encouragement to excel.
We promote the supportsystem and our employee share purchase plans best use of our people on the basis of In 2015, we introduced the best-in-class enable employees to have a vested interest individual skills and experience matched cloud-based HR system: Workday.
It in the success of the business.
against those required for the work to be provides a shared all-in-one, easy-to-use Communicating clearly performed, and actively seek diverse views HR resource for employees and managers, To drive performance we promote a clear and experiences.
freeing up more time to focus on understanding of where we are heading.
This happens at every level of the business from one-on-one performance discussions between managers and employees to all-employee meetings held at our major sites.
We communicate with all employees via periodic all-company meetings, the intranet, all-employee emails from the CEOand other executives, a social networking platform, and leadership Employment by country 5 briefings and cascades.
as at Dec 31, 2015 Volunteering around the world 1 US 67% On October 2, 2015, we held our first Global Day of Service.
It was a great 2 UK 6% success, with 1,700 employees from 20 locations volunteering 8,000 hours to give 3 Switzerland 4% Total employees back to their local communities around the 4 4 Ireland 2% world through more than 50 projects 3 primarily focused on children from 5 Other 21% hosting science days to creating activity 5,548 2 books for children in hospitals.
1 US employee ethnic minorities 3 2 as at Dec 31, 2015 1 Non-minority 72% 2 Minority 24% 3 Unstated 4% US employees 3,705 1 Shire Annual Report 2015 33 Responsibility continued Focusing on local initiatives Earning a top green ranking Looking after our planet We believe environmental impacts are most Our green performance was underlined We are committed to operating a sustainable effectively addressed locally where they when Shire received the outstanding organization that protects our employees, occur.
We therefore focus on local, rather ranking as the #2 greenest company in the the environment and the communities in than global, goals and initiatives to reduce our world in Newsweeks 2015 Green Rankings which we live and work.
Effective use of impacts, for example through site-specific of the worlds biggest companies based on resources is a key component in achieving recycling and energy reduction programs.
their corporate sustainability and excellent company performance and We source 100% renewable energy for our environmental impact.
making Shire a world-class organization Basingstoke and Zug locations.
Continuing to improve We strive to conserve resources and The success of our local approach is minimize adverse environmental impacts illustrated by our performance in the CDP and risks that may be associated with 2015 Climate Change disclosure and ourproducts, facilities and operations.
In 2015 we equaled Wepromote the sustainable and efficient our prior years performance achieving a use of natural resources, waste Disclosure score of 91% A and a B for minimization, recycling, energy efficiency, Performance, both above the pharmaceutical and responsible product stewardship in industry and FTSE averages.
We have implemented key components ofa health, safety and environmental management system for our operations.
Our health, safety and environmental team continually work to improve this system.
Assessment parameters Baseline year FY 2014 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary Summary All facilities with emissions greater than 1% of the overall footprint were included in the Scope 1 and 2 reporting of emissions from natural gas and electricity.
All global fleet fuel usage is included.
Emissions from diesel fuel oil generators are less than 1% of total footprint and are excluded.
Scope 3 includes business air travel and business vehicle travel which are significant enough to warrant inclusion in our annual report though not required by law.
Consistency with the financial statements Any facility with less than 1% of overall emissions is excluded from the reported inventory.
Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2013 and ISO 14064-1 2006 Intensity Ratio GHG emissions per unit revenue 2014 2015 Greenhouse Greenhouse 1 1 1 1 gas emission source MTCO2e MTCO2e $m gas emission source MTCO2e MTCO2e $m 2 2 Scope 1 26,615 Scope 1 26,234 Scope 2 24,523 Scope 2 22,807 Total Scope 1 & 2 51,138 8.49 Total Scope 1 & 2 49,041 7.64 4 Scope 3 28,577 Scope 3 34,078 3 3 Total emissions 79,715 13.24 Total emissions 83,119 12.95 1 GHG emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
2 For Scope 1 Fleet usage, an annual mileage of 20,000 km was used to approximate fleet emissions for vehicles without precise annual mileage data available.
3 Emissions factors were sourced from UKs DEFRA database, The Climate Registry, the WRI GHG Protocol calculation tools, and the United States EPAs Climate Leaders and eGrid emission factors.
4 2015 rail emissions were approximated by using the average distance traveled per number of trips in 2014.
Since only cost data was available the number of trips made in 2015 for each country was multiplied by an average distance traveled per trip via rail in 2014.
34 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Upholding human rights Organizing to lead Engaging with our stakeholders We support the UN Universal Declaration Throughout Shire we are organized to of Human Rights http: www.
org en takethe lead not only in living up to our During the year we engaged with investors, documents udhr and recognize the own responsibilities, but also across the patient groups and policy makers on a obligation to promote universal respect biotechindustry.
range of issues including our environmental forand observance of human rights and approaches and disclosure, our approach From our Executive Sponsor of Responsibility fundamental freedoms for all, without to clinical trials, our role in ensuring the who is a member of the Executive Committee, distinction to sex, age, race, religion, or appropriate use of our ADHD products, through our core team, to our individual anyother characteristic protected by law.
philanthropy and access to medicines.
sponsors we have key people driving Clinical trials responsibility throughout Shire.
A number We communicate widely and regularly Of paramount importance, we safeguard of internal responsibility leaders serve onresponsibility with all our stakeholders, the human rights of those taking part in assponsors for focus areas such as for example through our website, ourclinical trials, which is primarily achieved theenvironment, our people and the www.
Were always interested through informed consent.
They are responsible for tohear feedback and suggestions tothe International Conference on setting goals which support our overall onhowwe can be an even more Harmonization ICH Good Clinical Practice strategy, ensuring progress and maintaining .
Our sponsors include senior representatives from Research Moving forward Employment &Development, Human Resources, We are committed to protecting the human We continue to look ahead and strive to Procurement, Health, Safety and rights of our employees in our offices and improve as a responsible leader in the Environmental, Compliance and Risk manufacturing facilities around the world.
biotech industry focused on rare diseases Management, Pharmacovigilance, Corporate We recognize that commercial success and specialty conditions.
Our distinctive Communications, Patient Advocacy and depends on the full commitment of all our position in the industry creates a great Public Affairs.
We commit to respecting their requirement and opportunity to keep facilitates the activities of responsibility human rights, to provide them with safe moving forward with responsibility, as working groups, oversees communications and favorable working conditions that are withevery core aspect of our business.
and works with sponsors to identify free from unnecessary risk and to maintain risksand opportunities.
Our approach to To coincide with our 30th anniversary in fair and competitive terms and conditions responsibility is championed by our CEO, of service at all times.
February 2016, we launched a three-year supported by the Executive, In-line, Pipeline partnership with the SeriousFun Childrens and Corporate Committees, and endorsed We seek to comply fully with all relevant Network to enable hundreds of children by our Board.
laws, rules and regulations governing labor, with rare diseases to attend camps employment and the employment exclusively for children with serious illnesses.
relationship in all of the countries where We also announced that Shire will fund ten Shire does business.
genetic fellowships to help better support the next generation of patients.
Its an We commit to the principles articulated in example of our commitment to lead by the International Labor Organizations ILO doing the right things to make a longDeclaration on Fundamental Principles lasting impact.
and Rights at Work which includes the following four major principles: Freedom of association and the effectiverecognition of the right to collective bargaining: Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor: Abolition of child labor: and, Elimination of employment discrimination.
We also commit to the protection of human rights of our partners and suppliers, and in Responsibility governance turn, expect them to do the same in their operations and to their employees around the world.
We do this through a regular and risk-based audit of our suppliers, and our Responsible Supply Chain policy explicitly Executive Core Responsibility states our expectations of suppliers to Sponsor for Responsibility Sponsors uphold the ILO principles.
This policy can Responsibility Team be found on our website, www.
