Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32 Non-regulated Our business model Our non-regulated business allows us to apply our water and waste water services knowledge to create and deliver services and products to UK and global municipal, industrial and commercial customers.
We also provide renewable energy to the group and are looking to identify new opportunities in energy generation.
1 Identify and develop opportunities Identify and develop opportunities in non-regulated markets Maximise Create products our return and services 42 Maximise our return on investment Create products and services through long term contracts and that help our clients manage service agreements and cross their water and energy needs dissemination of our products Build strong and respected brands Build strong and respected brands that are customer focused and recognised across our sectors 3 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Role Identify and develop Create products Build strong and Maximise Associated opportunities and services respected brands our return risks Severn Trent Operating Services Operating Services Our strategy is to continue Severn Trent Operating We continue to enter Hazardous processes may analyses markets and growing our Operating Services is the largest new states in the US.
result in our people being works with customers Services business in the private operator of InFebruary 2015 OSUS injured Principal Risk Ref 7. to identify opportunities USand Europe.
facilitiesoperated in the was awarded a contract Failure of products or and markets where US, serving more than in Quincy, in the mid west Water supply services treatment processes may our capabilities can be 321 facilities in 22 states.
region, replacing American across the UK are result in environmental applied for customers Thesefacilities regularly Water.
2014 15 also saw changing, with legislation damage and regulatory andshareholders benefit.
win awards in areas the first year of our largest giving businesses a non-compliance Principal such as environmental monetary contract to date In the UK we provide choice from whom they Risk Ref 6. compliance, health and in Bridgeport, Connecticut, design, build and contract buy their water and Regulatory or political safety and overall plant while expanding our operations for water and waste water services.
change may lead to performance.
presence in California waste water treatment OperatingServices decreased demand for with the acquisition of 14 facilities for a variety of is pursuing this open With water services ourservices.
contracts from SouthWest industrial segments and marketmovement, licences for Scotland, We may be unable to take Water Company.
In the UK supply retail water to helping businesses England and Wales, we advantage of the opening long term contracts with businesses throughout achieveoptimum offer multi sited businesses up of the UK retail market the Ministry of Defence the UK.
water andwaste water the benets and synergies to competition Principal MoD and First Milk management through of a single supplier Risk Ref 2. provide continuing stability.
Renewable energy Severn Trent generates In 2014 15 we will supply We are recognised as We have established Hazardous processes renewable energy from over 40,000 MWh of being experienced in the electricity and heat power mayresult in our people anaerobic digestion electricity and heat to eld of AD.
Our expertise sale purchase agreements being injured.
AD, wind turbines and ourregulated business.
in this complex biological with our regulated We may be exposed to some hydro.
We are also process means that we business.
We will be Our new food waste increased volatility in expanding into the food canbe trusted to provide entering into long term ADbusiness will energy prices.
contracts with the wider provide aservice for the Regulatory or political facility at Coleshill, UK, supply market to process recyclingof industrial, change or local will convert up to 48,000 food waste.
commercial, retail and oppositionto our plans tonnes of food waste into domestic food waste.
may affect our ability 17,026 MWh of electricity to generate sufficient and approximately 30,000 renewable energy to tonnes of biofertiliser for achieve ourtargets.
We plan to investigate the development of other technologies including photovoltaics PV and biomass combustion.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 34 Non-regulated business performance review Following the sale of our Water Purication business, we have Operating Services reorganised and brought together our remaining non-regulated Operating Services provides contracted operating services, businesses Operating Services US, Operating Services UK, to manage and maintain water and waste water plants and including non-household retail and renewable energy into networks.
It delivered revenue growth on the back of new anew Business Services division led by Andy Smith.
contract wins in the US and the UK.
Revenue in 2014 15 was 216.3 million, up 4.6% after adjusting for the impact of Severn Trent Services reported revenue rose by 2.9% to exchange rates.
216.3 million, with reported PBIT down 27.1% to 9.7 million.
After adjusting for the impact of exchange rate movements, In the US, we won a number of contracts in the Northeast revenue was 4.6% higher and PBIT decreased by 27.1%.
We also benefited from the first full year of our contract in Bridgeport, Connecticut.
This contract, which we won in 2013 14, is our largest in the US by monetary value, with annual revenues of 13.8 million over 10 years.
We operate, maintain and manage two waste water treatment facilities, 10 pumping stations and nearly 300 miles of sewers.
The business benefited from a Our performance to date has been strong, which has helped us to build an excellent relationship with the client.
Most recently, number of actions we took to we have assisted with the development of a five year capital plan, to address the challenges of ageing infrastructure.
position it for growth and In the UK, we continued to pick up selected new retail business greater efficiency.
We moved in Scotland, with contract wins in the healthcare, retail and leisure sectors.
Our approach here is disciplined, focusing on from being an integrated winning profitable work and using the opportunity to develop business to three separate our understanding of the market, ahead of the opening up of non-household retail competition in England from April 2017. business units, each focused on We are actively preparing for the introduction of competition in its own markets and customer non-household retail in England.
We now have new processes which will equip us to deliver outstanding service to customers.
needs, and each under new Our 25 year, 1 billion operation and maintenance contract with leadership teams.
the UK Ministry of Defence is now in its 10th year.
We continue to work with our customers to nd new ways to improve our performance.
During 2014 15, we also won a major contract with the Coal Authority, to operate and maintain mine water treatment plants across the UK for the next 10 years.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 1.
During the year we won a major contract with the Coal Authority to operate and maintain mine water treatment plants across the UK for thenext 10 years.
Renewable Energy IMPROVING EFFICIENCY, COMPLIANCE During the year, we continued to build our industry leading AND UNION RELATIONS position in renewable energy generation.
We sell the energy we create to power our regulated business operations, with the surplus sold to National Grid.
Key developments during the year included opening our gas to grid plant at Minworth, Birmingham.
This plant is the first of its kind in the water industry, and injects the gas generated from the anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge into the national grid.
As well as being a source of revenue for us, this has important environmental benets by enabling power stations to turn the gas into electricity more efficiently than we could on-site.
Our first food waste digestion plant, at Coleshill, Warwickshire, began generating electricity in December 2014.
We will invest in solar energy, making use of surplus land on or around operational sites.
Outlook Our US Operating Services business has a 10 year We believe Severn Trent Business Services has a number of contract to help the city of Bridgeport, Connecticut, attractive growth opportunities and that weve positioned the meet the challenges of ageing plants, a struggling sewer business to take advantage of them.
In Operating Services, our system and improvements to safety and compliance.
preparations for non-household retail competition in England Since we started work in January 2014, weve built are going well, and we see potential in the US market, which is productive relationships with all five labour unions, by showing signs of opening up, as described on page 16. aligning our goals with theirs and the clients.
This has Well continue to invest in our renewables business, with the helped us achieve outstanding regulatory compliance, aim of increasing our external sales and providing around 50% enabling the city to sell credits under the states Nitrogen of Severn Trent Waters energy needs by 2020.
We intend to Credit Exchange Program.
expand energy production from food waste, to upgrade our sewage anaerobic digestion to the latest technology and to add solar generation, with technological developments having made this more economically attractive.
We believe Severn Trent Business Services has a number of attractive growth opportunities and that weve positioned the business to take advantage of them.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 36 37 CASE STUDY Weve also further reduced the Taking the lead on numberof pollution incidents, environmental performance.
by improving the way we work and launching new training for Our customers and other our people and subcontractors.
stakeholders value healthy rivers Our environmental performance and want us to continue improving over the last year places our local environment.
Thats why us amongst the best in the environmental performance is industry.
Wellcontinue to central to our plans.
work hard to improveour local Weve invested more and achieved environment, with our plan for another record breaking year at AMP6 including no fewer than our waste water treatment works.
Of more than 700 sites, 99.9% met theircompliance limits.
FUTURE IS PROTECTING Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 38 Risk management Our approach to risk In our non-regulated businesses we take a more commercial We have set ourselves some very challenging targets and approach to our decisions around which risks are acceptable.
continually strive to improve our standards of service delivery However, we recognise that we provide products and services to customers and our overall performance.
The groups for clients who operate in regulated environments.
As a result, risk management and internal control systems are vital to for risks that could impact on our clients services, we take the delivery of these targets and enable the identication, a similar approach to risk as in our own regulated business.
assessment and mitigation of risks inherent in our The risks inherent in our non-regulated business are illustrated business activities.
on page 32 our non-regulated business model.
Accountability for the effectiveness of the groups Enterprise Risk appetite Risk Management ERM policies sits with the board, with The board keeps under constant review the relationship oversight from the executive team, supported by operational between our strategic ambitions and the management of risk owners and the central ERM team who are responsible for risk.
In particular, this year the board focused carefully on the carrying out the ERM process.
ambition in our AMP6 programme and the risk to its delivery.
Risk owners throughout the business, with support and The ERM process establishes target risk positions for each of challenge from the ERM team, identify and assess risks and our strategic risks.
The board formally discuss the progress undertake risk improvement actions to move risks to their towards this position and the mitigating actions being target position.
The ERM process starts from understanding undertaken every six months.
Previously, the board has held the objectives we have set ourselves, as shown below: a series of risk appetite discussions focusing on eight key strategic areas in the context of the below framework: The ERM process Strategic risk framework Risk appetite Culture Customer Investor Regulatory perspectives and values focus confidence regime The board Risk focus Protecting health, wellbeing and safety Sets strategy and determine areas Financing the business regulatory outcomes Sets business plan objectives Ambition for growth defines risk appetite Future competitive position Customer confidence Resilience of our networks ERM team Operational teams Monitors performance Identify and assess risks Relationships with regulators Provides challenge and insight Set risk target position Reports to the board Identify risk improvement Sustainability of the business and Audit Committee actions Our Enterprise Risk Management process We use an established ERM process across the group to assess and manage our most significant risks, which are linked When considering how best to manage our risks, our approach to our corporate objectives.
The ERM process covers all types reects the need to efficiently mitigate the inherent risks in our of risk including operational, financial, legal and regulatory.
business whilst seeking to improve our performance through Our assessment of risk includes explicit consideration of the the targeted management of selected risks.
possible impact of the risk on the reputation of the group as Within Severn Trent Water, our approach reects our a whole.
status as a regulated utility providing essential services We analyse both the potential causes and impact of risk.
and operating as part of the Critical National Infrastructure Using this process, we are able to consider the controls needed for the UK.
The nature of our Severn Trent Water business to minimise the likelihood of risks occurring and those which is such that there are some significant inherent risks, as can help to maximise our resilience to risks.
The understanding illustrated on page18 our regulated business model.
We aim which we are able to gain from our ERM process allows us to to have a strong control framework in place to enable us to put in place effective mitigation strategies.
Resilience of our understand our risks and manage these risks both effectively services is vital and we regularly carry out exercises jointly and efficiently.
with other agencies such as local authorities, police and re services to test this resilience.
