ADVANCING FURTHER 1 HAE runs in my family, so 30-40% for me diagnosis was less Hereditary Angioedema HAE is a of a mystery than for some.
raregenetic disorder characterized by My symptoms vary a lot spontaneous and recurring attacks of swelling oedema in various parts of from my hands swelling thebody.
An estimated 1 in 10,000 to 1 in 50,000 people have HAE.
An estimated 30-40% ofpatients with HAE in the US and EU remain undiagnosed.
2 Tyler HAE patient Tyler is a lab technician and a full time student who was diagnosed with HAE when he was a young teenager.
Tyler is an avid video game player and enjoys the little things in life.
22 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information SHP643 DX-2930 HAE attacks can be temporarily disfiguring, painful and sometimes life threatening when affecting the throat.
It is most often caused by a lack of a protein called C1 esterase inhibitor C1-INH, which helps regulate several complex processes involved in immune system function, blood clotting and bleeding.
Through our acquisition of biotech Dyax Corp, we are expanding and extending our industry-leading HAE portfolio, which includes FIRAZYR and CINRYZE.
The lead pipeline product, SHP643, is a Phase 3 long-acting injectable monoclonal antibody for HAE prophylaxis.
SHP643 has received Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy, and Orphan Drug designations by the Food and Drug Administration FDA and has also received Orphan Drug status in the EU.
It has patent protection and anticipated regulatory exclusivity beyond 2030.
With its potential to lower rates of HAE attacks and improve patient convenience, SHP643 is an innovative therapy that further advances our leadership in biotech treatments for rare diseases.
3 Whats next for SHP643 Assuming regulatory approval, we expect a US launch in 2018.
If approved for the prophylaxis of HAE, SHP643 could generate estimated annual global sales ofup to $2 billion.
Shire Annual Report 2015 23 1 70,000 Hypoparathyroidism HPT is a rare condition where not enough parathyroid hormone is released by the parathyroid glands or the parathyroid hormone that is released does not work properly.
Estimates suggest that chronic Hypoparathyroidism affects approximately 70,000 patients in the US.
2 Jen Hypoparathyroidism patient Jen was diagnosed with hypoparathyroidism in 2004.
She loves to be outside and enjoys hiking.
Jen also loves cooking, baking, photography, and her children arethe highlight of her life.
24 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information MAKING BREAKTHROUGHS NATPARA Hypoparathyroidism is the most common cause of hypocalcemia: low levels of calcium in the blood.
I developed hypoparathyroidism Maintaining the right level of calcium is important for vital organ function.
in 2004after surgery to remove With our $5.2 billion acquisition of NPS Pharma in my thyroid due toHashimotos February 2015, we took on board NATPARA a therapy, that represents a significant medical advance Disease.
Iwas diagnosed to help control hypocalcemia in patients with HPT.
NATPARA is a parathyroid hormone administered with thatsame year after calcium and vitamin D, to control calcium level in patients with hypocalcemia, NATPARA is .
administered once daily by subcutaneous injection.
In April 2015, we launched NATPARA in the US, following its approval by the US FDA as an adjunct treatment to calcium and vitamin D in hypoparathyroidism patients who are not adequately controlled on calcium and vitamin D alone to control hypocalcemia.
Because of the potential risk of osteosarcoma, NATPARA is recommended only for patients who cannot be well-controlled on calcium supplements andactive forms of vitamin D alone.
The treatment isdistributed through a select network of specialty pharmacies, andpatients have access to comprehensive support services.
NATPARA was not studied in patients with hypoparathyroidism caused by calcium sensing receptor mutations and in patients with acute postsurgical hypoparathyroidism.
3 Whats next for NATPARA With NATPARA, we are proud to be meeting a highly focused therapeutic needfor this rare condition.
It is the first FDA-approved parathyroid hormone to help treat hypocalcemia in patients with hypoparathyroidism.
Looking ahead, we will work to ensure the widest access to NATPARA for patients in the US and beyond.
In Europe, the European Medicines Agency EMA has validated and initiated its review of our marketing authorization application for Natpar.
Shire Annual Report 2015 25 PIONEERING INNOVATION 1 2 Joanna Patient with BED 2x Joanna loves anything and everything that Binge Eating Disorder BED is a real has to do with art.
She is an Art medical condition that was formally Ambassador for a Boston charity and her recognized by the American Psychiatric favorite place is the Boston Museum of Association in 2013.
common eating disorder among USadults Joanna had been concerned for more and more than twice as prevalent as bulimia than three years about her eating nervosa and anorexia nervosa combined.
Eventually she went to talk about it with her doctor, who was able todiagnose her with BED.
26 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information A distinct disorder 2015 marked the first time that treatment for patients with moderate to severe BED was madeavailable in the US, addressing a significant unmet need.
Vyvanse On January 30, 2015 the US FDA approved VYVANSE for the treatment of moderate to severe BED in adults.
VYVANSE is currently the only FDA approved treatment for this condition.
Efficient innovation For Shire, this is a story of one of the key paths wetake to live up to our commitment to support people with rare and other specialized conditions around the world extending an existing product into new area of significant unmet need.
It is an example of how we look for efficient ways to innovate and make the most of our assets.
Through product extension we can innovate at pace to stay ahead, take the first step and lead in aparticular treatment.
3 Whats next for It was a great relief to VYVANSE bediagnosed.
I knew The strength of our intellectual property surrounding VYVANSE has been upheld in something was wrong but the US Court of Appeals for the Federal had no idea what until my Circuit.
As a result, we will not face competition from generics until patents clinician diagnosed BED.
expire in 2023, and we can concentrate Iwas reassured that on making themost of both existing and new VYVANSE-based treatments for therewas a name to patients around the world.
mychallenges and there washelp available.
Shire Annual Report 2015 27 1 29m Dry Eye Disease DED is a very common complaint to eye care specialists in the US, with approximately 29 million adults living with the symptoms.
It varies in severity, with symptoms most commonly being eye discomfort, dryness and may include episodes of blurred vision.
Thismultifactorial disease of the tears andocular surface is associated with inflammation that may eventually lead todamage to the surface of the eye.
2 Christine Dry Eye Disease sufferer Christine is an avid walker and loves spending time outdoors with her family and their pet dog.
She also enjoys reading, travel, concerts and yoga, she isa registered nurse and writer.
She wasdiagnosed with Sjogrens syndrome in2011, which is a risk factorfor Dry EyeDisease.
28 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information IDENTIFYING OPPORTUNITIES Many possible causes There are many possible causes of DED, including a range of medical conditions, physical damage to either My symptoms make vision-related tear glands or the eyelids and certain medications.
In addition, DED is strongly associated with being older, things in life really challenging.
post-menopausal: exposure to environmental conditions such as wind and dry air: and tasks that Dryness and photophobia extreme may result in long periods without blinking such as computer work or driving.
sensitivity to light make it difficult New opportunities when I spend time outside doing In October 2015, we saw positive trial results for the symptoms of DED, with lifitegrast, our investigational the things I love to do like medicine for the treatment of DED, meeting its primary and key secondary endpoints.
We believe the new gardening and traveling.
datawill meet the US FDAs request for an additional clinical study and we are continuing to focus on preparing to maximize the potential of this innovative pipeline product.
With lifitegrast as a lead candidate, Shire formed the Ophthalmics business unit.
If approved, the compound will help lay the foundation on which Shires commitment to and leadership in Ophthalmics will grow.
Shire is focused on continuing to expand its Ophthalmics portfolio to include treatment options for rare diseases and those for anterior andposterior eye conditions.
Injust over two years, acquisitions include Foresight Biotherapeutics, SARcode Bioscience, Premacure AB, and BIKAM Pharmaceuticals, which have helped bolster Shires early-, midand late-stage Ophthalmics pipeline.
The Company currently has an Ophthalmics pipeline of investigational candidates in retinopathy of prematurity, autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa, glaucoma, and infectious conjunctivitis.
3 Whats next for Lifitegrast Building on the strong trial results, we resubmitted an application to the FDA on January 22, 2016 with PDUFA date of July 22, 2016.
If approved by the FDA, this keeps us on track to launch the product in the US later in 2016.
This in turn will lead the way for regulatory filings for lifitegrast in other markets outside the US.
