Business model We have a unified global business model designedto enable us to excel clinically and commercially to create value.
Organized for success Inputs In pursuing our purpose of enabling Our talented, passionate and committed people.
people with life-altering conditions to lead Our unique high performance, patient-focused better lives, we are transforming ourselves culture.
into a leading global biotech developing Our nimble and efficient manufacturing and and delivering best-in-class therapies for salesnetworks.
patients with rare and specialty conditions.
Our culture plays a key part in our success.
We have , performance-based culture: We have the courage to lead the way  next.
We are agile and adaptable, shaping a better future for patients.
1 We fearlessly innovate to address unmet patient needs.
Investment in Non GAAP R&D in 2015 We do the right thing in the right way.
Our business model is also fundamental supporting $884m ourfocusonour four strategic drivers: growth, innovation, efficiency and people.
Our in-house R&D focuses on advancing our pipeline of innovative treatments for unmet needs with a strong emphasis on rare diseases.
1 This is a Non GAAP financial measure.
The most directly comparable measure under US GAAP is R&D FY 2015: $1,564m, FY 2014: $1,068m.
For a reconciliation of Non GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable measure under USGAAP, see pages 159 to 163.
12 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information We focus on researching, developing and marketing innovative medicines that have the potential to transform the lives of people around the world with rare and other specialty conditions.
Our business model Value created Acquire and in-licence products that address Reinvestment in R&D.
Partner with leading research hospitals, academic Greater awareness and understanding of and non-profit organizations.
Use innovative, state-of-the-art manufacturing Life-changing therapies for patients, their andpartner with manufacturing organizations.
Provide dedicated support to physicians andcaregivers.
1 Acquisitions in 2015 Non GAAP EBITDA complete proposed acquisitions acquisitions 3 2 $2.9bn We fuel our growth and value creation through the targeted Our business unit teams focus on commercial excellence across acquisition of new companies, licensing agreements and partnerships.
Rare Diseases, Neuroscience, Gastrointestinal & Internal Medicine and Ophthalmics.
The most directly comparable measure under US GAAP is Net Income FY 2015: $1,303m, FY 2014: $3,406m.
