Key industry trends Shaping the industry needs.
In tune with this highly targeted We see three trends impacting theindustry: approach, patients are ever more active intheir care.
Changes across diseases and patient The increasing levels of physician populations engagement Just as patients are becoming more Increasing levels of physician engagement activeparticipants, so too are physicians.
Physicians are increasingly at the heart of highly focused engagement, sophisticated Rising demand for value and reimbursement dialogue and disease education.
The rising demand for value and Together, these trends are creating an The changing face of diseases and reimbursement exciting playing field rich in opportunity for patient populations Approaches to value and reimbursement our particular brand of biotech focused on The industry is moving away from one size are also changing.
The shift is from broad delivering innovative medicines to patients fits all where undifferentiated products for access, with discounting, to highly active with rare diseases and specialty conditions.
broad diseases are sold at volume to and demanding payers prepared to block We aim to lead in shaping the future for patients.
Increasingly, therapies which once access where there isnt a clear these patients, and in so doing create were seen as a solution for millions, are demonstration of value.
tremendous value for all our stakeholders.
becoming more targeted to narrow patient populations to meet specific, critical unmet Three key trends shaping the industry From To Diseases and 1 patient populations One size fits all, undifferentiated, Targeted therapies, narrow patient me too products for broad diseases populations, critical unmet needs, patientshighly active in their care.
Physician engagement 2 Share of voice across broad Highly focused engagement with prescribing base, reach and frequency physicians, sophisticated dialogue andeducation.
Value and reimbursement 3 Minimal access constraints for broad Highly active payers governments ready patient populations, achieved through tocompletely block access where there significant discounting isnt a clear demonstration of value.
10 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information From big pharma to better biotech The key trends are combining to put Combining the best of biotech ongoing innovation not just in pressure on traditional industry players.
andspecialty pharma R&Dbut across every aspect of These are tough times for companies We are positioning ourselves for ourbusiness.
over-reliant on high volume, broad-brush sustained success in this highly Deeply involved in and inspired by our blockbuster drugs.
dynamic, ever more specialty pharma.
ever-changing industry, we continue to We continue to build on our platform Specialty pharma firms have strong move forward driving on to the next and track record of successful M&A, platforms for consolidating assets and step, the next opportunity, the next and the same time, drawing from the sophisticated lifecycle and financial breakthrough.
best of biotech to intensify our focus on management, but relatively limited R&D.
key therapeutic areas and innovation.
What it takes to win in this Independent biotechs by contrast are high fastchangingindustry: in value-creating innovation and deep focus Leveraging our strength in both these on specific therapeutic areas.
areas, we are forging ahead to become Precision the worlds leading biotech focused on Innovation rare diseases and specialty conditions.
Active participation It is a leadership characterized by high Delivering true value growth, constant improvement and The world as it was The world as it is becoming Big Pharma Big Pharma Independent Specialty Shire Biotechs Pharma Independent Specialty Biotechs Pharma Shire is bringing together the best of biotech and specialty Independent Big Pharma Specialty Pharma Independent Big Pharma Specialty Pharma Biotechs Biotechs Fully integrated Focused in niche Value erosion Consolidation Lots of areas with less Top value through loss of platforms for Wide span of innovation scale economics creators in exclusivity old distressed Therapeutic industry assets Mostly acquired Areas Limited Struggle to fill before reaching innovation Deep therapeutic large engines Little R&D Primary-care scale area focus focused Continued R&D Sophisticated Sustained investment lifecycle and Blockbuster emphasis on but limited financial driven innovation returns management economics Shire Annual Report 2015 11
