STRATEGIC REPORT Our Strategic Priorities WHiCH ARE BASED ON WORKiNG MORE CLOSELY TOGETHER AS A GROUP SO THAT SiGS WHOLE iS GREATER THAN THE SUM OF THE PARTS.
Category management now embedded within SiG and is business as usual Delivered 22.7m net cumulative savings from Strategic initiatives CONTINUOUSLY to date, mainly sourced from procurement IMPROVE OUR PROCUREMENT Targeting additional 10m efficiencies in 2016 and further savings thereafter FUNCTION Group Procurement Director appointed for the first time in the Groups history Procurement Read more on page 14 Appointed new team with experience of construction sector and other industries Reviewed current supply chain model RESHAPE Two-step strategy with ultimate goal of delivering 50m savings SUPPLY First step: move to regional hubs utilising existing network CHAIN Second step: roll out Regional Distribution Centres across the Group Supply Chain Read more on page 15 Defined as products which are own label or where SiG controls the design, fabrication or component assembly Typically higher margin than SiGs distribution businesses Currently accounts for 18% of Group sales GROW VALUE Target to double that proportion as a percentage of sales by 2018 ADDED SALES Air Handling and Offsite Construction are important growth drivers within this category Value Added Sales Read more on pages 16 and 17 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 13 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 strateGIc prIorItIes: Procurement SiG HAS CHANGED iTS APPROACH TO PROCUREMENT BY iNCREASiNG CO-ORDiNATiON ACROSS THE GROUP, PROFESSiONALiSiNG THE FUNCTiON AND iNVESTiNG iN Procurement TRAiNiNG AND RESOURCES.
HISTORICAL POSITION BENEFITS Procurement was decentralised and SiG has delivered a net cumulative conducted at multiple levels across saving of 22.7m from its Strategic the Group.
initiatives over the last two years, mainly sourced from procurement.
This meant that SiG was not fully leveraging its size in the marketplace The Group has also reduced its and had a long tail of suppliers.
supplier numbers by 48% since 2013, meaning that the Group PROGRESS has exceeded its target of a 33% SiG has transformed its procurement reduction by the end of 2015. function by increasing co-ordination SiG is also making good progress across the Group and investing in towards its target of growing sales people, training and resources.
of its own label products by 50% by Category management is now fully the end of 2016, having increased its embedded in the Group and is own-label sales by 42% since 2013. business as usual.
Purchasing is now TARGETED SAVINGS the responsibility of procurement professionals and is conducted The Group is seeking an additional through six international category 10m net savings in 2016, with forums covering roofing, ceilings, further efficiencies thereafter.
technical insulation, structural insulation, air handling and dry lining.
This has enabled SiG to consolidate volumes and better leverage its size.
Supplier base 48% reduction Own label sales 42% increase www.
com Stock code: ShI 14 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 strateGIc prIorItIes: Supply Chain STRATEGIC REPORT SiG HAS BEEN WORKiNG ON PLANS TO iMPROVE iTS SUPPLY CHAiN OVER THE PAST 12 MONTHS, HAViNG iDENTiFiED iT AS THE NEXT AREA OF FOCUS AFTER Supply Chain PROCUREMENT.
CASE STUDy TIlBURG property leases, and the availability HISTORICAL POSITION and investment requirements of new SiGs supply chain is reflective of the SiG has successfully been operating an RDC RDCs.
way it has historically operated as a in Tilburg, The Netherlands for the last three loose federation of businesses, with years.
Moving to a fully integrated RDC responsibility for logistics and stock model requires careful planning and Suppliers deliver into this one location and being held at a local level.
customer deliveries are planned and executed execution.
While this approach has served SiG Therefore, SiG has decided to adopt Local branches therefore do not have to well in the past, and met the majority a two-step supply chain strategy.
worry about checking that they have enough of its customers needs, the Groups This will maximise returns whilst stock, transport or drivers to meet delivery operating practices are expensive requirements.
instead they are able to focus on understanding The first step is centred around their customers needs and selling products.
Taking an all in cost, SiG spends utilising the Groups existing network This gives customers better service and a more around 11% of its sales on property, and moving towards a hub and consistent and reliable delivery experience.
The role of SiGs larger in addition, this has enabled the Group to branches will be expanded, with Furthermore, the Group also needs reduce its cost to serve by 2% and stock days logistics professionals co-ordinating to address changing demands of by a third in The Netherlands.
stock and deliveries for the region.
its customers, who are increasingly The next step is to trial this model in the asking for a broader product range, Groups larger markets.
The second step involves trialling often requiring deliveries from RDCs in its main markets.
enable the Group to get a better understanding of the key capabilities PROGRESS SO FAR essential to underpinning its future SiG has conducted a thorough review Targeted savings supply chain.
of its supply chain, concluding that its model would see a shift towards by 2018 TARGETED SAVINGS Regional Distribution Centres The Group is targeting annual savings RDCs.
20m of at least 20m from this first step of the programme by 2018.
RDCs would manage the inbound Potential savings supply of products and take Assuming the RDC trials are ownership for co-ordinating the from RDC model successful, SiG believes it could majority of our customer deliveries secure an additional 30m in savings direct to site.
30m from step two of this strategy.
The role of the branch would change and become more focused on serving collect customers.
However, before moving to this model the Group needs to take into account the practical considerations of its existing network, such as existing SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 15 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 strateGIc prIorItIes: Value Added Sales SiG iS FOCUSED ON GROWiNG iTS VALUE ADDED SALES OFFERiNG.
THiS iS DEFiNED AS PRODUCTS WHiCH ARE OWN LABEL OR WHERE SiG CONTROLS THE DESiGN, FABRiCATiON OR COMPONENT ASSEMBLY.
They are higher margin than the Groups distribution businesses and are products that are increasingly being demanded by customers, as they save them time, money and reduce their risk.
Value added sales now account for 18% of Group revenues, and are growing rapidly, up from 14% in 2014.
Value Added Sales Air Handling and Offsite Construction are two examples of businesses that sell a high proportion of value added sales.
Air handling Air Handling covers the Ventilation section of the Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC market.
it is an attractive market which suits specialist distribution, is worth an estimated 68bn and is growing at c. 3-5% per annum, outperforming the general construction sector.
There are strong demand drivers which are similar to the Groups insulation and Energy Management business such as energy efficiency and legislation, leading to higher value products and systems, increasing focus on indoor air quality to improve comfort and health, and better fire protection and smoke control.
There is also a trend towards the design and supply of complete system solutions, which a specialist like SiG CASE STUDy is well positioned to fulfil, particularly through its recent hC GROEP acquisition of HC Groep.
There are three elements to SiGs air handling proposition: To support this strategy, in September 2015, SiG Distribution, where SiG is a one stop shop for the acquired the HC Groep B. V. a specialist Air Handling specialist contractor, with a broad product range and the systems provider based in The Netherlands with annual provision of technical advice: revenues of c. 45m.
This acquisition will enhance SiGs customer proposition by extending its product and Projects, where SiG designs and delivers complete system offering, including climate ceilings, car park and system solutions based on customer specifications, taking tunnel ventilation, plus adding new service capabilities.
into account the latest environmental regulations: and Services, which is the smallest of the three strands and is related to Projects.
Following the commissioning of the installed equipment, SiG will provide maintenance and The Groups vision for its repair services.
Air handling business is: SiG Air Handling has grown rapidly over recent years and 1 to build a leading position in Europe by on a pro forma basis including full year contributions from growing organically and by consolidating a recently acquired businesses, now has sales of c. 250m.
fragmented market: 2 to achieve 400m of sales by 2018, increasing project offering and own-label sales components: and to further increase current operating 3 margin of 7-8%.
com Stock code: ShI 16 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 STRATEGIC REPORT Offsite Construction Offsite Construction is the pre-assembly of building To be successful in this market, businesses need to be products in a factory environment for onsite installation.
it able to provide a full service offering and have strong is generally a faster, cheaper and lower risk alternative to customer relationships, all of which SiG already has in traditional building methods.
This market is rapidly growing in response to customer it also requires significant technological and design demand, with a compound annual growth rate of 16% per expertise, in which each of SiGs offsite businesses have annum since 2008. invested heavily.
SiG has three businesses which together provide a single Offsite Construction enhances the Groups value added offsite construction proposition.
They are: proposition and provides the Group with a higher margin and return on capital than its distribution businesses.
Insulshell, which designs, assembles and installs insulated panels and, increasingly, complete modular SiG has set demanding goals for this business and is units: targeting to grow sales to at least 150m by 2018, and beyond that in future years.
RoofSpace, which designs, assembles and installs panelised roofing systems for residential properties: and Offsite target market worth Metechno, which designs and assembles modular and flat-pack washroom solutions.
1.1bn per annum Offsite Construction shares a common customer base and end markets with the Groups distribution businesses, and Grow sales to uses products that are supplied by other SiG businesses.
acquired in 2016 150m by 2018 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 17 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1
