Board of Directors LesLIe VaN fide WaLLe Hec stuart MItcHeLL Bsc HoNs douG roBertsoN Ba HoNs, Fca Chief Executive 55 Non-Executive Chairman 59 Finance Director 62 Joined SiG on 1 December 2012 as Chief Joined the Group in November 2011 and Became a Non-Executive Director in Executive Designate, was appointed a was appointed Finance Director on October 2010 and became Non-Executive Director of the Company on 10 December 1 December 2011.
2012 and became Chief Executive on External roles 1 March 2013 External roles Doug is a Non-Executive Director of HSS Leslie is Non-Executive Chairman of External roles Hire Group plc.
Robert Walters plc and a Non-Executive Stuart is a Non-Executive Director of Director of DCC plc.
Experience and past roles Enactus UK formerly SiFE - Students in Doug was previously Finance Director Free Enterprise UK.
Experience and past roles of Umeco plc from 2007 until 2011 and Previously, Leslie was Chief Executive Experience and past roles Finance Director of Seton House Group Officer of Rexam plc, Executive Vice Most recently, Stuart was Chief Executive Limited from 2002 until 2007.
From 1994 President of Global Retail, a division of Wilkinsons Hardware Stores from to 2000 he held a variety of Divisional of Royal Dutch Shell plc and a Non- 2006 to 2012.
He was previously Finance Director roles within Williams plc Executive Director of Aegis Group plc, Managing Director of the Taiwan arm and, in 2000, became Managing Director Aviva plc and Cape plc.
He formerly held of the Asian retail giant AS Watson.
of Tesa Group, Chubbs hotel security a number of senior management positions He joined Sainsbury plc as a graduate division.
with Cadbury Schweppes plc and United trainee in 1984, rising up the ranks to Key strengths Biscuits Limited.
become Managing Director of Sainsburys Extensive financial management Supermarkets in 2003.
Extensive board and general management Key strengths experience.
Extensive operational and general management experience in retail.
Board coMMIttees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Mr J. C. Nicholls Chairman Mr C. V. Geoghegan Chairman Mr L. Van fide Walle Chairman Ms J. E. Ashdown Ms J. E. Ashdown Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr C. V. Geoghegan Mr M. Ewell Mr C. V. Geoghegan Mr M. Ewell Mr J. C. Nicholls Mr M. Ewell Ms A. Abt Ms A. Abt Mr J. C. Nicholls Ms A. Abt Mr S. R. Mitchell www.
com Stock code: ShI 56 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE cHrIs GeoGHeGaN Ba Experience and past roles HoNs, Fraes Previously and prior to his retirement, Chris was Chief Operating Officer of BAE Systems Senior Independent Non-Executive plc with responsibility for all European joint Director 61 ventures and UK defence electronics assets.
Became a Non-Executive Director in July He is past President of the Society of British 2009.
External roles Key strengths Chris is a Non-Executive Director of Considerable commercial European business Lakehouse plc.
He is a Fellow of the Royal experience.
Experience and past roles JaNet asHdoWN Bsc HoNs Previously and until the end of 2012, Janet Non-Executive Director 56 was the Chief Executive Officer of Harvest Became a Non-Executive Director in July Energy Limited and Blue Ocean Oil Trading 2011.
She previously worked for BP p. l. c. for 30 years where her last role was as External roles Head of BPs Retail and Commercial Fuels Janet is a Non-Executive Director of business in the UK.
Coventry Building Society, the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority and Marshalls Key strengths plc.
She is also Chair of the charity Hope in Strong commercial experience within global Tottenham.
MeL eWeLL Bsc HoNs Non-Executive Director 57 Experience and past roles Became a Non-Executive Director on Mel previously held a numberof senior 1 August 2011. management positions for TNT international, Xerox and ADiGroup.
External roles Mel iscurrently Chief Executive and an Key strengths Executive Director of Amey Plc, oneof Considerable executive management the UKs leading infrastructure services experience.
Mel will retire as Chief Executive of Amey plc at the end of March 2016.
JoNatHaN NIcHoLLs Ba, aca, Fct Experience and past roles Non-Executive Director 58 Previously and most recently, Jonathan was Became a Non-Executive Director in Group Financial Director of Old Mutual plc.
Prior to that he was Group Finance Director of Hanson plc.
External roles Jonathan is a Non-Executive Director of DS Key strengths Smith Plc, Great Portland Estates plc and Extensive financial management experience ibstock plc.
aNdrea aBt MBa Procurement Officer of the Siemens sector Non-Executive Director 55 for infrastructure & Cities from 2011 to 2014.
Became a Non-Executive Director on Since joining Siemens in 1997, she held 12 March 2015. numerous positions of Finance, Productivity and Supply Chain Management in Germany External roles and internationally.
Andrea started her career Andrea is a Non-Executive Director of in industry in the Daimler Benz Group where Brammer plc and is a member of the she was responsible for different teams in supervisory board of Gerresheimer AG.
aircraft and postal automation service sales.
Andrea is to be appointed a Non-Executive Director of Petrofac Limited on 19 May 2016.
Key strengths Specialist knowledge of the European Experience and past roles market, together with considerable Previously, Andrea has been Head of knowledge of supply chain and procurement.
Supply Chain Management and Chief SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 57 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1
