Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Future performance measurement Our Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs 4 1.
Embed customers at the heart of all we do External sewer ooding Internal sewer ooding Penalty Reward Penalty Reward 1,014 7,639 7,452 Rate of Penalty Reward per incident Rate of Penalty Reward per incident 42,000 19,800 Complaints about water quality Minutes without supply Penalty Reward Penalty Reward 14.5 12 11,900 9,992 Rate of Penalty Reward per minute Rate of Penalty Reward per complaint 1.1 million 900 SIM Customer experience Reward and penalty mechanism to be decided by OFWAT July 2015 4 2.
Drive operational excellence and continuous innovation 3 Number of pollution incidents Improvements to river water quality Penalty Reward Penalty Reward 233 457 374 Rate of Penalty Reward per point Rate of Penalty Reward per incident 150,000 53,900 Leakage Successful catchment management schemes Penalty Reward Cap Penalty Reward 12 21 444 Rate of Penalty Reward per scheme Rate of Penalty Reward per megalitres per day 1.03million 123,314 Asset Stewardship Coliform failures Penalty Reward 7 Rate of Penalty Reward per failure 463,000 3.
Invest responsibly for sustainable growth 4.
Create an awesome place to work Lost time incidents per 100,000 hrs worked Severn Trent Water Severn Trent Business Services Severn Trent Water Severn Trent Business Services See note 1 See note 1 See note 2 See note 2 0.21 0.30 2013 14 0.21 2013 14 0.30 Employee engagement Severn Trent Water Severn Trent Business Services See note 2 See note 2 Notes 79 75 1.
Internal KPIs for 2015 16 to be reported.
Consolidation of two ODIs relating to river water quality.
The thresholds stated refer to the application of rewards and or penalties.
For full list of all ODIs and the details of each see www.
com Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12 13 CASE STUDY Producing local gas from local waste!
By investing in an innovative process at our Minworth sewage treatment works, were unlocking even more of the hidden FUTURE power in sewage.
Minworth treats sewage from 2.5 million IS people around Birmingham thats nearly 350,000 litres every hour.
Valuable energy is locked away in this sewage.
We release it by feeding the sludge from our treatment process into our anaerobic digesters.
These work like giant cows intestines, generating gas as SMAR TER they break the sludge down.
So far, weve used around 40% of this gas to produce electricity.
Now we can also clean, pressurise and odorise thegas, before we inject it into the network thatsupplies local homes.
Were the first UK water company to do this on such alarge scale, saving us 1.7 million every year while benefiting both customers andthe environment.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14 Market and industry overview FUTURE SECTOR The water and sewerage industry Despite the sectors progress since privatisation, it still faces The industry in England and Wales delivers services to homes substantial challenges that must be tackled in the coming and businesses of over 50 million people.
These must be met whilst still keeping bills affordable for customers, both now and in the future.
In particular: There are 19 regional suppliers, who serve the majority of these customers.
10 of the regional companies including Severn Much of the sectors infrastructure is ageing.
For example, Trent Water provide water and sewerage services.
The other approximately 20% of Severn Trents sewers and 10% of our nine provide water services only.
water mains are more than 100 years old, which means we need to continue to reinvest in the renewal of our networks.
The UK water industry was privatised in 1989 and has made We can expect to see more extreme weather.
This means significant progress since, attracting more than 4 billion we need to build resilience, so we can cope with increased of private investment every year to improve operational ooding and periods of droughts.
performance and make customer service improvements.
As a result, drinking water quality in the UK is among the highest in The UKs population is growing, which is adding to the the world.
The industry also makes a substantial contribution pressure on water resources and our networks.
Severn Trent to the economy, estimated at 15 billion a year for the UK as serves 3.1 million households, a total thats increasing by a whole, and directly or indirectly supports the equivalent of about 12,500 households each year.
Thats the equivalent of 127,000 full-time jobs.
adding a city the size of Wolverhampton every seven years, in our region alone.
We need to make sure we have the infrastructure in place to serve these people.
Customers quite rightly expect better levels of service, making it ever more challenging for all organisations to meet their customers expectations.
Water companies know theyve got to work harder at improving customer service.
We expect the industry Our industry has to compete for global capital to invest for the future.
The sector must remain an attractive investment landscape to continue to opportunity.
Otherwise the only way well be able to attract investment is by having to pay more for it, which will push up evolve in the coming years.
Severn Trent has always contributed to the debate about our industrys future, including through our series of Changing Course publications.
Well continue to be an active participant in these conversations, so we can help shape thinking about how to best serve our customers in the future.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 1.
Much of the sectors infrastructure is ageing.
We need to continue to reinvest in the renewal of our infrastructure and networks for future generations.
The AMP6 business plans are designed to deliver what customers say they value the most.
We conducted our biggest ever customer consultation for PR14.
How the industry is regulated Key features of the regulatory regime for AMP6 include: Severn Trent Water is a regulated business.
We work within five Greater exibility to spend money where its most needed.
year regulatory planning cycles, known as Asset Management In previous AMPs, spending was regulated between Plan AMP periods.
This financial year was the last in AMP5, capital expenditure Capex to meet long term investment with AMP6 starting on 1 April 2015. needs, and operating expenditure Opex to meet day-to-day The industry operates within the following policy and running costs.
The ability to earn a return on Capex arguably regulatory framework: incentivised companies to seek Capex type solutions to issues, even if Opex might be more efficient.
In AMP6 The European Union EU sets water, waste water and Ofwat has considered expenditure on a total expenditure environmental standards across member countries.
Totex basis, so we can choose the most cost-effective and Government sets the overall water and sewerage policy innovative solutions to meet our commitments.
This is done by the Department for Environment, Aligning the interests of customers and investors.
In AMP6, Food and Rural Affairs Defra in England, and by the Welsh company performance is measured against metrics called Government in Wales.
While failure to achieve Ofwat is our economic regulator, which means that it sets targets can lead to penalties, as in previous AMPs, many the prices we can charge our customers in each AMP period, of these ODIs also include incentives for companies to and ensures that we carry out our functions properly and are outperform.
As the ODIs are based on what is important to appropriately nanced.
customers, outperformance means that both customers The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI is the drinking water and companies benefit.
Companies can also do better if they quality regulator and makes sure we comply with the water deliver their investment programme for less than their plan, quality regulations.
sharing the savings with customers.
The Environment Agency EA is the environmental regulator A better environment.
Several ODIs are designed to deliver in England.
It controls water abstraction, river pollution important environmental improvements, such as better and ooding.
river quality, which focuses companies on achieving their environmental commitments over the next five years.
Natural Resources Wales is the environmental regulator in Wales.
It ensures that the countrys natural resources are Reduced bills for customers.
Customers must be willing sustainably maintained, enhanced and used.
and able to pay for the costs of the programmes well deliver during AMP6.
Theyll benefit from rising standards and an We also work with other agencies, including: average reduction in bills of 5% across the industry, over the The Consumer Council for Water CCW, which represents five years.
Companies will also be doing more to help people the industrys customers: and who struggle to pay their bills, for example by enhancing the social tariffs they offer.
Natural England, which protects and improves Englands natural environment.
To ensure we meet our commitments during AMP6, weve set out our strategy which is detailed on pages 8 to 9.
Our ODIs, The regulatory regime for AMP6 against which our performance will be measured, are During the year, Ofwat concluded its price review for AMP6, explained on page 11.
The regulated performance review on which runs from 2015 to 2020.
Most of the companies have pages 20 to 29 talks about some of the specic initiatives well agreed business plans with Ofwat, setting out what they be undertaking as part of our plan.
commit to deliver during the period and the bills that customers will pay.
The AMP6 business plans are designed to deliver what customers say they value most, in terms of the service they receive and the benets to the environment and society.
Across the industry, water companies engaged with more than 250,000 customers the largest ever consultation in the utilities sector to get a clear understanding of what they were willing to pay for.
