Board of Directors N EE E Susan Kilsby 57 Flemming Ornskov, MD 58 Jeffrey Poulton 48 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: September 1, 2011 Appointed: January 2, 2013 Appointed: April 29, 2015 Susan served as an independent Non-Executive Flemming served as Chief Executive Officer Skills & experience: Jeffrey Jeff brings to Director prior to her appointment as Chairman Designate prior to his appointment as Chief theBoard his financial, commercial and strategic on April 29, 2014.
Executive Officer on April 30, 2013. acumen.
Since joining Shire in 2003 he has held leadership positions in finance supporting the Skills & experience: Susan brings to her role Skills & experience: Flemming brings to his role Neuroscience, Gastrointestinal and Rare extensive M&A and finance experience having his operational and medical knowledge and his Diseases business units as well as the positions enjoyed a distinguished global career in extensive international, strategic and operational of Interim Chief Financial Officer and Head of investment banking.
She held senior positions experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, Jeff oversaw the with The First Boston Corporation, Bankers held the position of Non-Executive Chairman of operations of the Rare Diseases business unit in Trust, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and most Evotec AG and was Non-Executive Director of North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific, recently Credit Suisse where she was Chairman PCI Biotech Holding ASA.
From 2010 to 2012 he as well as leading the integration of the of the EMEA Mergers & Acquisitions team until was Chief Marketing Officer and Global Head, legacy-Viropharma rare disease products into 2009 and a part-time senior advisor until 2014.
Strategic Marketing for General and Speciality the Shire portfolio.
Prior to joining Shire, Jeff Susan is also a former Director of LOccitane Medicine at Bayer.
From 2008 to 2010 Flemming spent time at Cinergy Corp. and PPG Industries International S. A. and Coca-Cola HBC AG.
served as Global President, Pharmaceuticals in a variety of corporate finance and business Sheholds a BA in Economics and a MBA.
and OTC at Bausch & Lomb, Inc.
He also served development roles, in addition to serving as as Chairman, and later as President and Chief acommissioned officer in the U. S. Navy.
Key appointments: BBA Aviation plc Executive Officer, of Life-Cycle Pharma A S Hereceived a Bachelor of Arts in Economics Non-Executive Director, Keurig Green from2006 to 2008, and as President and Chief from Duke University and a Master of Business Mountain, Inc. Non-Executive Director Executive Officer of Ikaria, Inc. from 2005 to 2006.
Administration in Finance from the Kelly School andFortune Brands Home & Security, Inc.
Earlier in his pharmaceutical career Flemming of Business at Indiana University.
held roles of increasing responsibility at Merck&Co.
Inc. and Novartis AG, following adistinguished period spent in hospitals and academic medicine.
Flemming received his MD from the University of Copenhagen, MBA from INSEAD and Master of Public Health from Harvard University.
N A S A David Kappler 68 Dominic Blakemore 46 Olivier Bohuon 57 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Appointed: January 1, 2014 Appointed: July 1, 2015 Appointed: April 5, 2004 Skills & experience: Dominic brings to the Skills & experience: Olivier brings to the David was appointed Senior Independent Board his strategic and financial experience.
Boardhis extensive international business and Director in July 2007 and DeputyChairman in Heholds the position of Group Chief Operating leadership experience gained through roles held June 2008.
Officer, Europe at Compass Group PLC having in pharmaceutical and healthcare companies previously served as Chief Financial Officer.
across Europe, the Middle East and the US.
Skills & experience: David brings to the Board Hehas also held the positions of Chief Financial Hecurrently holds the position of Chief Executive his extensive knowledge and experience in Officer at Iglo Foods Group and European Officer at Smith & Nephew plc, having previously financial reporting, risk management and internal Finance & Strategy Director, Corporate Finance served as Chief Executive Officer and President financial controls.
He is due to step down from Director, and Group Financial Controller at of Pierre Fabre Group and as President of the Board on April 28, 2016.
David served on the Cadbury plc.
Earlier in his career Dominic Abbott Pharmaceuticals: a division of US-based Board of InterContinental Hotels Group plc until worked at  where Abbott Laboratories.
Olivier has also held 2014, was Chairman of Premier Foods plc until headvised pharmaceutical sector clients.
diverse commercial leadership positions at 2010 and held directorships at Camelot Group GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor companies plc and HMV Group plc.
David retired from Key appointments: Compass Group PLC in France.
He has an MBA from HEC Paris Cadbury Schweppes plc in 2004 after serving as Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe and School of Management and a doctorate in Chief Financial Officer since 1995.
He worked for Academic Council of University College Pharmacy from the University of Paris.
the Cadbury Schweppes Group between 1965 London Member.
and 1984 and rejoined the company in 1989 Key appointments: Smith & Nephew plc following its acquisition of the Trebor Group, where ChiefExecutive Officer and Virbac SA he was Financial Director.
David is a Fellow of the Non-Executive Director.
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Key appointments: Flybe Group plc Non-Executive Director.
62 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information A N E Board committees Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Nomination Committee Executive Committee Chairmanship R S Remuneration Committee Science & Technology Committee Membership R A S N R N S S William Burns 68 Steven Gillis, PhD 62 David Ginsburg, MD 63 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: March 15, 2010 Appointed: October 1, 2012 Appointed: June 16, 2010 Skills & experience: William Bill brings to Skills & experience: Steven brings to the Board Skills & experience: David brings to the theBoard extensive international R&D, commercial, his extensive technical and scientific knowledge Boardhis clinical medical experience in internal business development and operational experience and commercial experience.
He is currently a medicine, hematology-oncology and medical in the pharmaceutical sector.
He is due to be Managing Director at ARCH Venture Partners: genetics, as well as his extensive basic biomedical appointed Senior Independent Director on April 28, aprovider of venture capital for technology laboratory research expertise.
Bill worked for Roche from 1986 until 2009: firms.
Prior to this Steven was a founder and his BA at Yale University, MD at Duke University most recently holding the position ofCEOof Director of Corixa Corporation, acquired by and completed his medical and research training their pharmaceuticals division and serving as GlaxoSmithKline in 2005, and beforethat a at Harvard Medical School.
David is the recipient amember of the Roche Group Corporate founder and Director of Immunex Corporation.
of numerous honors and awards, including Executive Committee.
Bill holds aBA Hons An immunologist by training Steven has authored election to membership at the National Academy inBusiness Economics from the University more than 300 peer-reviewed publications in the of Sciences, the Institute of Medicine and the ofStrathclyde.
areas of molecular and tumor immunology.
He is American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
credited as being a pioneer inthe field of cytokines Key appointments: Biotie Therapies Corp. and cytokine receptors, directing the development Key appointments: University of Michigan Chairman, Mesoblast Limited Non-Executive of multiple marketed products including Leukine, James V. Neel Distinguished University Director, Vestergaard Frandsen Vice Chairman, GM-CSF, Prokine IL-2 and Enbrel soluble Professor of Internal Medicine, Human Genetics Wellcome Trust Committee Chairman, Institute TNFreceptor-Fc fusion protein as well as the and Pediatrics and Howard Hughes Medical of Cancer Research Trustee and University of regulatory approval of Bexxar radiolabeled Institute Investigator.
Cologne Bonn Center for Integrated Oncology anti-CD20 and the novel vaccine adjuvant, MPL.
Steven received his BA from Williams College and his Ph.
Key appointments: ARCH Venture Partners Managing Director, Pulmatrix, Inc. Non-Executive Director and VBI Vaccines Inc. Chairman and Non-Executive Director.
A R R N Sara Mathew 60 Anne Minto OBE 62 David Stout 61 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Former Non-Executive Director Appointment: October 31, 2009 April28, 2015 Appointed: September 1, 2015 Appointed: June 16, 2010 Skills & experience: David brought to the Skills & experience: Sara brings to the Skills & experience: Anne brings to the Board Board extensive international sales, marketing, Boardher financial, strategic and technological her extensive legal, commercial and remuneration operational and supply chain experience gained experience having held various corporate experience.
She held the position of Group in the pharmaceutical sector.
David was President, leadership roles.
Until 2013 Sara served as Director, Human Resources at Centrica plc from Pharmaceutical Operations at GlaxoSmithKline, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 2002 to 2011 and was a member of the Centrica where he was responsible forthe companys of Dun & Bradstreet, Inc. having spent 12 years Executive Committee.
Her extensive business global pharmaceutical operations from 2003 at the company.
Prior to this, Sara worked for career includes senior management roles at to2008.
Prior to that hewas President of 18years at Procter & Gamble where she held Shell UK, the position of Deputy Director-General GlaxoSmithKlines US pharmaceuticals avariety of global finance and management of the Engineering Employers Federation and businessand before that SmithKline Beechams positions including Vice President, Finance, the position of Group Director Human Resources North-American pharmaceuticals business.
Sara received her at Smiths Group plc.
She is also a former Before joining SmithKline Beecham, David worked MBAfrom Xavier University, her Accounting Director of Northumbrian Water plc and SITA UK.
for many years at Schering-Plough.
He is also degree from the Institute of Cost & Works Anne holds a Law degree, a postgraduate diploma aformer Director of Allos Therapeutics, Inc. Accountants and her Bachelors degree in in Human Resources and is a qualified lawyer.
Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry from She is also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of theUniversity of Madras.
Personnel & Development, the Royal Society of Key appointments: Jabil Circuit, Inc. Arts and the London City and Guilds, and is a Non-Executive Director and Airgas, Inc. Key appointments: Avon Products, Inc. member of the Law Society of Scotland.
Non-Executive Director, Campbell Soup Company Non-Executive Director, Freddie Mac NonKey appointments: Tate & Lyle PLC NonExecutive Director and Zurich Financial Services Executive Director, ExlService Holdings, Inc. Group International Advisory Council Member.
Non-Executive Director, University of Aberdeen Court Non-Executive Director and University ofAberdeen Development Trust Vice Chairman and Trustee.
