Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 06 Chief Executives review continued Weve chosen to bring together our water and waste water To ensure we have the very best engineering expertise, we businesses into one Wholesale Operations business.
This have created a Chief Engineering officer function, led by change will simplify our structure, speed up decision making Martin Kane.
Martins team will give us assurance that we and make us more efficient and agile as a business, enabling are challenging ourselves to create the very best engineering us to drive the operational excellence and innovation were solutions.
Weve got one of the biggest investment programmes looking for.
Our new Managing Director for our Wholesale weve ever had over the next five years and we need to ensure Operations business is Emma FitzGerald who will, I am sure, we have the right assurance that we are choosing the most bring her experience, passion and drive to deliver a great cost-effective solutions.
The Chief Engineering officer function customer service through operational excellence.
will also assist in bringing innovation to life within our business.
The second structural change weve made is to create a Chief The final structural change we made during the year was the Customer officer role, bringing together our IS function, our creation of a Chief Commercial officer function, led by Helen contact centres and transformation teams.
We have a big agenda over the next five years and we to fully embrace digital technology to become more efficient want to drive significant efficiencies.
We know what the drivers and to deliver what our customers expect.
Bringing everything are and we now have a plan in place to deliver them, which has together in one place creates a sense of a joined up business already identied over 200 million of AMP6 savings from the for our customers and allows us to full our digital ambition.
Sarah Bentley, who has previously looked after digital for In addition to these structural changes, our Chief Financial Accenture, has joined as our new Chief Customer officer.
officer, Michael McKeon, has decided after nine years with In Severn Trent Business Services we have reorganised and Severn Trent to retire.
I would like to sincerely thank Michael brought together our non-regulated businesses, Operating for his help in my first year in the role.
Services US, Operating Services UK, including nonIm also delighted to have been joined by James Bowling as our household retail and renewable energy, each with a very good new Chief Financial officer, who I know will be excellent.
management team in place and a clear future.
With the sale of In transforming our business, weve also made difficult but the Water Purication business the management team will be important organisational changes, including significant able to focus on creating value from these core businesses in reductions in our cost base and fide-layering of management water and waste services and renewable energy.
These changes were tough, but will deliver over regulated businesses are led by Andy Smith who has extensive 100 million of savings for AMP6 whilst allowing more space experience in the water sector having been the Severn Trent forour managers to lead.
Water, Water Services Director for seven years.
So together with 200 million of supply chain and other efficiencies that we have already identied, this now equates to 300 million already locked in, as at the date of this report, for the coming five year period, which is a significant way towards the 372 million target agreed in our Final Determination.
The changes weve made will The changes weve made will also create a more dynamic, create a more dynamic, empowered culture, where the customer is very much at the heart of our business.
empowered culture, where the Our business plan for AMP6 promises better value, better customer is very much at services and a cleaner environment.
I believe that with the changes that we have put in place we are well placed to deliver the heart of our business.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07 1.
Water quality is a key focus area for Severn Trent.
35 million of investment has been reprioritised to replace and refurbish water quality assets.
Severn Trent has been recognised by the Environment Agency as the only 4 rated company in 2014 across the entire sector for environmental performance.
Looking forward How we create sustainable growth Im delighted to be part of Severn Trent and very excited about Embed customers at the heart of all we do how Severn Trent and our people can play a part in changing Drive operational excellence and continuous innovation our market for the better.
Invest responsibly The future is a world where there will be more competition in the water sector and we are already seeing the start of a gentle Change the market for the better disaggregation of the value chain.
New markets are opening, Create an awesome placeto work including the retail non-household market in 2017.
We want to be an active part of that, and we would also love to see a Sustainable growth competitive market for sludge trading and water trading, as we Our strategy is to invest responsibly in sustainable believe they present opportunities for competition in the sector growth.
In our UK regulated business, our 6.6 billion and value for our customers.
AMP6 expenditure includes one of our biggest investment Weve put in place the building blocks to ensure that Severn programmes and gives us a fantastic opportunity to Trent is a leader in our sector: the lowest bills for customers: outperform and grow our regulated asset base.
strategically well positioned in sludge, retail competition and We also have an opportunity to earn additional rewards over the water resources: a standard setter in renewables: and the right five years by performing well on our ODIs.
There are bound to people, leadership and organisational structure to deliver.
be good and bad years on various measures, but in aggregate So this has been a year of transformation, but for us there is we are confident that were positioned to do well.
As an industry always more to do, more efficiency to be found, more success and as a company we have lobbied hard for incentives and to be had.
Its the aggregation of small, marginal gains every were looking forward to the challenge.
year that you should expect from us and that will translate into Severn Trent has always been known for environmental long term shareholder value.
leadership and we also see a positive future in green energy.
Weve done some good work over the last 12 months and we We have announced over 190 million of new investment know where we need to improve.
Its the start of a brand new in renewable energy over the next five year period and in regulatory period and we feel were building from a good place.
particular in anaerobic digestion and solar technologies.
This will take our self-generation of renewable energy from the equivalent of 28% of Severn Trent Waters gross energy consumption over 2014 15 to around 50% by 2020, providing efficient green energy and a long term hedge against volatile energy prices.
Severn Trent remains the sector leader in this area.
Liv Gareld, Chief Executive WATCH NOW Watch a video of Liv on our new online Annual Report and Accounts.
com AR2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 08 09 Our strategic framework Our purpose To serve our communities and build a lasting water legacy.
Our vision delivering an outstanding customer experience, the best valueservice By 2020 to be the and environmental leadership.
most trusted water company: Our strategy Severn Trent are transforming service today, driving growth, and shaping our industry for tomorrow for the mutual benefit of our customers, communities and investors.
How we do it Embed customers Drive operational excellence Invest responsibly Change the market Create an awesome at the heart of all we do and continuous innovation for sustainable growth for the better placeto work What we mean by this What we mean by this What we mean by this What we mean by this What we mean by this Well improve the way in which Well build a smart water and waste Well develop an effective strategy Well embrace market opening in the UK Well create a culture of empowerment customers engage with us through water network, develop our business which optimises our regulated asset and explore opportunities for growth in and accountability with a focus on skills, improved insight and understanding of intelligence and simplify our cross base, whilst creating new growth new water markets worldwide.
Our market Wholesale operations Household customer Business retail and Green energy New water markets segments andengineering services operating services What we mean by this What we mean by this Renewable energy generation including Opportunities in sludge trading, water What we mean by this What we mean by this What we mean by this gas to grid, food waste biodigestion, trading and upstream competition.
Regulated water and waste Customer services for household Customer and operating services for wind and solar power.
water infrastructure and non customers in the UK.
our business customers in the UK infrastructure assets.
Our values We put our customers first We are passionate about We act with integrity We protect our We are inspired to create what we do environment an awesome company What we mean by this What we mean by this Were here for our customers 24 7.
We strive to do the right thing by being What we mean by this What we mean by this What we mean by this We want to create a relationship based transparent and honest in all that we do.
Were passionate about the work we do Were committed to a cleaner, greener Well all work together to be creative and on empathy and respect.
We want to create a better future for all.
We go the extra mile future, protecting and improving our to make special things happen.
for customers and team mates.
environment for generations to come.
Further details are provided on page 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10 Our performance 2014 15 performance measurement 2014 15 Key performance indicators 1.
Embed customers at the heart of all we do Basis Key performance indicators 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 MAT DWI reportable events category 3, 4, 5 KPI: 3 31 24 23 1 MAT Service Incentive Mechanism Qualitative SIM score KPI: 4 4.36 4.48 4.36 2 ACT Service Incentive Mechanism Quantitative SIM score KPI: 5 105 143 167 3 MAT Water supply interruptions index per property mins KPI: 6 10 16 29 4 Sewerage serviceability internal KPI: 7 54 57 78 4 Water serviceability internal KPI: 8 270 202 80 5 ACT Security of Supply Index SOSI KPI: 14 100 99 99 2.
Drive operational excellence and continuous innovation Basis Key performance indicators 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 6, 7 MAT Pollution incidents sewerage cat 1, 2, 3 KPI: 12 368 449 376 8 ACT Sewerage treatment works failing consent, limits % KPI: 13 0.14 0.71 0.85 MAT Net energy use Gwh % KPI: 15 634 691 690 MLE Leakage levels ML d KPI: 16 441 441 441 Waste water treatment performance MAT STS KPI: 1 7.4 5.6 10.8 9 Severn Trent Services % 3.
Invest responsibly for sustainable growth Basis Key performance indicators 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 10 ACT Capex m UK GAAP, net of grants and contributions KPI: 9 542.7 583.2 541.8 11 ACT Debtor days KPI: 10 34.7 34.5 36.7 ACT Opex m KPI: 11 588.9 585.3 566.5 4.
Create an awesome place to work Basis Key performance indicators 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 12 MAT Lost time incidents per 100,000 hrs worked KPI: 1 0.21 0.21 0.21 12 Lost time incidents per 100,000 hrs worked MAT STS KPI: 2 0.30 0.27 0.30 Severn Trent Business Services 13 QR Employee engagement % KPI: 2 79 81 79 14 QR Employee engagement % STS KPI: 3 75 79 77 Key Executive director balanced Black: Regulated business KPI MAT Moving Annual Total ACT Year End Actual scorecard performance measure Purple: Non-regulated business KPI QR Quarterly Review see Remuneration Committee Desired direction of KPI MLE Maximum Likelihood Estimate report onpages 69 to 85 Notes 11.
Actual performance based on audited financial statements for the year ended 1.
In 2014 15 Ofwat changed the methodology for this measure.
It is not comparable with 31 March 2015.
On a comparative basis we moved from 13th in 2013 14 to 6th in 12.
Actual performance across all employees and agency staff.
Performance based on annual survey of all employees.
Actual performance based wholly or partially on internal data.
Performance based on annual survey of all employees, including the Water 3.
Number of minutes lost due to supply interruptions for three hours or longer per Purification Business.
KPI 3 Drinking Water Inspectorate Reportable Events.
This KPI measures the number 4.
Ofwat serviceability score assesses how effectively we are maintaining our network of significant events reported to the DWI.
and assets against a range of measures.
Assessed as either improving, stable, KPI 7 Serviceability waste water.
This KPI is an index based on pollutions and blockages marginal or deteriorating.
both measures of how our below ground assets are performing and sewage 5.
The measure is out of 100. treatment works non-compliance above ground.
Total number of pollution incidents category 1, 2, 3. weighting for above and below ground assets.
In 2013 the Environment Agency changed its KPI 8 Serviceability water.
This index is based on mains bursts and supply interruptions reporting methodology for small incidents.
As a result of this reclassification we now greater than 12 hours both are measures of how our below ground assets are report more smaller incidents.
performing and Water Treatment Works WTW non-compliance above ground.
The index reflects a 50:50 weighting for above and below ground assets.
Measured on a calendar year basis.
KPI 14 Security of Supply Index SOSI is a measure of how resilient we are against periods 9.
Non-compliance with consent permits or formal client requirements during the of drought.
The index calculation is based upon the difference between the water previous 12 months.
available to use and the volume of water we expect to put into our supply network in 10.
Investment excluding PDaS and IFRS adjustments.
