Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Regulatory matters BT appealed the Pay TV Judgment to the Court of Appeal.
On 17 February Below is an overview of the ongoing 2014, the Court of Appeal allowed BTs appeal, finding that Ofcoms decision contained a further competition concern in relation to Sky UKs rate investigations and reviews of regulatory card prices and discounts to those prices, and that the CAT should have and competition matters involving considered that concern.
It therefore remitted that issue to the CAT for further consideration.
While the CATs finding that Ofcoms core the Group.
competition concern was unfounded remains undisturbed, the WMO Obligations as modified by the Order, as varied continue in force pending the CAT consideration of the further issue remitted to it.
As yet there is no date set for the hearing of the remitted issue.
On 19 December 2014, Ofcom published a consultation as part of its review of the WMO Obligations announced in April 2014.
This document represents the first phase of Ofcoms review, the purpose of which is to decide the extent to which the WMO Obligations remain appropriate or need to be modified or removed.
Ofcom is consulting on its assessment of whether, European Commission investigation absent regulation, providers of channels which carry key sports content On 13 January 2014, the European Commission the EC opened a formal might limit distribution to some pay TV retailers and whether that would antitrust investigation into cross-border provision of pay TV services in the undermine competition.
At the time of the consultation, Ofcoms view was European Union.
The EC is examining certain provisions relating to territorial that it might be appropriate to maintain some form of regulation on Sky UK protection in licence agreements between major US film studios Twentieth in order to ensure fair and effective competition in pay TV, and that it would Century Fox, Warner Bros. Sony Pictures, NBCUniversal, Paramount and be unlikely to be appropriate to impose similar regulation on BT.
Sky UK Disney and key European pay TV broadcasters Sky UK, Canal Plus, Sky has responded to the consultation.
On 27 July 2015, Ofcom published a Italia, Sky Deutschland and DTS, operating under the Canal Plus brand in supplementary consultation which seeks stakeholders views on the extent Spain.
On 23 July 2015, the EC adopted a Statement of Objections SO, to which an insistence by Sky on reciprocal supply of channels containing setting out its preliminary finding that there has been an infringement of key sports content, as a condition of Skys supply of its own key sports EU Competition law involving Sky UK.
Sky UK is responding to the concerns channels, may be a practice which is prejudicial to fair and effective in the SO.
The EC has not yet reached its final views and the Group is not yet competition.
The closing date for responses to this supplementary able to determine the outcome of the investigation or its financial impact, consultation is 21 September 2015.
Ofcom plans to set out the conclusions however, should the outcome be adverse to Sky UK, this may have a of its assessment from both consultations later in 2015 and, where significant effect on the financial position or profitability of the Group.
necessary, to consult further on any proposed remedies.
Wholesale must-offer obligations The Group is currently unable to determine whether, and to what extent, On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose wholesale the appeals concerning the WMO Obligations will be successful, nor is it must-offer obligations on the Group the WMO Obligations for the able to determine the outcome of Ofcoms review of the WMO Obligations.
channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky Sports 2 HD It is therefore not possible for the Group to conclude on the financial the Affected Channels.
The WMO Obligations require Sky UK, amongst impact of the outcome of the appeals or the consultation at this stage.
other things, to offer the Affected Channels on a wholesale basis to third However, should the outcome of these processes be adverse to the Group, parties which satisfy various minimum qualifying criteria.
this may have a significant effect on the financial position or profitability of the Group.
In April 2010, Sky UK applied to the Competition Appeal Tribunal the CAT for a suspension of the implementation of the WMO Obligations.
On 29 Ofcom Competition Act Investigation April 2010, the Groups application was resolved by way of an agreed Order Following receipt of a complaint from BT, on 14 June 2013, Ofcom opened an from the President of the CAT the Order, which was subsequently varied investigation into whether Sky UK has abused a dominant position contrary on 23 November 2010 and 12 November 2014.
The effect of the Order, as to Chapter II of the Competition Act 1998 and or Article 102 of the Treaty varied, is that pending the outcome of Sky UKs substantive appeal, Sky UK on the Functioning of the EU.
The complaint alleged that Sky UK was making is required to offer the Affected Channels to Virgin Media for distribution wholesale supply of Sky Sports 1 and 2 to BT for its YouView service via DTT and cable, to REAL Digital via DTH and to BT for distribution via conditional on BT wholesaling BT Sports channels to Sky UK for retail on DTT and BTs Internet Protocol Television IPTV platforms, Cardinal Sky UKs satellite platform, and that constituted an abuse of dominance.
The CAT granted the November 2014 variation extending the WMO Obligations to BTs IPTV platforms subject to BT giving an Ofcoms investigation of BTs complaint is still open.
undertaking that it would maintain the self-retailing of its sports channels The Group is currently unable to determine the outcome of Ofcoms BT Sport 1, BT Sport 2 and ESPN via Skys DTH satellite platform until the investigation or its financial impact, however, should the outcome be final determination of the matters remitted to the CAT.
adverse to the Group, this may have a significant effect on the financial On 8 August 2012, the CAT handed down its judgment on Sky UKs appeal position or profitability of the Group.
against Ofcoms decision to impose the WMO Obligations the Pay TV Judgment.
The CAT found that Ofcoms core competition concern is unfounded Ofcom had found that Sky UK deliberately withheld wholesale supply of its Premium Channels and that accordingly Sky UKs appeal must be allowed.
36 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Virgin Media complaint to Ofcom concerning the collective Forward looking statements This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect selling of live UK television rights by the Premier League to our financial condition, results of operations and business, and our In September 2014, Ofcom received a complaint from Virgin Media VM strategy, plans and objectives.
alleging that the arrangements for the collective selling of live UK television rights by the Premier League PL for matches played by its member clubs These statements include, without limitation, those that express forecast, are in breach of competition law.
On 18 November 2014, Ofcom opened an expectations and projections, such as forecasts, expectations and investigation under section 25 of the Competition Act 1998 into how the projections with respect to new products and services, the potential for PL sells live UK audio-visual media rights for PL football matches.
growth of free-to-air and pay television, fixed-line telephony, broadband and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, DTH and OTT customer Ofcoms investigation is continuing.
The Group is currently unable to growth, Multiscreen, On Demand, NOW TV, Sky Go, Sky Go Extra, Sky, determine whether, or to what extent, VMs complaint will be upheld by Sky HD, Sky Store, Sky Online, Multivision, Second Smartcard, mobile and Ofcom, and it is not possible for the Group to conclude on the financial other services, churn, revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow impact of the outcome at this stage.
generation, programming costs, subscriber management and supply chain costs, administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, capital Competition law investigation into 2014 Serie A auction expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital to In May 2015, the Italian competition authority, the Autorit Garante shareholders.
della Concorrenza e del Mercato AGCM, opened an investigation Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such into the outcome of the June 2014 auction for broadcasting rights forward looking statements are reasonable, these statements and all to Serie A football matches for the 20152018 seasons.
The investigation other forward looking statements contained in this document are not is considering whether the Italian football league, Lega Nazionale guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties Professionisti Serie A, its advisor Infront Italy Srl and broadcasters and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, are difficult Sky Italia Srl, Reti Televisive Italiane S. p. A. and its subsidiary Mediaset to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those Premium S. p. A. entered into an anti-competitive agreement in relation expressed or implied or forecast in the forward looking statements.
to the award of the rights.
The AGCM expects its investigation to be These factors include, but are not limited to, those risks that are completed by 30 April 2016. highlighted in this document in the section entitled Principal risks and The Group is currently unable to determine the outcome of the AGCMs uncertainties, and information on the significant risks and uncertainties investigation or its financial impact, however, should the outcome be associated with our business is described therein.
adverse to the Group, this may have a significant effect on the financial No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, position or profitability of the Group.
an invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other The strategic report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf entity and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any by the Group Chief Executive Officer: investment decision.
All forward looking statements in this document are based on information known to us on the date hereof.
Except as By order of the Board required by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, Jeremy Darroch future events or otherwise.
Group Chief Executive Officer 28 July 2015 Sky plc 37
