Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Our strategy We create sustainable value by pursuing broad growth opportunities across our markets, achieving competitive advantage through our core strengths and the way we do business.
Our business model Growth opportunities: Our strengths: Great content Growing pay TV penetration We invest to deliver the best and broadest range We exploit the headroom for pay TV growth across of content right across the portfolio of channels our markets using the combination of satellite, and services we provide to customers, ensuring cable and over-the-top OTT services to meet we offer something for everyone in the household.
Market-leading innovation Selling more to customers We harness new technology in order to give We focus on broadening out our range of products customers the very best viewing experience, and services in order to sell more to existing customers wherever and whenever they want it.
and address more of their needs.
A customer focus Scaling adjacent business We are led by customers and what they want.
We target opportunities in adjacent sectors like We have an unrivalled ability to address their advertising and international programme sales needs thanks to the strength of our brand: to grow new revenues.
the scale of our go-to-market operation: and our expertise in service delivery.
How we create value Investing for the long term Driving efficiency We invest over the long term because we want to build a business We underpin everything that we do with a rigorous focus on that is durable.
This means ensuring that we create the conditions operating efficiency.
By ensuring that we have an efficient and for sustainable success whilst also delivering results in the agile operating model, we consistently drive down costs to allow short term.
us to invest more where customers see greatest value.
Seeing the bigger picture Investing in people We are committed to acting responsibly in all that we do.
Thats We invest in our people because we recognise that their talent and because we know that to build a business thats successful over commitment are critical to our success.
We aim to foster a culture the long term, how we go about doing business is as important as which encourages our people to fulfil their potential and to strive what we do.
We also focus on making a positive impact on society.
for continual improvement in all that they do, enabling them to We call this seeing the bigger picture.
