A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 15 5 Governance Board of Directors Key A Audit Committee BP Bigger Picture Committee GN Corporate Governance GN R & Nominations Committee Nick Ferguson, CBE 66 Jeremy Darroch 53 Andrew Griffith 44 R Remuneration Committee Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Appointed: Nick was appointed to the Appointed: Jeremy joined Sky as Chief Appointed: Andrew joined Sky in 1999 Committee Chairman Board as a Non-Executive Director in June Financial Officer and Executive Director and held a number of senior finance 2004 and became Chairman in April 2012. in 2004 and was appointed to his current roles prior to his appointment as Chief He has previously served as Deputy role in December 2007.
In November 2014, Financial Officer and Executive Director For more about the Board: Chairman and Senior Independent Jeremy was appointed Chairman of the in April 2008.
Supervisory Board of Sky Deutschland AG.
was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of Sky Deutschland AG.
Skills and experience: Nick brings Skills and experience: Jeremy has extensive leadership experience from the extensive experience in the retailing Skills and experience: Prior to joining Sky, private equity and investment sectors.
and fast-moving consumer goods Andrew was at Rothschild, the investment He was co-founder and instrumental in sectors.
Prior to joining Sky, Jeremy banking organisation, where he provided the development of Schroder Ventures was Group Finance Director of DSG financial and strategic advice to corporate the private equity group which later International plc, formerly Dixons Group clients in the technology, media and became Permira of which he served as plc.
He has also spent 12 years at Procter telecommunications sector.
He later & Gamble in a variety of roles in the qualified Chartered Accountant and served as Chairman of SVG Capital plc, UK and Europe.
Jeremy is a former has a Bachelor of Law degree from a public quoted private equity group, Non-Executive Director and Chairman Nottingham University.
from April 2005 to November 2012. of the Audit Committee of Marks and External Appointments: In March 2014, He has a long-standing interest in the Spencer Group plc from 2006 to 2013.
Andrew was appointed Senior arts and philanthropy and served as External Appointments: In February Independent Non-Executive Director of Chairman of the Courtauld Institute of 2014, Jeremy was appointed Just Eat plc where he also holds positions Art for 10 years before retiring in July 2012.
Non-Executive Director of Burberry as Chairman of the Audit Committee External Appointments: Nick is Chairman Group plc and serves as a member and member of the Remuneration and of Alta Advisers Limited, an investment of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
He is a member advisory firm, a position he has held Nominations Committees.
He is a of the 100 Group of Finance Directors and since January 2007.
He is also Chairman Business Member of the National Advisory Board of the Oxford University and Founder of the Kilfinan Group which Centre for Universities and Business.
offers mentoring by Chairmen and CEOs to Heads of Charities.
Nick is a Fellow of Winchester College.
BP R Chase Carey 61 Tracy Clarke 48 David F. DeVoe 68 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: January 2013 Appointed: June 2012 Appointed: December 1994 Skills and experience: Chase has Skills and experience: Tracy brings a Skills and experience: David brings extensive knowledge and experience wide range of operational experience a wealth of executive and finance of the international media and pay TV and oversight for corporate affairs, brand experience from the media sector.
He is former President and and marketing, media relations, human He served as Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer of DirecTV, resources, legal and compliance matters of News Corporation subsequently where he led the operations and strategic in her role at Standard Chartered Bank.
renamed 21st Century Fox for over direction of the DirecTV Group.
Prior She has served as a Non-Executive 20 years and during that time was to joining DirecTV, Chase was Co-Chief Director of Standard Chartered First Bank appointed Senior Executive Vice President Operating Officer of News Corporation in Korea from 2005 to 2007 and until he stepped down from both roles subsequently renamed 21st Century Fox Non-Executive Director of Eaga plc in June 2013. and Chairman and Chief Executive from 2007 to 2011, where she chaired External Appointments: David is Senior Officer of the Fox Television Group.
Advisor to the Board and Director Until November 2014, he served as a External Appointments: Tracy is a of 21st Century Fox.
He is also a member of the Supervisory Board member of the Executive Management former director of Gemstar-TV Guide of Sky Deutschland AG.
Group and is Director for Compliance, International Inc. serving from 2001 to External Appointments: Chase was the People and Communications at Standard 2008 and DirecTV from 2003 to 2008. former President, Chief Operating Officer Chartered Bank.
She is a trustee of and Deputy Chairman of 21st Century WORKing for YOUth, a charity working Fox from 2009 to 2015.
In June 2015 with business to create job opportunities Chase was appointed as the Executive for young people.
Tracy is a member of Vice Chairman of 21st Century Fox and will the Institute of Financial Services and serve in this role through to June 2016. a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
38 Sky plc S St tr ra ate teg gi ic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Financial statements S Sh ha ar reh ehol old der er i in nf for orm ma at ti ion on Annual Report 2015 Governance A GN A R A BP GN BP Martin Gilbert 60 Adine Grate 54 Dave Lewis 50 James Murdoch 42 Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: July 2013 Appointed: November 2012 Appointed: February 2003 Appointed: November 2011 Skills and experience: Adine brings Skills and experience: Dave is an Skills and experience: James brings Skills and experience: Martin has been a wealth of executive, finance and experienced executive with strong significant media sector knowledge involved in the investment management investment management and operational expertise.
He is Chief and experience through his role at industry since 1982 and has extensive communications technology experience Executive Officer of Tesco plc and prior 21st Century Fox.
He was formerly the investment, finance and executive having operated at the top tiers of to that he was President, Personal Care Chief Executive Officer and Executive leadership experience through his role Nordic-based international business for Unilever plc, where he sat on the Director of Sky from 2003 to 2007 and as co-founder and Chief Executive Officer for the past two decades.
He has he acted as Chairman from 2007 to of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
He Executive Vice President and Managing held a variety of leadership roles at 2012.
James was Chairman and Chief has served as Chairman of FirstGroup plc, Director of Investor AB, owner of a Unilever in Europe, South America Executive Officer of Star Group Limited Chaucer PLC and was Non-Executive number of Nordic-based international and Asia including President for the and held Non-Executive Director roles Director of Dynmark International Limited, companies.
Americas and Chairman of Unilever at GlaxoSmithKline plc from 2009 to a mobile messaging and data applications UK and Ireland.
External Appointments: Adine is a services provider.
He is a member and former Chairman Chairperson of NASDAQ OMX Swedish External Appointments: Dave was of the Supervisory Board of Sky External Appointments: In addition Listing Committee and Vice Chairperson appointed as Chief Executive Officer Deutschland AG.
to his role as Chief Executive Officer of AP7, a Swedish pension and savings of Tesco plc in September 2014. of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, asset management company.
She is External Appointments: James was Martin is a member of the Scottish Director of: Three Scandinavia, a mobile appointed as Chief Executive Officer Governments Financial Services telecommunications and broadband at 21st Century Fox in June 2015.
operator: SOBI AB, an international He also serves as a member of the speciality healthcare company: Sampo Board of News Corporation and is OY, a leading financial and insurance a Non-Executive Director of Yankee institution: and Swedavia AB, an airport Global Enterprises, Vice Media, and operator.
Adine is also Chairperson of a member of the Board of Trustees non-profit organisations: Friends of of the Harvard Lampoon and the a Design museum and the Swedish Ghetto Film School.
A GN R Matthieu Pigasse 47 Danny Rimer 44 Arthur Siskind 76 Andy Sukawaty 60 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: November 2011 Appointed: April 2008 Appointed: November 1991 Appointed: June 2013 Skills and experience: Matthieu brings Skills and experience: Danny brings Skills and experience: Arthur brings Skills and Experience: With over 30 years significant knowledge of the European significant international investment over 30 years experience gained through of telecommunications media technology media sector and finance expertise to and finance experience.
He has executive and legal counsel roles at experience Andy brings strong industry the Board.
He is the Global Head for extensive knowledge of internet News Corporation subsequently knowledge to the Board.
He has led Mergers and Acquisitions and the Global infrastructure software and services, renamed 21st Century Fox.
He is a companies in the mobile phone, Cable TV Head for Sovereign Advisory for Lazard, technology, communications and highly experienced legal practitioner and satellite industries in the US and also Chief Executive Officer of Lazard e-commerce businesses through and member of the Bar of the State Europe and serves as Non-Executive in France in Europe.
He has also served his role as General Partner of the of New York since 1962.
Chairman of Inmarsat plc, global mobile as civilian administrator of the French venture capital firm Index Ventures External Appointments: Arthur is Senior satellite communications provider.
Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Advisor to the Chairman of 21st Century External Appointments: In addition Prior to joining Index Ventures, External Appointments: In addition Fox from January 2005 to December 2014 to his role as Non-Executive Chairman he was a General Partner of to his role at Lazard, Matthieu has a and he has served as Director Emeritus of Inmarsat plc, Andy is Executive in The Barksdale Group.
number of personal interests in media from October 2012 to November 2014.
Residence for Warburg Pincus and and publishing, notably Le Monde and External Appointments: Danny serves has previously held a number of the Huffington Post France.
He is a on a number of boards including First senior management positions in the Board member of Group Lucien Barrire Dibs, Inc. Flipboard, Inc.
Nasty Gal, Inc. telecommunications industry including: SAS, an operator of luxury hotels and RightScale, Inc. Viagogo, Farfetch.
com Chairman of Ziggo N. V. a Dutch cable TV restaurants, Derichebourg, a recycling Limited, Good Eggs, and Patreon.
and communications company, resigning and maintenance services business.
He resigned from Groupo Xango in December 2014.
He has also previously Technologies in April 2011 and Etsy, Inc. served as Chief Executive Officer and in March 2015.
President of Sprint PCS, a NYSE listed global national wireless carrier.
