S SM MIIT TH & N H & NE EP PH HE EW A W AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 15 5 w ww ww.
w. s sm miit th h- -n ne ep ph he ew.
w. c co om m 16 O OVE VER RVI VIE EW W O OU UR R B BU US SINE INES SS S O OU UR R P PE ER RF FORM ORMA ANC NCE E G GO OVE VER RN NAN ANC CE E O OU UR R FI FINAN NANC CIA IAL LS S OUR PRODUCTS The products we take to market Smith & Nephew has nine global Knee implants product franchises.
Smith & Nephew offers an innovative REVENUE BY PRODUCT range of products for specialised REVENUE knee replacement procedures.
Knee I H A replacement surgery involves replacing $883m the worn, damaged or diseased portion of a knee with an artificial joint.
It is a routine G operation for knee pain most commonly caused by arthritis.
Every year more than B % two million patients receive total, partial or 1 F INCREASE revision knee replacements.
Smith & Nephews knee systems include E 5% C the LEGION GENESIS II Total Knee System, a comprehensive system designed to allow D surgeons to address a wide range of knee procedures from primary to revision and our % GLOBAL PRODUCT FRANCHISES $4,634m JOURNEY II Family of Active Knees.
JOURNEY OF GROUP A KNEE IMPLANTS $883m II has been engineered to empower patients with a renewed active lifestyle by breaking B HIP IMPLANTS $604m through traditional knee replacement barriers 19% C SPORTS MEDICINE JOINT REPAIR $606m and delivering function, motion and durability TM through PHYSIOLOGICAL MATCHING.
D ARTHROSCOPIC ENABLING TECHNOLOGIES $573m These systems also feature VERILAST E TRAUMA & EXTREMITIES $497m Technology, our advanced bearing surface.
F OTHER SURGICAL BUSINESSES $205m The LEGION Primary Knee with VERILAST G ADVANCED WOUND CARE $755m Technology has been laboratory-tested to 30years of simulated wear.
H ADVANCED WOUND DEVICES $167m Our knee systems also utilise our VISIONAIRE I ADVANCED WOUND BIOACTIVES $344m Patient-Matched Instrumentation.
With VISIONAIRE Instrumentation, a patients MRI 2015 2014 2013 and X-rays are used to create customised $ million $ million $ million cutting guides that allow the surgeon to achieve A KNEE IMPLANTS 883 873 865 optimal mechanical axis alignment of the B HIP IMPLANTS 604 654 653 new implant.
VISIONAIRE cutting guides also help to save time by reducing the number of C SPORTS MEDICINE 606 576 496 JOINT REPAIR procedural steps and instruments used in the operating room.
D ARTHROSCOPIC 573 542 441 ENABLING Our Knee Implant franchise delivered a strong TECHNOLOGIES performance in 2015.
We grew revenue by 5% E TRAUMA & 497 506 486 globally.
In the US, our largest market, revenue EXTREMITIES growth of 6% was driven by our JOURNEY II F OTHER SURGICAL 205 147 74 BUSINESSES Total Knee System and the benefits of a US marketing campaign for VERILAST Technology, G ADVANCED 755 805 843 WOUNDCARE featuring both hips and knees.
H ADVANCED WOUND 167 192 213 DEVICES I ADVANCED WOUND 344 322 280 BIOACTIVES Total 4,634 4,617 4,351 1 The underlying percentage increases decreases are after adjusting for the effects ofcurrency translation and the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions andexclusion of disposals.
Explanations of non-GAAP financial measures are provided on pages 177 to 178.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 17 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS During 2015, we acquired the Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee ZUK system in the US market.
ZUK is a clinically proven uni knee replacement introduced Increased value and globally in 2004, and expands our access to the attractive area of partial knee joint reconstruction.
efficiency to hospitals In early 2016 we completed the acquisition of Blue Belt Technologies, securing a leading position in the fast-growing area of orthopaedic robotics assisted surgery.
Blue and ASCs Belt Technologies Navio surgical system provides robotics assistance in partial knee replacement surgery.
In August 2014 we announced Syncera, By using Syncera, a hospital performing For Smith & Nephew, this acquisition is a disruptive orthopaedic supply chain 400 total hip and knee surgeries over expected to create a strong combined partial model providing increased value and a 3-year period, can realise estimated knee portfolio from which to accelerate our efficiency to hospitals and ambulatory savings of $4 million.
growth in partial knee replacement surgery.
surgery centres ASC performing knee Since launching our pilot in the United We anticipate significant upside from a range and hip replacement surgeries.
States, we have secured strong reference of new product launches that will expand Syncera offers a different channel strategy sites with hospital and surgeon advocates, into indications beyond partial knees.
These providing attractive economics through now trained and fully operational with include a total knee system, due to launch clinically proven products and cutting-edge Syncera.
These sites have purchased in 2017, and revision knee and bi-cruciate technology solutions within the primary instruments and implant inventory and are retaining knee systems.
reconstructive hip and knee marketplace.
Its innovative business model brings value In August 2015 we had Syncera customers solutions to the operating room OR with with potential to perform more than 3,000 pioneering point-of-care technology that ANTHEM GLOBAL KNEE annualised Syncera procedures.
Our links and interfaces with the entire hospital progress has also given us confidence to or ASC supply chain systems.
Recently The unique design of the ANTHEM Total move forward with our plans outside of the acquired Syncera software platforms Knee System creates a knee offering fit for US, with pilots launched in Europe in 2015. improve training time for OR staff and drive all ethnicities.
Based on both intraoperative down cost in instrument sterilisation.
measurements and the analysis of CT images from patients.
ANTHEM utilises the ORTHOMATCH instrumentation platform, reduces weight, footprint and unnecessary cost without compromising on quality or clinical outcomes.
Currently in limited market release, ANTHEM will provide an advanced and globally relevant knee implant that is accessible to all orthopaedic surgeons andpatients in emerging markets.
com 18 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS The products we take to market continued Hip implants Smith & Nephews Hip Implant franchise offers a range of specialist products for REVENUE reconstruction of the hip joint.
This may be necessary due to conditions such as $604m arthritis, causing persistent pain, and or as a result of hip fracture.
Every year more than two million patients undergo total, resurfacing and revision hip replacement procedures.
% 1 INCREASE For Hip Implants, Smith & Nephew has developed a range of primary hip systems.
Core systems include the ANTHOLOGY Hip 0% System, SYNERGY Hip System, the SMF Femoral Hip System, POLARSTEM Femoral Hip System, the R3 Acetabular System and the POLARCUP Dual Mobility Hip System.
% This diversity exemplifies our commitment OF GROUP to providing surgeons with implant and instrumentation options that meet the specific demands of their preferred surgical 13% approach, most notably the direct anterior or posterolateral approach.
Smith & Nephews portfolio includes the REDAPT Revision Femoral System.
The need to perform a revision can occur for a variety of reasons including infection, dislocation, or failure of the implants to achieve biologic fixation.
REDAPT turns such complex hip revisions into efficient, reproducible surgeries, allowing surgeons to effectively recreate a patients unique functionality, while quickly and easily addressing issues such as poor bone quality.
In 2015, we announced our decision voluntarily to remove from the market certain smaller sizes of the BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing BHR System.
This was a decision we made based on our own post-market surveillance and clinical follow-up.
Many thousands of patients have benefitedfrom BHR over the years.
It continues to demonstrate very good clinical performance in male patients under 65 years of age and remains an important option for surgeons treating these patients.
Our Hip Implants franchise revenue remained flat in 2015.
Excluding the headwind from the changes to BHR, performance would have increased by 1%.
1 The underlying percentage increases This year saw the launch of collared and decreases are after adjusting for the effects ofcurrency translation and the valgus versions of our popular POLARSTEM inclusion of the comparative impact of Cementless Hip Stem System.
These new stem acquisitions andexclusion of disposals.
options join the expanding POLARSTEM family Explanations of non-GAAP financial of implants which has been in use clinically measures are provided on pages 177to 178. since 2002.
com 19 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS OXINIUM passes a million units This year also saw worldwide sales of In Hip Implants, VERILAST Technology our proprietary OXINIUM Oxidized has been shown in various national joint Zirconium metal alloy for joint replacement registries to have displayed replacements surpass one million units.
best in class survivorship rates when The OXINIUM material is a ceramicised compared to implants made from any metal that offers patients better other materials.
wear-reduction and durability than In Knee Implants, the LEGION Primary other conventional cobalt chrome or Knee with VERILAST Technology has been ceramic implants.
laboratory-tested to 30 years of simulated OXINIUM Technology, a point of wear.
While lab testing is not the same as differentiation for Smith & Nephew, clinical performance, the tests showed combines the enhanced wear resistance significant reduction in wear compared to of a ceramic bearing with the superior conventional technologies.
When In 2015, we invested in our OXINIUM combined with highly cross-linked production facility in Memphis, USA to polyethylene XLPE it results in our enable us to meet the strong demand for proprietary VERILAST Technology.
Smith & Nephew products featuring this unique material.
com 20 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS The products we take to market continued Shaping the future of The combination of Blue Belt Technologies with Smith & Nephews Knee Implant surgery with robotics franchise has a powerful rationale.
It reinforces our distinctive orthopaedic reconstruction strategy, which combines cutting In 2015, we announced the acquisition strong combined partial knee portfolio from of Blue Belt Technologies, securing a which to accelerate growth in the attractive edge innovation, disruptive leading position in the fast-growing area area of partial knee replacement surgery, business models and a strong of robotics-assisted surgery.
Robotics with further opportunities for a range of is expected to become increasingly new products.
A total knee variant is due Emerging Markets platform to mainstream across orthopaedic to be launched in 2017, bringing Navio to drive outperformance.
reconstruction in the foreseeable future.
surgeons performing total knee procedures and supporting Smith & Nephew products Blue Belt Technologies Navio surgical such as JOURNEY II.
A revision knee version system provides robotics-assistance in is in the pipeline to bring this technology unicondylar or partial knee replacement to this highly complex and fast-growing surgery through a unique hand-held, area currently not served by robotics.
Navio bi-cruciate retaining knee programme will brings a high degree of implant placement support our existing development work in accuracy, combined with attractive this potential major new market.
Bi-cruciate economics and ease of use.
knee implants are technically demanding, The acquisition will complement existing and we expect they will offer patients products and R&D programmes, creating more natural motion and greater stability a platform from which we can shape this by preserving the anterior and posterior exciting new area of surgery.
com 21 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS Sports Medicine Joint Repair Our Sports Medicine Joint Repair Sports Medicine Joint Repair delivered revenue growth of 7% in 2015.
We produced doublefranchise offers surgeons a broad array REVENUE digit growth in the US, driven by the benefits of ofinstruments, technologies and implants our combined portfolio following the acquisition necessary to perform minimally invasive of ArthroCare.
Our overall performance was $606m surgery of the joints, including the repair held back by conditions in China, where we saw a slowdown in capital and consumable of soft tissue injuries and degenerative sales compounded by fide-stocking in our conditions of the knee, hip and shoulder.
Our franchise operates in a large, growing In 2015, Smith & Nephew launched its Q-FIX market where unmet clinical needs lend % All-suture anchor for procedures like rotator 1 room for procedural and technological INCREASE cuff repair in the shoulder and labral repair in innovation.
Smith & Nephew is well the shoulder and hip, all procedures in which anatomic space is very limited.
The new anchor positioned both to innovate and to reach 7% delivers performance characteristics that meet customers globally.
2 or exceed those of much larger, hard anchors.
Our position within the global Sports Medicine Joint Repair market was strengthened % significantly in 2014, with the acquisition of OF GROUP ArthroCare Corporation.
The transaction ROTATOR CUFF REPAIR added technology and highly complementary products to our existing portfolio, including new 13% 2015 also saw the launch of a suite of products shoulder anchor innovation.
for Rotator Cuff Repair RCR, including ULTRATAPE, a suture available loose or Key products in this franchise include the pre-loaded into Smith &Nephew implants FAST-FIX family of meniscal repair systems, that provides greater tendon-to-bone contact the ENDOBUTTON family for knee ligament and may enhance repair: FIRSTPASS ST, a reconstruction, HEALICOIL PK, FOOTPRINT PK sterile-packaged retrograde suture passer that and TWINFIX Suture anchors for repairs of the eliminates the steps of loading and unloading hip and rotator cuff.
needles and cartridges: and MULTIFIX S, an all-PEEK knotless screw-in anchor that accommodates multiple suture limbs and or ULTRATAPE.
All of these new products can be used together or in conjunction with existing products from the Smith & Nephew portfolio in a single procedure, significantly expanding the breadth of our Rotator Cuff Repair Solutions.
S EE THE FULL RANGE OF PRODUCTS ONLINE WWW.
COM 1 The underlying percentage increases decreases are after adjusting for the effects ofcurrency translation andtheinclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions andexclusion of disposals.
A SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 22 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS The products we take to market continued Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies Trauma & Extremities Our Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies AET franchise offers a high performance REVENUE REVENUE array of minimally invasive surgeryenabling systems and devices.
$573m $497m AET platforms work in concert to facilitate access to various joint spaces, visualise the patients anatomy, resect degenerated or damaged tissue and prepare the joint for a soft tissue repair construct.
Products in this % % 1 franchise are often used in conjunction with 1 INCREASE INCREASE products from our Sports Medicine Joint Repair franchise.
0% 2% Systems include anatomic repair-aiding limb positioners and holders, high definition endoscopes and image capture systems, Key products include the SPIDER2 T-MAX % procedure-enabling limb positioning systems, % DYONICS Shaver Blades, single-use blades OF GROUP OF GROUP that provide superior resection due to their sharpness and virtually eliminate clogging with 12% their debris evacuation capabilities, DYONICS 11% large and small bone cordless powered instruments and accessories, ACUFEX Hand Held Instruments, and a wide range of high performance COBLATION Technology radio frequency RF probes that ablate, resect and coagulate soft tissue and enable hemostasis of blood vessels.
1 The underlying percentage increases THE EVOS MINI FRAGMENT PLATE decreases are after adjusting for the effects ofcurrency translation COBLATION TECHNOLOGY The EVOS Mini Fragment Plate and Screw System andtheinclusion of the comparative is a dedicated Trauma mini fragment system.
This impact of acquisitions andexclusion of In 2015, COBLATION Technology made a strong is a stainless steel highly versatile system with a disposals.
Explanations of non-GAAP contribution to AETs overall performance.
multitude of plate geometries and longer screw financial measures are provided on pages 177 to 178. lengths than standard mini fragment systems The COBLATION process involves the creation upto 80 mm.
and application of an energy field called glow discharge plasma, which acts to ablate Complementing this is our VLP MINI-MOD Small molecules in the tissue.
Bone Plating System for the fixation of small bones and small bone fragments, specifically COBLATION Technology provides advantages to designed to match the contour of small bones the surgeon by operating at lower temperatures needed in treating hand, wrist, elbow, foot and than other RF-based technologies, and allowing ankle fractures.
for precise removal of soft tissue with minimal damage tountargeted tissue.
com 23 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS Other Surgical Businesses Our Trauma & Extremities franchise offers The Other Surgical Businesses franchise both internal and external fixation and includes our Gynaecology and our Ear, REVENUE tissue repair devices, as well as other Nose & Throat ENT businesses.
This products used in the stabilisation of franchise delivered revenue growth of $205m severe fractures and deformity correction 10% in 2015. procedures.
In 2015, the franchise Our primary Gynaecology product is the delivered 2% revenue growth.
TRUCLEAR System, a first-of-its kind hysteroscopic tissue removal system, For extremities and limb restoration, we offer providing safe, efficient, effective removal of % the TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME Circular Fixation 1 intra-uterine tissue.
Backed by proprietary INCREASE System as well as a range of plates, screws, intellectual property and strong clinical arthroscopes, instrumentation, resection evidence differentiating it from the competition, and suture anchor products for orthopaedic the TRUCLEAR System has established itself 10% surgeons including foot and ankle and hand as a leader in hysteroscopic tissue removal.
and wrist specialists, and trauma surgeons.
The pioneering solution includes a total For Trauma, the principal internal fixation hysteroscopy system that allows surgeons to products are the TRIGEN family of IM nails see and treat simultaneously.
This approach % TRIGEN META-NAIL System, TRIGEN Humeral is designed to enable a shift to in-office OF GROUP Nail System, TRIGEN SURESHOT, and TRIGEN treatment, supporting a reduction in total INTERTAN, EVOS Plating System and the healthcare expenditures.
5% Within ENT we offer a wide variety of products Exclusively for our TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME including our COBLATION Technology for device, our new iADJUST was released this tissue removal and hemostasis, various year and is an easy-to-use and one-of-a-kind articulating instruments and implants for mobile app designed to simplify the frame sinus surgery such as balloon sinuplasty, and adjustment process for both physicians our RAPIDRHINO  and patients.
CMC Technology which is featured in both dissolvable and removable nasal and sinus We introduced the TRIGEN META-TAN Nail dressings, and epistaxis treatment products.
This expands the clinically proven TRIGEN Nail portfolio with a versatile design During 2015, we launched our new that addresses a wide range of femoral NASASTENT Dissolvable Nasal Dressing, fractures ranging from specific hip fractures to astructural intranasal splint used to minimise mid-shaft fractures and challenging fractures bleeding and prevent post-operating near the knee.
Unlike other nasal dressings which fragment as they degrade, once the NASATENT dressing absorbs sufficient nasal fluid, it converts into hydrocolloidal gel that simply drains from the cavity as part of the natural outflow.
The Ear, Nose & Throat ENT business weacquired as part of ArthroCare improvedits growth rate under new management in 2015.
1 The underlying percentage increases decreases are after adjusting for the effects ofcurrency translation andtheinclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions andexclusion of disposals.
com 24 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS The products we take to market continued Advanced Wound Care The Advanced Wound Care AWC Two core technologies drive our infection management portfolio, namely: silver franchise consists of several groups of REVENUE and iodine.
brands, including exudate management, Our silver-based products ACTICOAT, infection management and our DURAFIBER Ag and ALLEVYN Ag continue $755m Cornerstone range of products.
As a to gain market share due to their overall ability whole, this franchise produced revenue to reduce wound infection, their rapid onset growth of 8% in 2015. of action ACTICOAT and their ease of use.
ACTICOAT is very well positioned to address Exudate management products focus on urgent cases at risk for infection such as % effectively locking away wound fluid and thus burns, which are highly prevalent in developing 1 INCREASE helping to create an optimal wound healing countries, or acute trauma.
This will reduce the burden a Our iodine based product IODOSORB has a wound has on the patient and help them to long history of accumulating clinical evidence 8% get on with their lives and at the same time for its potentially transformative role in diminish costs for materials and nursing time.
combating biofilms layers of bacteria and other Our key growth brand in this space is ALLEVYN forms of infection which are cited as impeding Life, an innovative dressing designed to the healing of chronic wounds in 60% of cases % improve the quality of life for patients with globally.
Through its unique mode of action, OF GROUP chronic wounds, as well as helping healthcare IODOSORB has proven to be very effective on professionals reduce the costs of frequent addressing the issue of biofilms.
16% Smith & Nephews Cornerstone range offers During 2015, we continued to invest in a wide selection of wound care products, significant new clinical and health economic which means we have one of the most evidence with a number of studies being comprehensive ranges of wound care solutions published demonstrating superior outcomes in the industry.
These products include our for ALLEVYN LIFE.
This includes a UK study film and post-operative dressings, skincare showing how ALLEVYN LIFE enabled a products and gels.
reduction in home care nurse visits from OPSITE is one of our most successful and 2 three to one per week, and a US study pioneering franchises and has become the showing a 69% reduction in hospital acquired global standard of care in post-operative pressure ulcers saving a facility over $1 million dressings.
dressing for intravenous lines, continues to perform well.
SECURA and PROSHIELD are proven preventative skin care products which ALLEVYN LIFE help maintain and protect skin integrity.
ALLEVYN Life dressing is a multi-layered design incorporating hydrocellular foam, hyper-absorber lock away core and masking layer which has been designed for people and their everyday life.
Its unique protection properties also mean it is a powerful tool when used prophylactically to help prevent pressure ulcers which are a preventable condition.
In the US, pressure ulcer care is estimated to approach $11 billion annually, with a cost of between $500 and $70,000 per 4 individual pressure ulcer.
A collaborative project to enhance efficiency through dressing change practice.
3 S wafford, K. Culpepper, R. and Dunn, C. Use of a comprehensive pressure ulcer prevention programme to reduce the incidence of hospital-acquired pressure ulcers in an intensive care unit setting.
4 National Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel, European Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel and Pan Pacific Pressure Injury Alliance.
Prevention and Treatment of Pressure Ulcers: Clinical Practice Guideline.
Cambridge Media: Osborne Park, Western Australia: 2014.
com 25 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS Wound education and excellence Smith & Nephew is proud to support Management of wounds is also an increasing its customers in the Emerging Markets area of focus for surgeon customers.
In this Turkey, our Approaches in General Surgery way we ensure the safe and effective Training course, run in conjunction with use of our products and help healthcare the Turkish Surgery Association, provided professionals create better outcomes a forum to learn about wound healing.
Attendees were able to learn about the benefits of Smith & Nephew advanced In India, we have invested in a Nursing wound care products.
Education and Excellence in Wound Care programme that brings senior nursing Key Improving the skills of burn surgeons is also Opinion Leaders KOL together with the aim an important focus for Smith & Nephew.
of expanding knowledge and education in In South Africa, our courses are led by wound care.
This supports the evolving trend KOL surgeons and cover the entire burn towards more highly skilled and empowered continuum, including burn wound infection, 41 wound care nurses and tissue viability nurses anaesthesia in burns, fluid resuscitation, in hospitals.
pain management, inhalational burns and Nursing Key Opinion Leaders theatre time.
We also run a bi-annual Burns & attended our first Nursing Scientific Symposium, providing an academic Education and Excellence in forum for burn surgeons to congregate and Wound Care event held in share best practice.
Through training and education, we seek to ensure the safe and effective use of our products to create better outcomes for patients.
com 26 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS The products we take to market continued Advanced Wound Devices Our Advanced Wound Devices AWD In Q4, 2015 we launched outside the US the next generation of RENASYS called TOUCH franchise is comprised of our Negative REVENUE offering touchscreen technology.
We expect Pressure Wound Therapy NPWT and to launch in 2016 in the US.
We are also in surgical debridement businesses.
In 2015, the final stages of developing the first NPWT $167m revenue from this franchise fell by 3%.
device to communicate continuously through the cloud.
This will enable more efficient In 2014, our traditional NPWT RENASYS system fleet management for institutions and care experienced challenges as a result of the FDA providers, lower maintenance costs and the requiring suspension of commercial activity provision of clinically relevant information in in the US while new product approvals were real time.
During 2015, we made progress DECREASE Our PICO system, our single-use, canister-free securing the required approvals and began NPWT solution, performed strongly in 2015. supporting existing customers.
The impact of PICO brings the effectiveness of traditional the RENASYS distribution hold was a significant 3% 2 NPWT in a modern, small portable system.
headwind to overall performance in this It is designed for both open wounds and franchise in 2015. closed incisions and leverages our leading Outside the US, RENASYS maintained its strong dressing technology.
The RENASYS product offering now 2015 has seen PICO growth accelerate OF GROUP includes multiple device options, a choice of in markets around the world, driven by foam or gauze dressings, along with a range of strong value proposition that resonates with drains and specialty kits.
PICO reduces 4% the risk of infection and other complications and lowers readmissions for surgical site 2 infections.
It also offers simpler logistics PICO SYSTEM and lower cost and may reduce nursing 3 time and complexity as well as increasing 4 Easy to use, PICO simplifies the application patient mobility.
of NPWT and provides an active intervention The VERSAJET Hydrosurgery system, a to help promote healing, leading to improved outcomes in more wound types.
2015 has seen mechanical debridement device used by PICO growth accelerate in markets around surgeons to excise and evacuate non-viable the world, driven by strong clinical and health tissue, bacteria and contaminants from wound, economic evidence.
burns and soft tissue injuries, also performed well in 2015.
1 The underlying percentage increases decreases are after adjusting for the effects ofcurrency translation and the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions andexclusion of disposals.
3 Hurd, T. Evaluating the costs and benefits of innovation in chronic wound care products and practices.
4 Hurd, T. Use of a portable, single-use negative pressure wound therapy device in home care patients with low to moderately exuding wounds.
com 27 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR PRODUCTS Advanced Wound Bioactives Our Advanced Wound Bioactives AWB The acquisition of Healthpoint franchise focuses on the development Biotherapeutics in 2012 gave REVENUE and commercialisation of novel, costus a strong position in this fast effective biopharmaceuticals to provide a growing segment.
$344m unique approach to debridement, dermal repair and tissue regeneration.
Bioactives represent the fastest growing segment of chronic wound care, illustrating % how greater understanding of wound 1 biology is driving the development of new INCREASE biopharmaceuticals designed to stimulate the bodys own regenerative processes.
The AWB SANTYL 7% business is well-positioned to benefit from this market growth with its focus on generating For some patients living with wounds can be clinical evidence, a highly trained specialised challenging.
SANTYL Ointment is an FDAsales force, strong performance of best-inapproved prescription medicine that removes % class products and award winning educational dead tissue from wounds so they can start to resources.
AWB revenue growth in 2015 heal.
Healthcare professionals have prescribed OF GROUP SANTYL Ointment for more than 20 years to was 7%.
help clean many types of wounds, including Currently, products on the market include chronic dermal ulcers such as pressure ulcers, 7% Collagenase SANTYL Ointment the only diabetic ulcers, and venous ulcers and severely FDA-approved biologic enzymatic debriding burned areas.
SANTYL is available in the US and Canada.
agent for chronic dermal ulcers and severe burns, OASIS Wound Matrix and Ultra TriLayer Matrix a naturally-derived, extracellular matrix replacement products indicated for the management of both chronic and traumatic wounds and REGRANEX becaplermin Gel 0.01% an FDA-approved platelet-derived growth factor for the treatment of Diabetic Foot Ulcers.
The US is the largest market and represents thecurrent focus for our AWB franchise.
Smith & Nephew is also committed to advancing the care and treatment of wounds through the development of potential new Bioactives and support of industry-leading continuing education from THE WOUND INSTITUTE.
