Operational review Smiths Interconnect Smiths Interconnect Power of data From providing the cloud used bymany applications to processing a wide array of vital information, data centres play an unseen but vital role in our lives.
So they must receive continuous, ultra-reliable electricalpower.
To meet this challenge, Smiths Interconnect has developed a new, high-density Power Distribution Unit PDU which enables space savings of up to 50%.
Like conventional PDUs, the PowerHub2 converts electricity into appropriate currents and voltages and distributes it to the racks of computer servers.
Its modular design also reduces maintenance costs and easily accommodates customervariations.
Nathan Hazelwood, Director of Strategic Procurement at QTS Data Centers in the US, said: The innovative designs of Smiths Interconnects PDUs deliver installation and serviceability benefits that help enable our flexible solutions to support the rapidly evolving infrastructure demands ofweb and IT applications.
42 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 43 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Interconnect Contribution to 2015 Smiths Interconnect Group revenue A recognised leader in technically differentiated electronic 15% components and sub-systems providing signal, power and microwave solutions.
Contribution to 2015 Group headline operating profit We design and manufacture products that connect, protect andcontrol critical systems for the global data centre, wireless 9% telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space, medical, rail, Percentage relates to headline operating profit testand industrial markets.
before corporate costs Our products are application-specific and incorporate innovative technologies to provide our customers with .
Customers Roland Carter Revenue by sector Smiths Interconnect supplies to multiple President, Smiths Interconnect 1 Connectors 35% levels of the supply chain and its blue chip 2 Microwave 40% customers include prime contractors and 3 Power 25% service providers, OEMs, system suppliers and sub-system manufacturers.
Amongst our largest customers are Raytheon, 3 Finmeccanica, BAE Systems, AAI Textron, 1 Lockheed Martin, Thales, Global Eagle Entertainment, Rockwell Collins, Telstra, Motorola, Verizon, Vodafone, Huawei, Foxconn, Schneider, CyrusOne, Microsoft, 2 Qualcomm, NVIDIA, Broadcom, GE Healthcare, Biosense Webster and Varian.
Competitors Connectors Revenue performance Smiths Interconnect operates in relatively m 35% fragmented markets with many small, 420m down 6% medium and larger competitors in various product and technology areas.
2015 420 Connector competitors include Amphenol, Microwave 2014 445 TEConnectivity, MultiTest part of Xcerra, Yokowo, Glenair, ODU and Harting.
2013 461 40% Microwave competes with, amongst 2012 449 others, Anaren, KMW, Dover, CommScope, 2011 379 Cobham, Honeywell and Teledyne.
Emerson Network Power, Cyberex part of ABB, Power Principal operating regions Eaton, Starline part of Universal Electric, 25% Smiths Interconnect operates globally Huber & Suhner, Dehn Shne and and has locations in the US, Mexico, Costa Phoenix Contact offer competitive power Rica, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Tunisia, management products.
Suppliers Smiths Interconnect strategically manages its supply base through a single global sourcing organisation that develops supplier partnerships whilst ensuring no material dependencies on any individual supplier.
Machined parts and electronic components together represents approximately half of the total spend.
44 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Emission control Stricter international controls on diesel emissions have opened another market for Smiths Interconnect to leverage its expertise in thick film processing to produce a key component of new sensors for the auto industry.
Its newly launched Automotive Soot Sensor is a specialised electrode that attracts and measures carbon particles found in diesel exhaust.
In addition, when the carbon deposits accumulate, the sensor triggers a current to clean the electrode and maximise its effectiveness.
In this way, engine performance is continuously monitored and the driver is alerted when maintenance is needed.
The unique design integrates elements into a single layer, simplifying manufacture and reducing costs.
Markets and trends in developing regions, and the need to Strategy Smiths Interconnect comprises three upgrade fleets to more efficient aircraft.
Smiths Interconnect continues to build a technology-focused business units: Smiths Interconnect provides connector and global business model that enables the satellite communications antenna solutions organisation to position itself in growth Connectors provides application-specific, for various aircraft and space applications.
markets and to be viewed as a local, high-reliability electrical interconnect responsive and agile supplier of innovative solutions, from highly integrated assemblies The wireless telecommunications and technically superior value propositions.
to microminiature connectors and spring infrastructure market continues to We leverage our strong technology and probe contacts.
be driven by network improvements deep customer relationships facilitated by and in-building capacity increases to Microwave provides components, teams of highly specialised technologists.
enable higher data rates and bandwidth sub-assemblies and systems for defence, Diversified end markets provide resilience, utilisation.
These support the proliferation aerospace, wireless telecommunications and we allocate resources to markets, of mobile communication devices and electronic test applications.
customers and regions with the most and their data-intensive applications.
attractive prospects, particularly wireless Power provides distribution, conditioning, Smiths Interconnect supplies niche, telecommunications, data centres, test, protection and monitoring solutions for data high-performance microwave components commercial aerospace, Asia and other centres, wireless communications and other used in cell sites and in-building networks, emerging geographies.
Restructuring critical or high-value electrical systems.
as well as products and test equipment and efficiency initiatives, including lean that help optimise network performance, Smiths Interconnect addresses a variety of and value engineering, deliver the funds and protect high-value infrastructure from end markets, particularly defence, wireless for investment.
By providing a technically lightning strikes and power surges.
telecommunications, data centres, test and challenging, exciting and rewarding measurement, and semiconductor test.
Data centre demand is largely driven by environment, we attract and retain the internet traffic growth due to the expansion necessary talent to drive our future Global defence spending has stabilised of web-enabled devices the Internet of performance.
but remains constrained as western Things and applications, virtualisation governments maintain tight control of their orcloud computing.
Industry-specific data Competitive strengths budgets.
New investment is focused on regulations, for example in financial services Innovative and technically differentiated system upgrades rather than new platforms.
and healthcare, also create new capacity technologies Critical areas such as intelligence, requirements.
Co-location data centre Ultra-high reliability solutions used surveillance and reconnaissance ISR, providers have continued to grow faster indemanding applications improved battle space awareness and than enterprise demand as companies Customer intimacy, responsiveness force protection are likely to remain choose to outsource rather than fund large andproduct customisation priorities.
Military applications for Smiths capital projects.
Smiths Interconnects Addressing highly regulated markets Interconnect technology include unmanned conditioning, distribution, protection and with strong barriers to entry aerial systems UAS, next-generation monitoring solutions ensure power quality ground vehicles, communications is delivered to sensitive IT equipment and Growth drivers systems, radars and electronic warfare enable accurate monitoring and metering, Proliferation of electronic devices EW systems, surveillance systems and Demand for greater connectivity an increasingly important issue as electricity self-protection systems.
Growth in high data rate applications technology, ruggedised connectors and Increasing sophistication of customer electromagnetic pulse EMP protection Smiths Interconnect provides connector and needs in emerging markets solutions are deployed in the most cable assembly solutions to semiconductor extreme environments, such as enabling test and test and measurement applications.
sensor and communications systems and The continued proliferation of electronic next-generation radar and EW systems.
devices, high rate of technology refresh, increased functionality and greater Evidenced by a strong new build aircraft connectivity requirements are key drivers order book, the commercial aerospace forthese markets.
market remains strong, driven by increasing passenger and freight demand particularly Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 45 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Interconnect 2015 2014 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 420 445 6 % 9 % Headline operating profit 49 71 31 % 34 % Headline operating margin 11.6% 16.0% 440 bps Statutory operating profit 28 49 Return on capital employed 9.1% 13.7% 460 bps Performance Connectors underlying revenues fell 4% Key operational highlights Reported revenue declined 6%, or 25m.
as we saw pressures across several end Results affected by tough trading Excluding a foreign exchange benefit of markets.
Defence sales continue to decline conditions in certain markets 15m, underlying revenue fell 9%, or primarily due to the prolonged slowdown Volumes also reduced due to 40m, due to a combination of major of the Eurofighter programme.
Medical programme slowdowns and delays customers significantly cutting volumes, sales also reduced as our biggest customer Efficiencies delivered from further programme slowdowns and delays, and lost market share and cut inventories.
siterationalisation persistently tough conditions in several Similarly in semiconductor test, our Continued investment in business markets such as telecoms and defence.
western customers faced strengthening development in new sectors The Microwave business was particularly Asian competition.
We are investing to andgeographies affected in commercial markets.
The decline expand our presence in Asia and we won Product launches in several areas in Connectors was less pronounced while a new Chinese customer in the period.
Power delivered low growth as a strong Commercial aerospace revenues were flat performance in data centres was offset despite the impact of reduced demand for by a continued decline of the protection a Chinese project while it goes through productlines.
Operationally, the Americas factory consolidation was completed, with Reported headline operating profit fell 31%, manufacturing moved from California and or 22m, despite a foreign exchange gain New England into existing facilities in Mexico of 3m.
Underlying headline operating and the mid-West.
Back office activities were profit fell 34%, or 25m.
The difference also consolidated in one location.
between statutory and headline operating profit reflects amortisation of acquired In Microwave, underlying revenues fell intangible assets of 18m and exceptional 19% following a strong prior year with restructuring costs of 3m.
significant declines in commercial markets only partially offset by low growth in military Margins declined 440 basis points to 11.6% as US defence budgets stabilised.
Much with year-on-year reductions in all three of the decline came from a single test and business areas.
The main contributing measurement customer that dramatically factors were adverse mix, reflecting revenue reduced its volumes of high-performance weakness in higher margin sectors, cable assemblies for smartphone testing.
and negative operational gearing from The other major contributor was US lower volumes, particularly in Microwave.
wireless telecoms where one operator Pricing pressure also continued in several also cut back spending and there was also sectors.
We maintained a continued focus evidence of saturation in the market for on procurement, value engineering and passive intermodulation test equipment.
In improving operational efficiencies through other geographies, telecoms revenues grew lean manufacturing and automation.
due to an Australian carrier aggressively Investment was maintained in key growth building out a new frequency band.
In enablers, particularly new product commercial aerospace, sales to the primary development and sales initiatives.
customer for our current airborne antenna Return on capital employed fell 460 basis system declined, but we continue to pursue points with the lower profitability.
new customers with new product offerings.
Improved demand for military antennas, filters and microwave assemblies provided some growth in defence revenues, and substantial orders were received for a new submarine antenna system and components for next-generation radar systems.
46 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Fine art of testing Just as technology becomes smaller and smarter, so must the equipment that tests it.
The tiny semiconductor chips that drive mobile phones and wearable technology are growing in complexity and capability while also shrinking in size.
A connected watch typically contains more than 16chips providing Bluetooth capability, graphics processing, power management and many other functions.
To keep pace, Smiths Interconnect has developed Monet, a socket that enables electrical testing of these minute chips using an extremely fine grid of highly accurate and reliable spring-probe compression contacts.
Usinga radically thin, embedded barrel design, the Monet probes also offer benefits such as low electrical resistance, highcurrent ratings and excellent z-axis travel with low contactforce.
Underlying revenue in Power increased 5% Outlook Priorities for 2016 with data centre sales in the US growing General market conditions are expected Continued focus on commercial very strongly, particularly in the second half.
to stabilise in the year ahead.
However, marketopportunities A combination of increased demand from individual customer and programme International expansion, existing co-location customers, increased dynamics will continue to affect demand.
particularlyAsia win-rates, new product introductions and Margins should stabilise as restructuring Further investment in new product several large projects with new enterprise benefits and operational efficiencies are launches targeted at higher growth customers drove sales growth.
Service also expected to outweigh increased investment, andnascent segments contributed double-digit revenue growth.
pricing pressure and cost inflation.
Improve cost base through further site The strong data centre performance was rationalisation, quality improvements Go to www.
com offset by declines in power conditioning for more information and value engineering equipment for industrial applications and power protection equipment for Medium-term operating ranges telecoms and defence.
On a positive note, Underlying growth: low to mid-single a new product for power-over-ethernet digits 3-5% applications launched towards the end of the Headline operating margin: year is being well received.
margin range: 16-18% Research and development Total R&D of 25m, or 6.0% of revenue, declined by 2m or 10 basis points.
Company-funded R&D remained broadly constant as a proportion of revenue 5.4%, while customer-funded R&D, mostly for defence programmes, continued the trend of recent years and reduced to less than 3m.
Investments continued to be focused on opportunities in higher growth sectors.
Connectors launched a new high-speed data connector for aerospace and defence applications.
Two further semiconductor test sockets were also introduced to address the nascent wafer level chip scale package WLCSP sector.
In Microwave, good progress was made on next-generation airborne satellite communication antenna systems which are now entering the initial qualification phase, and a new vector analyser was recently launched.
Investments in data centre power products focused on PowerHub2, a new power distribution unit, and PowerWave Silver, a lower rated busway offering targeted at emerging market requirements.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 47 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
