Litigation Litigation The litigation involves claims for a number Titeflex Corporation litigation Smiths Group faces different types of allegedly asbestos-related diseases, Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the oflitigation in different jurisdictions.
withawards, when made, for mesothelioma Group in the Flex-Tek division, has received Thehighlevel of activity in the US, for tending to be larger than those for the a number of claims in recent years from example, exposes the Company to the other diseases.
JCIs ability to defend insurance companies seeking recompense likelihood of various types of litigation mesothelioma cases successfully is, on a subrogated basis for the effects of commonplace in that country, such as therefore, likely to have a significant impact damage allegedly caused by its flexible gas mass tort and class action litigation, on its annual aggregate adverse judgment piping products being energised by lightning legal challenges to the scope and validity and defence costs.
It has also received a number of of patents and product liability and product liability claims relating to this JCI continues to actively monitor the insurance subrogation claims.
These types product, some in the form of purported class conduct and effect of its current and of proceedings or the threat of them are actions.
Titeflex Corporation believes that its expected asbestos litigation, including also used to create pressure to encourage products are a safe and effective means of the efficacious presentation of its safe negotiated settlement of disputes.
delivering gas when installed in accordance product defence, and intends to resist with the manufacturers instructions and John Crane, Inc. litigation theseasbestos cases based on this defence.
local and national codes: however some John Crane, Inc. JCI, a subsidiary Approximately 242,000 claims against JCI claims have been settled on an individual ofthe Group, is currently one of many have been dismissed before trial over the basis without admission of liability.
co-defendants in litigation in the last 36years.
JCI is currently a defendant in USA relating to products previously cases involving approximately 76,000 claims.
At 31 July 2015, provision of 71m has been manufactured which contained asbestos.
Despite these large numbers of claims, made for the costs which the Group expects This litigation began more than 30 years ago since the inception of litigation JCI has to incur in respect of these claims.
Because and, typically, involves claims for a number hadfinal judgments against it in 133 cases, of the significant uncertainty associated of diseases including asbestosis, lung and has had to pay awards amounting with the future level of claims and of the cancer and mesothelioma.
The JCI products toapproximately US $153m.
costs arising out of the related litigation, generally referred to in these cases consist thereisno guarantee that the assumptions At 31 July 2015, the aggregate provision of industrial sealing products, primarily used to estimate the provision will result in for JCI asbestos litigation, including for packing and gaskets.
The asbestos was an accurate prediction of the actual costs adverse judgments and defence costs, encapsulated within these products in such that may be incurred.
amounted to 216m expressed at the then a manner that, according to tests conducted current exchange rate.
In deciding upon the on behalf of JCI, the products were safe.
amount of the provision, JCI has relied on John Crane ceased manufacturing products independent expert advice from a specialist.
Moreover, in establishing this provision no Read more in note 23 account has been taken of any recoveries on page 169 from insurers as their nature and timing are subject to pending litigation.
Because of the significant uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos claims and of the costs arising out of the related litigation, there is no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 57 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
