SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 14 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR GLOBAL MARKET Our marketplace is driven by longer-term trends Pricing of products is largely influenced in Ageing populations are placing Customers most developed markets by governmental greater burdens on healthcare We market our products largely to reimbursement programmes.
Initiatives systems as chronic diseases healthcare providers.
sponsored by government agencies, legislative become more prevalent.
bodies and the private sector to limit the growth In certain parts of the world, including the of healthcare costs are ongoing and include UK, much of Continental Europe, Canada It is expected that by 2050, the number of price regulation, excise taxes and competitive and Japan, healthcare providers are often people aged 60 or over will total 2 billion.
Governments and healthcare providers government organisations funded by tax However, although we are living longer, we are are increasingly requesting health economic revenues.
In the US, our major customers are not necessarily as healthy.
In 2014, the World data to justify the pricing of products and public and private hospitals, which receive Health Organisation WHO estimated that procedures or reimbursement requests.
More revenue from private health insurance and more than 1.9 billion adults were overweight.
collaboration between industry and data government reimbursement programmes.
Of these, over 600 million were classified as research institutions is emerging as a result.
Medicare is the major source of reimbursement obese.
Overweight and obesity are the major in the US for knee and hip reconstruction risk factors for diseases such as diabetes and procedures and for wound treatment regimes.
In the Emerging Markets, demand is driven by and compliance in the self-pay patients.
Additionally, WHO estimates that by 2020, people aged 60 years and older around the healthcare industry New commercial purchasing models are being world will outnumber children younger than five adopted by health systems as a solution to Alongside healthcare provision and payment years.
This changing dynamic will decrease the improving resource allocation.
There is a shift becoming more complex, the regulation of the level of funds available for healthcare raised towards payment for performance schemes, medical device industry is also intensifying.
where financial incentives are provided to Regulatory requirements are important in healthcare administrators as well as surgeons Therefore, governments and healthcare determining whether substances and materials to increase better health outcomes and reduce providers are under pressure to look for ways can be developed into effective products in an the overall cost of delivery.
Healthcare providers to reduce their overall healthcare expenditure, environmentally sustainable way.
are implementing incentives for reduced while at the same time maintaining the quality National regulatory authorities administer hospital stay or preventing readmissions.
of care and treatment provided.
and enforce a complex series of laws However, product innovation remains of vital and regulations that govern the design, importance with increasing focus on products development, approval, manufacture, which simplify and increase the efficiency of labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare procedures as well as robotics which increase products.
They also review data supporting precision and enhance procedure outcomes.
the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in With this increased focus on health outcomes, many countries that products be authorised governments are beginning to impose or registered prior to the placement on market penalties on healthcare facilities holding them and that such authorisation or registration accountable for acute patient re-admissions or be subsequently maintained.
The industry for infections acquired within the health system.
is focusing its resources on meeting the Pricing pressures also remain pertinent.
In increased regulatory pressure around many cases, highly regulated markets employ the world.
Global medical A strong US The US device market grew Dollar is making accounts for 43% American devices of the global medical 3% more expensive to device market.
com 15 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR GLOBAL MARKET 1 The major regulatory agencies for Smith & HIPS & KNEES SPORTS MEDICINE Nephews products include the Food and Drug Administration FDA in the US, the Medicines G F and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency E in the UK, the Ministry of Health, Labour and F G E Welfare in Japan, the China Food and Drug A A Administration and the Australian Therapeutic A D Goods Administration.
In general, with the aforementioned industry D trends, safety standards and regulations in the medical device industry are becoming more stringent.
Regulatory agencies are intensifying audits of manufacturing facilities C and the approval time for new products has C lengthened.
Legislation covering corruption B B and bribery such as the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act also apply to all our global operations.
We are committed to PRODUCT STREAMS % PRODUCT STREAMS % ensuring a high level of regulatory compliance A ZIMMER BIOMET 34.9 A ARTHREX 30.4 and to doing business with integrity and we 2 welcome the trend towards higher standards B DEPUY SYNTHES 20.8 B SMITH & NEPHEW 23.3 in the healthcare industry.
We and other 2 C STRYKER 19.2 C DEPUY MITEK 14.6 companies in the industry are subject to regular D OTHERS 12.8 D OTHERS 12.9 inspections and audits by regulatory agencies and notified bodies, and in some cases, E SMITH & NEPHEW 10.3 E STRYKER 10.7 remediation activities have required and will F MICROPORT 1.2 F LINVATEC 4.7 continue to require significant financial and resource investment.
See Legal proceedings G EXACTECH 0.8 G ZIMMER BIOMET 3.4 on page 147.
Seasonality TRAUMA & EXTREMITIES ADVANCED WOUND MANAGEMENT Orthopaedic and sports medicine procedures F tend to be higher in the winter months when E E accidents and sports related injuries are highest.
Conversely, elective procedures tend D to slow down in the summer months due to A D holidays.
Due to the nature of our product range, there is little seasonal impact on our A C advanced wound management franchises.
Competitors C We compete against both local and multinational corporations in the global medical B devices market, including some with greater B financial, marketing and other resources.
Our competitors vary across our franchises as illustrated in the market segment and PRODUCT STREAMS % PRODUCT STREAMS % leadership charts.
2 A DEPUY SYNTHES 45.9 A OTHERS 37.0 B STRYKER 24.7 B ACELITY 21.0 C ZIMMER BIOMET 11.3 C SMITH & NEPHEW 18.0 D SMITH & NEPHEW 9.1 D MOLNLYCKE 12.0 E OTHERS 9.0 E CONVATEC 8.0 F COLOPLAST 4.0 Data: 2015 estimates generated by Smith & Nephew based on publicly available sources and internal analysis.
1 Representing access, resection and repair products.
