Managing risk in delivering our strategy Smiths Group is exposed to a wide range of risks in running its businesses.
We regularly review these risks and ensure we have the appropriate processes and policies for managing them.
Our approach to risk governance Our approach to risk management Our bottom-up divisional approach Smiths Group is exposed to a wide In delivering our strategy, it is important to involves the identification, management range of risks in running its businesses.
understand and manage the risks that face and monitoring of the material risks in TheCompany and its divisions consider us.
We achieve this through our embedded each of our divisions.
Each division is these risks on a regular basis and put risk management approach, combining required to maintain risk registers and in place appropriate risk management a top-down strategic view of risks with monitor significant risks on an ongoing processes, policies and other measures, abottom-up divisional process.
Eachdivision attends one Audit including insurance where appropriate.
Committee a year to explain and discuss Our top-down approach involves a review of the inherent risks and challenges faced The Board has overall responsibility for the external and internal environment, and by the division.
Additionally, the strategic ourrisk management policies and ensuring an assessment by the Executive Committee risks are further discussed at divisional we have an effective system of internal of the key risks that face Smiths Group.
strategy presentations, which are made control.
The Groups process for identifying, Thisreview is formalised twice a year.
A risk annually to the Group Board.
The divisions evaluating and managing significant owner is assigned to each risk and has the are also required to provide an update business risks is reviewed by the Audit responsibility to monitor the risk and ensure regarding their risk mitigation actions at Committee and monitored by the Group it is managed.
theQuarterlyBusiness Reviews held with Internal Audit Department.
An outline of These Group-wide risks are categorised the Chief Executive and FinanceDirector.
this years review process by the Board and aseither: Audit Committee is set out on pages 85 to This dual process provides a framework 91.
A description of the Companys internal Major business challenges such that the Groups strategic, financial and control and risk management processes operational risks are adequately considered Risks caused by uncontrollable is given in the Corporate governance and discussed by the Executive Committee externalfactors statement on page 85. and the Board.
Other risks There can be no assurance that our A summary of these Group-wide risks is approach to risk management will be presented for discussion at the July Board effective in any particular case.
In reviewing the major risks, the risks we identify, or other unforeseen risks, Board determines the level of risk that materialise, they could have a significant we are prepared to accept in the pursuit adverse effect not only on our business and of our business goals this is our risk financial condition but also on our reputation tolerance.
Where the risk impact is greater and the trading prices and liquidity of our than that which we are prepared to accept, securities.
This could lead to a loss for further mitigation actions are agreed to investors of part or, in a worst case scenario, reduce the potential impact.
Where further all of their investment.
mitigation actions are not possible or are considered to be cost prohibitive, the risk iscloselymonitored.
58 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Managing risk The diagram summarises how Board we manage risk Sets risk appetite The Board has ultimate responsibility Policy approval for our risk management policies Oversight and for ensuring we have an effective system of internal control.
Our executive and operational management assess Implementation Oversight the risks facing our businesses and Executive management Audit Committee respectively create and implement our Policy creation Oversight on behalf risk management policies.
The Audit Risk assessment of the Board Committee ensures appropriate oversight of risk management and is supported by our internal audit function, which tests the effectiveness of our controls and identifies areas for improvement.
Operational Internal audit management Controls testing Policy implementation Identified improvements The risks to our strategy The table below shows the main categories of risks we face and which of our strategic objectives they could affect.
Strategy Transforming Generating Allocating Smiths into a Promoting cash and capital to Driving topEnhancing world-class a culture of managing the maximise Risk line growth margins organisation responsibility balance sheet returns Economic outlook and geopolitical environment Financial risks Global supply chain and business process transformation Government customers Information technology cyber security Acquisitions and disposals Legislation and regulations Pension funding Product liability and litigation Contractual liabilities Technology and innovation Talent and succession planning Although the Group faces more risks than those listed above, these are the risks that are currently of most concern to the business and have been considered at recent Board or Audit Committee meetings.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 59 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Managing risk in delivering our strategy Continued Our Group-wide risks as assessed by the Board Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Economic outlook and geopolitical environment Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation High Global economic and financial market conditions have partly The Group has a diversified portfolio of stabilised after the turmoil following the 2008 financial crisis, in businesses that mitigates exposure to any large part due to the various impacts of quantitative easing and one country or sector.
However, there remains continued uncertainty The divisions regularly monitor their order Higher arising from a range of geopolitical and economic issues across the flows and other leading indicators, where world.
Smiths operates in more than 50 countries and is affected by available, so that they may respond quickly global economic and political conditions.
The business is affected by to deteriorating trading conditions.
government spending priorities, in particular in the US and UK, and the willingness of governments to commit substantial resources In the event of a significant economic tohomeland security and defence.
downturn, there may be opportunities to identify and implement further costGlobal security concerns continue to drive uncertainty.
These reduction measures to offset the impact on include the continuing situation in Syria and the Middle East, as margins from deteriorating sales.
well as the recent events in Ukraine that have led to economic and political sanctions against Russia and the devaluation of the Russian Rouble.
Whilst growth is gradually returning in the Eurozone, the economic situation in Greece continues to provide uncertainty in global financial markets.
There is the potential for the UK to leave the EU, which may have economic and operational considerations for theGroup.
The global oil price continues to trade at levels well below the average of the past few years.
This potentially represents the biggest risk to our businesses, particularly John Crane.
Compliance with legislation and regulations Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low to medium There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete Environmental, health and safety data are compliance with laws, regulations or permits, for example reported to the Quarterly Business Reviews, concerning environmental or safety requirements.
The Group Executive Committee and the Board, along Trend could be held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising with actions to improve performance.
No change from past or future environmental damage, including potentially Smiths Medical has dedicated staff who significant remedial costs.
There can also be no assurance that any maintain close contact with the US Food provisions for expected environmental liabilities and remediation and Drug Administration and other costs will adequately cover these liabilities or costs.
The Group operates in highly regulated sectors.
Smiths Detection, All divisions have trade compliance advice Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Medical are particularly subject to and training.
This includes training on regulation, with certain customers, regulators or other enforcement the Groups Code of Business Ethics and bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes assessments to support compliance.
Divisional and Group General Counsel Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect manufacture security monitor legislative changes assisted by products and components, which are subject to numerous export Government Relations staff and report and controls, technology licensing and other government regulations.
This may In addition, new legislation, regulations or certification requirements require modifications to our supply chains may require additional expense, restrict commercial flexibility and customer arrangements.
and business strategies or introduce additional liabilities for the Company or directors.
There also appears to be a growing trend for legislation that could be described as protectionist, which may affect our businesses.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, our products may be delayed in getting to market, which could lead to a loss of revenue or benefit a competitor with a similar product.
Corruption on the part of a single employee can entail severe consequences for the Group.
Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or reputational damage.
60 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Pension funding Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium to high At 31 July 2015, the Group has legacy defined benefit pension All major schemes US UK have been plans, with aggregate liabilities of approximately 4.1bn on an closed to new members and future accrual.
Agreed funding plans are in place with Trend Changes in discount rates, inflation, asset returns or mortality the major UK schemes following the last Reduced slightly assumptions could lead to a materially higher deficit.
The Group seeks a good the cost of a buyout on a discontinued basis, and therefore using working relationship with the trustees more conservative assumptions, is likely to be significantly higher through regular update meetings.
In addition, there is a risk that the plans There are plans in place to reduce the assets, such as investments in equity and debt securities, will not mismatch between assets and liabilities, as besufficient to cover the value of those benefits.
relative outperformance of the assets versus The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct impact liabilities is achieved, although there is no on the Groups valuation and credit rating, and potential additional downside protection in place should this funding requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
started the 2015 triennial review, which will establish future cash Pension matters are regularly reported payments to the principal UK pension schemes when concluded.
In the event of a major disposal that generates significant cash Read more in note 9 proceeds that are returned to shareholders, the Group may be on page 148 required to make additional cash payments to the schemes or provide additional security.
Financial risks foreign exchange, funding, tax and insurance Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low to medium Foreign exchange: Exchange rate fluctuations have had, and could Foreign exchange: The Groups hedging continue to have, a material impact on the reported results.
The strategy, whereby larger transactions are Group is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction and hedge accounted, mitigates the risk to Trend translation.
The Groups reported results will fluctuate as average profitability to some extent.
Net investment No change exchange rates change.
The Groups reported net assets will hedging of overseas assets of approximately fluctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
50%, through borrowing in non-sterling currencies, mitigates the impact of Funding: The Groups ability to refinance its borrowings in the exchange rate fluctuations on net assets.
bankor capital markets is dependent on market conditions and the proper functioning of financial markets.
The Group may be unable Funding: The Groups debt maturity is torefinance its debt when due.
staggered so that the refinancing risk is minimised.
As at 31 July 2015, the Tax: The Groups future profitability, particularly in the US where US$800m committed revolving credit there are higher rates of corporation tax, may cause the headline facilitywasundrawn.
tax rate to increase over time.
Changes in tax and fiscal regulations and transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate Tax: The Groups taxation staff co-ordinate could affect the Group, particularly at times when public sector tax management to mitigate possible debt is high.
Taxation costs could rise and earnings per share could increases in the effective tax rate.
Regular deteriorate, which could affect the Groups market valuation.
reporting to the Board of tax risks and exposures provides good visibility of issues.
Insurance: The Group cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all.
Furthermore, the Group Insurance: Insurance risk is spread across cannot be certain that its insurance will cover losses arising from a number of carriers to minimise individual events or that insurers will not dispute coverage.
In addition, even if insured risk and counterparty risk.
our coverage is sufficient, the insurance industry is subject to credit Read more on page 56 risk, particularly in the event of a catastrophe or where an insurer has substantial exposure to a specific risk.
If insurance cover is inadequate or does not pay out as expected, the Group could be exposed to an unexpected material cash outflow, which may impact the Groups liquidity and or share price.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 61 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Managing risk in delivering our strategy Continued Business challenges thematic risks Product liability and litigation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to Quality assurance processes are embedded litigation such as product liability claims and lawsuits, including in our manufacturing locations for critical potential class actions, alleging that the Groups products have equipment, supporting compliance with Trend resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury.
No change In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures or design A global best practice programme is defects could require us to recall products.
Many of our products continuing to enhance product quality are used in critical applications where the consequences processes across the Group.
This is of a failure could be extremely serious and, in some cases, sponsored by the Executive Committee .
and leverages the ongoing work in Smiths Medical and John Crane.
Products sold to the aviation, security, healthcare, energy and consumer domestic industries are particularly critical in nature.
The divisions have procedures for dealing with product liability issues and potential Furthermore, over half the Groups sales are in the US, where there product recalls.
These procedures are ispotentially increased litigation risk.
informed by crisis management planning Any liability claim against the Group, with or without merit, could workshops and rehearsals.
be costly to defend and could increase our insurance premiums.
The Group has insurance cover for certain Some claims might not be covered by our insurance policies, either product liability risks.
The US Safety Act adequately or at all.
provides legislative protection for certain An adverse event involving one of our products could damage our Smiths Detection products in the US: and reputation and reduce market acceptance and demand for all of we support efforts to implement similar ourproducts.
Any litigation is managed under the supervision of the Groups legal function.
Wehave detailed action plans to manage actual or threatened litigation.
Read more on page 57 and in note 23 on page 169 Global supply chain and business process transformation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium The Groups business depends on the availability and timely delivery Business continuity and disaster recovery of raw materials and purchased components, and could be affected plans are in place and tested for critical by a disruption to its supply chain.
In particular, we rely on sole locations, to reduce the impact of anevent.
Trend suppliers to provide raw materials or components for some of Single-source supplier risks are identified Reduced slightly ourproducts.
and, where possible, key materials or The Groups manufacturing facilities are exposed to a number components are dual sourced to mitigate ofnatural catastrophe risks that, like other external events such the impact of anevent.
as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic, could have significant The Group regularly evaluates its key adverse consequences.
The Group is also affected by the social, sites for a range of risk factors using economic, regulatory and political conditions in the countries in externally benchmarked assessments, which it operates.
These are often unpredictable and outside the and takes action to improve these ratings Groups control, particularly in developing countries.
The concentration of manufacturing in lower cost countries, in The Group has business interruption and particular in Mexico and China, increases the length of the supply property damage insurance.
chain and means that an adverse event could have more significant consequences for our ability to supply customers on time.
A longer Transformation programme and project supply chain also affects transport costs, which could be exacerbated management is in place in John Crane, byenergy cost inflation.
Smiths Medical, Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect.
As part of the Fuel for Growth initiative, there are significant restructuring and reorganisation initiatives underway across the All transformation projects are approved Group.
These include site rationalisation and consolidation of by the Group Chief Executive and Finance manufacturing.
There is a risk that these initiatives could cause Director.
We are experienced in driving disruption to the business, including manufacturing processes, change programmes and all projects are supply chain, fulfilment of customer demand, and business systems subject to ongoing monitoring at Group and processes, or lead to industrial action.
However, we are already anddivisional levels.
halfway through this programme and the initiatives to date have been delivered with minimal business disruption.
The risk has therefore reduced.
62 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Business challenges thematic risks Government customers Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium We derive a significant proportion of our revenues in mature The Group has a diversified portfolio of Western economies and approximately 35% of the Groups revenues businesses that mitigates exposure toany are directly related to government expenditure.
Additionally, a high one country or sector.
Trend proportion of our products and services are in some way influenced Some of our government-related business No change by government regulation and certification.
has a services or consumables component, Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect which can be more resilient during an frequently tender for government contracts.
The timing of contract economic downturn.
awards and payments under these contracts may be uncertain The Group has a government relations anduneven over agiven financial year.
function so that it can inform policy and Any significant disruption or deterioration in relationship with these maintain close relationships withcustomers.
governments could result in fewer contracts and lower revenues.
At a time when government finances are under pressure, these headwinds may lead to slower growth across the business.
A decrease in spending by key government customers could materially affect the Groups results and financial condition.
Delays in awarding government contracts can affect the Groups sales, margins and cash conversion inaparticular reporting period.
Technology and innovation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Developing new products and improving existing products is critical The Group has a diversified technology to our business.
There is a risk that competitors may innovate more portfolio in a range of sectors effectively.
The emergence of a disruptive technology could have an andgeographies.
Trend impact on a major cash-flow contributor to the Group over time.
Our continued investment in R&D supports No change The speed of innovation in certain markets may lead to shorter new product and service development.
product lifecycles, increasing the need for innovation.
Additionally, There is an increased focus on new product the entry of new competitors, the consolidation of existing development processes across the Group competitors and changed or irrational competitor behaviour as part of theEngineered for Growth couldsignificantly affect the Groups business.
The failure of the Group to develop its products and services, or more The Group looks to expand the addressable effective innovation by a competitor, could have a materially adverse markets of its key businesses by effect on sales growth.
building capabilities in adjacent markets, through organic investment and through targetedacquisitions.
Talent and succession planning Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium to high The loss of key personnel, or the failure to plan adequately for Each division or function holds talent succession or develop new talent may impact the reputation of the and succession plan reviews at least Group, or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
These plans are reviewed Trend by the Nomination Committee.
Competition for personnel is intense and the Group may not be Slightly higher successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly Remuneration packages, including engineering professionals.
In addition, certain personnel may be variable and long-term elements ofthe required to receive security clearance and substantial training compensation arrangements, are evaluated to work on certain programmes.
The loss of key employees, the regularly against marketpractice.
Groups inability to attract new or adequately trained employees, The Chief Executive assesses, on an annual ora delay in hiring key personnel, could seriously harm the basis, the Top 25 people in the organisation Groupsbusiness.
for performance, skills and competencies The change in executive management may lead to a transition and presents development and succession periodas they go through their induction programme, with the risk plans to the Board.
Two leadership development programmes Over time, our competitive advantage is defined by the quality of and formal career counselling support the ourpeople should we fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, talent pipeline.
intime our competitive advantage will erode, leading to weaker Read more on pages 12-13 and 69-71 growth potential or returns.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 63 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Managing risk in delivering our strategy Continued Business challenges thematic risks Programme delivery Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Failure to deliver, in a timely fashion or at all, the products and Contracts are managed and delivered services Smiths is obliged to deliver, or any fault in contract execution byprogramme management teams that due to delays or breaches by its suppliers or other counterparties, regularly review contract risks and take Trend may lead to higher costs, liquidated damages or other penalties.
No change Differences between the estimated costs in the Groups mediumA Group-level procedure for reviewing and and long-term contracts and actual costs may arise from a approving high-risk contracts is in place and number of factors including production delays, cost overruns further enhancements to our governance and otheritems.
Certain of the Groups contracts, particularly those with governments, may include terms that provide for unlimited Divisional boards review significant liabilities on the part of the Group or allow the government body contracts.
or counterparty to terminate unilaterally, reduce or modify the The diversified nature of the Group mitigates relevant contracts or seek alternative sources of supply at the the exposure to any singlecontract.
Acquisitions and disposals Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low Targeted acquisitions and selected disposals form part of the Groups The Executive Committee and Board review growth strategy.
The success of our acquisition strategy depends the acquisition pipeline.
There are monthly on identifying targets, obtaining authorisations and having available reviews with strategy leads for each division.
Even if an acquisition is completed, the acquired products We perform comprehensive strategic Reduced and technologies may not be successful or may require significantly and financial reviews of all opportunities.
greater resources and investment than anticipated.
Detailed due diligence, including an The Group may not be able to integrate the businesses that it assessment of the targets talent and acquires.
If integration is unsuccessful, anticipated benefits are not competencies, and integration planning is realised or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, undertaken and reviewed in accordance with it may be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
The Groups return on capital employed may fall if acquisition hurdle The Board only authorises acquisitions after rates are not met.
The Groups financial performance may suffer completion of due diligence, and approval is from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges.
subject to meeting the capital allocation and Insufficient allowance for indemnities and warranties given at other financial hurdles set by the Board.
The disposal may affect our financial position.
Board reviews post-acquisition performance and integration.
The risk is reduced as a result of more limited activity and lower value transactions in recent years.
On disposals, the Group seeks to minimise its exposure to indemnities and warranties and any that are provided are reviewed on a regular basis.
Information technology and cyber-security Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium to high The Groups information systems, personnel and facilities are subject Extensive controls and reviews are to security risk.
The Group is dependent on information technology undertaken to maintain the integrity and systems for both internal and external communications and for efficiency of IT infrastructure and data.
Trend the day-to-day management of its operations.
The incidence and Wehave continued to improve our capability Higher sophistication of cyber-security crime is on the rise and some Group to detect and respond to hostile activity early companies operate in sectors where cyber-criminals areactive.
Any disruption to the information systems could have significant There are also processes to deal with adverse consequences on the Groups operations or its ability to significant IT security incidents.
It could result in the loss of confidential information and A Group-wide information security intellectual property, which could affect the Groups competitive awareness programme has been launched.
position and cause reputational damage.
64 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate responsibility Promoting a culture of responsibility, developing smarter ways of working and attracting the best talent, and delivering operational efficiencies to enhance margins form key elements of our six-point business strategy.
Behaving ethically, working safely, reducing our environmental impact, attracting and developing our people and contributing to our communities creates long-term value for our shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
Why Corporate responsibility CR Our Code of Business Ethics Our Code of Business Ethics isimportant to Smiths Our Code of Business Ethics sets out Many of our products and services benefit 12broad principles for how we do business, 1 We comply with the law the environment and contribute to the safety, based on the common values of integrity, 2 We compete fairly health, security and productivity of people honesty, fairness and transparency.
For example, Smiths TheCode provides the framework for the 3 We act with integrity in all our business Detections security scanners play a vital way we do business and, more specifically, dealings role in helping to prevent terror attacks, how we manage many of our CR issues.
4 We treat suppliers, partners and while John Cranes seals help its customers Itisintended to enable our employees customers properly to reduce their environmental impact.
tomake ethical decisions every time.
Similarly, how we do business is critical 5 We treat our co-workers respectfully Our strategic focus areas toour long-term success.
Conducting our We focus on five priority issues: ethics, the 6 We contribute to healthy, safe and business responsibly enables us to meet our environment, health and safety, our people secureworkplaces obligations to our stakeholders and delivers and the communities in which we operate.
real business benefits, creating long-term 7 We respect the environment value for shareholders by: Key relationships 8 We contribute to our communities As a global technology company operating Protecting our reputation and ability in highly regulated sectors, building 9 We participate in relevant public togrow strong relationships with our employees, debates Helping us to win business from customers customers, governments and their agencies, 10 We respect human rights who value strong CR performance regulators and suppliers across the globe iscritical to our long-term success.
11 We have high standards of financial Enhancing our efficiency record-keeping and reporting Our employees are key to delivering our Enabling our people to work productively, strategy and are committed to attracting, 12 The Code applies to all of us in a safe and ethical environment retaining and developing the best talent.
Helping us to attract and retain talent, and Strong, long-term customer relationships encouraging employees to take pride in underpin our success.
Many of our products working for us are developed to meet customers specific Reducing the risk of incidents and their needs and our aftermarket services, associated costs especially in Smiths Detection and John Crane, help to build customer loyalty and Our approach also helps us to address improve our insight.
key trends in our markets, including an increased regulatory focus on avoiding We engage with governments, their bribery and corruption, increased agencies and regulators directly through competition for talent, pressure on energy our divisions and a centralised government and water use, climate change, materials relations team, as well as working in safety and the ability to recycle waste and partnership with industry bodies to leverage products which have reached the end of the benefits of scale.
For example, we are their useful life.
working with Medical Device Manufacturers Association to campaign for the repeal of the Here we provide an overview of our approach Medical Device Tax in the US.
Further detail on our approach, CR governance, performance and We work with a broad range of suppliers case studies can be found in our 2015 CR andpartners, such as distributors, across Report, which is available to download from the Group and we require them to maintain www.
com high ethical standards comparable to our own see pages 66-67.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 65 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate responsibility Continued Strategy, objectives and approach We use a variety of communication channels Ethics Our ethics programme is focused on and face-to-face training to spread the continuing to embed the Code and ethics ethics and compliance messages to every We believe ethical behaviour is the and compliance-related policies through employee.
Following the success of our responsibility of every Smiths employee communication, training and awareness global ethics forums in Shanghai, China: at every level of the organisation.
We aim to ensure our So Paulo, Brazil: and Dubai, UAE over the Our objective is not only to protect employees understand the expectations past four years, we held a similar forum in the reputation of our company and of them and are able to make the right, Berlin, Germany in June 2015. to safeguard the investment of our ethical decision every time and to know shareholders, but also to protect the Reporting concerns and managing when to ask for help, as well as to ensure interests of every employee by ensuring specific issues compliance with our ethics-related policies he or she has the knowledge and We encourage employees who have and controls and the laws and regulations tools necessary for individual legal concerns or queries about the Code to of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
or regulatory compliance and ethical raise them with line management, Human decision-making.
We continually review and update Resources or their local in-house legal our policies and business controls to counsel.
They also may report those mitigate changing areas of risk.
We also concerns through our confidential Ethics 2015 Highlights review, evaluate and update our ethics Alertline, which is managed by a third Held our fourth global ethics forum programme, systems and procedures for party.
It is available 24 7 via email, the in Berlin, Germany.
The theme was fostering, monitoring and auditing ethical internet, and toll-free phone numbers in the individual ethical responsibility businessconduct.
every language used by Smiths employees.
ofeveryemployee All issues are addressed promptly and Other focus areas include expanding our Developed additional online training referred, as required, to relevant internal online training, encouraging open discussion courses in areas such as anti-bribery or external specialists for investigation.
Our of ethical risks with employees at every and corruption for both employees strict non-retaliation policy means that any level of the organisation and developing and third parties, international trade employee who in good faith reports an act of additional policies to enhance governance of compliance, compliance with applicable apparent misconduct or unethical behaviour key risk areas, and continued collaboration embargoes and sanctions, and global will not be victimised or treated adversely.
with Internal Audit, as part of our risk competition and anti-trust compliance management and assurance processes.
Controls on defence sales Enhanced the availability of Code of We seek to comply with the national laws Business Ethics materials with internal 2015 activities in every country in which we operate.
and external online resources Every year we expand and update training Moreparticularly, we seek to ensure Included ethics questions in employees on key compliance topics to address evolving that all sales and exports of defence annual performance reviews and the global risks, changes in laws or regulations equipment are undertaken in accordance MyVoice global employee engagement and enforcement trends in jurisdictions with international trade regulations and survey to gauge the knowledge and around the world.
We also continue to national government export and approval understanding of ethical principles increase the number of languages in which procedures and regulations, such as the atall levels of the organisation training is offered.
Thecourses include International Traffic in Arms Regulation and Met with key suppliers to introduce global competition law and international the Export Administration Regulations in the Supplier Code of Business Ethics, trade compliance.
These laws prohibit export of certain which has been implemented through training on Ethics for Third Parties for our items to specific countries.
The Groups contractual terms that set the Code agents, distributors and external sales policy is to adhere to all relevant government as a minimum standard for ethical representatives.
We recently introduced a guidelines designed to ensure that products operations and behaviours new Supplier Code of Business Ethics, which are not incorporated into weapons or is available externally on smiths.
com and other equipment used for the purposes provided to all major suppliers.
The Supplier ofterrorism or abuse of human rights, Code and our contractual provisions require withinternal controls to ensure compliance suppliers to maintain high ethical standards with these guidelines.
in line with our Supplier Code or their own comparable ethics programme.
Global ethics forum We held our fourth global ethics forum in June 2015 in Berlin, Germany.
The forum brought together 75 senior executives and managers from across the Group to consider the business and ethical challenges of doing business in Eastern, Central and Western Europe, with a focus on the individual ethical responsibility of all employees.
The programme included input from subject matter experts and local business leaders, together with case study scenarios.
The participants had to develop action plans to respond to a variety of ethical challenges, which they then discussed with members of the Smiths Group Executive Committee.
This event is one of a series of interactive programmes addressing similar issues in many of the markets in which we operate.
66 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Human rights Environmental targets Environment, health Smiths seeks to uphold all internationally In 2013, we set new five-year targets for recognised human rights wherever ourenvironmental metrics.
Our targets are andsafety its operations are located.
Within this to achieve 15% reductions in energy usage, We are committed to achieving framework, we do not tolerate the use of greenhouse gas emissions and waste excellence in environment, health and child or forced labour at Smiths facilities generation, and a 10% reduction in water safety management and performance or those of our suppliers.
The Supplier usage by FY2018, all normalised to revenue and providing effective leadership Code of Business Ethics and contractual against a baseline of FY2013.
in the pursuit of injury-free and clauses incorporate and implement these Our greenhouse gas GHG emissions environmentally responsible workplaces.
Furthermore, we take all steps calculation methodology closely follows reasonably possible to ensure our products the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and includes are not used to abuse human rights emissions from sources under our control.
2015 Highlights In addition, the inventory consists of Scope 1 Environmental performance continued Priorities for 2016 direct GHG emissions from sources owned its long-term improvement trend Hold regional ethics conferences in or controlled by the company and Scope Continued implementation of a new countries considered a compliance risk 2 GHG emissions from the generation of EHS management software system Continue to update our training purchased electricity consumed by the Developed global technical minimum and compliance programmes in company emissions.
In 2014, an external safety standards for serious EHS risks line with changing business needs adviser performed a review of our GHG and conducting job risk assessment and regulations, such as expanding emissions calculation methodology and Implemented new EHS issue tracking international sanctions and embargoes prepared a GHG Inventory Management software to ensure proper and Continue to refresh employees online Plan that has been used to further align timelyclosure Code of Ethics training every two years our emissions calculation methodology Initiated sustainability materiality Continue to train suppliers on our with the GHG Protocol.
It was concluded assessments in two divisions ethical standards and requirements that emissions from vehicles, production to support the new Supplier Code EHS governance and management processes and fugitive sources are small of Business Ethics, including the Our environmental, health and safety EHS and not material compared to our total prohibition of any abuse of human rights approach starts with our EHS policy and is GHG emissions.
Due to the difficult nature Continue to ensure ethics messages supported by our EHS strategy, KPIs and of collecting emission data from these are received and understood by all goals.
Our divisions adapt the Group EHS sources and their immateriality, they have employees worldwide strategy to reflect their specific impacts been excluded from the inventory totals.
and any opportunities to improve their Themateriality of these sources will be EHSmanagement and performance.
reviewed again in the future.
We believe in the power of continuous Over the past five years we have significantly improvement and use management reduced our environmental impact, with systems to realise its benefits.
In addition, 14% energy, 25% GHG, 23% water and 26% management systems provide a framework non-recycled waste reductions, normalised for the identification of risks and issues that to revenue.
Overall, our environmental helps sites to prioritise and focus on the performance continued its long-term most concerning risks.
We continued to reduce our GHG emissions, non-recycled EHS strategy waste and water usage while energy usage We aim to protect our employees, was flat, by comparison to 2014.
Compared communities, environment, and shareholder to our baseline year of FY2013, we have value by effectively managing safety and achieved good progress in reducing GHG environmental risks.
Our principal focus emissions, non-recycled waste and water, areas include safety culture, training, risk though energy usage increased slightly.
identification and mitigation and energy Thisincrease in energy use was due to management.
Our EHS KPIs are aligned colder than normal winter temperatures, tothe strategy, allow us to assess progress increases in production to build inventory and form part of our senior management and a few facilities operating concurrently performance assessment.
for a short period while in the process ofconsolidating.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 67 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate responsibility Continued Health and safety management Total energy Total energy efficiency The Group is committed to working in 000MWh MWh m revenue away that protects, as far as reasonably 278,000 MWh 96 MWh m revenue practicable, the health and safety of its employees.
Our employees recognise 2015 2782015 96 this commitment.
In our Group-wide engagement surveys, workplace safety 2014 2832014 96 continues to be the highest scoring 2013 2782013 94 dimension, exceeding the worldwide 2012 2792012 97 benchmark for manufacturing industry.
2011 3032011 112 Our Group-wide activities to reduce incidents have focused on leadership and employee Total CO2 emissions Total CO2 emissions safety awareness and involvement and risk 000 tonnes Tonnes m revenue reduction.
We continue to implement and 96,000 tonnes 33 tonnes m revenue build on these activities and are monitoring them through our Safety Leading Indicator Activities Programme.
We use a safety 2015 96 2015 33 leading indicator activity score as a KPI 2014 1012014 34 for safety, complementing the recordable 2013 1032013 35 incident rate RIR.
2012 1102012 37 Health and safety targets 2011 1212011 44 Our FY2015 safety performance metrics were the Safety Leading Indicator Activity Water use Water consumption Score, RIR and Lost Time Incident Rate 3 3 LTIR.
Smiths Group as a whole and all the 000m m m revenue 3 3 divisions completed the required number 403,000m 139m m revenue of safety leading indicator activities, which will support our efforts to improve our safety 2015 4032015 139 culture and risk management.
2014 4402014 149 As part of our strategic plan updating and 2013 4372013 148 benchmarking in FY2013, we also updated 2012 4652012 158 our safety performance targets.
These safety 2011 4852011 180 targets increase focus on leading indicator activities designed to reduce the risk of incidents.
We place less emphasis on the Total non-recycled waste Total non-recycled waste lagging indicator Recordable Incident Rate 000 tonnes Tonnes m revenue RIR.
However, we continue to monitor RIR 4,900 tonnes 1.7 tonnes m revenue and Lost Time Incident Rate and investigate incidents for contributing factors and trends to help focus risk assessments.
Our ultimate 2015 4.9 2015 1.7 ambition is zero harm to employees.
2014 5.42014 1.8 Adopting this further emphasises to 2013 5.92013 2.0 employees and other stakeholders how 2012 5.52012 2.0 seriously we take our EHS performance.
2011 6.12011 2.3 A small number of historical metrics have been revised marginally to reflect refinements in monitoring Performance against environmental targets Target FY2013-18 FY2015 progress against FY2013 Energy 15% reduction 2% increase Greenhouse gas emissions 15% reduction 4% reduction Total non-recycled waste 15% reduction 17% reduction Water consumption 10% reduction 6% reduction Reduction targets are compared to the FY2013 baseline year and normalised to revenue consolidated at FY2015 closing exchange rates.
68 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 As we work to transform Smiths into Recordable incident rate People a world-class organisation, a talented Where an employee requires medical attention and determined workforce, united beyond first aid per 100 employees per year Attracting, retaining and developing the by commercial acumen, an appetite right people with the right skills is central for innovation, strong leadership and to our ambition of transforming Smiths 2015 0.55 a commitment to collaboration and into a world-class organisation and responsibility will be essential to achieving 2014 0.50 supporting our growth ambitions.
To support this, we will 2013 0.54 We believe that people growth is a continue to develop our leadership 2012 0.60 strong enabler of business growth and capabilities throughout the organisation 2011 0.66 we develop our employees capabilities to ensure we have the depth and breadth so they can fulfil their potential and necessary to support growth: deepen help us to fulfil ours.
our focus on our technological and Lost time incident rate engineering expertise in order to drive Where an employee is unable to work the day after an incident per 100 employees per year innovation and maintain our technological leadership: and continue to build employee 2015 Highlights engagement across the business in Continued to strengthen our talent 2015 0.22 response to the global MyVoice survey pipeline through targeted external 2014 0.22 andongoingfeedback.
recruitment and a focus on talent assessment, personal development and 2013 0.22 Performance succession planning 2012 0.21 Building the talent pipeline and Put new cohorts through our early 2011 0.29 succession planning career and senior leadership Our focus on succession planning has development programmes delivered significant progress in building our Health and safety performance Conducted an interim MyVoice Pulse talent pipeline, through a more rigorous and From FY2004 to FY2014, we achieved a global employee engagement survey consistent approach to assessing talent and steady reduction in our RIR, improving Further embedded our e-enabled HR a greater focus on preparing and monitoring from 4.6 to 0.50.
Whilst our goal is zero operating model to support business personal development plans.
We have also harm, our RIR increased slightly from 0.50 growth invested significantly in our two leadership to 0.55.
Focused programmes to address development programmes.
Horizons Governance this at the few sites that experienced fosters emerging talent at junior levels, The Board places a high priority on increased incidents have already delivered while Aspire2 develops senior leaders.
attracting and retaining the right people significant improvements and we continue These programmes challenge and engage andthe Chief Executive is the Board to drive world-class standards across the our employees, build their understanding of member nominated to bring these organisation.
the wider Group, increase their exposure to ambitions to life.
He is supported by the After years of reductions, our LTIR has been our senior leaders and enhance their core Group Human Resources Director, a team steady at 0.22 for the past three years.
The programmes ofHuman Resources HR professionals and still well below our FY2008 LTIR of 0.54.
Over will also improve the diversity of candidates, line managers across the organisation.
the past twelve years, we have experienced especially in the areas of gender, educational Over the past five years, we have three occupational fatalities, with an routes and emerging market backgrounds.
transformed our HR function to bring employee at a former facility in Sweden in Around 150 managers from across the world-class people management to Smiths 2003, a contractor in Costa Rica in 2007 and business have been on or are currently and to leverage our strength and scale.
an employee in a vehicle accident in 2014. participating in these programmes.
Our model combines consistent, best We provide a wide variety of learning practice approaches and programmes Priorities for 2016 and training opportunities, ranging from in key areas with divisional initiatives that Develop additional global technical workshops and mentoring to online address specific business needs, supported minimum standards to address our resources and internal and external by GlobalView, Smiths first HR information remaining most serious EHS risks training courses.
The utilisation of an e-enabled Finish the implementation of our new planning and identification of training and model empowers managers and employees EHS management software system development needs form a key part of our to take more responsibility for many aspects Complete formal sustainability annual performance review process and of their working lives.
materiality assessments in two we are rolling out a new, enhanced toolkit divisions and begin in other divisions Strategy and objectives to support this as part of the development We have consistently focused on ofGlobalView.
strengthening our leadership capabilities We constantly challenge ourselves as and talent pipeline at both senior and to whether we have the right skills and junior levels, improving our recruitment competencies to support our growth and assessment techniques, succession ambitions and believe this is best achieved planning, enhancing employee engagement through a healthy balance of recruiting and transforming our HR function to provide the very best external candidates to bring a strong platform for growth.
We benchmark fresh approaches and perspectives, while the effectiveness of our processes against also strengthening our internal talent world-class standards and put in place pipeline.
As part of the Engineered for Growth year-on-year improvement plans to help programme, we have increased our focus usbecome best-in-class.
on developing our technological capabilities in both the short term and over the next 10years.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 69 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate responsibility Continued Performance and reward It is our policy to provide equal employment Communication Managing performance is critical to opportunities.
The Group recruits, selects Communication is fundamental to engaging ensuring our employees fulfil their potential and promotes employees on the basis of employees.
This having been identified as and deliver business results.
In a competitive their qualifications, skills, aptitude and a key theme in the last MyVoice survey, we marketplace, we recognise the importance attitude.
In employment-related decisions, have implemented a number of initiatives of rewarding employees appropriately and we comply with all applicable antito improve information sharing, facilitate aim to offer compensation and benefits discrimination requirements in the relevant greater collaboration and improve news flow packages that enable us to attract, develop jurisdictions.
People with disabilities are at both Group and divisional levels.
These and retain key talent.
Our new HR operating given full consideration for employment include developing a new intranet platform, model is driving consistent best-in-class and subsequent training including more regular updates on performance approaches to reward across the Group.
retraining, if needed, for people who have and key business issues, and providing We encourage our people to share in our become disabled, career development and greater opportunities for feedback and success and periodically offer employees promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and dialogue.
This has built on the wide variety opportunities to participate in share plans, abilities.
We endeavour to find appropriate of well-established tools and channels aligning their interests more closely with alternative jobs for those who are unable used across the Group, including site those of shareholders.
to continue in their existing job because meetings, team briefings, presentations ofdisability.
Continuing to improve Diversity and inclusion  is one of our With operations in more than 50 countries All our employees are treated with respect major focusareas.
and a strategic focus on innovation and and dignity.
Accordingly, any harassment expanding into new geographic markets, or bullying is unacceptable.
The Group In European Union EU countries we have having a diverse, engaged workforce respects the right of each employee to join workplace information and consultation that reflects our footprint and brings or not to join a trade union or other bona fide arrangements at our sites.
These link to the local knowledge, fresh perspectives and employee representative organisation.
Smiths Group European Forum, through constructive challenge is critical.
We which employee representatives from Employee engagement aim to provide an inclusive, collaborative across the EU meet annually to discuss We recognise that an engaged and culture that values every individual, transnational matters with Group executives.
motivated workforce is critical to achieving fosters collaboration, and provides the Our 2015 Forum was held in Germany our objectives.
Our MyVoice survey is a tools, opportunities and challenges to and saw 16 representatives from across valuable tool for measuring engagement enable them to fulfil their potential and the Group meet with senior executives to and providing insight into our employees add value to the business.
Of particular discuss matters such as Engineered for motivations and priorities.
note is the establishment this year of a Growth, the interim MyVoice survey results, dedicated management team for China, We conducted our third full survey in 2014 market conditions and business strategy recruited locally and made up entirely in partnership with Kenexa, a part of IBM and performance.
Feedback from the event ofChinesenationals.
and a leading survey provider, to ensure that was extremely positive.
responses were anonymous and to enable At the end of FY2015, 38% of our global Acquisition integration us to conduct the survey in local languages.
workforce and 10% of our senior managers When new businesses are acquired, we We achieved a participation rate of 85% were women.
We are committed to implement plans to integrate them into the and benchmarked results against global increasing the diversity in its broadest Group, ensuring that our business ethics, norms for the manufacturing industry.
sense of our workforce, and our two employee development and EHS policies We communicated divisional, local and leadership development programmes and programmes are well established.
functional results and action plans are in aim to increase the diversity of candidates Weregularly review our processes in these place across the business to address the for senior positions.
Two of our Board areas, to identify opportunities to improve.
During directors are women, representing 25% FY2015, we continued to address the results of the Board as at 31 July 2015.
However, Priorities for 2016 from this, as well as conducting an interim as at that date the Board had reduced to Continue to develop leadership engagement survey in April on a significant,  the departure of capabilities throughout the organisation representative sample of around 5,000 Peter Turner.
Following theappointment Deepen our focus on technological and employees in order to monitor progress.
The of Chris OShea as Finance Director engineering expertise next full survey is planned for Spring 2016. in September 2015 this will reduce to Continue the roll-out of GlobalView 22%, which is slightly below the level tools to support performance recommended by the Davies Report.
management, individual development and succession planning Male Female Total Conduct the fourth MyVoice Group-wide Board directors 6 2 8 engagement survey Senior managers 231 25 256 Total employees 14,050 8,600 22,650 Senior managers are as defined by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, which includes employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part of the Group other than Board members and or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings Full-time equivalents at 31 July 2015 70 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Leadership development programmes Our early career development Communities Almost 150 managers have been programme, Horizons, uses theory, through our junior and senior leadership business simulations, presentations Contributing to the communities in development programmes since and psychometric testing and business which we operate benefits both local 2012, Horizons and Aspire2.
Aspire2 projects in order to build participants people and our business.
It helps to drive aims to develop candidates for senior understanding of the Group, increase prosperity in local communities, enhance divisional and corporate leadership their exposure to senior leadership our profile and reputation, promote roles through world-leading facilitation, and enhance their core leadership employee engagement and attract business simulations and strategic competencies.
The Horizons programme has definitely Aspire2 represents an impressive helped me develop my leadership Given the diversity of our business and our investment in talent development by capabilities and expand my professional decentralised structure, our community Smiths unlike anything Ive experienced network across both John Crane relationships and charitable programmes previously in my career.
The business and the wider Smiths organisation, are primarily managed at a local level simulations provided immediate commented Mustafa Al-Hammadi, to allow our businesses to focus on the feedback from senior executives and a regional Sales manager for John particular needs of their markets and leading external business advisors Crane, Saudi Arabia.
We also offer some Groupon my leadership behaviours and broader understanding of the business level support to community and charitable competencies.
And the business projects through the group business projects, as organisations, considering charities and allowed me to work with other rising well as improving my commercial and organisations that demonstrate how a leaders from across Smiths on strategic .
donation will enhance the well-being of challenges such as improving our culture people through improved education, health of innovation, said participant Michael and welfare or environment.
Blum, Associate General Counsel at Smiths Medical.
In FY2015, we made charitable donations of154,000 as a Group.
Our employees also raised money for a wide range of charitable causes through a variety of fund-raising initiatives across the business.
Strategic report The Strategic report was approved by the Board on 22 September 2015.
By order of the Board Philip Bowman Chief Executive Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 71 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Governance Smiths Medicals Jelco safety devices for hypodermic injection, blood collection and sampling have protected healthcare workers across the globe from needle stick injuries and blood exposure for over 25 years.
Its ProtectIV and ProtectIVPLUS models also pioneered the innovative safety design of PIVCs peripheral intravenous catheters for use in all care settings.
72 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 We introduce our Board, explain our approach to corporate governance and give details of the Companys remuneration principles and policies to support shareholder value creation Board of directors 74 Corporate governance statement 77 Directors remuneration report 94 Group directors report 112 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 73 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
