Our markets Smiths Group serves a wide range of end markets that have the potential for long-term profitable growth.
Our businesses are either market leaders in their sectors or are well placed in attractive niches.
Around half our revenue is derived from servicing our customers aftermarket needs or from supplying single-use consumables used as part of our customers everyday procedures.
This provides a resilience to our revenues and strong, stable cash-flows.
Healthcare threats, but there is considerable variation Revenue from equipment sales Our largest single end market is healthcare, by geography and end market.
The growing and aftermarket consumables with the majority of revenue from medical installed base creates opportunities for 1 Equipment sales 47% devices supplied by Smiths Medical, aftermarket and upgrade revenues.
2 Aftermarket consumables 53% although both Smiths Interconnect and Industrial Flex-Tek also supply components to medical Smiths Group serves a range of general device manufacturers.
The medical device industrial sectors including power market is driven over the long term by generation, alternative energy, mining, ageing populations, patient and health 2 1 automotive, test equipment and rail, among worker safety legislation and increasing others.
There are different drivers for each healthcare spending in developing countries.
ofthese markets but overall they tend to Smiths Medical typically derives around 85% track GDP.
They are served by John Crane, of revenue from single-use devices used in Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek.
Procedural growth rates have remained relatively low Semiconductors, data centres Revenue by end market with continued constraints on healthcare andtelecoms 1 Healthcare 30% budgets.
The remaining 15% of revenue is Smiths Interconnect supplies a range of 2 Oil, gas and petrochemical 19% from capital equipment eg infusion pumps high-performance microwave equipment 3 Homeland security 14% which can be affected by hospital capital to support the build-out and upgrade of 4 Industrial 11% budgets.
Many markets are experiencing wireless telecommunications infrastructure.
5 Semiconductors, data centres price headwinds caused by healthcare It also provides high-reliability connectors and telecoms 7% affordability, hospital consolidation and for semiconductor test and power supply 6 Defence 6% group purchasing organisations.
Growth 7 US residential construction is driven by the proliferation of mobile Oil, gas & petrochemical and household appliances 5% communication devices, internet usage, This market is primarily served by John 8 Aerospace, space 4% the demand for higher data rates, and the Crane, representing c. 60% of its revenues.
9 Chemical and pharma 4% capital expenditure of network operators The long-term drivers include the global and datacentre providers.
9 8 demand for energy, a desire for national 7 energy independence and increasing Defence 1 6 environmental and safety requirements.
This segment is served by both Smiths 5 John Cranes mechanical seals and seal Interconnect and Smiths Detection and is support systems are primarily used in the primarily driven by defence spending in 4 process equipment found in midstream eg developed markets like the US.
While global 2 pipelines, gas storage, LNG transportation defence spending is stabilising following 3 and downstream applications eg refineries, recent declines, it is expected to remain ethylene crackers, etc.
They also have a constrained as western governments limit Industrial includes power generation, alternative energy, mining, test, rail and small exposure to upstream applications budgets.
Demand for both businesses tends other general industrial applications largely through the supply and service to be programme specific.
of artificial lift equipment 7% of revenue.
US residential construction and Demand for original equipment c. 44% of household appliances revenue is affected by customer capital Flex-Tek manufactures a range of products expenditure cycles, while aftermarket such as flexible gas piping and ducting service c. 56% of revenue depends on for HVAC applications that are used in the utilisation rates and equipment age.
The construction of homes, primarily in the US.
drop in oil prices in late 2014 has reduced Demand for single family home starts is customer capital expenditure, causing a driven by population growth.
recent fall in original equipment revenue.
However, aftermarket service revenue has Aerospace and space held up as utilisation rates of the installed Flex-Tek provides hydraulic hoses and base have remained high.
fuel lines for airframes and aeroengines while Smiths Interconnect sells connectors Homeland security and microwave components for aircraft Smiths Detection provides threat detection and satellite communications.
Aerospace equipment for airports, ports and borders, demand is driven by investment in new critical infrastructure and emergency fuel-efficient aircraft and by increasing responder markets.
Demand is driven in the passenger and freight traffic.
Good recent medium term by ongoing geopolitical unrest More detailed market commentary can growth at Flex-Tek is expected to continue and the associated terrorist and criminal be found in the divisional operational reviews with a strong order book.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 17 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
