Group directors report Results and dividends Post balance sheet events The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2015 are set out As mentioned, Mr C. OShea was appointed as the Finance in theConsolidated income statement.
Revenues for the year Director on 18 September 2015: Mr A. Reynolds Smith is expected amounted to 2,897m 2014: 2,952m.
The profit for the year to be appointed as the Chief Executive on 25September2015: aftertaxation amounted to 248m 2014: 235m.
and MrBowman is expected to resign from the Board on 24September2015.
The contractual arrangements relating to An interim dividend of 13p per ordinary share of 37.5p was the appointments of Mr OShea and Mr Reynolds Smith and the paidon 24April 2015.
The directors recommend for payment retirement of MrBowman are described on page 101.
There have on20November 2015 a final cash dividend of 28p on each ordinary been no other post-balance sheet events.
share of 37.5p, making a total dividend of 41p for the financial year.
Political donations Directors The Group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling Sir George Buckley: Messrs B. F. J. Angelici, P. Bowman, D. J. Challen, US$68,000 44,000 during the year.
The political contributions CBE, and W. C Seeger: Ms T. D. Fratto: Ms A. C. Quinn, CBE: and Sir were made on a bi-partisan basis in the US, in accordance with US Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG all served as directors of the Company state and federal election laws, in order to raise awareness and to throughout the year.
Mr P. A. Turner resigned as a director of the promote the interests of the Company.
The Group has a number of key Company on 24 April 2015.
After the year-end, Mr C. OShea was manufacturing sites and approximately 8,300 employees in the US.
appointed as an executive director on 18 September 2015 and it is expected that Mr A. Reynolds Smith will be appointed as an executive Interests in voting rights director on 25 September 2015.
Mr Bowman is expected to resign As at 31 July 2015 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the as a director on 24 September 2015.
Mr Challen has informed the FCAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of notifiable voting rights in Board of his intention to retire at the forthcoming AGM.
its issued share capital or had received disclosures pursuant to the 2006 Act of shareholding interests in excess of 3% of its share capital, Reappointment of directors as follows: In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Sir George Buckley, Mr Angelici, Ms Fratto, Ms Quinn, Mr Seeger and Sir Kevin Percentage of Date of Number of issued ordinary notification or Tebbit will retire voluntarily from office at the AGM and will seek shares share capital disclosure re-election.
Mr OShea and Mr Reynolds Smith will retire at the AGM Ameriprise Financial under Article 49 of the Companys Articles of Association, following Threadneedle Asset their respective appointments during the year, and will seek Management 19.4m 4.9% 22 07 2015 election.
Separate resolutions to re-elect or elect each of them as BlackRock Investment adirector of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Mr Bowman Management UK Ltd 20.0m 5.1% 14 08 2014 is expected to resign from the Board as mentioned above and Dodge & Cox 20.3m 5.2% 26 11 2014 MrChallen intends to retire and not stand for re-election at the AGM.
Harris Associates LP 29.3m 7.4% 15 08 2014 Biographical details of all the directors at the date of this report are M&G Investment 15.7m 4.0% 15 08 2014 set out on pages 74 to 76.
Massachusetts Financial Directors remuneration report and policy Services Company 17.1m 4.3% 11 08 2014 The Directors remuneration report and the proposed Directors remuneration policy are on pages 94 to 111.
During the period 1 August to 21 September 2015 the Company has received the following notifications or disclosures: Ordinary resolutions to approve the report and to adopt the policy willbe put to shareholders at the AGM.
Percentage of Date of Number of issued ordinary notification or Directors interests in contracts shares share capital disclosure Details of the executive directors service contracts are disclosed in Ameriprise Financial the service contracts section of the Directors remuneration report Threadneedle Asset on page 101.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in Management 19.3m 4.9% 09 09 2015 the Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the BlackRock Investment Directors remuneration report on pages 110 and 111.
Management UK Ltd 21.4m 5.4% 09 09 2015 Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section Dodge & Cox 34.0m 8.6% 11 09 2015 234 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act have remained in Harris Associates LP 36.6m 9.3% 09 09 2015 force for the directors of the Company and certain other employees M&G Investment 13.3m 3.4% 17 09 2015 in respect of their directorships of some subsidiary companies Massachusetts Financial during the financial year ended 31 July 2015 and, at the date of this Services Company 17.5m 4.4% 09 09 2015 report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors and certain Morgan Stanley Investment other employees who are directors of some subsidiary companies Management Ltd 13.4m 3.4% 09 09 2015 in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or may have incurred to third parties in the course of their professional Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 31 July 2015. duties for the Company or a subsidiary company, as applicable.
Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 21 September 2015.
Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an Note: The Disclosure & Transparency Rules oblige shareholders interest in any significant contract to which the Company or its to notify to a company when interests in the voting rights of that subsidiaries was a party during the year.
companys shares exceed or fall below 3% of the companys issued share capital and every whole percentage point above 3%.
Where Changes in the Company and its interests during the voting rights in shares are managed by an investment manager the financial year under certain defined schemes, the manager is obliged to notify On 22 April 2015, the Company sold the issued share capitals of a company when its interests in the voting rights in the shares it Specac Limited and Specac, Inc. for an aggregate consideration manages under such schemes exceed or fall below 5% or 10% of2.3m in cash.
of the companys issued share capital.
The interests of the directors, their families and any connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on page 109.
112 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate responsibility At 31 July 2015 the net debt of the Group was 818m, unchanged The Company has Group policies on environmental, employee on an underlying basis from 31 July 2014.
At 31 July 2015 the Group and health & safety matters and operates a Code of Business had available cash and short-term deposits of 495m which include Ethics.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably funds from the new debt issue initially earmarked for repayment of practicable, any detrimental effects on the environment of its a 150m bond at its normal maturity date in June 2016.
These liquid operations and products.
The Group HR director has responsibility resources are immediately available with 99% invested with the for environmental, health and safety matters, which are subject Groups global banking partners.
to preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen The Group maintains a core US$800m revolving credit facility with by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee, and these banks which was undrawn at 31 July 2015.
This committed reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
Issues relevant to facility matures in February 2020 and the Group has an option to the Company pension schemes are likewise covered by means of extend to February 2021 exercisable in December 2015.
This facility structured committees, including representation from recognised has certain financial covenants however they are not expected to trade unions.
prevent full utilisation at the Groups discretion if required.
This Further information on environmental, employee and health and financial position and debt maturity profile provides confidence that safety matters, including key performance indicators, is contained the Group has sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable in the Corporate responsibility summary on pages 67 to 71. future.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is ThefullCorporate responsibility report is available online at well placed to manage its business and its liabilities as they fall due.
In coming to this conclusion, the directors have taken account of the Groups risk management process, described on pages 60 to 66, and Corporate governance statement have paid particular attention to the financial and pension funding The Corporate governance statement is on pages 77 to 93 risks and their mitigation see page 63. and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
 LLP has reviewed the Companys The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable statements as to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The results of its review are set out in the Independent auditors future and for a period of at least twelve months from the date of report on pages 121 to 126. this report.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts of the Company Strategic report andtheGroup.
The statements and reviews on pages 2 to 71 comprise the Group Strategic report which contains certain information, outlined below, Share capital and control that is incorporated into this Directors report by reference: As at 31 July 2015, the Companys issued share capital was 148,082,502 and comprised 394,860,004 ordinary shares of 37.5p an indication of the Groups likely future business developments: each nominal value ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are listed an indication of the Groups research and development activities: on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has an American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which J. P. Morgan information on the Companys policies for the employment of acts as Depositary and transfer agent.
One ADR equates to one disabled persons and employee involvement: and Smiths Group ordinary share which trade as a level 1 ADR overthe Groups disclosures regarding greenhouse gas emissions.
the-counter programme under the ticker symbol SMGZY.
At the year-end, 5,090,036 ordinary shares were held by the nominee of the Branches programme depositary in respect of the same number of ADRs in The Company does not operate through any branches.
Some Group issue at that time.
subsidiary companies have established branch operations outside the UK.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at general meetings of the Financial instruments Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group: the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group to any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, price risk, financial credit transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights with regard risk, liquidity risk and cash-flow risk is outlined in note 19 of the to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the voting Group accounts.
rights attaching to the ordinary shares other than a 48 hour cut-off for the casting of proxy votes prior to a general meeting.
There are Going concern no arrangements of which the directors are aware under which The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the toaffect its future development, performance and position are set shares and no known agreements relating to or restrictions on share out in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 71.
The financial position transfers or voting rights.
of the Company, its cash-flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 54 to 56.
In Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans addition, the notes to the accounts include the Companys objectives, rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk rights.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust, with an management objectives: details of its financial instruments and independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and plans.
On31July2015 the trust held 852 ordinary shares in the Company.
In April 2015 the Group issued 600m of new long term public The trust waived all but 0.1p per share of its dividend entitlement on debtsecurities with a maturity in 2023.
The new issue has increased its holding during the year: the trust abstains from voting the shares the average maturity of gross debt to 5 years from 4.5 years at at general meetings.
The tables on page 112 set out the notifications received by the Company pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the 2006 Act, as at 31 July 2015 and any changes thereto up to 21 September 2015, from persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Companys share capital.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 113 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Group directors report Continued The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are Annual General Meeting AGM contained in the Companys Articles of Association and legislation in The 2015 AGM will be held on Tuesday 17 November 2015 at 10.30 force from time to time.
Changes to the Articles of Association must am.
The Notice of the AGM will be published on the Companys be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation website, www.
com, on or around 15 October 2015. inforce from time to time.
Remuneration policy The powers of the directors are determined by English law and the At the AGM shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors Articles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
remuneration policy 2015, as shown on pages 95 to 102, which The directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary gives details of the remuneration policy being proposed by the shares, pursuant to Article 5.
The directors have authority to make Remuneration Committee for the executive directors, the Chairman market purchases of ordinary shares.
The powers to issue and and the non-executive directors.
Under the regulations which allot shares and, subject to specified limits, to allot shares on a non now form part of the 2006 Act, the remuneration policy must be pre-emptive basis and on a pre-emptive basis, are referred to the put to a binding shareholder vote at least once every three years.
shareholders at the AGM each year for renewal.
At the AGM the Shareholders will be invited to approve the Directors remuneration shareholders are also requested to renew the power to make market policy 2015 at the AGM.
If so approved, the policy will take purchases of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary shares so purchased effect at the conclusion of the meeting.
Once effective, all future may be cancelled or held in treasury.
payments to former and current directors must comply with the terms of the policy, unless specifically approved by shareholders The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which a ingeneralmeeting.
change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has bonds in issue the terms of which would allow bondholders to exercise Authority to issue shares put options and require the Company to buy back the bonds at their At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew and extend the principal amount plus interest if a rating downgrade occurs at the authority, given to the directors at the last AGM, to allot shares in the same time as a change of control takes effect.
The Companys share Company, or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security plans including the buy out awards being made to the new executive into, shares in the Company for the purposes of Section 551 of the directors contain clauses which may cause options and awards to 2006 Act the Allotment Resolution.
vest on a change in control, in some cases subject to the satisfaction The authority in the first part of the Allotment Resolution will allow of performance conditions at that time.
The Company is not party the directors to allot new shares in the Company or to grant rights to any other significant agreements that would take effect, alter or to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company terminate upon a change of control following a takeover.
up to a nominal value which is equivalent to approximately one-third If there is a change in control of the Company, the terms of Mr of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the Bowmans service contract require that all available discretions will latest practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
be exercised under the Companys share schemes and in default the The authority in the second part of the Allotment Resolution Company must indemnify Mr Bowman for the value of any awards will allow the directors to allot new shares or to grant rights to that do not vest on the change in control.
Mr Bowman has tendered his subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company resignation and will leave the Companys employ on 31 December 2015. only in connection with a rights issue up to a nominal value which No other director or employee is contractually entitled to is equivalent to approximately one-third of the total issued ordinary compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a share capital of the Company as at the latest practical date prior to change in control except that provisions of the Companys share the publication of the Notice of AGM.
This is in line with corporate schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees governance guidelines.
The Board has undertaken to seek the reunder such schemes to vest on a change in control, in some cases election of each director annually by the shareholders, whether or subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
not this authority were to be used.
Purchase of own shares At 21 September 2015, the Company did not hold any shares in No shares in the Company were either purchased or acquired or treasury.
charged or disposed of by the Company or any nominee of the There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new Company during the financial year ended 31 July 2015. shares other than in connection with the Companys share option Electronic communications at www.
The directors intend to take note of relevant The 2006 Act recognises the growing importance of electronic corporate governance guidelines on the use of such powers in the communication e-communication and enables companies to event that the authority is exercised.
provide documentation and communications to shareholders via If the Allotment Resolution is passed the authority will expire on the their websites, except to those shareholders who elect to receive earlier of 31 January 2017 and the end of the next AGM, due to be hard printed paper copies by post.
E-communication allows held in 2016. shareholders faster access to important information about the Company: saves the Company considerable overheads, by reducing Also at the AGM shareholders will be asked to pass a special its print production costs and postage: and helps the environment by resolution to renew the power granted to directors to disapply saving the energy and raw materials that would otherwise be used in shareholders pre-emption rights under certain circumstances the producing and dispatching printed documents.
At the Extraordinary Pre-emption Resolution.
General Meeting held on 11 June 2007 shareholders approved the If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, adoption of electronic communications.
or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2015 and the Notice of employee share scheme company law requires that these shares AGM will be posted on the Companys website, www.
are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing The Companys announcements to the Stock Exchange and press holdings.
There may be occasions, however, when the directors need releases are available online through the website.
Shareholding the flexibility to finance business opportunities by the issue of shares details and practical help on share transfers and changes of address without a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders.
This cannot be can be found at www.
done under the 2006 Act unless the shareholders have first waived their pre-emption rights.
Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar or by logging on to www.
114 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 The purpose of the first part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to Pursuant to the 2006 Act, the Company can hold the shares which authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority have been purchased as treasury shares and either resell them for given by the first part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, shares for cash: or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and or this choice as holding the purchased shares as treasury shares b otherwise up to a nominal value equivalent to 10% of the total would give the Company the ability to resell or transfer them in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest future, and so provide the Company with additional flexibility in the practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM, management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
in each case without the shares first being offered to existing However, it is not the Companys present intention to hold shares shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
intreasury in the event that any shares were to be purchased The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption underthis authority.
Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March 2015, and not Shares will only be purchased if the directors consider such to allot shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis pursuant to the purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and authority in Pre-emption Resolution: that they can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per in excess of an amount equal to 5% of the total issued ordinary share.
The authority will only be used after careful consideration, share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares : or taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued overall financial position of the Company.
Shares held as treasury ordinaryshare capital of the Company excluding treasury shares shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into within a rolling three-year period, without prior consultation account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are withshareholders, subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
in each case other than in connection with an acquisition or specified If any shares purchased by the Company are held in treasury and capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with used for the purposes of its employee share schemes, the Company the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding six-month will count those shares towards the limits on the number of new period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
shares which may be issued under such schemes.
The purpose of the second part of the Pre-emption Resolution Political donations is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, authority given by the second part of the Allotment Resolution, or granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company and its to sell treasury shares for cash in connection with a rights issue, UK subsidiaries, to make donations to political organisations and to without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in incur political expenditure.
proportion to their existing holdings.
This is to allow the Directors to make exclusions or such other arrangements as may be appropriate Part 14 of the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders to resolve legal or practical problems which, for example, might authority for donations to registered political parties and other arise with overseas shareholders.
This is in line with corporate political organisations in the EU totalling more than 5,000 in any governance guidelines.
twelve-month period, and for any political expenditure in the EU, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donation in this If the Pre-emption resolution is passed the authority will expire on context is very wide and extends to bodies such as those concerned the earlier of 31 January 2017 and the end of the next AGM, due to be with policy review, law reform and the representation of the business held in 2016. community.
It could include special interest groups, such as those During the financial year ended 31 July 2015, the following ordinary involved with the environment, which the Company and its UK shares in the Company were issued: subsidiaries might wish to support, even though these activities are not designed to support or influence support for a particular 403,869 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of the politicalparty.
Companys shareholder-approved share option schemes and shareplans.
It is the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure in the EU, as those expressions are Authority to purchase own shares normally understood.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted 2006 Act, the directors are seeking shareholders authority for the at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Companys ordinary Company and its UK subsidiaries to make political donations as shares in the market.
defined in the 2006 Act and to incur political expenditure as defined The effect of the resolution is to renew the authority granted to the in the 2006 Act for the period from the date of the AGM to the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares until the next AGM conclusion of next years AGM up to a maximum aggregate amount due to be held in 2016 or 31 January 2017 whichever is the earlier.
This authority is limited to 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as Auditors at the latest practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint AGM and the Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the  LLP as independent auditors, to hold stated upper and lower limits on the price payable, which reflect the office until the next meeting at which the accounts are laid, and requirements of the Listing Rules.
toauthorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Further information on the process for recommending the appointment of auditors is contained in the Audit Committee reporton pages 89 and 90.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 115 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Group directors report Continued Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule LR9.8.
4C Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group 1.9m interest was capitalised as part of the costs of development projects.
0.6 m of tax relief has been recognised as current tax relief in the period.
18 The supplementary US dollar financial statements on pages 175 to 179 The Group financial record 2011-2015 on page 174 9.8.
4 4 Long-term incentive scheme only involving a director None Note: the terms of the contracts with Chris OShea, who was LR9.4.
3 appointed as Finance Director on 18 September 2015, and Andrew Reynolds Smith who is expected to be appointed as Chief Executive on 25 September 2015, are described on page 101 9.8.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments Mr David Challen waived the portion of the fee payable to him as the Senior Independent Director during the part of the year he was Chairman of the Audit Committee but received a pro-rated part of the fee for the balance of the year during which he continued to be the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Challens fee for chairing the Audit Committee was pro-rated to the time he held that office.
4 6 Directors waivers of future emoluments None 9.8.
4 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer Shares have been issued and allotted pursuant to the exercise ofoptions awarded under shareholder-approved schemes 9.8.
4 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries None 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of another company Not applicable 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving a director None 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving a controlling Not applicable shareholder 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends 1 Wealth Nominees Limited WAIVED a c per pro the Smiths Industries Employee Share Trust waived all the dividends payable in the year except for 85p being 0.1p per share on its holding of 852shares: and 2 Reuter File Limited waived its dividends in full on 2 shares.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends 1 Wealth Nominees Limited WAIVED a c full waiver 2 Reuter File Limited full waiver 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder Not applicable LR9.2.
6 Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure 9.8.
6 1 Directors and their connected persons interests in See page 109 above Smiths shares at year-end and at not more than one month prior to date of the Notice of AGM 9.8.
6 2 Interests in Smiths shares disclosed under DTR5 at See page 112 above year-end and not more than one month prior to date of the Notice of AGM 9.8.
6 3 The going concern statement See page 113 above 9.8.
6 4 a Amount of the authority to purchase own shares Authority available in full at year-end available at year-end 9.8.
6 4 b Off-market purchases of own shares during the year None 9.8.
6 4 c Off-market purchases of own shares post year-end None 9.8.
6 4 d Non pro-rata sales of treasury shares during the year None 9.8.
6 5 Compliance with the Main Principles of the UK See the Corporate governance statement on page 78 Corporate Governance Code 9.8.
6 6 b Details of non-compliance with UK Corporate See the Corporate governance statement on page 78 Governance Code 9.8.
6 7 Re directors proposed for re-election: the unexpired Details of the executive directors service contracts are given in the term of any directors service contract and a Directors remuneration report on page 101 statement about directors with no service contracts The Chairman and the non-executive directors serve under letters ofappointment see page 101.
116 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Notice period for extraordinary general meetings Paper proxy cards will be distributed with the Notice of AGM to A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the allshareholders other than those who have elected for notification by email.
authority, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company, to call a general meeting of the Company other than an Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on 17 AGM with a minimum notice period of 14 clear days.
Changes made November 2015 in person are encouraged to vote their shares to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increased by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions either the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to must be received by the Companys Registrar not later than beheld on at least 21 clear days notice.
48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations Adoption of financial reporting standard FRS 101 on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings Following the publication of FRS 100 Application of financial other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such reporting requirements by the Financial Reporting Council, the shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, such approval Company is required to change its accounting framework for its is sought at the AGM.
Any exercise of this power by the Company will financial statements, which is currently UK GAAP, for the financial be conducted in accordance with any relevant corporate governance year commencing 1 August 2015. guidelines applicable at the time.
In particular, the shorter notice The Board considers that it is in the best interests of the Company period will only be used where flexibility is merited by the business of to adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
No disclosures the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as in the current UK GAAP financial statements would be omitted on a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, adoption of FRS 101. when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more of the total allotted The Company will comply with the requirement to provide orissued shares in the Company may object to the use of this appropriate facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic means Reduced Disclosure Framework by writing to the Company at its at general meetings held on less than 21 clear days notice.
registered office, 2nd Floor Cardinal Place, 80 Victoria Street, London Employee Sharesave Scheme for UK employees SW1E 5JL, for the attention of the Company Secretary, by no later An ordinary resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the than 10.30am on 15 November 2015.
Smiths Group Sharesave Scheme for a further ten years.
Full details Registrar of the proposed scheme renewal are included with the Notice of AGM.
The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys Proposed long-term incentive arrangement Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Individual Following a review by the Remuneration Committee in which shareholders access to their personal shareholder information the views of shareholders and institutional investor groups on is available online, through the www.
share-based incentive arrangements were considered, the Company The UK shareholder helpline telephone number has changed to will be seeking approval for a new long-term incentive plan LTIP 0371 3842943.
Helpline services are available from 08:30 to 17:30, under which the executive directors and senior executives of the Monday to Friday including UK Bank Holidays.
The international Company would be entitled to receive awards.
It is proposed that shareholder helpline telephone number is 44 0 121 415 7047. awards under the LTIP will be made as follows: Important information annual grants which may vest after three years, subject to If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in relation demanding performance conditions: tothe resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant awards will be granted over fixed numbers of the Companys or other independent professional adviser authorised under the ordinary shares with a value at the date of grant equivalent Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you received this to a percentage of a participants salary: and document in printed form from the Company and have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Group plc, please pass this vesting conditions for 2015 awards to executives with Group-wide document to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent through responsibilities will be based on: revenue growth: earnings per whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the share: return on capital employed: and cash conversion.
Shareholders approval for this LTIP will be sought at the AGM Disclosure of information to the auditors on17 November 2015.
Further details on the LTIP can be found in As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there the notes accompanying the Notice of AGM.
If the LTIP is approved is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors at the AGM, the first awards will be made in November 2015 and are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps he or she should no awards will be made under the Companys existing 2011 LTIP.
have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware TheCompanys executive directors will no longer receive awards ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys under the Companys Co-Investment Plan.
auditors are aware of that information.
Electronic proxy voting Recommendation The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the years AGM.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders a proxy and vote online for or against or consciously not vote on as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the theresolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website resolutions.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions www.
The onscreen instructions will give details in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Crest members, Crest personal members and other Crest-sponsored By Order of the Board members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting Melanie Jane Rowlands service provider for instructions on electronic proxy appointment Secretary and voting.
The Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting Smiths Group plc instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 2nd Floor, Cardinal Place Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL 22 September 2015 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 117 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Accounts With the continued proliferation of mobile connectivity, Smiths Interconnects microwave and protection devices deliver reliability from the tower to the network core, increasing capacity, enabling higher data rates and improving call quality.
118 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 This section contains the financial statements, the auditors report, theaccounting policies and the notes tothe accounts Statement of directors responsibilities 120 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc 121 Consolidated income statement 127 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 128 Consolidated balance sheet 129 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 130 Consolidated cash-flow statement 131 Accounting policies 132 Income statement notes 1 Segment information 138 2 Operating profit 141 3 Headline profit measures 142 4 Exceptional items 143 5 Net finance costs 144 6 Earnings per share 144 Taxation notes 7 Taxation 145 Employee costs notes 8 Employees and key management 147 9 Post-retirement benefits 148 10 Employee share schemes 153 Balance sheet notes 11 Intangible assets 155 12 Impairment testing 156 13 Property, plant and equipment 159 14 Inventories 159 15 Trade and other receivables 160 16 Trade and other payables 160 Financial instruments notes 17 Financial assets 160 18 Borrowings and net debt 161 19 Financial risk management 162 20 Derivative financial instruments 167 21 Fair value of financial instruments 168 22 Commitments 168 Provisions notes 23 Provisions and contingent liabilities 169 Reserves notes 24 Share capital 172 25 Dividends 172 26 Reserves 172 Cash-flow notes 27 Cash-flow 173 Group financial record 2011-2015 174 US dollar primary statements 175 Smiths Group plc company accounts 182 Financial calendar 194 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 119 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
