Board of directors Sir George Buckley Philip Bowman Chris OShea Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Aged 62, Philip Bowman is Australian Aged 41, Chris OShea is British with an Aged 68, Sir George Buckley joined the Board on 1 August 2013 as a non-executive with an MA in Natural Sciences.
He has MBA from Duke University.
He is a qualified extensive experience of leadership at major director and Deputy Chairman and was Chartered Accountant with a finance degree appointed as its Chairman on 19 November international public companies and was from the University of Glasgow.
He joined appointed Chief Executive of Smiths Group 2013.
A citizen of both the UK and US, Sir Smiths Group as Finance Director on George has a PhD.
Philip is expected to retire from 18September 2015. theBoard on 24 September 2015.
Strengths and experience Strengths and experience Sir George retired in 2012 as Chairman and Strengths and experience Chris joined Smiths Group from the metals CEO of 3M, the US-based global technology Philip was previously Chief Executive of technology company, Vesuvius plc, where company and Dow Jones 30 component, Scottish Power plc and Allied Domecq plc.
he was the CFO from 2012, following its after a long and successful business career He also held non-executive directorships at demerger from Cookson Group plc.
He was spent mainly in the United States.
He was British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, Scottish also a non-executive director of Foseco India previously Chairman and CEO of Brunswick and Newcastle Group plc and Coles Myer Ltd, an Indian-listed supplier to the foundry Corporation and Chief Technology Officer Limited as well as having been Chairman of industry and a part of Vesuvius plc.
Chris has at Emerson Electric Company.
He currently Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc.
His earlier also held a number of senior finance roles holds a number of non-executive positions career included five years as a director of at BG Group, latterly serving as CFO for the at major international companies, as well Bass plc, where he held the roles of Chief groups businesses in Africa, the Middle East as chairmanships of two fund management Financial Officer and subsequently Chief and Asia.
From 1998 to 2005 Chris worked and private equity groups.
Sir Georges Executive of Bass Taverns.
in the UK, the US and Nigeria for Royal expertise in engineering and innovation, Dutch Shell in a variety of roles, including External appointments combined with his extensive experience CFO for Shells offshore exploration and Senior Independent Director and of multi-industry businesses that operate production business in Nigeria.
Chris Chairman of the Audit Committee in global markets, are of huge benefit has wide knowledge and experience of ofBurberryGroupplc toSmiths.
multi-national operations, including the Non-executive director of Better Capital manufacturing and oil and gas sectors.
He Committee membership PCC Limited also has experience of international tax and Chairman of the Nomination Committee financing through roles at Ernst & Young and Chairman of The Miller Group Remuneration Committee Royal DutchShell.
UK Limited and Chairman of its External appointments  and a member of its Audit Committee Chairman of Ownership Capital Chairman of Arle Capital Non-executive director of Hitachi, Ltd. Non-executive director and a member of the Audit Committee of PepsiCo, Inc. Non-executive director and member of theAudit and Compensation Committees of Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. 74 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Bruno Angelici David Challen, CBE Tanya Fratto Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Aged 68, Bruno Angelici is French with Aged 72, David Challen CBE was appointed Aged 54, Tanya Fratto was appointed an MBA Kellogg School of Management to the Board in 2004.
He is British with a BA to the Board in 2012.
An American, andBusiness and Law degrees from Reims.
in Mathematics, a BSc in Natural Science she is a qualified electrical engineer He was appointed to the Board of Smiths Physics and an MBA from Harvard.
with a BSc in Electrical Engineering.
Strengths and experience Strengths and experience Strengths and experience David had a long and distinguished career Tanya was CEO of Diamond Innovations Brunos career includes senior in investment banking.
He is a former Inc. a world-leading manufacturer of management roles in pharmaceutical and Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co. super-abrasive products for the material medical device companies.
Bruno retired where he spent most of his professional removal industry, until 2010.
Before that from AstraZeneca in 2010 as Executive Vice career.
He was the first chairman of the she enjoyed a successful 20-year career President, International after a 20-year Financial Services Practitioner Panel set with GE.
She held a number of senior career.
He was responsible for Europe, upunder the act which created the Financial positions in product management, Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle Services Authority the predecessor to the operations, SixSigma and supply chain East and Africa and originally joined as Financial Conduct Authority.
Tanya provides Smiths with President of ICI Pharma France.
Prior in-depth understanding of capital markets wide experience in product innovation and to this, he was at Baxter, a US-based and provides valuable support to the Group sales and marketing in a range of sectors.
global supplier of medical devices.
Committee membership Hehasextensive international experience, Committee membership Audit Committee including in the US, and brings a deep Audit Committee understanding to the Group of the medical Nomination Committee device and pharmaceutical industries.
Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Committee membership Remuneration Committee External appointment Audit Committee External appointment Non-executive director and a member Nomination Committee Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel of the Audit Committee of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. a US-listed water Remuneration Committee management and drainage company External appointments Member of the Global Advisory Board of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, Japan Non-executive director and a member of the Nomination Committee of Novo Nordisk A S, a Danish healthcare company Member of the Supervisory Board and theAudit Committee of Wolters Kluwer nv, a Dutch-based information services and publishing company Chairman of the Board and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees of Vectura Group plc, a UKlisted specialty pharmaceutical company Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 75 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Board of directors Continued Anne Quinn, CBE Bill Seeger Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Aged 64, Anne Quinn was appointed to Aged 68, Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to Aged 63, Bill Seeger was appointed to the theBoard in 2009.
She is from New Zealand Board in May 2014.
He is a US citizen with the Board in June 2006.
Sir Kevin is British and has a BCom from Auckland University and has a BA in History.
a BA in Economics and an MBA, both from and MSc in Management Science from the UCLA University of California, Los Angeles.
Strengths and experience Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Strengths and experience Sir Kevin held policy management and Strengths and experience Bill joined GKN plc, the global engineering finance posts in the MoD, Foreign and Anne spent her early career with NZ Forest company, in 2003 as Senior Vice-President Commonwealth Office and NATO.
These Products Limited and the US management and Chief Financial Officer of Aerospace.
included three years service in Washington consulting company, Resource Planning In2007 he became a member of the as Defence and European Counsellor at the Associates.
She has extensive overseas Executive Committee as President and British Embassy before becoming Director experience in the oil and gas sector, having ChiefExecutive Propulsion Systems and of GCHQ and finally Permanent Under enjoyed a successful 25-year career with Special Products before being appointed Secretary at the Ministry of Defence from Standard Oil of Ohio and BP.
She held a to the Board as Group Finance Director 1998 to 2005.
Sir Kevins career as a former number of executive positions including the same year.
Bill retired as the Finance senior British civil servant provides Smiths Group Vice President in the US, Belgium, Director of GKN in 2014.
He previously held with considerable experience in the defence Colombia and the UK.
Following her career a number of senior finance posts during sector and in government relations issues.
with BP, Anne was the managing director a 28-year career with TRW, theUS-based Committee membership of Riverstone LLP, an energy private equity automotive and aerospace group.
His long Audit Committee group.
Annes experience is a great benefit career in finance in the engineering sector to the Group in its development of new and in-depth knowledge of global markets, Nomination Committee geographic markets and its exposure contracting and strategy execution greatly Remuneration Committee totheoil and gas sector.
External appointments Committee membership Committee membership Senior Adviser to AECOM Chair of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Senior Associate Fellow at Royal United Audit Committee Nomination Committee Services Institute Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Visiting Professor at Kings College, London External appointments External appointments Member of the Advisory Board of the Senior Independent Director and Chair Non-executive director and Chairman of Imperial College Institute for Security, ofthe Remuneration Committee of the Audit and Risk Committee of Spectris Science and Technology Mondiplc and Mondi Limited, a packaging plc, a UK-listed instrumentation and and paper company, dual-listed in the UK controls company.
and SouthAfrica Visiting Professor UCLA Anderson School of Management 76 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015
