SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 12 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR KPIS How we performed BUILD A STRONG POSITION FOCUS ON EMERGING MARKETS OUR INESTABLISHED MARKETS PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR Established Markets for Smith & Nephew Our Emerging Markets represent those STRATEGY are Australia, Canada, Europe, Japan, outside of the Established Markets, NewZealand and the US.
including the BRIC group of Brazil, Russia, India and China.
These countries now Geographically, we delivered 5% growth represent 15% of Smith & Nephews in the United States, our largest market, a revenue, up from 8% in 2010, reflecting our significant improvement on the previous continuing effort to rebalance our business year.
We successfully stabilised our and build share in higher growth markets.
European business, which delivered a The overall percentage of Group revenue in better outcome year-on-year, and our 2015 compared to 2014 has been impacted Australia, New Zealand and Japan region by the strengthening of the US dollar.
delivered good growth, led by the Advanced Wound Management businesses.
In the Emerging Markets we delivered 11% revenue growth in 2015 despite the Global franchise highlights included good significant slow-down in China.
Whilst performances from Sports Medicine, we expect growth in China to remain strengthened by the ArthroCare acquisition: below previous levels in the near-term, it the Advanced Wound Management remains a very attractive market and we are businesses, following new management committed to building our business there.
initiatives: and Orthopaedic Reconstruction, which grew ahead of the market driven by We continued to deliver strong revenue our Knee Implant franchise.
growth across the rest of the Emerging Markets, led by South Africa, India and the We are further strengthening our Middle East.
Excluding China, Emerging commercial platform by aligning under a Markets growth would have been in-line newly created role of Chief Commercial with the trend of the last five years.
Officer, tasked with driving commercial excellence across the organisation.
We We enhanced our commercial footprint are also bringing all of our US Orthopaedic and product portfolio.
In Russia we Reconstruction, Sports Medicine, Trauma acquired a trauma and orthopaedics and Advanced Wound Management distribution business that includes mid-tier franchises under one leader, completing manufacturing.
In Colombia, one of the the roll-out of our single managing director largest economies in Latin America, we model globally.
acquired our distributor for orthopaedic reconstruction, trauma and sports medicine products.
com 13 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR KPIS INNOVATE FOR VALUE SIMPLIFY AND IMPROVE SUPPLEMENT ORGANIC OUR OPERATING MODEL GROWTH WITH ACQUISITIONS We continued to innovate for value in 2015.
During 2014, we launched a Group Smith & Nephew has established a Through our Research and Development Optimisation programme to target successful acquisition track record in R&D strategy we deliver pioneering $120 million of efficiencies.
Our two largest acquisitions products and services, and drive innovation four main areas of activity: are performing strongly.
With Healthpoint across the markets we serve.
Products Biotherapeutics, acquired in 2012 for 1 Examining our supporting functions such such as the JOURNEY II Total Knee System $782 million, our third year return on capital as Finance, HR, IT and Legal to ensure and our VERILAST bearing surface provide has exceeded our plan and also our that we are operating most effectively to our customers with unique features and weighted average cost of capital, despite support business growth.
certain issues we had to address with 2 Driving procurement savings to get the regard to facilities acquired.
ArthroCare, We launched many new products in 2015 most value from the money we spend.
acquired in 2014 for $1.5 billion, is and have a strong new product line-up 3 Optimising our footprint to ensure performing in-line with our expectations for 2016 as the result of our internal it matches our strategy and in-line with our expectations.
We are programmes and recent acquisitions.
ahead of our plan to deliver $85 million We also made good progress with our 4 Further simplifying our operating model, of synergies by 2017 and have achieved innovative business models, including including aligning our management almost all our targeted cost savings.
Syncera, our value solution for orthopaedic structure so that we can make decisions reconstruction.
This completed its US pilot, In 2015, we continued to invest in more quickly and effectively.
and we now have a number of trained acquisitions that provide opportunities and fully operational customer sites.
We We have made significant progress to supplement our organic growth, are encouraged by the reception from delivering this programme, and at the end strengthening our technology and healthcare providers.
of 2015 were ahead of plan, having realised product portfolios and our Emerging $100 million of annualised benefits.
Blue Belt Technologies The total investment in R&D in the year announced in October 2015, has given us a was reduced when we stopped the We continue to look at opportunities leading position in the fast growing area of phase 3 programme for HP802-247 to improve efficiency, creating global robotics-assisted orthopaedic surgery.
Its announced 2014. commercial and R&D organisations and NAVIO surgical system provides roboticsimplementing our single managing director In 2015, we reiterated our commitment to assistance in partial knee replacement model in the US at the start of 2016.
The innovation by announcing a single global surgery and we intend to expand it into suspension of the Medical Device Excise R&D organisation to be led by a new total knee, bi-cruciate retaining knee and Tax will present us with opportunities to President of Global R&D.
With increased revision knee implants, potentially delivering accelerate investment in our quality and focus on R&D we will apply more resource significant further upside.
regulatory systems and health economics to the development of disruptive products teams, particularly in support of the We also completed the acquisition of the and services that increasingly define Smith US market.
ZUK partial knee system in the US market & Nephew and will help drive our success during the year.
This has given us access in the future.
to many new customers and is highly complementary to Blue Belt Technologies.
1 1,2 ACQUISITION PERFORMANCE R&D EXPENDITURE TRADING PROFIT $222m $1,099m 5% Healthpoint Third year return on capital exceeded 2015 222m 2015 1,099m our weighted average cost of capital.
2014 235m 2014 1,055m 2013 231m 2013 987m 2012 171m 2012 965m 2 AS A PERCENTAGE OF GROUP REVENUE TRADING PROFIT MARGIN 4.8% 23.7% 80bps 2015 4.8% 2015 23.7 1 The underlying percentage increases decreases are 2014 5.1% 2014 22.9 after adjusting for the effect of currency translation and 2013 5.3% 2013 22.7 the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions and exclusion of disposals.
2012 4.1% 2012 23.3 2 Explanations of these non-GAAP financial measures are provided on pages 177 to 178.
