SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 28 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES The resources we need to deliver our products RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Research & Innovation is part of our culture and Development we invest 5% of our revenue to find new products that will help improve peopleslives.
READ MORE ON THIS PAGE Our Research and Development R&D In 2015, we invested $222 million in R&D, in-line with our commitment, set out in 2011, to strategy is at the heart of our business increase our investment level to around 5% of ETHICS & COMPLIANCE model.
Through it we deliver pioneering revenue.
We expect to maintain this proportion We are focused on doing business products and services, and drive going forward, but to realise greater benefit the right way and apply strict innovation across the markets we serve.
We have a strong business principles to the way we new product pipeline for 2016, with many deal with our clients and partners.
In 2015, we reiterated our commitment to R&D innovations scheduled.
READ MORE ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE by announcing a single global organisation to We invest in scouting for new technologies, be led by a new President of Global Research identifying complementary opportunities in our and Development, reporting directly to the MANUFACTURING & QUALITY core and adjacent segments.
The acquisition Chief Executive Officer.
of robotics-assisted surgical business Blue We operate our global manufacturing The new global R&D team will focus on Belt Technologies, announced in 2015, is an efficiently, and the highest possible delivering a broader portfolio of more example of this activity.
standards to ensure highest product quality at sensible pricing.
meaningfully disruptive products and services, We also invest in small companies developing as well as a greater utilisation of digital READ MORE ON compelling technologies in our franchise areas PAGES 30 TO 33 technologies in medical devices.
It will also through our incubation fund.
In addition to enable better product life cycle management funding, we bring our expertise to help the and alignment and sharing of resources across TRAINING & EDUCATION development process, including supporting our franchises.
clinical studies, and typically secure preferred Every year, thousands of healthcare We are already highly disciplined in project access to technology as it nears market professionals attend our training courses around theworld.
Our R&D experts in the UK, US, readiness.
Recent investments include exciting is a fundamental part of our vision.
Europe, China and India have extensive early-stage but high-potential technologies in READ MORE customer and sector knowledge, which is sports medicine, extremities and trauma.
ON PAGE 34 augmented by ongoing interaction with our marketing teams.
Strict criteria are applied to ensure new products fulfil an unmet clinical SALES & MARKETING need, have a strong commercial rationale, and INVESTMENT We support our clients in over are technologically feasible.
Our sales teams are IN RESEARCH & works closely with the manufacturing and highly specialised with an in-depth DEVELOPMENT supply chain management teams to ensure knowledgeacross the full range of product franchises.
we can produce new products to clinical, cost READ MORE and time specification.
Our products undergo $222m ON PAGE 35 clinical and health economic assessments both during their development and post launch.
OUR PEOPLE Engaging, developing and retaining our 15,000 employees is important tous and we work hard to be an employer of choice as well as aresponsible corporate citizen.
READ MORE ON PAGES 36 TO 37 With increased focus on R&D, we will apply more resource tothe development of disruptive products and services that increasingly define Smith&Nephew and will help drive our success inthe future.
com 29 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES Ethics & Compliance Finally, we launched a new face-to-face training Code of Conduct and Global compliance programme programme for managers in the Sales & Business Principles Smith & Nephew has implemented a worldMarketing functions.
The key objectives of this class Global Compliance Programme that Smith & Nephew earns trust with patients, workshop are to teach managers how to build helps our businesses comply with laws and customers, healthcare professionals, a culture of trust within their department and regulations.
Our comprehensive compliance authorities and the public by acting in an how to identify and respond appropriately to programme includes global policies and honest and fair manner in all aspects of compliance questions and ethical dilemmas.
procedures: on-boarding and annual training its operations.
New distributors and other higher risk for employees and managers: monitoring and We expect the same from those with whom third parties are subject to screening and auditing processes: reporting channels and we do business, including distributors and are contractually obligated to comply with recognition for demonstrating our values.
independent agents that sell our products.
applicable laws and our Code of Conduct.
Through our global intranet, we provide Our Code of Conduct and Business Principles Compliance training and certifications are resources and tools to guide employees to Code governs the way we operate to achieve included in this process.
In 2015, we created a make decisions that comply both with the law these objectives.
Code of Conduct module that was designed and our Code.
We conduct advance review specifically to address the needs of our Smith & Nephew takes into account ethical, and approval for significant interactions with distributors and agents.
We also introduced social, environmental, legal and financial healthcare professionals or government Additional Compliance Standards to provide considerations as part of its operating officials.
We regularly assess existing and greater details on Code requirements.
We have a robust whistle-blowing emerging risks in the countries in which continue our oversight of independent agents system in all jurisdictions in which we operate.
and distributors with on-site assessments to We are committed to upholding our promise review compliance controls and monitor books Managing directors are required to complete in our Code that we will not retaliate against and records.
an annual certification to the CEO to confirm the anyone who makes a report in good faith.
Managers New employees receive training on our Code, and employees make an annual compliance and we assign annual compliance training to certification and conflict of interest disclosure, employees.
We also require our distributor and and executive management, managers and SPOTLIGHT agents or higher-risk vendors and suppliers employees have a compliance performance ON TRUST to complete training on our Code.
Finally, we objective customised to their role and seniority.
CERTIFICATES assign role-based training to targeted groups In order to reinforce our value of trust, in including people managers, distributor or 2015, we implemented a programme where agent relationship managers, members of our 30 employees nominate their peers for actions Finance team and selected Sales groups.
Approximately 30 Spotlight on Trust Certificates were awarded to employees from more than 10 countries.
Two employees received additional recognition from the CEO.
Secondly, during our annual manager certification this year, managers were required to have an ethics compliance conversation with some of their direct reports.
They were given centrally-created materials focusing on the importance of earning trust and then provided with specific, topic-based scenarios to discuss with their staff actions that would demonstrate this core Smith & Nephew value.
This model enhanced dialogue on ethics, compliance and the importance of earning trust with our actions between managers and staff.
com 30 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES The resources we need to deliver our products continued Manufacturing & Quality Global manufacturing in Hull Smith & Nephew was founded in New flood defences Hull in 1856.
We are very proud of our In 2013, our Hull facility was badly impacted heritage in Hull and the site remains a by highly unusual levels of flooding, with cornerstone of Smith & Nephew.
We are the site incurring damage across its entire delivering new programmes and actively ground floor, including in the manufacturing working on bringing new processes to facility and office areas.
We worked to Hull in order to maximise the benefits ensure manufacturing for customers was from our highly skilled workforce and to re-established as soon as possible, and it continue to create a sustainable future was through great teamwork that the facility for the site.
was able to recover quickly.
Since then, we have invested 3 million into new flood Since 2011, we have invested approximately defences to help to protect us against any 50 million in capital projects at our repeat events.
This has included bringing the manufacturing of our complex Focus on development silver coating technology for ACTICOAT In Hull we manufacture some of the most to Hull and installing a Film Extrusion high-technology wound care products on manufacturing line.
The core technology the market.
Over the last few years we have for this manufacturing process has been introduced pioneering products such as developed in Hull and is a bespoke piece PICO, DURAFIBER and ALLEVYN Life, all of of equipment, specially made for the which are manufactured in Hull.
manufacture of our unique film for a range of wound dressings, including ALLEVYN Our future plans for Hull include a focus and IV3000.
on the development and launch of new products and the operation of complex manufacturing processes.
Work is underway to bring more new product development work to Hull.
com 31 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES Our Mansfield, Massachusetts, US facility Global Operations focuses on sports medicine related products We operate manufacturing facilities in a for minimally invasive surgery including the number of countries across the globe, and a FAST FIX 360 Meniscal Repair System, number of central distribution facilities in key FOOTPRINT PK Suture Anchor, DYONICS geographical areas.
Products are shipped to Platinum Shaver Blades, ENDOBUTTON CL individual country locations which hold small Ultra and the HEALICOIL PK suture anchor.
amounts of inventory locally for immediate The Aarau, Switzerland: Tuttlingen, supply to meet customer requirements.
We Germany: Beijing, China: Warwick, UK and have a defined manufacturing and facility Sangameshwar, India facilities manufacture a footprint plan in-line with our commercial number of surgical device products including strategy, which is reviewed on a regular basis.
key reconstruction and trauma products, We continue to implement improved processes the PLUS knee and hip range and the such as Lean Manufacturing throughout BIRMINGHAM Hip Resurfacing System.
our factories, the global supply chain and the Our Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, US facility supporting operations to improve and sustain produces and services electro mechanical the levels of safety, quality, delivery, productivity capital equipment as well as single use sterile and efficiency.
We have numerous Core devices and also assembles our NPWT Competences including materials technology, devices using components which are brought precision machining, high volume and in from third parties.
Our Costa Rica facility automated manufacturing for various products manufactures COBLATION technology.
The majority of our wound management products are manufactured at our facilities in Our manufacturing facilities Hull, UK: Suzhou, China: and Curaao.
Our largest manufacturing operation is The products manufactured at our Hull site based in Memphis, Tennessee US.
The cover the therapies of exudate management Memphis facilities produce key products foam products principally ALLEVYN, burns and instrumentation in our Knee Implants, treatment ACTICOAT and wound closure Hip Implant and Trauma franchises.
In 2015, we closed our include the JOURNEY II and LEGION knees, facility in Alberta Canada which provided the ANTHOLOGY Primary Hip System and specific expertise in the addition of silver key Trauma products such as the PERIcoatings onto the ACTICOAT burns range and LOC Ankle Fusion Plating System and transferred the process to our Hull site.
In addition to this, Memphis is home to the design and Manufacturing of our Advanced Wound manufacturing process of the VISIONAIRE Bioactive products takes place in Curaao patient matched instrumentation sets, and and at various third party facilities in the US.
OXINIUM Oxidized Zirconium, a patented The products are distributed from a third party metal alloy available for many of our knee and logistics facility in San Antonio, Texas US.
com 32 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES The resources we need to deliver our products continued Manufacturing & Quality continued Our distribution hubs for advanced wound Procurement products are located in Neunkirchen Germany We procure raw materials, components, and Derby UK for international distribution, finished products and packaging materials Bedford UK for UK domestic distribution and from suppliers in various countries.
These Lawrenceville Georgia, US for US distribution.
purchases include metal forgings and castings for orthopaedic products, optical and electronic Quality Assurance sub-components for sports medicine products, active ingredients and semi-finished goods andRegulatory Affairs for Advanced Wound Management as well as Smith & Nephew takes a global approach packaging materials across all product ranges.
to managing quality to ensure we have Suppliers are selected, and standardised the same high standards everywhere we contracts negotiated, by a centralised do business.
This includes having strong procurement team wherever possible, with a manufacturing quality management in place view to ensuring value for money based on the at every Smith & Nephew location.
With a total spend across the Group.
On an ongoing single organisation and Quality Management basis, we work closely with our key suppliers to System, manufacturing quality processes ensure high quality, delivery performance and can be harmonised with quality controls that continuity of supply.
are applied consistently and to a very high standard across all locations.
This ensures We outsource certain parts of our ever-improving product quality and a more manufacturing processes where necessary to stable and predictable supply chain for obtain specialised expertise or to lower cost our customers.
without undue risk to our intellectual property.
Suppliers of outsourced products and services The same holds true for our suppliers, who are selected based on their ability to deliver provide a substantial part of our products.
products and services to our specification, and A single Supplier Quality Assurance QA adhere to and maintain an appropriate quality organisation is being built to harmonise system.
Our specialist teams work with and suppliers QA requirements across the globe, monitor suppliers through on-site assessments while instituting Scorecard-style performance and performance audits to ensure the required reports to them and working with, or replacing, levels of quality, service and delivery.
those that do not meet our quality standards.
We also take a global approach to Regulatory Global Supply Chain Affairs, coordinating product registration across our geographic markets.
With the increased In 2015, we further centralised and realigned frequency of regulatory visits this global our Global Supply Chain function.
We made approach and a close working relationship with these enhancements to ensure that our our Quality team are vital.
The suspension of products reach our internal and external the Medical Device Excise Tax in the US will customers where and when they are needed, present us with opportunities to accelerate in a compliant and efficient manner.
Bringing investment in our quality and regulatory together people, knowledge and expertise systems and health economics teams, helps us meet our objectives and our particularly in support of the US market.
customers expectations, driving us to become more competitive, responsive and integrated.
We operate three main holding warehouses, one in each of Memphis Tennessee, US, Baar Switzerland and Singapore.
These facilities GLOBAL consolidate and ship to local country and MANUFACTURING distributor facilities.
PLANTS 13 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 33 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES Our quality journey to delivering products For 160 years Smith & Nephew has With this in mind, in 2014 we introduced had a proud tradition of supporting an Integrated Quality, Health, Safety and healthcare professionals in their efforts Environmental Management System IMS to improve patients lives.
Continuing to enhance and harmonise our quality this tradition depends on our ability systems and processes and help embed to adapt and respond to the needs of aculture of quality Company-wide.
our customers, and to the increasing We take a global approach to ensure we rigour of regulatory authorities, so have the same high standard everywhere that we consistently deliver highwe do business.
quality products that improve patient outcomes.
Expectations change and Quality is a never-ending journey, we what was good enough in the past may constantly strive for improvement and not be in the future.
are proud of the progress we have already made.
com 34 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES The resources we need to deliver our products continued Training & Education Smith & Nephew is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals improve the quality of care for patients.
We are The Wider Scope proud to support the professional development of surgeons and nurses by providing them with medical education of Arthroscopy and training on our Advanced Surgical Devices and Advanced Wound Management products.
Every year, thousands of customers attend our state-of-the-art training centres in the US, Every year, Smith & Nephew hosts a Sports The curriculum focuses on the UK and China and Smith & Nephew courses Medicine fellowship meeting, The Wider fundamentals of joint repair but also on at multiple hospitals and facilities around Scope of Arthroscopy, at its Andover, forward-looking topics such as Inventive the world.
The meeting unites Approach to AC Joint Reconstruction promising new doctors fellows together and Alternative Management Options in In 2015, we provided training to more than with renowned orthopaedic surgeons to Instability Surgery.
Working under expert review, discuss and practice current and guidance, attendees refine techniques and Held in mid-September 2015, The Wider forward-looking surgical techniques in the learn new skills, to ensure the effective use Scope of Arthroscopy was attended by areas of hip, knee and shoulder repair.
We also support healthcare nearly 140 fellows and distinguished faculty, Theforum helps up-and-coming surgeons professionals through our online resources making it one of the largest fellowship develop trust and gain the experience and such as the Global Wound Academy, The meetings Smith & Nephew has ever confidence necessary to become experts Wound Institute and, for surgeons, our held.
Over the years, The Wider Scope of in their field.
Arthroscopy has earned a reputation as one of the most valuable and admired medical education events in the industry, according to our customers.
SURGEON TRAINING OCCURRENCES BY S&N 40,000 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 35 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES Sales & Marketing Our customers are the providers of Increasingly, we are developing opportunities ONE SMITH & NEPHEW for sales forces to cross sell complementary medical and surgical treatments and FOR ANZ CUSTOMERS products from other franchises.
An example services in over 100 countries worldwide.
would be an orthopaedic reconstruction sales In Australia and New Zealand we are identifying representative introducing a surgeon customer We serve our customers through our sales synergies across our advanced surgical and to the benefits of PICO, our single use Negative force.
Our sales representatives are highly wound management portfolios to support Pressure Wound Therapy device, in the our customers, grow our business and trained and skilled individuals.
Becoming prevention of post-operative infections.
a sales representative requires intense An example of this was a recent Professional training, including passing a strict certification Smith & Nephew utilises a variety of traditional Education event at Macquarie University programme, before engaging in discussions and novel means to market to our customers.
in Sydney, which was attended by over with, and ultimately selling products to For example, congresses educational 20Orthopaedic surgeons from across ANZ.
Depending on their area of conferences or trade shows represent a In addition to covering training related to knee specialism, representatives must be able to traditional and efficient way for Smith & arthroscopy products, the attendees also had demonstrate a detailed knowledge of all the Nephew to reach a large number of healthcare the opportunity to learn about using PICO, surgical instruments used to implant a device, professionals at once, often in terms of both Single Use Negative Pressure Wound Therapy or have specific understanding of the various advertising promotion and education.
surgical techniques a customer might use.
an awareness perspective, Smith & Nephew displays its latest, innovative products and from Once a sales representative is certified, an educational standpoint, may also provide they typically spend the majority of their satellite symposia or other forms of medical time working directly with and supporting education around these products.
They help to provide in-hospital support to aid in the effective use of our We also leverage digital media to connect with implants, instruments and medical products our customers.
Our digital communications and techniques.
activities have been evolving as technologies and user habits evolve.
Content and Our US sales forces are specialised by channel.
messaging is currently delivered via global They consist of a mixture of independent market websites, social media channels and contract workers and employees.
One core use of digital agents are contractually prohibited from selling technology to communicate and market products that compete with our products.
In to our customers has been Education & most Established Markets outside of the US, Evidence, a membership-driven surgeon country-specific commercial organisations education website.
led by the country managing director manage employee sales forces directly.
In our Emerging Our marketing teams also support product OUR Markets we operate through direct selling and development.
For instance, our Advanced PRODUCT REACH marketing operations led by country managing Wound Management brand teams provide directors, and or through distributors.
strategic direction to the brands from 100 development to commercial execution.
The largest single customer worldwide is Inaddition, the Therapeutic Excellence team countries a purchasing group based in the UK that drives our portfolio approach across brands represented less than 5% of our worldwide to drive our strategy to move from product to revenue in 2015. integrated solution.
com 36 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES The resources we need to deliver our products continued Our people Engaging, developing and retaining Engaging with employees Retaining our people our 15,000 employees is important Smith & Nephew strives to create a Investing in retaining our people helps ensure to us.
During 2015, we made major more engaged and productive workforce the long-term sustainability of our business.
and focuses on measures to drive strides in meeting our commitment to We provide fair recognition and reward based employee engagement.
be an employer of choice, as well as a on performance.
Our performance management This includes open and transparent process ensures all employees set objectives responsible corporate citizen.
communication with employees through which align to our overall business goals and regular and timely information and consultation.
have clear line-of-sight to how their individual On 31 December 2015, Smith & Nephew had We clearly communicate our business goals contributions benefit the Company.
Our the following breakdown of employees: and performance standards and also provide performance management system assesses 1 training, information and authority to achieve and rewards both performance and behaviour, NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES them.
We also listen to our employees, by in line with our Code of Conduct.
All employees Board of Directors 11 holding regular surveys and focus groups.
have a specific annual objective to adhere to the Code of Conduct and to complete training Our annual CEO Award, open to all employees, MALE certifying their compliance with this Code.
recognises employees who deliver exceptional FEMALE results in line with our core values, encouraging Smith & Nephew offers a large number of innovation and a spirit of continuous wellness programmes, including annual Senior Managers improvement at all levels.
wellness days, fitness support and healthy 2 eating programmes.
These are designed from and above 796 Since December 2012, more than 3,100 new a perspective that blends health and wellbeing, employees have joined Smith & Nephew improving the lives of our employees.
MALE as a result of acquisitions.
We attach great FEMALE importance to the introduction of these Global Employee Assistance Programs EAPs new employees to Smith & Nephew, and focus on stress and work life issues and work hard to achieve successful integration problems, providing counselling, webinars and Total employees 15,644 and engagement.
web tools and other resources across many MALE work life topics.
Counselling can span from FEMALE traditional EAP counselling to financial, legal Developing talent and everyday family assistance.
Attracting the best talent and developing our employees is critical to achieving our Changing the way change happens business objectives.
To ensure we have organisation change We are committed to working with employees readiness capability, we recently put in place to develop each individuals talents, skills TOTAL a structured programme, which deploys a and abilities.
We provide encouragement to change management model and methodology.
EMPLOYEES learn and continuously improve.
Employee This is designed to focus on our employees advancement is merit-based, reflecting during the implementation of major strategic performance as well as demonstration of 15,644 initiatives in order to support our employees core competencies which include our values, and reduce the financial and operational risks with an emphasis on ethics and integrity.
We associated with such organisational changes.
prioritise the development and promotion of our existing employees whenever possible.
Training is the cornerstone to this success.
To ensure effective change throughout Smith Each year Smith & Nephew conducts a & Nephew, we have trained and certified comprehensive global development and internal methodology masters and change capability review process to identify highagents.
All leaders at an executive level will potential employees and ensure they have have participated in a programme specially robust career development plans.
Employees designed for sponsors of change.
The Change are provided with opportunities to develop their Awareness e-lesson for all employees was skills and career through new assignments and successfully launched in 2015, to assist them on the job experiences.
when working in partnership with sponsors 1 N umber of employees as at 31 December 2015 In addition, the Board reviews succession plans and change agents.
including part time employees and employees on leave of absence.
for key executive roles and succession plans Employees will be consistently trained and 2 S enior Managers and above includes all employees are in place for other critical positions across classed as Directors, Senior Directors, Vice Presidents coached to embed the change management our business.
and Executive Officers and includes all statutory methodology into our culture.
directors and Directors of our subsidiary companies.
com 37 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR RESOURCES Diversity at Smith & Nephew We believe that diversity fuels innovation.
We are committed to employment practices based Developing & on equality of opportunity, regardless of colour, creed, race, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation or mental or physical disability unrelated to the ability of the person to retaining talent perform the essential functions of the job.
Smith & Nephew has a Human Resource Global Standard for diversity and inclusion in the workplace and is committed to creating an inclusive environment that embraces and The best and the brightest to identify high potential employees promotes diversity.
and ensure they have robust career We aim to bring together the sharpest The Board and Executive Officers continue to development plans.
Talented employees minds in the industry.
We recognise that recognise the importance of diversity.
Three of are provided with opportunities to develop to achieve this we need to create an our 11 Board members are female.
their skills and career through new environment where talented people have assignments and on the job experiences.
We recruit, employ and promote employees on the opportunity to develop and continue to the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities grow.
We have an ongoing focus on keeping In 2015, we ran our CEO Forum for our Top needed for the work to be performed.
We do our talent and leadership pipeline filled to Talent, providing them with the opportunity not tolerate discrimination on any grounds and ensure it is a sustainable, self-reinforcing to work closely with our executive team and provide equal opportunity based on merit.
cycle, creating more opportunities work together on strategic challenges.
also launched a modular Managing Director We are committed to building diversity in a programme to further enhance the skills working environment where there is mutual Talent development and career opportunities of key individuals trust and respect and where everyone feels Our development philosophy is based pursuing a career in this critical area.
responsible for the performance and reputation on the 70:20:10 Model for Learning of our Company.
Our performance management process and Development.
This is a form of ensures all employees set objectives which We are committed to providing healthy and transformational development that engages align to our overall business goals and have safe working conditions for all employees.
We people and mirrors how they learn, helping clear line-of-sight to how their individual achieve this by ensuring that health and safety to create change within the individual and performance management system and the working environment are managed infuse change into the organisation.
assesses and rewards both performance as an integral part of the business, and we We have a comprehensive global and behaviour.
recognise employee involvement as a key part development and capability review process of that process.
We do not use any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations.
This means we respect the human rights, dignity and privacy of the individual and the right of employees to freedom of association, freedom of expression and the right to be heard.
WINNERS OF THE CEO AWARD 2015 left to right Raj Naidu, Yongja Chang, Olivier Bohuon CEO, Ana Matos and Kundan Tambde.
com 38 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS SUSTAINABILITY Our future focus We continue to embed sustainability into In 2015, our Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate Our headline safety performanceincludes all LTIFR reduced by 49% to 0.20.
There were employees and supervised contractors and all our business operations, focusing no employee or contractor fatalities and our excludes unsupervised contractors.
Weadopt our efforts on delivering affordable and recordable injury rate also fell by 41% to 0.54. the industry standard USA Occupational Safety effective products to our customers.
Compared to the previous year, total waste and Health Administration OSHA system Weachieve this by caring for our decreased by 2% but is 27% higher than in our to record incidents of occupational injury and baseline year, 2011.
However, as we identified ill-health.
employees, the society in which we more recycling opportunities, the amount of operate and the environment around us.
Lost-time incidents are defined as those waste disposed to landfill has fallen by a further which result in a person not being able to 4% over the last year, a total of 39% reduction This is a summary report of our sustainability report for work on the day or shift following since 2011.
Energy consumption has increased activities and progress in 2015.
Performance is expressed as a by 2% over the last year mainly all driven by Sustainability Report will be published in rate of the number of incidents per 200,000 organic growth, acquisitions, changes in April 2016. hours worked.
footprint, and limited resource efficiency focus.
We made some great progress on our The Board has evaluated the social, sustainability journey in 2015 since we laid out Waste environmental and ethical risks and have aggressive sustainability targets in 2011.
Our concluded that other than the risk of Bribery As the footprint of the business has expanded, employee lost time incident frequency rate and Corruption, which is explained in greater coupled with growth and acquisitions since declined a further 49% through continued detail in the Group Risk section on page 48, 2011, our total waste has increased by 27%.
implementation of behaviour-based safety none of these risks is material in the context Theactions raised by our 2014 waste audits are and robust incident reporting and investigation ofthe Group as a whole.
now gaining momentum and we reported a2% systems across the Group.
Waste sent to annual decrease in 2015, a trend we aim to landfill was further reduced, enabled by the OUR DONATIONS continue.
Significant improvements were again thorough understanding of our waste streams made by diverting waste away from landfill in delivered by the conduct of detailed waste We donated approximately $11.5 million in 2015 with 75% of our waste streams now being audits.
Sustainability considerations were philanthropic activities, of which $1.4 million recycled or sent for energy recovery.
formalised and extended in our supply chain, was in product donations and charitable gifts.
ensuring that our vendors are committed Volunteering programmes were active in most of our locations around the world and employees to achieving the same high standards of Energy and greenhouse and local communities were able to benefit from sustainable operation as we are.
Engagement gas emissions the increased level of involvement.
with the communities in which we operate Over the past year our energy use has was significantly extended through employee increased by 2% with a corresponding 3% volunteering and we have strengthened Safety increase in CO emissions all driven by organic 2 and deepened employee wellness Ensuring the safety of our employees and growth, acquisitions and changes in footprint.
programmes with a focus on enabling healthy those who work with us is at the forefront The effect of the recently acquired business lifestyle choices.
of the way we carry out our activities both ArthroCare accounted for 6.4 GWh of the The learnings from the 2012-2015 period on the manufacturing sites and also in our increase, without which energy use would have provide an opportunity for insight to our commercial activities.
It is clear that we were The implementation of our integrated successful in achieving targets in areas which management system, an active internal audit Methodology, materiality are closely aligned to the purpose of the programme and a number of behaviouralCompany health and wellbeing, diversity and and scope based safety campaigns have enabled us to inclusion, providing wider access to quality The data reported relates to areas of largest report safety rates which are amongst the best healthcare, and building trust.
We have fallen environmental impact including manufacturing in our sector.
short where we have not yet successfully built sites, warehouses, research and offices.
bridges from our targets to our values and Smaller locations representing less than 2% strategy.
We commit to fully examining these of our overall emissions are not included.
latter areas in 2016, developing a sustainability Acquisitions completed before 2015 are strategy which more fully reconciles our included in the data.
Each year we work with an purpose, values and strategy to the wider independent partner to verify our sustainability needs of society and the environment.
DONATIONS PRODUCT WASTE TO PHILANTHROPIC DONATIONS AND RECYCLED OR SENT ACTIVITIES CHARITABLE GIFTS FOR ENERGY RECOVERY $11.5m $1.4m 75% SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 39 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS SUSTAINABILITY The data 2014 2015 The scope for measuring emissions is in line with the scope of businesses covered in our LTIFR LTIFR consolidated financial statement.
We have used Greenhouse Gas Protocol to measure 0.39 0.20 our emissions.
ACorporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition is guidance for this process.
Primary data from energy suppliers has been used wherever possible.
Data from the ArthroCare acquisition is included in 2015 for the first time.
Recent acquisitions in 2015 are excluded and this is in TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE TIR TOTAL WASTE t line with our established policy for integration of acquired assets.
2015 0.54 2015 9,137 2014 0.91 2014 9,368 Our emissions have been calculated by 2013 1.11 2013 8,301 using specific emissions factors for each country outside the USA and regional factors 2012 1.09 2012 7,740 within the USA.
We have used the US EPA 2011 1.16 2011 7,211 Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database eGRID for US regions and the UK Government DEFRA Conversion Factors for Greenhouse Gas Reporting elsewhere.
The LOST TIME INCIDENT LANDFILL WASTE t emissions from 2014 have been recalculated FREQUENCY RATE LTIFR using the most up-to-date factors available in 2015 and may therefore differ slightly from 2015 0.20 2015 2,089 those published previously.
2014 0.39 2014 2,168 Direct emissions include fugitive emissions 2013 0.48 2013 2,662 from the manufacturing and research locations 2012 0.51 2012 2,826 and arise from the losses of refrigerant gases, 2011 0.58 2011 3,401 they also include the combustion of fuels on-site for the operation of facilities.
Indirect emissions include purchased electricity.
driving on company business and extended Memphis.
This initiative aims to promote a Full-time employee data 2015 14,698, 2014 12,437. this to encourage all staff to think carefully about positive safety culture by challenging employees 2014 data adjusted to exclude ArthroCare, 2015 data their driving habits whilst at work and in their to proactively focus on unsafe acts and adjusted to exclude recent acquisitions in Russia leisure time.
We ran a poster campaign which conditions as a collective team, while having and Colombia.
was well received in all countries and this is fun and having a chance to be rewarded for being rewarded by a reduction in the number their efforts.
of recordable injuries involving driving whilst on business.
