Operational review Smiths Detection Smiths Detection Strategic reliability Regularly operating at more than 98% capacity, Heathrow Airport views safety and reliability as paramount when awarding major supply contracts.
So Smiths Detection took particular pride in winning an order for 17 of its newest XCT scanners, which check hold baggage for explosives.
The high-speed systems, combining X-ray technology with 3D computer tomography, will be deployed over the next four years as one of the worlds biggest and busiest airports upgrades its baggage security operations with minimum disruption or delay.
The scanners efficiency is enhanced by its large tunnel opening, allowing the inspection of awkward, outsize items.
Ian Ballentine, Procurement Director of Heathrow Airport, said: Smiths Detection is one of our strategic suppliers and its HI-SCAN 10080 XCT, which had already gained key US and EU certification, was selected for screening our outsize baggage, having been successfully evaluated against our requirements.
36 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 http: photolibrary.
com Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 37 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Detection Contribution to 2015 Smiths Detection Group revenue A world-leading designer and manufacturer of sensors 16 % that detect and identify explosives, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards, nuclear & radioactive material, Contribution to 2015 .
Group headline operating profit Our comprehensive range of detection technologies, 10% includingX-ray, trace detection and infra-red spectroscopy Percentage relates to headline operating profit helps customers in the global transportation, ports and before corporate costs borders, , military and emergency respondermarkets.
Customers Richard Ingram Revenue by sector The majority of revenues are influenced President, Smiths Detection 1 Transportation 52% by more than 100 governments and their 2 Ports and borders 11% agencies, including homeland security 3 Military and emergency responders 14% authorities, customs authorities, emergency 4 Critical infrastructure 23% responders and the military.
These include the US Department of Defense, US Transportation Security Administration TSA, and the UK Ministry of Defence.
4 All US sales and support activities are controlled under a Special Security 1 Agreement with the US Department of 3 Defense and managed by the operating subsidiary Smiths Detection Inc. to provide 2 independent oversight of the business, itsclassified contracts and work.
Revenue performance m Competitors Transportation 467m down 9% Smiths Detections exposure to the 52% homeland security and defence sectors 2015 467 brings it into competition with a wide 2014 512 range of companies in each end-use market.
Principal competitors include: 2013 559 Morpho transportation, Rapiscan Ports and borders 2012 519 transportation, ports and borders, critical 11% 2011 510 infrastructure, L-3 Security & Detection Systems transportation, Nuctech Principal operating regions portsand borders, critical infrastructure, Our manufacturing centres are concentrated Astrophysics critical infrastructure, AS&E Military and emergency in Germany, France, Malaysia, USA and ports and borders, Leidos transportation, responders the UK.
We sell to over 200 countries ports and borders, Chemring military, 14% around the world either direct or through Bruker military, emergency responders, .
and Thermo Fisher military and emergencyresponders.
Critical Suppliers infrastructure We are achieving increased synergies 23% across manufacturing sites and aligning purchasing activity to ensure that we fully leverage the size of our business.
These developments are ongoing and take into account the requirement for local content from some of our major customers, as well as our stringent quality and deliverystandards.
38 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Focus on cargo flow As manager of one of Asias busiest airports, Malaysia Airports Holdings Berhad MAHB is constantly seeking the most cost-effective ways to speed the flow of cargo containers through customs and security.
So its enthusiasm for Smiths Detections latest advance in HCVP cargo inspection technology is no surprise.
The Virtualisation Project focused on reducing the hardware needed to support the sophisticated detection capability of a high-energy X-ray portal.
MAHB project manager Noor Sabrina Mat Barhan said: By installing the new HCVP with Virtualisation we can now perform many critical functions in parallel, reducing the number of servers from five to one.
This allows us to cut our system IT costs by up to two-thirds with no loss of .
Markets and trends In the ports and borders market, continuing Strategy Smiths Detection produces equipment globalisation of trade combined with Smiths Detections strategy is one of for customers in the air transportation, increasing regulatory standards will drive balanced growth supported by continuous ports and borders, critical infrastructure, the growth in demand for security screening improvement.
Operational savings achieved military and emergency responders end-use equipment.
Powerful technologies are through ongoing cost control initiatives markets, to help them assure the safety and required to address a variety of threats and elimination of waste will be reinvested security of people and critical assets.
as governments become increasingly in focused development of products and concerned about the smuggling of software systems, as well as improvements Demand for detection equipment and explosives, weapons and radiological in aftermarket coverage and service service is forecast to continue to grow at materials, while continuing to recognise the levels.
The divisions primary goal is to mid-single digits per annum over the near strong revenue-generating potential from deliver the best solutions for customers.
term, driven by ongoing geopolitical unrest contraband detection.
Future product development will be and the resulting terrorist and criminal driven increasingly by greater customer threats, but there is considerable variation The critical infrastructure market is large insight.
Product development priorities by geography and end-use market.
The but fragmented and unregulated.
Growth remain competitive differentiation and growing installed equipment base creates in demand continues at more than 5% as ease of installation, service and upgrade.
significant opportunities for aftermarket public and private sector organisations Operational improvements will be based on service and support and upgrade revenues.
seek to provide better protection for their value engineering, quality improvements assets and staff.
As the market develops, Regionally, the Americas remain the and continuous improvement initiatives customers are increasingly demanding principal source of demand but will to drive out waste and reduce lead products tailored to their specific needs: experience a lower annual growth rate than times.
Better aftermarket penetration to smaller, lighter and considerably cheaper the Asia Pacific region, where demand levels generate revenues, which help to smooth equipment, which can fit into existing are expected to match those in the EMEA out the volatility of prime contracting, is buildings and be operated by staff with region within five years, fuelled largely by the being successfully achieved, along with basictraining.
requirements of the critical infrastructure an increase in the number of long-term and ports and borders sectors.
Global demand for chemical warfare agent contracts, which underpin the traditional detection equipment and other threataftermarket business.
The heavily regulated air transportation specific sensors required by the military sector is the largest market for the division.
is forecast to grow steadily.
It is driven Competitive strengths Rising passenger volumes are resulting by governments need to protect troops, Market leader with strong global brand in new airport investment, especially in equipment and infrastructure from threats, Operates in several regulated markets the Middle East and Southeast Asia.
This, irrespective of where they are deployed: in that require product certification together with continuing security threats, a theatre: domestically: or held in readiness Technologies leveraged across a broad strong replacement cycle and globalisation for rapid deployment.
In addition, new range of markets and applications of trade, boosting air freight volumes, is equipment must be capable of detecting More than a third of sales from expected to continue to support market a wider range of threats whilst becoming aftermarket service and growing growth.
There is additional focus on the smaller, lighter and more sensitive.
efficiency and effectiveness of the screening Growth drivers processes based on the analysis of Demand in the emergency responder endPersistent and evolving terror threats operational data, creating the requirement use market, a subset of the military market, Changing security regulations for air to integrate airport information systems with is driven by customers needing to deploy cargo and passengers screening equipment.
equipment to detect and identify chemical Equipment replacement cycle releases as a consequence of both terrorist typically 7-10 years and non-terrorist events.
Growing opportunities in software-driven solutions to provide greater functionality, networking and systems integration Growth of security infrastructure inemerging markets Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 39 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Detection 2015 2014 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 467 512 9 % 7 % Headline operating profit 55 25 124% 167% Headline operating margin 11.9% 4.8% 710 bps Statutory operating profit 45 23 96% Return on capital employed 9.6% 3.9% 570 bps Performance The success of a number of business Key operational highlights Smiths Detection delivered a strong improvement initiatives, part of the Groups Underlying revenue declined 7% recovery in profitability without last Fuel for Growth programme, has started to in a tough trading environment years non-recurring charges and as its transform the business.
The cost base has Margin recovery without last years programme of restructuring and cost-saving been reduced and stronger management one-off charges initiatives gained traction.
A much improved controls implemented, including a more Aftermarket revenues now 36% of sales foundation is now established for future rigorous bid strategy for tenders.
These Extensive business improvement growth.
Market conditions remained actions have stabilised the business and are programme instigated challenging, resulting in a 7%, or 34m, expected to provide a sound platform for Strong order book for delivery in the underlying decline in revenue.
coming year and borders, transportation and military Fuel for Growth resulted in exceptional markets weakened but were partially restructuring costs for Smiths Detection of offset by an encouraging performance 10m, accounting for most of the difference incritical infrastructure.
Reported revenue between statutory and headline operating declined 45m, including 11m of adverse profit.
Specific cost-saving measures, which currencytranslation.
included the closure of three facilities in Government budgets, which heavily North America, will contribute annual influence purchasing decisions for detection savings in Smiths Detection of some 10m, products, remain severely constrained, at an expected total cost of 28m, by the end affecting most of the major global of FY2017.
Return on capital responded to better The medium-term growth prospects for controls and profitability, rising 570 basis the security market, nevertheless, remain points to 9.6%.
positive amid continuing international concerns over terrorism and geopolitical Transportation, accounting for 52% of unrest.
This view is supported by a strong revenue, declined 5% on an underlying order book with significant contracts won basis against the previous year, which in the period for airport installations across had benefited from a large contract with theMiddle East and in the UK.
The continuing importance of the Middle East as a major aviation hub, Headline operating profit recovered well in however, was further underlined by the the second half, resulting in an underlying General Aviation Council of Saudi Arabias increase of 9%, or 4m, after adjusting for decision to purchase 120 x-ray systems last years 30m charge for one-off costs.
and integrated security lanes for passenger The improvement was a result of stronger bag screening for 26 airports across cost control measures, operational efficiency SaudiArabia savings and transactional foreign exchange gains.
Headline operating margin recovered In one of its biggest single airport orders, strongly to 11.9%.
Adverse foreign exchange Smiths Detection will equip the new translation reduced headline operating profit terminal at Abu Dhabi airport with the by 4m.
entire hold baggage system and passenger screening checkpoints in a contract worth $125m.
The terminal is due to be completed in 2017.
40 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Deterring contraband It took only weeks for Smiths Detections mobile cargo scanner to prove its worth to Luxembourg Customs.
The HCVM T, which features advanced material discrimination software, uncovered a carefully concealed cache of 12 million cigarettes in a truck stopped for random inspection.
GuyLoesch, Head of Luxembourg Customs Security, said: Demand from consumers for cheap cigarettes and the high prices in countries such as the UK make the illegal cross-border trade very attractive.
The high-energy X-ray system is in great demand around the world: its use deters the movement of threat items and contraband and the hefty fines levied on smugglers generate considerable revenue for hard-pressed governments.
The hold baggage systems at Abu Dhabi Research and development Priorities for 2016 willinclude the HI-SCAN 10080 XCT, a nextA more targeted approach to the Strengthen sales channels in all regions generation high-speed explosives detection development of new products, systems Maintain product development system.
These were also selected by London and technologies as well as the completion atcurrent levels based on targeted Heathrow to support its out-of-gauge of some existing projects resulted in a R&Dinvestment requirements.
In addition to the supply of reduction of 32% in company-funded Launch value engineered products screening equipment, both the Abu Dhabi R&D to 25m, 5.3% of sales 2014: 7.3%.
inspecific end markets and Heathrow contracts will be supported Capitalised projects accounted for 4m of Deliver further growth in aftermarket bymulti-year service agreements, which will the funded R&D 2014: 10m.
Customer revenues help to build aftermarket revenues.
Service and government support for R&D totalled Implement continuous improvement support, accounting for 36% of revenue, 3m in the period 2014: 4m, bringing total initiatives saw a 9% sales increase across all markets.
Medium-term operating ranges More tightly focused investment means Revenue growth: variable, averaging Revenue from critical infrastructure was fewer projects, but the product pipeline mid-single digits 4-6% especially strong, increasing 13% on an remains strong and is designed to meet Headline operating margin: margin underlying basis, including a significant emerging customer needs and deliver range 14-20% order to safeguard Saudi Arabian ministries, competitive advantage.
For example, the armed forces facilities and royal palaces.
new IONSCAN 600 explosives trace detector Critical infrastructure sales in the US grew is set to extend the success of a system by 39% where important orders included that has enhanced aviation security over networked X-ray equipment to the New York the last 15 years, with nearly 25,000 of the State Unified Court System.
Following approval under the EU standard Underlying revenue in ports and borders for passenger and cargo checkpoint fell 34%, with the decline most noticeable screening, an order for Spanish airports was in Europe and the US where increased recently received for almost 300 of the latest competitive pressures caused a big drop in IONSCANs.
Current initiatives also include volumes.
Nevertheless, we won a significant a new focus on software development and award to supply Mobile Inspection Systems value engineering projects, which will deliver to Nicaraguan Customs.
The award, products better able to compete in some including technical assistance, supports cost-critical sectors.
plans to modernise and optimise security checks at ports and border crossings.
Outlook Recent contract wins and the improved Revenues for military and emergency order book are expected to deliver increased responders declined 14% on an underlying revenues in the coming year.
Headline basis, as defence budgets remained operating margins should be broadly constrained.
We continued to win long-term maintained as the benefits of ongoing contracts, however, principally from the US cost reduction initiatives are balanced by Department of Defense.
These included a investment in future revenue growth.
$27m order for mobile medical shelters for the US Army, which also exercised an Go to www.
com for more information option for a $23m production order on an existing contract for its JCAD chemical agent detector programme.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 41 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
