Our business model Smiths Groups business model operates at two levels.
The Group manages our portfolio to create value for shareholders, while the five divisions manage their businesses to meet customers needs and create value for the Group.
The Groups role We have a lean corporate centre, which sets our strategic priorities and allocates capital to manage the portfolio and drive returns.
Italso co-ordinates strategic initiatives across the divisions and fosters a common culture of responsibility and accountability Allocate capital effectively wherever we work around the world.
The corporate centre focuses on a number Generate shareholder Invest in organic Invest in driving of core activities: returns growth efficiencies Strategy Progressive dividend Product innovation, sales Creating fuel for policy & marketing excellence, investment and Sets Group strategy and ensures divisional strategies are aligned with Group strategy.
manufacturing capacity, enhancing returns etc.
Budgeting, planning and reporting Agrees and reviews annual Group and divisional budgets.
Optimise capital Manage the portfolio Fund legacy liabilities Governance structure for balance Targeted acquisitions and Pensions and litigation Provides an effective governance framework sheet efficiency selected disposals and ensures good governance is embedded Maintain investmentacross the business.
grade rating Risk management Sets risk appetite, ensures a strong risk management framework is in place and provides effective oversight.
Performance monitoring Regularly reviews performance against Capital allocation Managing and funding legacy liabilities, agreed targets with the divisions.
The corporate centre is responsible for such as our defined benefit pension the effective allocation of capital across schemes and legacy product liability Information systems the business.
This is important in a issues, in order tominimise their impact Makes sure the right business systems and multi-industry organisation where our on value creation.
These are managed processes are in place so that decisions are businesses are strongly cash generative at either Group or divisional level, as made efficiently based on high-quality data.
andhave limited need for fixed capital.
Ethics and compliance Wedo this through: Targeted acquisitions and selected Approves policies and provides oversight to Securing financing and optimising the disposals.
We buy businesses that ensure a strong culture of ethical behaviour Groups capital structure for balance add complementary technologies and and compliance.
We seek to maintain products, expand our geographical EHS, talent and retention astrong investment-grade credit rating footprint, particularly in emerging markets, Sets the Groups environment, health and and net debt EBITDA gearing at 1.5-2x.
or allow us to leverage our existing scale safety, and people development policies and and infrastructure in order to increase Generating shareholder returns monitors compliance and performance.
We are also active through dividend payments and in disposing of businesses that offer less Best practice and shared services capital returns.
Our focus on cash attractive returns.
Provides shared services in areas such generation enables us to reinvest in the asIT, HR and indirect procurement to business to drive growth and to generate Investing in organic growth through new drive efficiency and leverage benefits of attractive shareholder returns.
We have product development, sales and marketing scale.
Shares best practice in areas such a progressive dividend policy, while initiatives and manufacturing capacity.
as sales and marketing excellence, quality maintaining a target of 2.5 times cover.
Investing in driving efficiencies to create andinnovation.
the fuel for growth investment and to enhance returns.
18 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 The divisional business model Excel in operations and supply chainmanagement The majority of our manufacturing processes are small-batch, low-cost assembly, much of which is made to meet Customer intimacy and market knowledge specific customer orders.
This makes us capital-light and flexible.
Where appropriate, we have established production facilities in lower-cost countries, Sell such as Mexico, China, Malaysia, India, the products Czech Republic, Costa Rica and Tunisia.
effectively Develop Excel in Sell products effectively and launch operations and We take our products to market through Generate innovative supply chain our own sales and marketing teams and a cash new products management network of dealers and distributors around Deliver the world.
Our focus on building long-term aftermarket customer relationships is fundamental to services the success of our sales force.
Develop lasting relationships through outstanding aftermarket services Many of our businesses provide a high level Reinvest cash to fuel organic growth of aftersales service.
We also sell significant quantities of single-use consumables.
These activities help us to retain customer loyalty, improve our understanding of how our products perform over their lifetime Our diversified portfolio offers a wide Create a differentiated market and increase our resilience throughout the range of long-term growth markets with understanding and customer intimacy economic cycle.
different customers, demand drivers and Our businesses consistently refine their Generate cash competitors.
It makes our business relatively knowledge of their markets.
This includes By emphasising working capital resilient throughout the economic cycle.
segmenting those markets, understanding management, particularly debtors and their dynamics, analysing competitors and Our businesses also share a common inventory, we are able to convert a high their activities, identifying opportunities business model: proportion of headline operating profit to improve our services and assessing intocash.
creating sustainable technological potential sources of competitive advantage.
differentiation by developing products to This helps us anticipate and respond Re-invest cash to fuel organic growth meet customers specific needs: todevelopments.
Our strong cash-flow enables us to reinvest in the business to drive top-line growth achieving operational excellence through This deep market knowledge enables us to by investing in new product development, low-cost, flexible manufacturing: and achieve a high degree of customer intimacy, optimising our systems and operations allowing us to anticipate their specific needs.
developing strong, lasting customer and expanding our sales and marketing This in turn helps us to keep our customers relationships by providing outstanding presence in key growth markets.
This investment enables us to maintain our Develop and launch innovative products Our decentralised structure ensures our technology leadership and accelerates sales R&D is a key driver of sales growth and businesses are close to their target markets and margin growth across the business, margins.
It enables us to keep at the and customers and encourages a culture providing a platform for sustained growth.
forefront of technology and develop products of entrepreneurship.
Our divisions are that meet our customers evolving needs.
responsible for actively managing their risks, ensuring that a strong culture of ethics We fund the majority of our R&D but and compliance is embedded across their also seek funding from our customers.
businesses, and developing and retaining Our spend is focused more on product their people, with regular reporting back development than pure research.
we invested 110m in R&D, of which 6m was customer-funded.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 19 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
