Operational review Smiths Medical Smiths Medical IVF almost 40 years on Smiths Medicals unrivalled expertise in IVF in vitro fertilisation is bringing hope to a new generation ofchildless couples.
Having designed the pioneering embryo transfer catheter used in the conception of Louise Brown, the worlds first test-tube baby, in 1978, Smiths Medicals Wallace brand now supplies a micro-pipette that elevates IVF treatment to a new level.
Wallace ICSI intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection micro-pipettes are used by embryologists to select a single sperm for injection directly into an egg, unlike in conventional IVF which involves many sperm being placed in a dish with an egg.
ICSI enables fertilisation when sperm are few orslow-moving.
Introduced in 2012, Wallace ICSI pipettes have been used more than 70,000 times in the past year in clinics worldwide.
30 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 31 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Medical Contribution to 2015 Smiths Medical Group revenue A leading supplier of specialty medical devices and consumables 29% that are vital to patient care around the world.
Smiths Medical is dedicated to providing innovative solutions and superior support Contribution to 2015 to help healthcare professionals and providers ensure safety, Group headline operating profit enhance patient outcomes and improve the total cost of care.
31% Our broad portfolio offers products that aid in the delivery of Percentage relates to headline operating profit medication, protect healthcare workers and patients from crossbefore corporate costs infection and injury, manage patient airway and temperature, as well as deliver specialised care in areas of invitro fertilisation, diagnostics and emergency patient transport.
Customers Jeff McCaulley Revenue by sector Approximately three-quarters of our President, Smiths Medical 1 Infusion systems 32% end user customers are hospitals with 2 Vascular access 33% the remainder comprising the alternate 3 Vital care 27% care market, such as homecare, clinics, 4 Specialty products 8% and other surgery centres, as well as OEM relationships.
We have a direct 4 sales presence in over 20 countries and 1 distribution arrangements in approximately 3 100 others.
Competitors The competitive landscape for Smiths Medical is complex, as we compete 2 with different companies across our business units.
Major competitors include Headline revenue performance Medtronic Covidien, Teleflex, B Braun, Infusion systems m Becton Dickinson CareFusion, Terumo, 32% 836m up 4% C R Bard, 3M, Edwards Lifesciences, and Pfizer Hospira.
We often compete with 2015 836 a portion of a major competitors medical 2014 804 device business, as well as single product Vascular access line companies as they enter a particular 2013 850 market segment.
In developing markets, 33% 2012 864 we compete with both large multinational 2011 838 companies and smaller domestic players.
Suppliers Principal operating regions Vital care We engage with suppliers to drive We have operations in over 30 countries product innovation, value engineering 27% with manufacturing located in the US, and a commitment to quality.
We work UK, Mexico, Italy, Germany, Czech Republic, continuously with our supplier base to and China.
We sell to approximately 120 reduce product and supply chain costs, markets and, while the US continues to improve delivery performance and ensure Specialty products beour largest single market with over 50% supply continuity plans.
The majority of our of sales, wecontinue to build our presence 8% direct spending is on resins, plastic injection in developing markets.
32 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Emerging market success India has proved an auspicious testing ground for Smiths Medicals drive to accelerate sales growth, particularly in emerging markets.
By reshaping its marketing and distribution strategies, Smiths Medical set out to capitalise on the steadily rising demand for medical devices in the subcontinent.
Its incumbent distribution agent was replaced with a more dynamic network of 350 distributors and sub-distributors to improve penetration of the local market.
Working closely with hospitals to identify priorities, the new local management established a highly trained sales team to consolidate the start-up organisation and upgrade its technology offerings.
It also built a more flexible storage, IT, sales and marketing structure.
Sales growth of 23% in 2014 15 indicates the strategy is working.
Markets and trends with our Medfusion and Graseby products, Specialty products Despite market challenges, the medical and our Portex brand is a leader in the pain Smiths Medicals products for specialised device industry remains attractive, driven by management market.
care areas improve patient outcomes population trends, safety legislation, device through in vitro diagnostics and fertilisation Vascular access integration and connectivity, and increasing Wallace, animal health clinics and surgical Our Vascular access portfolio protects global prosperity particularly in developing sites SurgiVet, during the emergency healthcare workers and patients from markets.
Procedural growth rates are transport of patients with life support the risk of infection and injury through improving slightly, though we anticipate ventilation Pneupac and through the the use of safety-enabled devices.
Smiths they will continue to be constrained by monitoring of critical vital signs BCI.
pioneered safety devices, including health system reforms, reduced healthcare the first safety peripheral intravenous Strategy budgets, and increasing requirements for catheter PROTECTIV and the first port Our primary focus is on improving patient economic and clinical evidence.
for delivery of chemotherapeutic agents outcomes and reducing the total cost of care The global market served by Smiths Medical PORT-A-CATH.
Smiths portfolio covers by helping healthcare providers solve their products is estimated to be approximately a range of functions including drawing clinical needs efficiently and economically.
6bn, with further opportunities in adjacent blood samples, administering injections This drives investment in new product target markets.
Smiths Medical has and vaccinations Jelco and Portex, and development, manufacturing optimisation, strong design, production and distribution delivering chemotherapeutic agents for and improvements in our supply chain, capabilities to capitalise on these cancer patients Deltec.
Our Medex product marketing and distribution models.
provides blood pressure monitoring for are investing for growth in both developed critically ill patients in the intensive care unit.
and developing markets, and are well We are well positioned in lower risk, The global market we serve is estimated to positioned to take advantage of the ongoing short-duration, interventional devices, be almost 2.6bn and is expected to grow shift in healthcare delivery from hospitals to that have application in a wide variety of as the focus on safety and reducing the risk alternate sites eg clinics and home care.
Our broad portfolio includes of infection intensifies.
Our latest innovation strong brands in hardware and consumable in IV catheters ViaValve offers blood Competitive strengths products, as well as software and services control and needlestick injury protection and Strong market positions in select for both hospital and alternate care settings.
clinical areas Infusion systems Smiths is well positioned to capitalise on the Highly recognised and respected brands Smiths Medical designs and manufactures advancement of sharps safety initiatives, Reputation for quality and safety medication delivery systems that relieve including directives in the EU and Brazil, Differentiated lower risk, acute and chronic pain Portex and CADD, as well as the recent WHO guideline on the short-duration, interventional devices treat the most at-risk patients in intensive use of safety-engineered syringes to be Building an innovative pipeline of new care units Medfusion and Graseby, and designed to protect healthcare workers from product launches address the needs of patients with chronic needlestick injuries.
Extensive global sales network conditions, such as cancer, pulmonary Vital care hypertension and Parkinsons disease in Growth drivers Smiths Medical Vital care products manage hospice and home settings CADD.
The Ageing populations and increasing patient airways before, during and after global market for infusion systems products life spans add to growing healthcare surgery Portex, alleviate breathing in which we compete is estimated to be demand difficulties Portex, and help maintain 1.6bn.
We expect continued market growth Rising expectations for increasing body temperature Level 1.
The vital care through the increasing treatment of chronic quality of care market, estimated at over 1.6bn, has been conditions, the integration of medication Patient and health worker safety and affected by slowdowns in procedure rates delivery devices with hospital information legislation requirements over recent years, but is expected to grow technology systems and the move of patients Growing incidence of chronic diseases more strongly driven by increasing chronic to alternate care settings.
Our CADD brand Growth of alternate site care disease incidence rates COPD, ageing is a leader in ambulatory infusion, we have a Rising healthcare spend in developing populations and rising healthcare spend strong position in the syringe pump market markets, offsetting budget constraints indevelopingmarkets.
in developed markets Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 33 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Smiths Medical 2015 2014 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 836 804 4% 4% Headline operating profit 166 159 4% 2% Headline operating margin 19.8% 19.8% Statutory operating profit 142 142 Return on capital employed 14.7% 14.5% 20 bps Performance Our ongoing Fuel for Growth restructuring Key operational highlights Reported and underlying revenue both programme is expected to deliver Strong Infusion systems performance grew 4% driven by a very strong performance 23m of annual benefits by the end of continued, driven by focused investment by our infusion systems products.
In the year, we completed the in ambulatory infusion amid competitor systems growth stemmed from strong closure of our Rossendale and Rockland disruptions returns on recent investments in ambulatory manufacturing facilities, as well as closing Return to growth of Vital care business infusion amid competitor disruption in this our Norwell commercial site in the US.
unit and stabilisation of Vascular access space.
As anticipated at half year, second We have also begun the relocation of our in the face of stiff competition half underlying growth slowed to 2%, global headquarters to a new location in Developing market growth driven by following a first half of 6%, reflecting last Minneapolis, Minnesota, bringing together China, up 14%: continued traction from years strong second half comparator and several key functions, particularly marketing onshore model switch in India a return to more normal market dynamics.
and product innovation to reinforce our Improvement in supply chain reliability We have realigned our product portfolio into growth agenda.
Restructuring programmes continued through the year four categories to more accurately reflect have delivered a 5% reduction in indirect R&D investment grew by 7m to 45m how we manage the business.
The prior year headcount during the year.
17% increase and is now 5.4% of sales comparators have been restated accordingly up 60 bps While trading conditions eased slightly in see the commentary below and note 1. the US, the environment in other developed Reported headline operating profit grew markets remained soft with revenues 4% 7m and headline operating margin affected by price erosion, healthcare capital was stable at 19.8%.
Foreign exchange spending constraints, and relatively flat translation accounted for 4m of the procedure growth rates.
Developing market increase while underlying profit grew by sales rose by 8%.
Underlying profit improvement reversed its 2014 decline, achieving 14% benefited from revenue gains and growth, with all business units growing.
productivity savings despite price pressure India grew by 23% as the new direct sales 10m and foreign exchange transaction organisation continues to deliver strong impacts 6m.
Performance innovation increased, funded by productivity in many of our distributor markets savings and growth.
The difference between has been constrained by challenging statutory and headline operating profit conditions, including deteriorating security reflects amortisation of acquired intangible in some markets, currency controls, slow assets of 8m and restructuring costs government payments, and the adverse of16m.
impact on distributor exports from weakening currencies.
Return on capital employed rose 20basis points to 14.7% reflecting the Infusion systems underlying revenue improved profitability, offset by higher grew by 11% with continued success of capital expenditure and working capital our CADD-Solis pumps and disposables increases.
Capital expenditure included globally, aided by competitor disruption.
investment in new product development, The new C6 syringe pump was launched in manufacturing footprint changes, and China under the Graseby brand, beginning manufacturing tooling.
Working capital the modernisation of our product range in increases consisted primarily of inventory that market.
We continue to invest in the build for manufacturing site changes and development of interoperability and recently improvedsupply.
launched a number of products, including the Pharmguard Server 2.0, that further enhance our capabilities in this area.
34 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Building our Future boosts sales A business transformation plan initiated by Smiths Medicals new president has started paying early dividends with annual revenue growth of 4% reported the biggest underlying increase in almost adecade.
Shortly after his appointment in March 2014, Jeff McCaulley launched Building Our Future, a holistic approach focused on driving strong and sustainable performance through aligning culture and strategy with the divisions operating model.
Within a framework of Purpose, Principles, Priorities and Performance, Smiths Medical has committed to becoming a world-class business through enhanced transparency in performance scorecards with closely linked rewards and greater individual accountability.
Employee engagement has increased and better professional development programmes are boosting employee retention.
Vascular access revenues were flat Our vitality index, measured as sales from Priorities for 2016 versus prior year, driven by growth of 8% products launched in the last three years, Build a highly competitive portfolio in developing markets which offset a 1% improved to 9% 2014: 7%.
This primarily of products and services through decline in developed markets caused by reflects strong sales of ambulatory infusion establishment of multi-generational base business price erosion in peripheral products.
Launches during the year included product plans that create sustainable intravenous catheters PIVC.
Gains in the Medfusion Interoperability platform competitive advantage sharps safety and conventional catheters, including PharmGuard 2.0 that enables Improve marketing and sales primarily in our developing markets, offset automated programming, charting and force impact in both developed and declines in safety catheters, pressure reporting for our Medfusion 4000 range of developing markets monitoring and interventional imaging.
Graseby C6 and F6 syringe Drive operational excellence through pumps were launched in China, having reduction in cost of quality, overheads Vital care underlying revenue grew by 2%, been developed by the Shanghai R&D team.
and cost of goods, and supply chain driven by bronchial hygiene and silicone Another important launch was Acapella reliability and efficiency tracheostomy.
There was also a strong single pack, contributing to the strong performance in China, driven by fluid growth of bronchial hygiene globally.
Medium-term operating ranges warming and tracheostomy, and in India, Underlying revenue growth: low single which together contributed to 1% of the Further increases in R&D investment are digits 0-3% totalunderlying revenue growth.
planned, and we are developing more robust Headline operating margin: margin product roadmaps that reflect the higher Specialty products revenue was flat range 20-24% level of available resources.
year-on-year, with growth in in vitro fertilisation and diabetes offsetting declines Outlook in patient monitoring, due to price pressures, Trading conditions in developed markets and animal health, due to distributor are likely to stabilise in the medium self-sourcing initiatives.
term, butwith continued challenges from healthcare cost controls and price Research and development pressures.
However, we expect to see Investment in new product development continued growth in developing markets increased to 5.4% of revenue 2014: 4.8%, where we are well positioned.
While we with total R&D spend of 45m 2014: 38m.
anticipate continued solid performance in Longer term, we are targeting an investment Infusion systems, the competitor disruption rate of 6% of sales.
In the past year, R&D experienced this year is unlikely to continue has been restructured and streamlined.
The and performance is expected to moderate investments in cultural change and process with a return to more normal competitive optimisation have driven improvements dynamics.
We have successfully driven in efficiency, programme discipline and savings through variable and fixed-cost execution, and prioritisation of resources.
productivity initiatives as well as site The product development team in Shanghai rationalisation this year, and will continue is now fully established and focused on to pursue future cost reductions to ensure delivering products geared specifically our competitiveness.
While we expect some towards the Chinese market.
improvement in operating margin, we will also look to reinvest savings in revenue growth drivers.
com for more information Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 35 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
