Operational review John Crane John Crane Green credentials Having invented non-contacting gas seal technology almost 50 years ago, John Crane is as determined as ever to retain its industry-leading role in helping protect the environment.
Its 1968 innovation helped slash methane emissions from seals by a factor of 10, paving the way for pumps to securely transfer carbon dioxide another greenhouse gas and enable customers to meet evertightening environmental controls.
Itslatest advance is AURA 220, the next generation of gas seal technology which uses a common global design and patented polymeric sealing device with Active Deflection Control to help customers cut operating and transaction costs.
24 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 25 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review John Crane Contribution to 2015 John Crane Group revenue A leading provider of engineered products and services 31% to global energy services customers.
Contribution to 2015 Our products and services help ensure the reliability Group headline operating profit of mission-critical equipment in challenging operating environments.
In addition to lowering total cost of ownership 41% of equipment, our products reduce emissions and help our Percentage relates to headline operating profit customers meet environmental responsibilities.
For nearly before corporate costs 100 years, our customers have depended on our global servicenetwork and technical excellence.
Customers Duncan Gillis Revenue by sector John Crane serves companies in the energy President, John Crane First-fit: 44% services sector including production, 1 First-fit 44% transmission & storage, refining, power Aftermarket: 56% generation, petrochemical, as well as pump 2 Oil, gas and petrochemical 30% and compressor manufacturers.
Its main 3 Chemical and pharmaceutical 9% customers include Chevron, BP, Dresser 4 Distributors 8% Rand, Valero, ExxonMobil, SABIC, Pemex, 5 General industry 9% Saudi Aramco, Shell, Petrom, Sulzer, Flowserve, GE Energy, Siemens, Solar 5 Turbines and Weir Group.
No customer 4 islarger than 3% of revenue.
3 1 Competitors For rotating equipment technologies, John Cranes main competitors are Revenue performance 2 Flowserve and Eagle Burgmann Industries m mechanical seals : Kingsbury and 905m down 4% Waukesha engineered bearings : Danaher and Hydac filtration systems : Rexnord and Revenue by product 2015 905 Regal Beloit couplings.
For equipment A broad portfolio from seals and bearings 2014 941 in upstream oil services, John Cranes tocouplings and artificial lift equipment principal global competitors include 2013 986 Mechanical seals Weatherford and Dover.
2012 973 and systems 2011 894 Suppliers 78% John Crane operates a global supply chain, using regional and local partnerships to Principal operating regions meet the required service levels.
Major John Crane is a global business with a Couplings suppliers include Morgan Advanced presence in more than 50 countries.
We Materials, CoorsTek, Penn United Carbide, 5% have the largest global service network in Schunk, Earle M. Jorgensen and DuPont.
the industry with 17 super service centres around the globe supported by more than 230 sales and service centre locations.
We Bearings have 19 manufacturing sites in 14 countries 5% and global R&D centres in the US, UK andChina.
Filtration systems 5% Artificial lift 7% 26 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Supporting performance Phillips66 Texas, Solvay Brazil and Japans Sanyo Chemical are among the latest major companies to benefit from John Cranes Performance Plus PP reliability programme.
Exploiting its large global service footprint, John Crane engineers and technicians provide oil, gas and processing companies on-site support to improve operations and cut costs.
Around 150 PP employees are stationed at customer sites where they analyse root cause failures, identify areas for improvement and apply performance-based solutions.
Plant reliability can be improved by more than 50% because of the dramatic reduction in equipment outages and downtime.
The long-term reward for John Crane is a steadily growing and dependable aftermarket business that accounts formore than half its revenue.
Markets and trends Demand for John Crane products and Competitive strengths Recognised globally across the energy services is influenced by a number of Strong proprietary technology with services sector, John Crane provides factors including the global demand for expertise in applied engineering engineered solutions that drive reliability energy and an increasing desire for national Market leader in mechanical seals improvements and sustain the effective energy independence, and more stringent Over half of sales in aftermarket operation of customers rotating equipment environmental and safety requirements.
Global network of c. 230 sales and and other machinery.
The comprehensive John Crane is a market leader in its service centres product portfolio includes mechanical traditional product areas mechanical seals, seal support systems, engineered seals and seal support systems.
There is Growth drivers bearings, power transmission couplings opportunity to continue growing market Growing demand for energy and specialised filtration systems.
John share across all product areas.
Investment in oil and gas infrastructure Crane also helps maintain and enhance Expansion in emerging markets John Cranes global network is a key oilfield productivity through the servicing and Developing new products and asset which allows for quick-response provision of onshore down-hole artificial applications and effective aftermarket service close lift pumping hardware and systems.
These facilities technology is supported by the industrys provide a range of value-added services largest global sales and service network including repair and refurbishment, rootthat provides  cause analysis, alignment and condition services, utilising expertise developed from monitoring all designed to improve decades of technology leadership coupled the performance of customers rotating with proven field experience.
Service equipment and to reduce operational teams in more than 50 countries maintain downtime.
The geographic footprint and support customers mission-critical continues to expand through opening operations throughout the economic lifetime additional service centres in support of our of our products.
growth strategy in selected high-growth More than half of John Cranes sales stem markets.
from the aftermarket servicing and support Strategy of existing installed equipment, with the The divisions business strategy is focused remainder from the design and supply of on sustaining a cycle of growth and products to first-fit customers.
It is built around four core serves a range of industries including oil and priorities: to profit from core products and gas, chemical and power generation.
services, build-out selected growth markets, drive continuous productivity and expand across the energy value chain.
Our company values remain a key element in delivering our strategy: a relentless focus on customer service, improving quality, developing our people, business ethics and safety.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 27 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review John Crane 2015 2014 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 905 941 4 % 2 % Headline operating profit 225 234 4 % 2 % Headline operating margin 24.8% 24.9% 10 bps Statutory operating profit 165 166 1 % Return on capital employed 25.8% 26.7% 90 bps Performance Aftermarket revenue rose 4%, continuing Key operational highlights John Crane delivered a resilient to illustrate the strength of end-customer Demonstrated resilience of its business performance reflecting the business demand.
This business generates more than model and aftermarket strength model strength and consistent focus on half of John Cranes revenue with growth Expanded installed base in focus aftermarket services, which have stood mainly driven by strong demand for our markets up well to a challenging energy services services as refineries operate at full capacity.
Increased global service network market.
Underlying revenue fell 2%, while In the second half, John Cranes aftermarket productivity reported revenue, including 12m of adverse business signed multiple agreements with Increased machining capacity in existing foreign exchange translation and 1m customers around the world, including lower cost facilities related to a small divestiture, declined 4%.
Phillips66 Texas, Suncor Energy Canada, Underlying revenue reflects declining sales Solvay Brazil, Sanyo Chemical, Mexichem in the first-fit business.
The order book was Columbia and Ingredion Argentina, strong at the end of the year, albeit below representing the diverse mix of processing last years record high.
industries we serve including pulp and paper, chemical, food, and oil and gas.
Headline operating profit margin fell slightly Tocontinue strengthening our aftermarket to 24.8%.
Reported headline operating profit customer support capabilities, we invested declined 4% 9m, on the back of a 6m, or in machining capacity in two service super 2%, fall in underlying profit and an adverse centres in North America.
The underlying decline was driven by lower volumes Underlying sales to first-fit customers fell partly offset by the benefits of cost control 9% as market pressures caused by the actions and product mix.
The difference fall in energy prices affected our business between statutory and headline operating broadly across most geographies.
While we profit primarily reflects a 27m goodwill continue to see delays globally in oil and gas impairment of John Crane Production projects which have not yet secured funding, Solutions as a result of the impact of lower John Cranes overall project win-rate is oil prices on their customers: the cost of higher than in the previous period, reflecting John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation of 19m, a concerted effort to expand the installed amortisation of acquired intangible assets of base.
Our exclusive framework agreement 7m and restructuring costs of 5m.
Return for part of the Kuwait National Petroleum on capital employed declined 90 basis points Companys KNPC Clean Fuels Project is to 25.8% because of lower profitability.
an example of a large project win during the Revenues for the upstream energy business period.
First-fit sales were also affected by were reclassified from aftermarket to first-fit declines in the upstream energy services because the business demonstrates cyclical business, John Crane Production Solutions, characteristics that are more closely aligned due to especially severe conditions in this with the first-fit business see note 1. market.
This business entered a new agreement with a Canadian-based company called MANTL to give our customers access to a cost-efficient pump technology.
Revenue from emerging markets rose 5% on an underlying basis and now comprises 24% of sales.
The largest increases came from growth across Latin America, including Mexico, Colombia and Chile.
28 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Higher output, lower costs A long-standing strategic partnership with Romanias Petrom, the EUs largest onshore oil producer, is helping drive operational innovations in John Cranes upstream business.
John Crane has supplied and serviced Petroms c. 8,000 wells for the past six years.
Its design, repair and optimisation support of crucial artificial lift equipment helps to improve the efficiency and output of existing wells.
Under pressure from low crude prices, oil producers are looking to boost production while curbing costs.
Reflecting this, a new agreement with a progressing cavity pump manufacturer has expanded John Cranes upstream product portfolio to include cost-efficient technology, ideal for use in a lower oil-price environment.
Research and development Customer trials are underway for Priorities for 2016 John Crane increased investment in R&D by JohnCranes new Predictive Diagnostics Expand installed base 17%, continuing to illustrate its commitment System, which is designed to reduce Build-out selected growth markets to address future market needs.
Our customers operational costs by predicting Maximise aftermarket performance focus remains on developing engineered their maintenance needs and minimising Drive continuous productivity solutions and technology advancements operational disruption.
The new technology that meet customers growing processing was designed to provide real-time health Medium-term operating ranges demands while promoting reduced assessments and predictive diagnostics Underlying revenue growth: mid-single environmental impact and improved energy formechanical seals.
However, we are also digits 4-6% efficiency.
Arecent investment in additive evaluating other applications for the system.
Headline operating margin: margin manufacturing through the installation of Additionally, we launched a next-generation range 22-25% a 3D laser printer for metal is providing fibreglass sucker rod that increases our engineers with far faster capability for production output, improves load strength on-demand production of highly complex and reduces lifting costs for oil producers.
Outlook In the first half of the period, we introduced We expect global energy markets to remain the AURA 220 gas seal.
It represents the challenging for the coming year, with next generation of advanced gas seal depressed oil prices and significant market technology and is the first to be unveiled uncertainty.
Absent any improvement in as part of a new family of gas seals.
conditions, revenue is expected to decline Thecompany also launched EngineeringU, further despite the strong order book.
We a new accelerated career development currently anticipate operating margins to be programme for promising entry-level in the lower half of our previously disclosed mechanical engineers, with the first medium-term range 22-25%.
12-month US-based pilot programme Go to www.
com being completed this year.
for more information Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 29 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
