Operational review Flex-Tek Flex-Tek Tender connections The increasing use of Liquefied Natural Gas LNG to fuel US locomotives has opened a potentially lucrative market for Flex-Teks specialty hose division.
Titeflex has designed a specific LNG railroad hose with a unique braiding pattern that provides far greater strength in delivering liquids between wagons.
Unlike most other hoses, it is robust and resilient enough to hold the connection even when the tender itself becomes otherwise separated.
This gives a crucial cost advantage to Titeflexs railroad customers, who have seen major savings in downtime and hose repair or replacement.
The hoses, currently sold mainly in the US, have already been successfully tested in China.
48 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 49 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Flex-Tek Contribution to 2015 Flex-Tek Group revenue A global provider of engineered components that heat and 9% move fluids and gases for the aerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic appliance markets.
Contribution to 2015 Group headline operating profit Our flexible hosing and rigid tubing provide fluid management for fuel and hydraulic applications on commercial and military 9% aircraft, deliver fuel gas and conditioned air in residential and Percentage relates to headline operating profit commercial buildings, and provide respiratory care for medical before corporate costs applications.
Flex-Tek heating elements and thermal systems improve the performance of a range of devices, from medical and diagnostic equipment to domestic appliances such as clothes tumble dryers and HVAC equipment.
Customers Tedd Smith Revenue by sector We serve mainly aerospace engine President, Flex-Tek 1 Fluid Management 26% andairframe manufacturers, domestic 2 Construction Products 31% appliance manufacturers and the US 3 Heat Solutions 24% construction industry.
Large customers 4 Flexible Solutions 19% include Boeing, Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, GEAerospace, Whirlpool, Electrolux, Trane, 4 and Carrier.
Our notable distributors in the 1 US construction market include Ferguson and Watsco.
Competitors 3 Competitors for our Fluid Management business include specialty segments of 2 Parker-Hannifin, Eaton, and Kongsberg: aswell as vertically integrated capacity from Revenue performance key customers.
Heat Solutions competitors Fluid Management m in the US include: Zoppas, Nibe, Watlow 26% 269m up 8% and Chromalox: and in China, Kawai and Dongfang manufacture a wide variety of 2015 269 electric heaters.
Flex-Teks Construction 2014 250 Products compete with US manufacturers: Construction Products Wardflex, Atco, Omega-Flex, Hart & Cooley 2013 253 and Goodman.
Flexible Solutions competes 2012 233 31% globally with a number of smaller privately 2011 221 owned businesses which manufacture specialty hoses.
Principal operating regions Heat Solutions Suppliers Flex-Tek operations are mainly located in the Flex-Tek sources key raw materials from 24% US and Mexico with Asian operations located world-class companies including electrical in India, China and Malaysia, and European resistance wire from Sandvik, fibreglass facilities in France and Germany.
insulation from Owens Corning, specialty plastic resins from Chemours and Teknor Flexible Solutions Apex, and stainless steel from Allegheny 19% Ludlum.
Each of these supply chain partners is chosen based on its ability to provide exceptional quality, service andvalue.
50 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Demanding standards With strong growth expected in the aerospace sector, United Technologies Corp UTC, a provider of high-tech systems and services to the building and aerospace industries, has finalised a 10-year supply agreement with Titeflex Aerospace.
UTC has enjoyed a long partnership with the Flex-Tek subsidiary, which specialises in providing fluid management for aircraft applications and is a world leader in steelbraided and ultra-strong polymer hose.
Sam Abdelmalek, a UTC Vice President, said: Suppliers such as Titeflex Aerospace who commit to our new contractual governance standards, meet our demanding performance requirements through the UTC Supplier Gold programme and satisfy our cost-saving initiatives, will have the opportunity to share in the growth of our aerospace business for years to come.
Markets and trends Construction Products Competitive strengths Flex-Tek designs and manufactures Flex-Tek manufactures market-leading Manufacturer of qualified components engineered components which heat and flexible gas piping and HVAC flexible for the aerospace industry move fluids and gases for aerospace, ducting for the US construction market.
Largest supplier of open coil heating consumer products, construction, medical, Ourcustomers are large national wholesale elements worldwide and industrial applications.
The diverse distributors in North America, supplying Leading manufacturer of flexible nature of these markets reduces Flex-Teks both plumbing and HVAC tradesmen.
The gas piping and HVAC ducting for US reliance on any specific technology, although recovering US housing market is driving construction market the division is highly leveraged to the positive revenue and market share gains.
Growth drivers Flexible Solutions Leveraged to the improving US Flex-Tek is organised under four marketFlexible Solutions hoses and hose residential construction market specific segments focusing on superior assemblies are focused into four distinct Strong backlog for commercial technology and service: markets: medical respiratory care, aerospace customers floorcare appliances, industrial ventilation Fluid Management and automotive.
Automotive applications We are a market-leading manufacturer include petrol and brake fluid delivery of specialty high-performance, flexible in traditional automobiles as well as and rigid tubing assemblies for aerospace next-generation fuels for natural gas applications worldwide.
tubing provides reliable and efficient delivery of hydraulic fluids and jet fuel for both The business performance generally commercial and military aircraft.
follows macroeconomic indicators such ashealthcare spending, US GDP and capital The strong demand for more fuel-efficient, goods expenditure.
quieter commercial aircraft has driven the OEM order book to an all-time high of over Strategy 12,000 units for the aerospace industry.
This In Fluid Management we are focused on is equivalent to over nine years of production securing positions on the next-generation for the sector and represents a key growth airframes and engines in order to support driver for the business.
the delivery of the commercial aircraft order book.
Our Construction Products Heat Solutions segment is positioned to continue to grow As the worlds largest manufacturer of revenue and market share in a recovering open coil heating elements, our products US housing market.
In Heat Solutions we serve customers that manufacture tumble are expanding our product portfolio and dryers, HVAC equipment, medical devices, application range through new product and bespoke applications.
We are also continuing to seek elements and thermal systems provide out strategic bolt-on acquisitions to support consistent temperature controls which business development, through expansion improve system efficiency and performance.
of our product portfolio and market share Revenue growth is driven by the US gains.
Quality, safety, environmental impact appliance and housing market, along with reductions and people development provide an increasing number of specialty heating the basis for sustainable growth.
applications in North America and Asia.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 51 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Operational review Flex-Tek 2015 2014 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 269 250 8% 4% Headline operating profit 50 47 5% 1% Headline operating margin 18.5% 18.9% 40 bps Statutory operating profit 41 37 Return on capital employed 33.6% 34.0% 40 bps Performance Sales of our flexible gas piping and HVAC Key operational highlights Reported revenues grew 8%, or 19m, ducting to the construction market rose Continued growth, with margin of which 10m was driven by underlying 6%.
Revenue growth benefited from pricing pressure on gas tubing products.
growth of 4% and 10m from foreign on gas piping products and strong demand Gaining content on next-generation exchange translation.
Aerospace sales for our Thermaflex business.
Sales of gas airframes and engines continued to gain momentum with revenue piping products slowed in the final quarter High ROCE supports continued strengthening in the fourth quarter.
reflecting a change in product mix.
New investment in the business Heat Solutions made further progress sales efforts introducing our flexible gas driven by its specialty heating products piping into the UK market have met early which delivered its third year of double success and we plan to expand into other Research and development We are seeing commercial success from digit revenue growth.
Fluid Management western European countries.
revenues benefited from order wins on new our increased R&D investment for approvals Heat Solutions underlying revenue grew 8%, on next-generation airplanes and new aircraft platforms with deliveries starting driven by a mix of sales growth in specialty in the fourth quarter.
We continue to heating elements and flat demand in the seek acquisition opportunities that build margin fell 40 basis points to 18.5%, appliance sector.
Prices for nickel, the mainly due to changing product mix within on the strength of the businesses and the primary component in heating elements, experienced management team.
The reported continued to decline, but are expected increase in operating profit of 5% 3m In Fluid Management, new product to have minimal impact on results in the stemmed from 2m of currency exchange development spending continues to focus near term due to increased processing translation and 1m from underlying growth on requirements for the next generation costs.
Theyear showed improved sales to driven by the aerospace and specialty heat of quieter, more fuel-efficient aircraft, and distributors, via cross-selling efforts with segments and pricing.
developments in 3000 psi and 5000 psi hoses ducting and gas piping, and stronger sales are expected to drive future revenues.
Return on capital employed was virtually to OEM HVAC equipment and appliance unchanged at 34%.
Revenues from our custom heating We also continue to pursue opportunities elements continue to grow and we have The difference between statutory and to develop specialty heating elements that increased our R&D investment in new open up higher margin markets and create headline operating profit principally reflects technologies.
Heat Solutions achieved exceptional litigation costs of 8m.
scope for additional revenue growth, 12%growth in China during the year.
Outlook In Fluid Management, business from new Underlying revenue at Flexible Solutions Both the underlying aerospace market aircraft platforms, including continued declined 3%, with higher sales for medical demand and increasing output rates of success with the 5000 psi hose products, hose products in the sleep apnoea market the primary OEMs continue to be positive began to boost results, with underlying and sales growth in the US industrial market indications for the Fluid Management revenue up 2%.
Demand remains strong, more than offset by continued market size business.
US residential housing numbers with major airframe manufacturers Airbus reduction in floor care.
Growth in specialty are expected to show modest improvement, and Boeing and engine manufacturers Pratt applications and R&D investment in medical although higher interest rates and stricter & Whitney, GE, and Rolls-Royce placing new products continue to deliver positive results.
lending practices could hinder anticipated orders, pushing the large commercial jet growth rates.
Improved general economic backlog to record levels.
conditions are expected to benefit the Heat Solutions and Flexible Solutions growth in specialty applications, along with continued economic development in China.
com for more information 52 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Priorities for 2016 China business growth By expanding geographic and market Increased R&D investment in new reach, Flex-Teks China business has products and technologies shrugged off the effects of a slowing Well positioned to meet opportunities in national economy to double both sales and the US residential construction market profit in the last three years.
Tutco is the Expansion of our manufacturing worlds biggest manufacturer of open coil resources to meet global aerospace heaters and its Changshu-based operation demand started by providing components for local companies that sold clothes dryer and Medium-term operating ranges heating and air conditioning equipment Underlying growth: mid-single tothe US.
digits 3-6% Supported by new products developed in Headline operating margin: margin close partnership with customers, Tutco range 15-20% has greatly expanded its range of heating applications both by geography and enduser market.
Sales this year alone are 12% higher with Food Service, Transportation and Medical markets now targeted across Asia and into the Middle East.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 53 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
