The investment case Smiths Group offers a clear proposition to investors.
We have a portfolio of fundamentally strong businesses, which gives us six key benefits: Strong market positions in sectors Leading-edge technologies and service Further scope for operational with long-term profitable growth levels that command high margins improvement and margin enhancement Our businesses are generally either market We stay at the forefront of technology by Operational efficiencies will drive leaders or are well placed in attractive understanding the needs of our customers ourmargins higher.
This allows us to benefit from the and investing in research and development programme has already delivered significant long-term growth drivers in their industries.
Our technological value, with more to come in the next Across our portfolio, these growth strengths give us a competitive advantage twoyears.
driversinclude: and create customer loyalty, enabling us We have invested to improve our systems, toearn attractive margins.
global demand for energy with enterprise resource planning systems Our businesses often provide significant installed in Smiths Detection, Smiths healthcare needs of ageing populations levels of aftermarket service and essential Medical and John Crane.
Better information threat of terrorism consumables.
This helps us retain enables us to leverage the Groups scale customers and provide recurring income and deliver further savings.
Portfolio expansion of wireless communications aswell as insight into customer needs.
profitability reviews are also improving aerospace demand .
Read more on pages 12-21 US residential construction Read more on pages 12-16 Read more on pages 17 and 24-53 Opportunity to realise value through High returns on capital employed Strong cash generation to reinvest in portfolio management top-line growth and increase dividends We also assess portfolio management Our divisions generate attractive margins Closely managing our working capital opportunities where we see the potential and tend to specialise in small-batch, enables us to convert most of our operating to create a more focused portfolio through low-cost manufacturing.
As a result, they profit into cash-flow.
a targeted programme of acquisitions have low capital intensity and deliver returns Our focus on cash ensures we have anddisposals.
above our weighted average cost of capital.
the resources needed to reinvest in our We invest in business acquisitions to We have opportunities to invest for growth businesses through targeted acquisitions, increase our exposure to attractive and in our businesses to generate attractive and in organic growth drivers such as adjacent growing sectors as well as to incremental returns for our shareholders.
product development, and sales and expand our current businesses.
We maintain a strong discipline to ensure marketing in growth markets.
At the wemake informed investment choices.
same time, it allows us to increase Read more on dividend payments to shareholders, while pages 12-16 and 18-21 Read more on maintaining an efficient balance sheet pages 14-16 and 54 and meeting the obligations of our legacy liabilities, such as pensions and product liability litigation.
Read more on pages 14-16, 23 and 54, and in note 27 on page 173 and on page 174 22 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015
