Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance withapplicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit orloss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the consolidated accounts comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and the Parent Company accounts comply with applicable UK Accounting Standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue inbusiness.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors responsibility statement The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors who are listed on pages 74 to 76 confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: the Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and give a true and fair view of the Groups assets, liabilities and financial position as at 31 July 2015 and of its profit for the financial year then ended: and the Group directors report and Strategic report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors: Philip Bowman Chris OShea Chief Executive Finance Director 22 September 2015 120 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Smiths Group plcs Group accounts the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 July 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 July 2015: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated cash-flow statement for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report 2015 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 18 million which represents 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Audit scope We conducted audit work in 15 countries covering 41 reporting units.
The reporting units where we performed audit work accounted for 75% of the Groups revenues and 78% of the Groups headline operating profit.
Areas of focus Revenue recognition occurrence and cut off, together with accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions.
Working capital and associated provisions.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, particularly in the Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and John Crane Divisions.
Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product inTiteflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Flex-Tek Division.
Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented ariskofmaterial misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
Each of the areas of focus below is referred to in the Significant Judgements and Issues section of the Audit Committee Report on page 91 and in the Significant judgement, key assumptions and estimates section of the Accounting Policies on pages 132 to 133.
This is not acomplete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 121 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Continued Revenue recognition occurrence and cut off, together with accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We focused on revenue recognition for all divisions in the For all the divisions we assessed whether the Groups revenue recognition final month of the financial year to check that revenue was policies complied with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and tested the recorded in the correct period.
Specifically we considered whether revenue was recognised based on the transfer of the risks and rewards In the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions of ownership of goods to the customer or the accounting period in which we focused on the accounting for complex programmes and services were rendered by testing a sample of revenue items to contract contract accounting.
The recognition of revenue is largely and shipping documents, with a specific focus on transactions which dependent on the terms of the underlying contract with the occurred near 31 July 2015. customer, including the nature of separate deliverables within the contract, achieving milestones within those Where appropriate we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the contracts and the mechanisms in the contract by which operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the recording of risks and rewards of goods and services are transferred revenue in the correct period.
We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify any These contracts are usually long term in nature, sometimes unusual or irregular items, and the reconciliations between the systems spanning a number of reporting periods.
This means that used by the Group and its financial ledgers.
the final profitability of a contract, which will be based upon In the case of the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions, forecast revenues and costs to complete, can be uncertain for asample of contracts, we read extracts of the relevant customer during the earlier phases.
Judgement must therefore be agreements and tested the accounting for separate deliverables and applied in order to estimate the profit margins to recognise contractual milestones.
This testing included evaluating customer on revenue that is recorded.
acceptance of the work done to establish whether contractual milestones Changes in conditions and circumstances over time can had been achieved, assessing the impact of any ongoing disputes, and result in variations to the original contract terms or to the assessing the reasonableness of the directors estimates of costs to overall profitability of the contract.
This can include cost complete the contract by comparing them to actual historical costs overruns which require further negotiation and settlements incurredon comparablecontracts.
resulting in the need for provisions.
We did not identify any material exceptions from the audit work performed and we found estimates to be in line with our expectations.
Working capital and associated provisions Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 14, 15 and 16 We evaluated the directors forecasted sales for each significant category We focused on this area because inventory provisions include of slow moving inventory by comparing them to historical sales and orders subjective estimates and are influenced by assumptions forfuture sales.
concerning future revenue, and the Group also has material We compared the historical provision for bad debts to the actual amounts amounts of trade receivables that are overdue and not written off, to determine whether the directors estimation techniques were impaired as disclosed in note 15 to the financial statements.
reasonable and considered the adequacy of provisions for bad debts for We focused in particular on inventory levels in those significant customers at reporting unit level, taking into account specific parts of the business experiencing challenging trading credit risk assessments for each customer.
We also focused on divisions with inherent In addition, we performed the procedures documented above for revenue judgements associated with large programmes and complex recognition in relation to the key long term revenue contracts.
As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both inventory and receivables The key associated risks were recoverability of billed and provisions have been prepared in line with policy and we found the unbilled trade receivables and the valuation of inventory.
estimates to be in line with our expectation.
Managements related provisions are subjective and are influenced by assumptions concerning future selling prices and the level of sales activity.
122 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, particularly in the Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and John Crane Divisions Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 12 We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill and bywhich they were drawn up, including testing the underlying calculations intangible assets on the balance sheet, as detailed in note 11 and comparing them to the latest Board approved divisional budgets.
The risk is that these balances Wechallenged: are overstated.
the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts We focused, in particular, on the estimated value in use of by comparing them to historical results, and economic and industry the John Crane Production Solutions cash generating unit forecasts: and CGU, which has a closing net book value of goodwill the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group.
of 5m and has been impaired by 27m in the year.
This impairment is due to a decrease in forecast revenue as a We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with our expectations.
result of the impact of lower oil prices on their customers.
We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors forecast performance We focused on the estimated values in use of the Smiths by performing a sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow Interconnect CGUs, which have a combined net book value forecasts, in particular: of goodwill of 340m, and the Smiths Detection CGU, which the current order book: has a net book value of goodwill of 343m.
As these CGUs have a lower headroom between their carrying value and the proportion of recent tenders which have been successful: and value in use, judgements in the valuation models are even independent projections of the expected growth of key markets.
We also evaluated the directors assessment of the fair value less costs ofdisposal by comparing it to external analyst valuations.
For the Smiths Interconnect CGUs and Smiths Detection division, having ascertained the extent of change in the assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions and the disclosures on sensitivity analyses set out in note 12, and found such a movement to be unlikely.
In respect of the John Crane Production Solutions CGU, we sensitised each key driver of the cash flow forecasts, including the underlying assumptions listed above, by determining what we considered to be a reasonable possible change in assumption, based on current market data and historical and current business performance.
Through this we determined an appropriate range of value in use.
We found the assumptions used in determining the 27m impairment to be within an appropriate range.
Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product in Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Flex-Tek Division Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 23 In John Crane Inc. we used our own internal specialists to challenge John Crane, Inc. a US based subsidiary of the Group, is managements assumptions underlying the adverse judgement and currently one of many co-defendants in litigation relating to defence cost provisions.
This included an examination of the model products previously manufactured which contained asbestos.
maintained by managements valuation expert and evaluation of the work A provision of 216m has been made for the future defence of the expert, by considering the appropriateness of the methodology used, costs which the Group is expected to incur and the expected the reasonableness of assumptions and considering alternative outcomes.
costs of future adverse judgments against John Crane, Inc.
In addition we tested the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations and the input data.
Titeflex Corporation, another US based subsidiary of the Group, has received a number of claims from insurance At Titeflex Corporation we challenged managements underlying companies seeking recompense on a subrogated basis for assumptions supporting their provision.
This included an evaluation of the the effects of damage allegedly caused by lightning strikes in valuation model, by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying relation to its flexible gas piping product.
calculations and the input data such as the average amount of settlements, the number of future settlements and the period over which expenditure It has also received a number of product liability claims can be reasonably estimated by testing them to historic claims.
regarding this product, some in the form of purported class actions.
A provision of 71m has been made for the We also discussed these matters with the Companys internal legal costs which the Group is expected to incur in respect of counsel, obtained letters from external counsel and evaluated the theseclaims.
appropriateness of the disclosures made in the Group financial statements.
We focused on these areas because there is significant We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with historical judgement involved in the assumptions used to estimate claims, that the provisions have been recognised in line with IAS 37 and that theprovisions, in particular those relating to the US litigation appropriate disclosures have been provided within the financial statements.
environment such as the future level of claims and the cost of defence.
As a result the provision may be subject topotentially material revisions from time to time.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 123 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Continued Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 7 We evaluated the directors assessment as to whether there will be The Group has recognised 218m deferred tax assets on the sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support the recognition of balance sheet, the recognition of which involves judgement deferred tax assets by evaluating the directors future cash flow forecasts, by management as to the likelihood of the realisation of and the process by which they were drawn up, including testing the these deferred tax assets.
The expectation that the benefit underlying calculations and comparing them to the latest Board approved of these assets will be realised is dependent on a number divisional budgets.
We challenged: of factors, including appropriate taxable temporary timing the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts differences, and whether there will be sufficient taxable by comparing them to historical results, and economic and industry profits in future periods to support recognition.
forecasts: and The Group has recognised provisions against uncertain tax the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group.
positions, the valuation of which is an inherently judgemental area.
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with subject to tax laws in a number of jurisdictions.
We used our tax specialists to challenge managements assumptions underlying the provisions for uncertain tax positions.
We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and read communications from taxation authorities to identify uncertain tax positions.
We assessed the adequacy of the directors taxation provisions by considering factors such as whether the matter represents a permanent or temporary difference, and whether the provision addresses possible penalties and interest.
We did not identify any material exceptions from our audit work.
Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 9 We evaluated the directors assessment of the assumptions they made The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net inrelation to the valuations of the liabilities and assets in the pension post-retirement assets of 170m and net post-retirement plans and the assumptions around salary increases and mortality rates liabilities of 278m, which are significant in the context of the bycomparing them to national and industry averages.
overall balance sheet of the Group.
We also focussed on the valuations of pension plan liabilities and the The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant pension assets as follows: levels of judgement and technical expertise in choosing We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation appropriate assumptions.
A number of the key assumptions ofthepension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
including salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation We obtained third party confirmations on ownership and valuation ofthe liability.
The pension assets include significant pension asset We checked that the recognition of post retirement plan net assets investments, the fair value measurement of which includes complies with the Groups investment principles.
Where new census data was available in the year we tested the controls The recognition of post-retirement plan net assets for at the scheme administrators and tested it on a sample basis to assess accounting purposes is dependent on the rights of the whether this data is accurate.
employers to recover the surplus at the end of the life Where there was no new census data in the year we assessed the ofthescheme.
assumptions used by the actuaries.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which theGroupoperates.
The Group is organised into five divisions: John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek and is a consolidation of over 250 units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group Engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
124 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 The Groups operating reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 21 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 20 reporting units, to give appropriate coverage of material balances at both divisional and Group levels.
We conducted work in 15 countries and the Group engagement team visited multiple reporting sites in the North America and Europe, and participated in each of the Divisional audit clearance meetings.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures accounted for 75% of the Groups revenues and 78% of the Groups headline operating profit.
Further specific audit procedures over IT general controls, central functions such as treasury and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, post-retirement benefits and material litigation, were performed at the local headquarters of each of the divisions and atthe Groups Head Office.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and toevaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 18 million 2014: 18 million.
How we determined it 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Headline operating profit is operating profit adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, net pensions finance credit and financing gains losses from currency hedging.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark because, in our view, this is the metric against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million 2014: 0.5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 113, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability tocontinue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Group Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 120, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole arising from this responsibility.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members toassess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent withour knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 91, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters arising from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 125 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Continued Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 120, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 September 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration ofthese matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented onthewebsite b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 126 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015
