Strategic Report Watson-Marlow case study Implementing our strategy for growth by expanding along the fluid path and providing single-use technologies Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 12 Annual Report 2015 asepticSU single-use technology, from Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group, eliminates the need for cleaning validation and simplifies traceability at Cancer Researchs research unit in Hertfordshire, UK.
A Cancer Research facility in Hertfordshire, Pumping accuracy is essential.
We fill UK, is among a growing number of clinical vials between 2 and 50ml, although 5ml trial sites that have adopted asepticSU is probably our most common size, said single-use fluid path technology from MrEmerson.
A batch is usually 5 or 10 Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group.
litres, which means filling 1,000 or 2,000 Used in conjunction with two of our Flexicon 5mlvials.
It is important we dont overfill.
FP50 automated filling and stoppering Watson-Marlows understanding machines, asepticSU has helped the of the unique requirements of the charitys Biotherapeutics Development Unit Biopharmaceutical industry and ability to BDU to eliminate the need for cleaning advise on and provide appropriate and validation and simplified traceability of sterile single-use products along the fluid applied product contact components.
path, were central to Cancer Researchs The BDU is an important facility in which decision to purchase the asepticSU the development and production of novel technology.
Investigational Medicinal Products Thanks to the adoption of asepticSU for Phase 1 clinical trials takes place.
we have benefited in a number of ways Deputy Production Manager, John Emerson from its inherent design characteristics, explained, Put simply, we are a clinical trial confirms Mr Emerson.
As the liquid being supply unit within the charity, and we have filled is not in contact with any mechanical our own filling lines in a sterile environment.
parts, permanent pipework or the external As a result, exploiting the benefits of environment, there is no risk of crossdisposable, single-use technology such contamination.
In terms of traceability, all asasepticSU made perfect sense.
of the documentation is provided with the Single-use technology transforms the way validation pack from Watson-Marlow, which filling lines are used, ensuring systems are makes our job much simpler.
We order kept clean and free from contamination.
using a single part number, which simplifies Sterility is guaranteed as all parts are inventory management, and the system provided to the customer double bagged arrives pre-configured so we are ready and pre-sterilised using a validated gamma to go.
Everything is fully integrated with irradiation process.
This eliminates the standard connections, so set-up time is need for costly laminar air flow assembly virtually zero.
areas, autoclaves and labour for the on-site assembly and sterilisation of filling accessories.
Once the filling process is complete, users simply remove the asepticSU unit and replace it with a new one for a sterile, contaminationfree changeover.
At the centre of asepticSU is Watson-Marlows Accusil platinum cured silicone tubing, the only silicone tubing optimised for Flexicon fillers.
Engineered specifically for post-irradiation Key customer benefits dispensing stability and manufactured in Watson-Marlows ISO 14644-1 Class 7 Cleaning validation eliminated certified cleanroom, under tight tolerances, Traceability simplified Accusil is also post-cured for lowest extractables and features laser etched lot Filling accuracy enhanced data.
Importantly, the tubing helps to ensure superior filling accuracy of 0.5%, thereby Set-up time reduced preventing costly overfilling.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 13 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
