Strategic Report Our strategy in action In this section we demonstrate how we are implementing and making progress against each of our six strategic themes.
Increase direct sales effectiveness through 1 sector focus In practice Why we are focusing on this It is not our products alone that provide value to customers.
The extensive application and systems knowledge of our direct sales and support people is at the heart of our Customer Value Propositions.
Through expanding the sector focus of our direct sales Spirax Sarco Mexico sectorises its sales force force we will enhance our Customer Value Propositions Until recently, Spirax Sarco Mexicos sales and service and increase our sales effectiveness.
engineers worked geographically across five regions.
During 2015 the company completed an extensive How we are doing it reorganisation and sectorisation of its sales force.
The process began with a comprehensive analysis of We have identified several priority industries, such as steam users and market segments by a wide range of Food & Beverage, Healthcare and Oil & Petrochemical, factors including geographical location, market size and to act as a focus for investment and sales force sales.
The optimum number of sales engineers required sectorisation.
Our priority industries have been chosen to effectively address each market sector was identified, for their potential return on investment and for our analysis of the sales force was undertaken to determine how each sales engineer could be utilised most effectively, already strong competitive position within these markets.
the sales force was restructured and weekly training We are also increasing our focus on thermal energy sessions established to deepen the sector specific management within those priority sectors, with the goal knowledge of the sales engineers.
Sectorisation of the sales of making our Spirax Sarco steam specialties business force has already seen results, with segment specialists the customers first choice provider for steam solutions offering improved customer service and sales in target and thermal energy management.
Results to date Next steps Approximately a quarter of Spirax Sarco operating Continue to implement sales force sectorisation companies completed the sectorisation of their across our businesses sales force during 2015 Complete the clean-steam manufacturing facility 1.6 million investment approved to consolidate to enhance our manufacturing capability, widen the manufacture of clean steam products in a our product offering and provide a showcase state-of-the-art, ISO 14644-1 Class 7 cleanroom for customers from the Food & Beverage, facility in Cheltenham, UK Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology industries Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 26 Annual Report 2015 Develop the knowledge and skills of our expert 2 sales and service teams In practice Why we are focusing on this Continually improving the competency, technical skills and in-depth application knowledge of our sales and service engineers is central to our direct sales business model.
Understanding our end users processes and applying appropriately engineered solutions to their Spirax Sarco Malaysia opens new state-of-the-art training centre steam or niche pumping problems are pivotal to our During 2015, Spirax Sarco Malaysia opened a new state-ofbusiness success.
Through continually investing in the the-art training centre, equipped with live steam installations.
professional development of our people, we develop a The training centre is now being used to further develop the level of expertise that is unrivalled by our competitors.
expertise of our sales engineers and other customer facing employees, as well as providing training to our end users technical and maintenance staff.
How we are doing it The training centre, which is part of a new office and We train our customer facing employees in our 48 warehouse complex, was opened by Nicholas Anderson state-of-the-art training centres located around the pictured centre on 24th June.
The fit out of the four-storey world, most of which are equipped with live steam or building, which also includes offices, a warehouse and a pumping installations that facilitate hands-on training.
cafeteria, was project managed by Ciara OSullivan pictured Our engineers also undergo extensive on-the-job training left, during a six month overseas secondment as part of her two-year sponsored graduate placement with Spirax Sarco.
We have developed a wide range of Following the success of her secondment, Ciara has now training materials and tools that are internet-based and secured a permanent position with the Company.
available through our training centres, to facilitate the onIdentifying and recruiting high calibre employees and then going professional development of all our engineers.
developing their skills is a core component of our strategy for growth.
Read more on page 58 Results to date Next steps New training centres opened in Malaysia, Establish a Spirax Sarco Academy during 2016, to thePhilippines and France during 2015 oversee delivery of the learning and development programmes of the Spirax Sarco steam specialties 40 new or upgraded courses added to our business customer facing staff e-learning library during 2015 Complete installation and open a new Spirax Sarco recognised for excellence at 2015 SpiraxSarco training centre in India National E-Learning Awards, UK Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 27 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued Broaden our global presence 3 In practice Why we are focusing on this Our strong global presence is a result of decades of investment in building easily recognisable brands that symbolise expertise and reliability.
We achieve a first-tomarket advantage from early entry into new markets and profit from the growth opportunities that the emerging Spirax Sarco commences direct sales in India markets represent.
During 2015 our Spirax Sarco steam specialties business commenced direct selling in a newly established, wholly How we are doing it owned operation in India, following the sale of our 49.3% Our strong infrastructure around the world is enabling interest in our Associate company Spirax Marshall in March.
We are constructing a world-class manufacturing us to branch into neighbouring markets.
We generally plant, warehouse, sales offices and state-of-the-art training enter new markets through establishing a direct sales facilities in Chennai, which are due for completion in Q2 presence in the country through the creation of a sales 2016, and have established two further regional sales office or the installation of one or more sales engineers.
offices in Mumbai and Delhi.
We currently employ around Occasionally, we purchase our distributor to allow 40 people, including sales and service engineers, and are actively strengthening this team in line with business growth.
us a foothold in an emerging market.
Leveraging our existing strong infrastructure, we are also pioneering By establishing a direct sales presence, and manufacturing and holding stock locally, we have created the flexibility the introduction of Watson-Marlow into much of the required to take advantage of the good medium developing world, demonstrating the superior technology and long-term growth prospects in this important and lower life-cycle costs of peristaltic and niche pumps.
Results to date Next steps Four new Spirax Sarco steam specialties Continue to identify geographical markets that operating units commenced trading during 2015 provide opportunities to expand our global presence in Egypt, Peru, India and Colombia Increase Spirax Sarco sales coverage in India Three new Watson-Marlow operating units Increase Spirax Sarco presence in North Africa and commenced trading during 2015 in Japan, Taiwan the Middle East and Chile Continue to broaden the presence of A Spirax Sarco direct sales presence established Watson-Marlow in Asia Pacific and the Middle East in the Ivory Coast and Algeria Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 28 Annual Report 2015 Leverage our R&D investments 4 In practice Why we are focusing on this Our ability to deliver an increasingly wider range of solutions to reduce energy and water usage, lower plant emissions and improve plant productivity and efficiency, rests with our commitment to new product development.
We believe that investing in R&D is crucial to the longSpirax Sarco receives a Queens Award for Enterprise in Innovation term sustainability and success of the Group.
During 2015 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc received a Queens Award for Enterprise in Innovation the UKs How we are doing it highest accolade for business success for the design We have increased our R&D investments in recent years andmanufacture of a novel flowmeter.
and will leverage these investments to generate sales The Spirax Sarco TVA flowmeter is a revolutionary alternative to traditional steam flow measurement, growth, with shorter time-to-market of new products and combining reliable, accurate and cost-effective steam solutions in such areas as thermal energy management, metering with quick and easy installation, across a range controls, condensate management and new pumping of industries worldwide.
The flowmeter, which incorporates technologies and systems.
Product development a proprietary sensor and unique mathematical algorithms, will increasingly be aligned to sector requirements.
was developed in Cheltenham, UK and tested in our worldWhere appropriate, we will look to make acquisitions in class technology centre and steam laboratory.
related areas that deliver new products and technologies Annually, we invest around 10 million in R&D across the Group and are focused on providing products that help our and expand .
end users to improve their process efficiencies and meet their sustainability targets.
Next steps Results to date SIMS Spirax Intelligent Monitoring Systems Continue to improve process development to energy and monitoring platform and STMS Steam reduce time-to-market and strengthen the pipeline Trap Management System software completion of breakthrough new products Release of Steam Quality Station for continuous Watson-Marlow Bredel launched Apex 28 35 monitoring of steam quality, in the Pharmaceutical, pumps to help Water & Wastewater end users Healthcare and Food & Beverage industries reduce maintenance costs Innovative product launches from Watson-Marlow BioPure launched PureSU, to help Bioprocessing during 2016 end users control their whole fluid path Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 29 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Our strategy in action continued Optimise supply chain effectiveness 5 In practice Why we are focusing on this Our direct sales business model, with extensive product ranges and short order books, requires a regional manufacturing strategy with plants throughout the world to optimise customer service and minimise costs.
Through optimising effectiveness, we are developing Global Excellence in Manufacturing, Watson-Marlow tubing manufacture our entire supply chain to enhance product availability, Global Excellence in Manufacturing GEM is increase flexibility, reduce costs and improve service Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Groups way of working, levels in support of sales growth.
our operating system, the way we manage our operations and our daily work.
It brings together best practice in How we are doing it manufacturing from within and outside the Group and drives continuous improvement across the supply chain.
We have strategically located our manufacturing GEM is focused on meeting the needs of our customers plants in Europe, North America, Latin America and and is people driven.
It is process orientated, data led and Asia, to optimise supply chain efficiency.
During 2014 supportive of sustainable growth.
GEM improvements can we appointed a Group Supply Chain Director to either be individual bright ideas which are reviewed, agreed and implemented, or larger business led projects requiring provide management across the supply chain, identify capital expenditure.
Since 2012, GEM has resulted in over inefficiencies, share best practice and better align our 1 million of savings, added nearly 15,000 hours to capacity, manufacturing and sales organisations.
During 2015 improved customer service and increased sales.
we further expanded the Group Supply Chain function, For example, pump roller press automation at our Falmouth adding a Group Supply Chain Sourcing Manager and a site reduced the length of time required to assemble 1,000 Group Supply Chain Operations Manager.
rollers from three hours to 20 minutes.
This created over 500 hours of extra capacity in labour savings during 2015.
Read more on page 59 Results to date Next steps Supply Chain Strategy launched, focused on Continue to execute our Supply Chain Strategy delivering excellence in our supply chain Further strengthen our supply chain community, Demand driven planning systems deployed: delivering greater synergy and effectiveness strong improvements in delivery performance and Deliver continuous improvement across all inventory optimisation Operational Excellence metrics Supply chain agility actions delivered, compressing lead times and enabling greater responsiveness Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 30 Annual Report 2015 Operate sustainably and help improve 6 our customers sustainability In practice Why we are focusing on this Sustainability is at the core of our business operations, driving our strategy to innovate and manufacture products that improve the sustainability and competitiveness of our customers operations, while improving our own operational efficiency, reducing our Horizon 2020 is an EU Research and Innovation programme environmental impacts and improving the quality of life that seeks to maintain Europes competitiveness on the of our employees, their families and the communities global stage.
Within Horizon 2020, the SPIRE Sustainable in which we operate.
In a resource constrained and Process Industry through Resource and Energy Efficiency initiative seeks to achieve a significant overall efficiency competitive world we have an obligation to create a improvement of up to 40% in CO e footprints through 2 more sustainable way of life and to ensure the long-term reduced consumption of fossil fuels and raw materials.
During 2015 Spirax Sarco Ltd, UK, secured SPIRE funding of 558k over three years through the SYMBIOPTIMA How we are doing it Project.
The main objective is to lead the development of a Our approach to sustainability encompasses five primary Smart Thermal Energy Grid capability, utilising existing and areas of emphasis: our workplaces, our supply chain, new Spirax technologies including SIMS Spirax Intelligent Monitoring Systems technology.
The Smart Thermal Energy our environment, our customers and our communities.
Grid will allow clusters of industrial facilities to collaborate Through setting strategic objectives in each of these for optimal use of energy.
Operating within a consortium of areas we are continuously improving our sustainability 15 European organisations Spirax Sarco is also acting as and the sustainability of our customers processes Project Co-ordinator, liaising directly with the EC on behalf of andoperations.
This project has received funding from the European Unions Horizon 2020 research and Read more on pages 5463 innovation programme under grant agreement No 680426.
Results to date Next steps Executive sponsor allocated to each strategic Continue to invest management time in furthering sustainability objective our sustainability agenda Sustainability benchmarking exercise completed Group-wide roll-out of our refined sustainability strategy Significant improvements in H&S performance Focus on improving our and our end users 13% reduction in our global carbon emissions energyefficiency during2015 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 31 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
