Strategic Report Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group: solving difficult pumping problems What we do: Peristaltic and niche pumps We supply positive displacement peristaltic pumps for fluid handling in a range of industries including Mining & Precious Metal Processing, Water & Wastewater and Pharmaceutical: sinusoidal MasoSine pumps which deliver low shear, gentle pumping for delicate products in a range of industries, including Food & Beverage: and Flexicon aseptic liquid filling and capping systems which are particularly suited to the Biopharmaceutical industry.
Tubing We supply a wide range of tubing which complements our peristaltic pumps and is suitable for use across a wide range of industries.
For example, our Marprene tubing has high chemical resistance to acids and alkalis, making it suitable for use in chemical dosing applications, while our Pumpsil platinum-cured silicone tubing offers full traceability ideal for single-use Biopharmaceutical applications.
Single-use and fluid path technologies Our BioPure brand supplies a range of single-use fluid path components, such as clamps, valves and connectors, to the Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology industries.
Our Asepco brand supplies Biopharmaceutical customers with weirless radial diaphragm valves for tank bottoms and in line process applications.
Our FlowSmart brand supplies high purity sanitary gaskets, silicone transfer tubing and reinforced silicone hoses for the Bioprocessing and Pharmaceutical industries.
Maintenance, repair and operations We supply all the replacement parts required to keep our end users pumping systems operating efficiently.
Sector-specific advice Our expert engineers offer sector-specific advice to help our end users overcome their difficult pumping challenges through selecting the most appropriate pumps for their applications.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 10 Annual Report 2015 Design innovative products in our nine distinct brands Manufacture our wide range of products Sell our products and services Direct sales Our customers: The value we add: Hygienic applications How our products and services In peristaltic pumps the pump does not touch the uid, making benefit our end users them ideal for hygienic applications where clean uids must not be contaminated.
A sterile tube makes a sterile pump.
Watson-Marlow pumps and lling machines are widely used in the Biotechnology, Pharmaceutical, and Food & Beverage industries.
Improving Pumping accuracy Pump reliability For more information about how and where our products efficiency are used, see page 21 Productivity Ease of validation Maintenance Single-use applications Single-use is a growing trend in the Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical industries.
Our cleanroom manufactured products reduce risk of contamination, enable the manufacture of single-use assemblies and improve the ease of our end users Reducing validation processes.
Whole life-cycle costs Maintenance downtime Chemical use and costs Dirty applications In peristaltic pumps the uid does not touch the pump, making Water use and costs them ideal for dirty or abrasive uids such as slurries, pigments, chemicals and efuent which would contaminate or damage other Energy use and costs pump types.
Our high performance tubing offers excellent long-term Pumping time performance as it is variously designed for resistance to chemicals, abrasive uids and oils, greases or detergents.
R isk of batch Watson-Marlow pumps and tubing are widely used in the contamination Mining & Precious Metal Processing, Water & Wastewater and Chemical industries.
Meeting Statutory rules regulations For more information about how and where our products are used, see page 21 I ndustry standards particularly around hygiene Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 11 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
