Strategic Report Spirax Sarco case study Implementing our strategy for growth by sectorising our sales force and offering our customers industry specific knowledge and expertise Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 8 Annual Report 2015 Spirax Sarco engineered solution reduces steam system pressure to help Spanish brewery improve beer quality, increase productivity and lower costs Compaa Cervecera fide Canaris CCC, The solution also included steam flow part of the SABMiller Group, is a large metering equipment to monitor steam use Spanish based brewery.
Located in the and efficiency, as well as various ancillary Canary Islands, the company produces products such as thermodynamic steam its own beer brands Dorada and traps and pipeline connector steam trapping Tropical, and under licence Carlsberg, stations to optimise steam system efficiency.
as well as distributing several other wellIn addition to designing and commissioning known brands.
the solution, Spirax Sarco ensured that Within the brewing process, boiling the heat transfer is optimised by testing the wort is a crucial stage that serves various steam in accordance with steam sterilisation functions including sterilisation, the removal standard EN285, to confirm steam of volatile materials, concentration of the dryness and incondensable gas content is wort and reduction of pH levels.
Hops are satisfactory for the application.
also added to the wort during boiling, which Following the installation of the engineered takes place in large stainless steel kettles.
solution from Spirax Sarco, the wort Boiling lasts approximately 60-90 minutes evaporation rate was reduced to less than and is monitored by measuring the 4%, improving beer quality and brewery evaporation rate, which should be no more productivity, and reducing product spoilage.
than 4% per hour for optimum beer quality.
Maintenance downtime has been reduced CCC was experiencing instability in by 90%, energy use has fallen by 20% the production process with periods of and steam consumption and costs have excessively vigorous wort boiling, resulting also been reduced.
In addition, better in evaporation rates of 7%.
These periods steam system metering has improved of overheating and excessive boiling steam consumption knowledge, allowing caused sugars within the wort to burn and more accurate steam cost assignation, caramelise, darkening the wort, affecting and facilitated the customers ability to test its flavour and resulting in product spoilage.
different steam conditions to identify the The caramelised sugars coated the heating most efficient conditions for boiling the wort.
surfaces, increasing the frequency of shut down for cleaning and reducing productivity.
An expert sales engineer from Spirax Sarco, with extensive experience within the Brewing industry, was asked to identify the cause of heating instability and to design a solution.
He found that the steam, at 5.5 bar g pressure, which was being used to heat the kettles, was regulated by a control valve that opened at a fixed rate, allowing steam at a higher pressure than required to heat the kettles.
Key customer benefits Spirax Sarco designed a bespoke pressure Improved beer quality control loop for installation before the process equipment.
The engineered Increased productivity from solution enables the steam system to lower evaporation rates, self-regulate the pressure, and hence the reduced product spoilage and temperature, of the steam to an optimum less maintenance downtime level prior to it reaching the kettles.
Reduced energy use, steam consumption and lower costs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 9 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
