Governance Report Relations with shareholders Governance structure Capital markets event We maintain an active dialogue with our principal investors and the investment During September 2015 we held a Capital A copy of the  community.
During 2015 we undertook Markets Event at our Watson-Marlow at the event can be foundon a comprehensive calendar of events, as Fluid Technology Group WMFTG the corporate website, shown in the shareholder engagement headquarters in Falmouth, Cornwall.
By providing regular The event was attended by 14 sell-side within the Investors section on the Results forums for meeting and communicating analysts and was designed to enhance and presentations page.
with shareholders and the investment their understanding of this important and community we ensure that we understand growing business within the Group.
the views and opinions of our investors and are kept informed of any concerns that The event included presentations by Jay may arise.
We are also able to give updates Whalen, Executive Director of on our results and developments within Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc and our business.
President of WMFTG, and other senior managers from Watson-Marlow about We communicate using a variety of forums the company, new product development, including interviews, investor and analyst sales and geographical expansion, and calls, one-to-one meetings, roadshows, site the companys manufacturing philosophy.
tours and capital markets events.
In March The event also included a site tour of 2015 we held a Capital Markets Day, buythe Watson-Marlow pump factory, side, at our Spirax Sarco manufacturing ISO14644-1 Class 7 certified tubing and R&D site in Cheltenham, UK and in extrusion clean room and R&D facilities.
October 2015 we held a Capital Markets In addition, there were presentations Event, attended by sell-side analysts, at about the Groups supply chain and our Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Spirax Sarcos direct sales approach.
Group headquarters and manufacturing facilities in Falmouth, UK.
During the year Nicholas Anderson, Group Chief Executive, and David Meredith, Finance Director, also attended shareholder roadshows, How our investors can find us across several countries, including the UK, France, Germany, Switzerland, Canada and Online 2015 Report the USA.
com investors At the AGM in 2015, shareholders were able pages .
aspx to hear from and put questions to the Board on a range of matters.
Our Group website Since the year end we have written to our www.
com shareholders giving them the option to receive documents such as our Annual Report electronically rather than in hard copy, helping us to reduce the impact we have on our environment and reduce costs.
Our forthcoming AGM will take place on 10th May 2016 at our UK Head Office: Charlton House, Cheltenham when the Group Chief Executive will give a short presentation about the previous year and the Groups strategic progress.
The presentation will be available on the Groups website, www.
com, on the shareholder notices page, after the meeting.
Following the AGM, the Board will be available to answer questions and meet informally with shareholders.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 84 Annual Report 2015 Shareholder engagement calendar 2015 January 2015 February 2015 March 2015 Broker lunch and meetings No events Preliminary Results announcement, with investors, London analyst meeting and shareholder roadshow, London Shareholder visit hosted by Spirax Sarco China Broker industrials conference, London Institutional meetings, Cheltenham Capital Markets Day buy-side, Cheltenham Investor and analyst calls April 2015 May 2015 June 2015 Institutional meetings, Cheltenham AGM and trading update Investor and analyst calls Investor and analyst calls Investor and analyst calls following AGM and trading update Institutional meetings, Cheltenham July 2015 August 2015 September 2015 Shareholder roadshow, Europe Half Year results announcement, Institutional meetings, Cheltenham France, Germany and Switzerland analyst meeting and shareholder Investor and analyst calls roadshow, London Investor and analyst calls Shareholder roadshow, Scotland Shareholder roadshow, USA Capital Markets Event sell-side and Canada Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Investor and analyst calls Group, Falmouth, UK October 2015 November 2015 December 2015 Investor and analyst calls Institutional meetings, Cheltenham Broker mid-cap conference, London Investor and analyst calls Trading update Investor and analyst calls Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 85 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
