Strategic Report Our business model Our resilient direct sales business model positions us well to create long-term value for our key beneciaries.
Creating value through meeting customer needs Meeting the needs of our customers by helping them to solve their difficult productivity and process challenges, improve their operational sustainability and comply with increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements, is at the core of what we do.
Our customers needs are at the heart of ourbusiness model and it is through meeting those needs that we create value.
To meet our customers needs we: manufacture high-quality products: advise customers on the most Customer effective application of these products: design bespoke engineered packages: arrange installation of our needs engineered solutions: and help our end users to maintain and replace our installed equipment to ensure optimum efficiency in their industrial systems.
For more information about the benets of our direct sales approach and our routes to market, see pages 1617 Competitive strengths Customer closeness Our direct sales business model creates a unique understanding of our customers needs and enables us to build Customer deep, long-term relationships as we help our customers solve their difficult productivity, control and energy efficiency closeness problems, and improve their operational performance and sustainability.
Applied engineering It is not our products alone that provide value to our customers it is the application of our extensive knowledge of Applied systems design, operations and maintenance.
Our customers increasingly rely on our expertise to deliver unique engineering engineered solutions to achieve enhanced and sustainable operating efficiencies.
Wide product range The breadth of our product offering is unmatched by our competitors and our one-stop shop approach simplies Wide the procurement process for our customers who are increasingly seeking partnerships with competent full-service product range suppliers.
We are committed to R&D to further widen our range of products and pre-fabricated engineered packages.
Regional manufacturing Local availability of a wide range of products, which meet applicable regional design codes, is critical to our business Regional model and enhances top line revenue growth.
We have strategically located our manufacturing plants across the manufacturing world, in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia.
How we maximise value We maximise value by focusing on our strategy for growth.
Read more on pages 2231 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 14 Annual Report 2015 Customer Applied closeness engineering We use our competitive strengths to Customer differentiate needs our offer Wide Regional product manufacturing range Value creation Driving sustainable growth and stakeholder value Key beneciaries of our value creation during 2015 Suppliers Employees Customers Communities Governments Shareholders Nearly 300 million Nearly 200 million Our end users benefit 199,000 plus Approximately 140.3 million paid to suppliers paid inwages and from our products employee time 200million paid paid as dividends to of materials and salaries.
We provide and services which donated to charitable intaxes corporation shareholders during services.
jobs and salaries in help them to reduce causes worldwide.
tax, employment 2015 including a By manufacturing developed, emerging energy and water Our communities taxes and net VAT to special dividend of regionally, using and developing use: improve process also indirectly benefit national governments.
local and national economies, creating efficiency, product from the value that Through paying suppliers, the local purchasing quality, and health and we create for all our taxes we support beneciaries of power.
safety performance: stakeholders, across the development of our value creation and achieve regulatory our value chain.
public infrastructure, are geographically compliance.
How we reward our value creation Our Remuneration Policy creates a strong alignment between the creation of value and .
Read more on pages 86108 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 15 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
