Strategic Report Spirax Sarco steam specialties business: improving industrial and commercial steam systems What we do: New steam systems In large capital projects, such as the construction of new hospitals or factories, our expert sales engineers work with end users, their design consultants, or their contractors, to advise on, design or supply complete new steam systems.
Steam system audits Detailed steam system audits, carried out by our sector specialist steam engineers, identify opportunities for improved efficiency in our end users processes, including energy and water savings.
Audits can identify the cause of known problems or uncover unrecognised needs.
Engineered solutions Working directly with our customers, our sales engineers apply our deep applications and systems knowledge, breadth of products and expertise to create bespoke engineered solutions for energy and water savings, process efficiency, product quality and improvements in plant health, safety and regulatory compliance.
Maintenance, repair and operations To maintain operational efficiency, production output and product quality, regular maintenance spending is required by our end users.
We supply the replacement products required to keep our end users steam systems operating at an optimum level and also offer service contracts.
Training We offer training to our end users technical and maintenance staff in 40 training centres worldwide, the majority of which contain live steam systems.
Our training courses equip our end users with the skills required to run their steam systems as efficiently and effectively as possible.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 6 Annual Report 2015 Design innovative products and packages Manufacture most of the products we sell Sell our products and services Direct sales Our customers: The value we add: Where is steam used?
How our products, solutions and Steam is widely used across a diverse range of industries and services benefit our end users in most manufacturing processes for heating, curing, cooking, cleaning and drying.
Industries using steam in this way include Food & Beverage, Pharmaceutical & Biopharmaceutical, Oil & Petrochemical, Chemical, and Pulp & Paper.
Improving Steam is also widely used in hospitals and buildings for space heating, humidication and sterilisation, and to provide a reliable Product quality source of hot water at a constant temperature.
Production output efficiency Plant monitoring profitability For more information about how and where steam is used, see page 21 Reducing Why is steam used?
Steam is a preferred heat transfer uid in most industrial Energy use and costs processes because of its high energy content steam can hold five or six times as much energy as an equivalent mass of water.
Water use and costs Steam is highly controllable and can be generated at high pressures to give high temperatures.
Temperature can be CO emissions 2 controlled throughout a steam system by controlling pressure.
Steam is a highly efficient heat transfer medium.
When steam Waste reaches the point of use, the condensation process efficiently transfers heat to the product being heated.
Production times Steam can surround or be injected into a product being heated.
It can ll any space at a uniform temperature and will supply Maintenance downtime heat by condensing at a constant temperature: eliminating temperature gradients.
Steam can be easily and cost effectively distributed to the point of use because it naturally ows from high to low pressure, meaning that costly circulating pumps are not required.
Meeting Steam is clean, sterile, non-hazardous and environmentally sound, and water is relatively inexpensive and plentiful.
Statutory rules regulations Steam is convenient: it can be used for multiple purposes on a site from process applications, to space heating, sterilisation or Industry standards hot water generation.
H&S requirements Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 7 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
