Strategic Report Our markets: top line growth Our closeness to our customers ultimately helps to insulate the Group from much seasonal and cyclical demand.
Some frequently asked questions: What is your view on global What do you expect to While the impacts of the low oil price are Q: Q: industrial production happen to industrial relatively muted, we are not immune.
During 2015 we saw a negative impact in growth rates?
Korea and Canada in particular, as well as Our businesses serve very diverse markets Prospects for global industrial production Brazil and China, for different local reasons.
across a wide range of different industries, are uncertain, following successive periods Overall, we estimate that the weaker Oil geographic regions, customers and where projected improvements have been & Petrochemical sector and lower energy products.
As steam and pumps are so pushed back.
However, we will be focusing prices reduced our sales growth rate by widely used across many applications, our on realising the benefits of our strategy, with around 1% during 2015. markets broadly reflect changes in global emphasis on self-generated growth.
economic conditions and, in particular, movements of industrial production How confident are you of Are you affected by low growth rates.
Global industrial production growth, which We are confident in our ability to grow, Whilst the price of oil may influence the cost we typically lag by a few quarters, has despite the difficult global trading of energy to our end users, the correlation progressively slowed over the past year to conditions, for the following reasons: between the price of oil and our sales currently very low levels.
At the end of 2015, is relatively weak as payback on energy 1.
Long-term market drivers remain positive year-on-year industrial production growth cost savings is only one of a wide range of for global industrial production growth.
was around zero, with a decline in nonmotivations for customers to trade with us.
Lower levels of large project work are Our direct sales business model means production growth has been particularly largely offset by growth in our day-to-day that our sales engineers work closely marked in China and other emerging business, reflecting increased demand with end users to identify improvements markets where we have long had a strong from end users replacement and to their steam systems, and peristaltic presence, with recessionary conditions in maintenance spending, from which we pump and associated fluid path systems.
This slowdown derive a large proportion of our revenues Typical benefits, other than energy savings, has also been evident in the developed and better margin business.
include reduced carbon emissions, water markets of North America and Europe, savings, productivity improvements, 3.
A l arge proportion of Group revenue although industrial production growth rates efficiency improvements, reduced costs and isderived from defensive, less in the latter have been relatively stable albeit regulatory compliance.
While lower energy cyclical industries.
at levels of growth of less than 1%.
prices will increase the payback period 4.
We remain focused on staying close on some projects, the productivity and to our customers and targeting selfprocess improvements that our solutions generated growth opportunities which offer still provide significant incentive for our come from our ability to identify our customers to buy from us.
end users unrecognised needs, solve For more information about our risks their difficult challenges, which many see pages 3233 suppliers cannot, and gain market share by winning new installations that then For our Viability statement become the base for future revenue.
Our long-term market growth drivers remain positive Population growth National and international climate change mitigation strategies Increased consumption and demand in all our major industry sectors Requirement for companies to manage energy more efficiently, increasing demand for energy management products Ageing population and services Increased demand for healthcare and pharmaceutical products Industrial production Increase in global energy consumption As steam and pumps are so widely used across industry, Increased investment in the Oil & Petrochemical industry and our markets reflect changes in industrial production but our demand for energy management solutions sales have consistently outperformed our markets as we have expanded our addressable market, extended our geographical Economic development in emerging markets penetration andgrown our market share New markets and increased consumption Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 18 Annual Report 2015 o p e x b 3.
Serving less cyclical industries 2. significant income from maintenance and operations expenditure We have an excellent balance between higher-growth end markets and those that are more defensive and resilient.
85% of Group revenue is generated from annual maintenance and 50% operational budgets, rather than large projects from capex budgets, which are more likely to be cut during periods of of Group revenue is derived from defensive, less cyclical slower growth.
end markets, including: Food & Beverage, Pharmaceutical, By staying close to our customers, we are in a good Healthcare, Water & Wastewater and Power Generation.
position to self-generate growth from smaller, and typically better margin, projects.
Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
Customer capex vs opex spend Revenue by key industry sector % 15% 16% We target smaller projects 26% from opex budgets 4% 50% and self-generate new business through our 35% 1% deep understanding of 1% customers needs and our 15% 2% service ethos 2% 3% 3% 4% 10% Maintenance and repair sales that maintain 4% 4% 5% existing systems, supported by the end users opex budgets, with a typical invoice value of around 1k Small project sales that improve existing systems, supported by the end users opex budgets, with a typical invoice value of 10k-50k Food Buildings HVAC Large project sales that build new systems, Beverage Mining & Precious supported by the end users capex budgets, with a Metal Processing typical invoice value of over 75k Pharmaceutical & As our sales engineers walk our end users plants and Biopharmaceutical Water & Wastewater identify and provide solutions to meet their unrecognised OEM Machinery Pulp & Paper needs we self-generate business.
Oil & Petrochemical Power Generation Healthcare Textiles 4.
Targeting selfChemical Rubber & Plastic generated growth Other Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
Our overall strategic objective is to deliver self-generated growth in Approximately 18% of sales are through channels with little order to outperform our markets.
These sales have been allocated We achieve this by staying close to our across key industries on a pro-rata basis.
2015 data reects customers, understanding their system redened sales analysis.
Increase in the Pharmaceutical & requirements and providing them with Biopharmaceutical sector reects acquisitions and increased innovative products and solutions to visibility around OEM sales.
OEM sales to identiable solve their challenges.
end industries have been allocated to those industries.
Sales to OEM customers account for approximately 17% of Group sales.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 19 Annual Report 2015 u d s g t e e t g s d u b x e p a c Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
