K R O W E M A R F E C N A N R E V O V A G L BUSINESS MODEL CREATING LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE The four key inputs to our business model which Underpinning this approach are our values and We create value by applying our are essential to our success are innovation, astrong operational and governance framework.
expertise to enhance productivity customers, employees and suppliers.
The way we manage these resources and relationships This model is difficult to replicate and brings for our customers.
delivers the outputs to generate sustainable significant competitive advantage.
SUPPLIERS INNOVATION Market leadership High returns Balanced portfolio Strong cash generation SUSTAINABLE PROFITABLE GROWTH EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS 18 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 D U N E S A L A N O I T A R E P O G N O R T S Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Enhancing productivity for our customers is the key driver of our growth.
We build long-term relationships with our customers and work closely with them to develop an in-depth knowledge oftheirbusiness.
Our highly-skilled staff then provide solutions to their productivity challenges.
Strong operational and governance framework Governance Financial controls Values Capital allocation We are committed to maintaining We have a robust internal control Our values define how we operate Our business is not capital high standards of corporate framework which is routinely and are essential to our business intensive and our strong cash governance.
This is fundamental monitored through a combination success.
They underpin the way we generation allows us to maintain to the effective and responsible of certification, self-assessment work, guide our decision-making, asound balance sheet, enabling management of the business and andinternal audit reviews, are central to our Code of Business usto invest in the business, either for the delivery of shareholder complemented by a sound risk Ethics and shape our culture across via R&D or selective acquisitions, value over the long term.
whilst also growing the dividend.
You can read more about our governance on pages 59 to 97 Resources and relationships Innovation Customers Employees Suppliers We invest around 7% of sales We build long-term relationships We are a very specialised We outsource the majority of each year in R&D in order to with our customers and seek to businessand rely on the skills component and sub-assembly maintain our market-leading develop a deep understanding of andapplications expertise of our production to suppliers who positions.
Bolt-on acquisitions their business and processes.
We 8,300 people around the world, candeliver high quality at a provide analternative route to also offer a full range of services many of whom are highly-qualified competitive cost, and focus our new technology and we also such as consultancy, training and engineers and technicians.
own resources on design, assembly enter intolicence agreements aftermarket support.
We aim to increase with thirdparties.
value in the supply chain whilst helping our suppliers to meet our environmental and social standards.
You can read more about our resources and relationships on pages 20 and 21 Sustainable profitable growth Market leadership High returns Balanced portfolio Strong cash generation We focus on niche markets with High barriers to entry, generatedvia A broad spread of customers, end Our high operating margins high barriers to entry where our long-term , markets and geographies limits the andasset-light manufacturing products typically involve low strong intellectual property and risk to the business from sudden model result in steady and capital expenditure but provide continuous innovation, lead to economic or political changes in strongcash generation.
significant and rapid payback for limited pricing pressure and high any given territory.
You can read more about our financial performance on pages 50 to 55 and our KPIs on pages 32 and 33 19 www.
