BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dr John Hughes CBE John OHiggins Peter Chambr Chairman Chief Executive Non-executive Director Appointed June 2007.
Appointed Chairman Appointed January 2006 Appointed August 2006 inMay2008 Committees Nomination, Executive, Committees Audit and Risk, Nomination, Committees Nomination Chairman Disclosure, Finance Remuneration Skills and experience Dr John Hughes CBE has Skills and experience John OHiggins has awealth of Skills and experience Peter Chambr has extensive morethan 30 years experience leading global, highexperience in the global instrumentation and controls experience in the pharmaceutical industry and technology businesses.
He has significant experience industry, having previously worked for Honeywell in a significant board experience, having held a number of managing growth companies, especially those number ofmanagement roles, including as president ofsenior executive and non-executive positions in supplying complex solutions andservices to business of automation and control solutions, Asia Pacific.
His healthcare companies, including as chief executive customers and the development of leadership teams.
career began as a design engineer at Daimler-Benz in officer of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc He previously held senior executive positions at Thales Stuttgart.
He has engineering degrees from University until its acquisition by AstraZeneca PLC in 2006, Group, Lucent Technologies and Hewlett Packard, and College Dublin and Purdue University and an MBA chairman of ApaTech Limited and non-executive was non-executive chairman of Intec Telecom Systems from INSEAD.
Prior to that he was chief plc, a non-executive director of ChlorideGroup plc Other current appointments None.
operating officer ofCelera Genomics Group and and the Vitec Group plc.
Until 2015 he was executive chiefexecutive ofBespak plc.
In 2016 he stepped down Other current appointments Chairman of 7TM asexecutive chairman of Telecity Group plc.
PharmaA S, Immatics Biotechnologies GmbH and Other current appointments Non-executive chairman Cancer Research Technology Ltd. Director ofOneMed ofJust Eat plc.
Non-executive director of CSG Sverige AB and Imperial Innovations Group plc.
International Inc. and Equinix Inc. both NASDAQ-listed companies.
Ambassador for the Alzheimers Society.
Lisa Davis Russell King Ulf Quellmann Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Appointed April 2014 Appointed October 2010 Appointed January 2015 Committees Nomination, Remuneration Committees Nomination, Remuneration Chairman Committees Audit and Risk, Remuneration Skills and experience Lisa Davis has significant experience Skills and experience Russell King brings considerable Skills and experience Ulf Quellmann brings broad within the oil and gas industry and process plant international experience, acquired across a number of general management experience and considerable operations.
She is currently a member of the Siemens AG sectors including mining and chemicals, together with knowledge of the metals, minerals and mining managing board and is chair of Siemens Corporation in strong experience in strategy.
He was previously chief industry having worked in the sector for the past the USA, where her responsibilities include the Americas, strategy officer of Anglo American PLC and a 12years.
He is currently global head of treasury at power and gas, wind power and renewables and power non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Ltd.
Previously he held senior positions at generation services.
She was formerly executive vice tothat he spent over 20 years in senior roles at ICI.
Alcan Inc including vice president, investor relations president of strategy, portfolio and alternative energy, Other current appointments Chairman of and media relations, and chief pension investment Shell International Petroleum Company.
Hummingbird Resources Plc and Sepura plc.
Prior to that he held Other current appointments None.
Non-executive director of Aggreko plc and Interserve senior management positions at General Motors, Plc.
Senior adviser to Heidrick &Struggles.
Serves on including as senior manager, capital planning, the Executive RemunerationWorking Group, andmanaging director of Vauxhall Master Hire.
56 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Past Directors John Warren Retired as a Non-executive Director on24April2015.
Membership of the Board Bill Seeger Clive Watson Non-executive Director Group Finance Director Appointed January 2015 Appointed October 2006 1 Committees Audit and Risk Chairman Committees Executive, Disclosure, Finance 2 Skills and experience Bill Seeger brings significant Skills and experience Clive Watson has considerable corporate finance and accounting experience, having finance experience, having previously been chief formerly been the group finance director of GKN plc financial officer and executive vice president for and prior to that president and CEO of the propulsion business support at Borealis.
Prior to this, he was systems and special products division and CFO in the group finance director at Thorn Lighting Group and aerospace division of GKN.
He spent most of his group finance director Europe at Black & Decker.
Clive career at TRW, latterly in senior finance roles, is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 6 including as vice president, financial planning in England and Wales and the Chartered Institute andanalysis, and vice president, finance, of ofTaxation.
Other current appointments Non-executive director Other current appointments Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee ofSpirax-Sarco Chairman and chairman of the audit committee ofSmiths Engineering plc.
Visiting Professor at UCLA Anderson Non-executive Directors School of Management.
Martha Wyrsch Roger Stephens Non-executive Director Head of Commercial and Appointed June 2012 Company Secretary Committees Audit and Risk, Nomination Appointed January 1997 Skills and experience Martha Wyrsch has held a Committees Executive, Disclosure, Finance number of senior positions in the energy industry Skills and experience Roger Stephens has broad andhas significant experience of the US market.
She commercial experience and is responsible for legal currently holds the position of executive vice president andgovernance matters and capital projects across and general counsel of Sempra Energy, a company the Group.
Prior to joining Spectris, he held quoted on the New York Stock Exchange.
Previously, commercial roles in the power and construction she was president of Vestas Americas, a subsidiary of sectors, specialising in contract negotiation, Vestas Wind Systems A S, and prior to that she was litigationand claims resolution, IPexploitation president and CEO of Spectra Energy Transmission.
Until recently she was a non-executive director of SPXCorporation.
Other current appointments Director of the Cristo Rey Network a US educational foundation, San Diego Gas & Electric Company a wholly-owned subsidiary ofSempra Energy and Southern California Gas Company apublicly-traded company in the USA.
