Accountability: Audit Committee The Committees primary focus is to ensure the integrity of financial reporting by reviewing the controls in place and those areas where judgement is required.
Clive Watson Chairman, Audit Committee Membership and attendance Committee member Attendance Number of meetings 3 C. G. Watson 3 J. Pike 3 K. Rajagopal 3 G. E. Schoolenberg 3 Role of the Committee How the Committee spent Summary of the key The main role and responsibilities of the Committee activities in 2015: its time during the year Committee include: Financial Statements monitoring the integrity of the Groups Auditor effectiveness and Financial Statements and public audit process announcements relating to the 20% Companys financial performance: Internal audit 20% 5% reviewing the effectiveness of the internal Viability statement and external audit process: and 20% Integrated risk assessment and 10% reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups management framework 10% financial and internal controls and the 15% Multi-lingual whistle-blowing helpline process for the evaluation, assessment and management of risk.
Introduced Deloitte Academy for Directors The Terms of Reference for the Committee are set out in detail on the Groups website, Read more on pages 7879 Finance and tax reviews www.
com, on the Corporate governance Policies and procedures page, within the External audit Governance section.
These terms were Internal audit Summary of the key areas revised by the Committee in October Results review offocus for 2016: 2014 to include an assessment of external Risk management and controls audit effectiveness and are subject to Financial Statements Whistle-blowing regular review.
Review of internal audit Effectiveness assessment of audit On-going monitoring of risks Risk assessment Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 77 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Accountability: Audit Committee continued Matters considered In 2015, the following matters were considered by the Committee and, where applicable, by the Board or other Committees: Review of internal audit Anti-bribery and Pension scheme Whistle-blowing Performance and effectiveness corruption liability evaluation Litigation update Annual forward plan Review of principal Risk Management Annual Report - risks Committee fair, balanced and understandable External auditor and Compliance with UK Taxation Viability statement Integrated risk Audit Committee Corporate Governance management effectiveness Code 2014 framework One of the primary responsibilities of the The Committee recognises that the Review of 2015 Committee is to assess the robustness independence of the external auditor is The Committee met three times in 2015. of the external audit process and make an essential part of the audit framework Both John Senior Group Financial recommendations to the Board in relation to and has adopted a policy which sets out Controller as head of the internal audit the appointment, re-appointment or removal a framework for determining whether it is team, and the external auditor attend of the external auditor.
The Committee took appropriate to engage the Groups auditor the meetings and have direct access to a number of factors into account when for non-audit services.
This policy states the Committee Chairman.
Following the evaluating the effectiveness of the external that any expenditure with the Groups external Board evaluation undertaken during audit including: auditor on non-audit fees should not exceed 2015 it was recommended that the Group 70% of the average audit fees charged the quality and scope of the planning of Chief Executive be invited to attend the in the last three-year period.
During the the audit in October 2015, Deloitte LLP Audit Committee from time-to-time and this year, the Group spent 237,720 on nonpresented their plan for the 2015 audit to has now been implemented.
audit services provided by Deloitte LLP the Committee : and being 22.1% of the average of Group audit As a safeguard, the Committee holds feedback from all audited operating fees charged over the past three years.
separate meetings with the external and units, the Group Finance team, senior Further details can be found in Note 6 on internal auditors without management management and Directors on the audit page 133. present to discuss their respective areas process and the quality and experience of and any issues arising from their audits.
the audit partners engaged in the audit.
Internal audit During the year the Committee received The Financial Reporting Councils Audit The Committee reviewed the schedule reports from external and internal auditors Quality Review team selected to review the of planned internal audits undertaken in on the major findings of their work and the audit of the December 2014 Spirax Sarco 2015 and assessed the robustness of the progress of management follow-up by way Group Financial Statements as part of control framework that is in place to track of management reports.
their 2015 annual inspection of audit firms.
and monitor progress in remedying any The Committee received assurance on The focus of the review and their reporting identified deficiencies.
This comprehensive going concern, viability, pension valuation, is on identifying areas where improvements review ensures that the Committee is able material litigation and risk management.
are required rather than highlighting areas to give assurances that the Group has an performed to or above the expected level.
effective and integrated risk management The Group has complied with the The Chairman of the Audit Committee framework.
The internal audit process is provisions of the Competition and Market received a full copy of the findings of explained on page 83.
Authority CMA Order issued by the CMA the Audit Quality Review team and has in September 2014, for The Statutory Significant issues in relation discussed these with Deloitte.
The Audit Audit Services for Large Companies Committee confirms that there were no to the Financial Statements Market Investigation Mandatory Use of significant areas for improvement identified Competitive Tender Processes and Audit During the year the Committee considered within the report.
The Audit Committee is Committee Responsibilities.
significant issues in relation to the Groups also satisfied that there is nothing within the Financial Statements and disclosures report which might have a bearing on the Auditor relating to: audit appointment.
This is the second financial year in which i Revenue recognition During the year, the Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Financial Statements and approved the proposed audit fees and In view of the significant volume of trade have been audited by Deloitte LLP following in the final quarter of the year, the need terms of engagement for the 2015 audit and their appointment as the Companys recommended to the Board that it proposes to focus on any new contracts was external auditor as of 20th May 2014. highlighted to ensure the appropriate to shareholders that Deloitte LLP be This appointment will be subject to on-going re-appointed as the Groups external auditor recognition of revenue for the year ending monitoring and will run for a maximum of 31stDecember 2015. for 2016 at the Annual General Meeting to 10years before being tendered.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 78 Annual Report 2015 ii The carrying value of goodwill The review recommended that the Audit Review of Financial Committee agrees the scope for an The Committee focused on the carrying Statements independent benchmarking assessment value of goodwill, including the sensitivity During 2015 the Committee considered of the internal audit function to ensure it analysis and the key assumptions used many components of the business is capable of supporting an increasingly by management, and agreed with the performance in order to ensure it has a complex and growing business.
conclusion reached that no additional full understanding of the operations of impairments were required.
Fair, balanced and iii Inventories Key considerations made by the understandable There are judgements required in assessing Committee include: One of the key governance requirements the proportion and value of slow-moving determining the position adopted in key isfor the Annual Report to be fair, balanced inventory that should be written down judgement areas including pensions, and understandable.
The value of inventory was provisions, goodwill impairment and review of the Group-wide input into considered by the Committee to ensure and acquisitions: the Annual Report is a significant exercise that the accounting policy had been performed within an exacting time frame, risk areas set out in the Risk Management consistently applied and the level of which runs alongside the formal audit Committee report: inventory provision was appropriate.
process undertaken by the external auditor.
receipt of regular strategy reports from the iv Pensions To ensure the Annual Report is fair, Group Chief Executive and operational There are judgements made in selecting balanced and understandable, the reports from the Divisional Directors: appropriate assumptions in valuing the Committee adopted a process of requesting members of management to Groups defined benefit pension obligations, assessing the consistency of the risks and attend Committee meetings to provide including discount ratios, mortality, inflation judgements, reviewed the Board minutes updates on operational and strategic and salary increases.
The Committee to ensure issues of significance were matters: and considered reports by the Company, given prominence and arrived at a position including those from independent external where initially the Committee and then the reviews of the budget and advisers, and is comfortable that the key Board are satisfied with the overall fairness, operational plan.
balance and clarity of the document which Through these processes and its monitoring is underpinned by the following: v Ensuring the Annual Report is fair, of the effectiveness of controls, internal balanced and understandable comprehensive guidance for contributors audit and risk management, the Committee at operational level: is able to maintain a good understanding The Committee carried out a full of business performance, key areas of assessment and review to ensure the a verification process dealing with the judgement and decision-making processes standard was satisfied.
factual content of the reports: within the Group.
vi Other judgements in the comprehensive reviews undertaken Financial Statements atdifferent levels in the Group that Committee evaluation aim toensure consistency and overall Provisions and acquisitions were addressed.
balance: and During the year the Committee undertook After reviewing the presentations and a self-assessment of its performance using reports from management and consulting comprehensive review by the senior an internal questionnaire.
Having considered with the auditor, the Committee is satisfied management team.
the findings of this review it was agreed to that the Financial Statements appropriately make available the Deloitte Academy to all address the critical judgements and The Directors statement on a fair, Directors to ensure that a comprehensive key estimates, both in respect of the balanced and understandable Annual programme of training and development is amounts reported and the disclosures.
Report is set out on page 66 available throughout the year.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for The results of the external Board evaluation determining the value of assets and liabilities undertaken during the year by Dr Long have been appropriately scrutinised, CBE of Boardroom Review Ltd highlighted challenged and are sufficiently robust.
the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
The review also recommended the need for the Nomination Committee to engage in succession planning for the Chairman ofthe Committee.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 79 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Accountability: Audit Committee continued Human rights in the supply chain and the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc maintains the highest ethical standards in our business operations, and strives to continually develop, implement, and uphold organisation-wide policies in keeping with those standards.
In 2015, the Group made further progress with a review to check and satisfy itself that proper procedures for compliance with health and safety requirements and adherence to the Groups Human Rights Policy are present in its supply chain.
During the year, the Group Supply Chain function was expanded to ensure adequate resource for the management and monitoring of our suppliers.
The Group Supply Chain Director has been tasked with working with the Group Environment, Health and Safety Executive and the Group Sourcing Manager to ensure compliance by suppliers with the Spirax Sarco Supplier Sustainability Code reviewed and updated in 2015 to include the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This sets out the non-negotiable minimum standards that we expect our suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers to respect and toadhere to when conducting business with the Company.
In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act, our Supplier Sustainability Code specifies that oursuppliers must not use forced, bonded or non-voluntary labour.
The Supplier Sustainability Code is in accordance with international standards such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Core Convention of the International Labour Organisation and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
The roll-out of the updated Supplier Sustainability Code commenced during 2015, in addition to routine supplier visits and audits.
We have issued a Modern Slavery Act statement and a summary of this can be found on page 59.
The full statement can be found on our website: www.
aspx Having robust policies in place to ensure that no modern slavery or human trafficking is present in our operations or within our global supply chains is a fundamental aspect of our commitment to upholding ethical standards with respect to human rights encapsulated in our existing Human Rights Policy.
The Group has implemented and will continue to implement measures toprotect workers from being abused or exploited in our organisation or supply chain.
Further information on the work undertaken during 2015 and targets for 2016 are set out on page 59 of this Report.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 80 Annual Report 2015 Accountability: Risk Management Committee A robust assessment of the principal risks and monitoring risk management were our priorities this year.
Nicholas Anderson Chairman, Risk Management Committee Membership and attendance Committee member Attendance Number of meetings 3 N. J. Anderson 3 D. J. Meredith 3 N. H. Daws 3 The following executives are also members of the Committee: Divisional Director Sheldon Banks, J. L. Whalen 3 Group Business Development Director Ashok DSa, Group Human Resources Director Frank Richardson, Steam Finance Director Byron Thomas, Group Supply Chain Director Ian Farnworth and General Counsel and Company Secretary Andy Robson.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee is now invited to attend the Committee at least once per year.
Role of the Committee How the Committee spent The Committee ensures that the Group has risk management policies and procedures its time during the year covering project governance, sanctions and embargoes, human rights, business continuity and business management.
The Committee is responsible for the management and control of significant risks affecting the Group.
10% Summary of the key areas 20% Summary of the key 10% offocus for 2016: Committee activities in 2015: On-going monitoring of risk Chinese & EMEA scenario planning 15% 15% management and internal controls Review of historical risks Anti-bribery and corruption roll out of Group risk register and principal 15% 15% further enhancements including: risks review Risk Management Committee to act as New Code risk provisions Ethics Overview Committee Operating company risk reports Establish divisional ethics ofcers Risk management framework Further face-to-face ethics Review of principal risks training combine ethics and H&S Internal controls training opportunities Internal audit Create a user-friendly, plain English Modern Slavery Act Code of Conduct booklet bringing all Anti-bribery ethics policies into one document with Scenario testing Q&As and relevant contact information, translated into key languages Read more on pages 8283 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 81 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Accountability: Risk Management Committee continued Responsibilities To identify and understand To assess and transfer or To accept and manage To establish the authority the risks facing the Group avoid those risks which are within the business those levels within the Group, by beyond our appetite for risk risks which our employees consideration of materiality, have the skills and at which decisions on expertise to understand acceptance and mitigation and leverage of risk are taken We have a robust risk management process An on-going review process for identifying Our approach and appetite in place through which we identify, evaluate and managing risks faced by the Group for risk and manage the principal risks that could has been in place since 2013.
The review Our aim is to continue to build a impact the Groups performance.
covers and assesses the effectiveness sustainable business through consistent, of all material controls, including financial, To ensure that risk management is fully profitable growth and to provide value operational and compliance controls and embedded into the Group culture, in 2015 to our customers and shareholders.
It ensures that we reviewed our assessment of the principal Creating shareholder value is the reward proper accounting records have been risks using bottom-up involvement from for taking acceptable risks.
The effective maintained, that financial information used management.
Our principal risks and the understanding and management of risk is within the business is reliable and that product of the 2015 review are set out on fundamental to the long-term success of the preparation of the consolidated and pages 32 and 33. the Group.
Company Financial Statements and the The Groups governance structure is set financial reporting process comply with all The Committee has developed a risk up so that there are three lines of defence relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
matrix with quantified thresholds that have within the risk management framework: The system of internal controls is designed been approved by the Board following to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of input and consultation with Directors and first line of defence the business is failure to achieve the business objectives.
The relative positions of responsible for the identification, control and the risks and the agreed thresholds are management of its own risks All operating companies are required monitored on an on-going basis to take into annually to complete self-certification second line of defence the Risk account the changing environment within questionnaires regarding compliance with Management Committee, with the Audit which the Group operates.
the policies, procedures and minimum Committee, ensures that the risk and requirements for an effective system of compliance framework is effective so as to The risk review process internal controls.
Self-certification is given by facilitate the monitoring of risk management both the General Manager and the Finance We have adopted an integrated approach with on-going challenge and review of the Manager of each operation.
to our risk management, independent risk profile in the business assurance and internal controls to ensure From its annual reviews, the Board believes third line of defence internal audits greater linkage across our review and that the system of internal controls is provide independent testing and verification assessment of risk.
Internal controls and embedded in the business and that regular of compliance with policies and procedures, risk management are designed to limit review allows for assessment of new and and monitoring of follow up actions the chance of failure to achieve corporate changing risks in the Groups business.
Independent assurance is Internal controls can provide only This approach ensures that senior provided by the external auditor and reasonable and not absolute assurance management have full accountability for the internal audit.
against material misstatement or loss.
management of risks in their specific areas.
The Committee has accountability for As required by the UK Listing Authority, the overseeing the risk management processes Internal controls Group has complied throughout the year and procedures, works with the Audit and up to the date of the publication of the The Board has ultimate responsibility for Committee and reports to the Board on Annual Report with the Code provisions on the effective management of risk across the risks facing the Group.
the Group, determining risk appetite and also monitors the mitigating actions put in tolerance.
The Board also has overall place by the relevant divisions and Group responsibility for the system of internal companies to address the identified risks.
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness, At a local level, each operating company is whilst the role of management is to required to undertake a formal review of the implement Board policies on risk risks which impact, or have the potential to and control.
impact its business, at least once a year.
The reviews are consolidated into Groupwide risk reports which are maintained and reviewed by the Committee on a regular basis.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 82 Annual Report 2015 were some areas for local improvement face-to-face presentations throughout the Internal audit identified in the internal audit reports, no Group on business ethics.
In 2015, we The Board has an established internal audit significant matters were raised in the reports also stepped-up our supplier compliance function which allows each of the Group on the operating companies audited during checks and ensured every company had in operating companies to be audited at the year.
place a gifts and hospitality register.
Finally, least every three years and those judged the introduction of an independent whistleFurther work has been done to build on to be in higher risk territories are audited blowing hotline further strengthened our our strong anti-corruption culture and more frequently.
commitment to ethical business practices.
our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
All businesses acquired by the Group are We have supplemented our anti-bribery@ The Committee has ensured compliance subject to internal audit within one year work training programme, which includes with centrally documented control from the date of acquisition.
Internal audit testing, with biennial refresher training that procedures on such matters as resource is supplemented by experienced, is in the process of being rolled out to all capital expenditure, information and qualified accounting staff from principal employees.
To date 4,000 employees technology security and legal and Group operating companies and a have completed the initial training and regulatory compliance.
professional auditing firm, BDO International.
400 employees have taken the refresher.
Reports are made to the Audit Committee The Group Legal function also makes and the Board as a whole.
Whilst there Important developments in the year Our risk management approach is subject to continuous review and updating to take account of new and developing issues which might impact our business objectives.
The following actions have been undertaken during the year to address significant developments: Cyber security Scenario testing Historical review Principal risks The Group recognises that cyber-crime is a growing threat to all businesses and We undertook scenario We carried out a review We undertook a bottomis taking measures to remain secure.
testing for China with to determine if the up review of the principal We continue to detect and prevent issues external facilitation principal risks on the risks and introduced before they are able to affect the security register relate to the monitoring throughout of our systems, or impact us financially, events that actually the year in accordance through actions such as: occurred in the last with changes to the identification of information assets three years and if the the Code that are at risk, to ensure relevant mitigation mechanisms protection is in place: were effective the use of anti-virus and firewall controls, with regular updates applied: the use of email filtering to reduce the risk Modern Slavery Act Crisis management Regular updates of phishing and software attacks: training The Group has The executive the use of third party experts for implemented and Having implemented committee reviews risk cyber-security testing to assess risks a Serious Incident to our systems and to help to prevent will continue to at each meeting and future attack: implement measures Procedure last year agendas minutes of the need for training to the use of a single third party, to provide, to protect workers the Risk Management monitor and manage our global network: from being abused enable senior managers Committee are in line with industry best practice: to be able to respond or exploited in our circulated to all the use of Information security audits and organisation or supply was identified and Board Directors an Information Systems risk register to training scheduled chain, with standards manage, mitigate and prevent risks: set in our Supplier the operation of policies, processes and Sustainability Code procedures to prevent incidents affecting A statement has been our information systems: prepared and is available a program of education for key business on our website.
leaders and Information Systems staff in detection and prevention of cyberOur Global Excellence attacks.
in Supply Chain Initiative We also attained the first level of the UK provides a framework for Governments Cyber Essentials scheme on-going monitoring in the UK during 2015 and will roll this out across the Group in 2016.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 83 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
