Regulatory disclosures We aspire to being a good corporate citizen that always follows best practice and new laws.
Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary At the AGM, the Group Chief Executive Principal activities Dividend will give a short presentation about Spirax Sarco is a multi-national engineering The Directors are proposing the payment of the previous year and, more generally, group that is domiciled and incorporated in a final dividend of 48.2p 2014: 45.0p which, about current trading and the Groups the UK under registration number 596337 together with the interim dividend of 20.8p future plans.
The Chairman and other and which is tightly focused on its two niche 2014: 19.5p, makes a total distribution for Board members are available to answer businesses of steam system specialties and the year of 69.0p 2014: 64.5p.
If approved questions raised by the shareholders.
peristaltic pumps and associated fluid path at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid Shareholders are invited to vote on the technologies.
An overview of our principal on 27th May 2016 to shareholders on the resolutions by way of a polled vote.
activities, by business, is given on pages 4 register at the close of business on 29th The results are announced instantaneously and 5 of the Strategic Report.
April 2016. at the AGM using the Equiniti Vote Now polling system, and on the London Stock Future development Directors interests Exchange and the Groups website, An indication of likely future developments in The interests of the Directors in the share www.
com, shortly the Group is given in the Strategic Report.
capital of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc after the conclusion of the meeting.
as at 31st December 2015 are set out on Following the AGM the Board is available to page 96.
Strategic Report answer questions and meet informally with individual shareholders.
This is set out on the inside front cover to Substantial shareholdings page 63 of the Annual Report.
The Notice of Meeting convening the AGM, The voting rights in the table have been to be held on Tuesday 10th May 2016, and notified to the Company under the Risk management and an explanation of the resolutions sought, is requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys set out in the Circular posted on our website principal risks Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR and sent to shareholders in the format A description of risk management and the 5, which represent 3% or more of the selected by them.
principal risks facing the business is on voting rights attached to issued shares pages 32 and 33. in the Company as at 26th February Results 2016 and 31st December 2015.
So far The Groups results for the year have Constructive use of AGM as can be ascertained, the holdings are been prepared in accordance with the We are delighted when our shareholders beneficially held.
There are no Controlling International Financial Reporting Standards attend our AGM.
Those who are unable Founder Shareholders.
as adopted by the European Union.
to attend are encouraged to vote online or They are set out in the Consolidated income using the proxy card mailed to them.
statement which appears on page 121.
In 2015, 50.96% of the proxy votes received were lodged electronically through the CREST system.
As at 31.12.15 As at 26.02.16 Number of % of issued Number of % of issued Substantial shareholdings Ordinary shares share capital Ordinary shares share capital MFS Investment Management 4,449,993 6.06 5,838,135 7.96 Schroders plc 4,238,959 5.78 4,327,813 5.90 APG Asset Management NV 3,597,198 4.90 4,005,465 5.46 Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 3,358,018 4.58 3,310,900 4.51 Sprucegrove Investment Management 2,668,135 3.64 2,654,445 3.62 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 109 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Regulatory disclosures continued Directors and Officers Articles of Association Significant contracts insurance The Companys Articles of Association The Company is not a party to any are available from Companies House significant agreements that take effect, alter The Company provides Directors and in the UK or by writing to the General or terminate upon a change of control of the Officers Insurance for Board members, Counsel and Company Secretary at the Company following a takeover bid.
Directors of the Groups operating Groups registered office in Cheltenham.
There are provisions in the Executive Amendments to the Articles of Association Directors service agreements which The Company has also provided each can only be made by means of a special state that following a takeover or change Director with an indemnity to the extent resolution at a general meeting of the of control, if the Executive Directors permitted by law in respect of the liabilities shareholders of the Company.
employment is terminated then both salary incurred as a result of their holding office as benefits and a sum in respect of lost future a Director of the Company.
Share capital bonus opportunity become payable as a As at 26th February 2016 there were no lump sum.
Appointment and treasury shares held by the Company.
replacement of Directors The Strategic Report contains all the Details of shares issued during the year are information required to comply with Section The appointment and replacement of set out in Note 20 on page 143.
414 c of the Companies Act 2006 and there Directors is governed by the Companys As at 31st December 2015 the Companys are no contractual arrangements that need Articles of Association, the Code, the share capital was made up of Ordinary to be disclosed which are essential to the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
shares which each carry one vote at general business of the Group.
All Directors will seek re-election at the AGM meetings of the Company.
Except as set out other than David Meredith who retires at the in the Articles of Association or in applicable Disclosure of information to end of the meeting.
The Directors stand for legislation, there are no restrictions on the the auditor re-election on an annual basis at each AGM, transfer of shares in the Company and there As at the date of the approval of this Annual in accordance with the Code.
The Board are no restrictions on the voting rights in the considers that all Directors standing for Report, as far as each Director is aware, Companys shares.
there is no relevant audit information of re-election continue to perform effectively The Company is not aware of any and demonstrate commitment to their which the Companys auditor is unaware.
agreements entered into between any roles.
In addition, the Board considers that Each Director has taken all such steps as he shareholders in the Company which restrict all Directors have the necessary skills and or she ought to have taken as a Director in the transfer of shares or the exercise of any experience, as set out in their biographies order to make himself herself aware of any voting rights attached to the shares.
on pages 68 and 69. relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of Powers of the Directors and Conflicts of interest that information.
purchase of own shares Under the Companies Act 2006 and This confirmation is given and should the provisions of the Companys Articles Subject to the provisions of the Articles be interpreted in accordance with the of Association, the Directors may of Association, the Board is required to provisions of Section 418 of the Companies consider potential conflicts of interest.
exercise all the powers of the Company.
A shareholders authority for the purchase The Company has established formal procedures for the disclosure and review by the Company of a maximum of 10% Auditor of its own shares was in existence during of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the Directors may have and the year.
However, the Company did not The Companys auditor throughout purchase any of its shares during that time.
for the authorisation of such matters of the period of this Annual Report was conflict by the Board.
To this end the Board This authority expires at the forthcoming DeloitteLLP, who were appointed on AGM and it is proposed that a similar considers and, if appropriate, authorises 20thMay 2014. any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of authority be approved.
The total number of Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to shares in issue as at 31st December 2015 interest as they arise and reviews any such continue in office as auditor and a resolution authorisation annually.
New Directors are was 73,385,583. to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed required to declare any conflicts, or potential at the forthcoming AGM.
PSP and Employee Benefit conflicts, of interest to the Board at the first Board meeting after his or her appointment.
Trust The Board believes that the procedures The number of shares held in the EBT at established to deal with conflicts of interest 31st December 2015 was 147,212, for the are operating effectively.
purpose of satisfying the vesting of awards and options granted to employees under the various Company schemes.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 110 Annual Report 2015 The Board believes that a three-year Research and development Going concern viability assessment period is appropriate The Group continues to devote significant The Groups business activities, together as the timeframe is covered by the Groups resources to the development and the with the main trends and factors likely to strategic plan: takes into account the nature updating and expansion of its range of affect its future development, performance of the Groups principal risks, a number of products in order to remain at the forefront and position, and the financial position which are external and have the potential of its world markets.
The Group steam of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity to impact over short time periods: and is specialties R&D function, which is based in position and borrowing facilities, are set in alignment with the Groups bank loan Cheltenham, and the Watson-Marlow Fluid out in the Financial review on pages 50 terms.
While the Board has no reason to Technology Group R&D function, located to 53.
In addition Note 28 on page 153 believe that the Group will not be viable in Falmouth, are tasked with improving includes the Groups objectives, policies over a longer period, given the inherent the Groups pipeline of new products, and processes for managing its capital, its uncertainty involved, the Board believes that decreasing the time to launch, expanding financial risk management objectives, its a three-year period presents readers of the the Groups addressable market and financial instruments and hedging activities, Annual Report with a reasonable degree realising additional sales.
Further information its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
of confidence while still providing a longeron the expenditure on R&D is contained in The Group has considerable financial term perspective.
The amount of R&D resources together with contracts with a In making their assessment, the Directors expenditure capitalised, and the amount diverse range of customers and suppliers completed a robust assessment of the amortised, in the year, are given in Note 12 across different geographic areas and principal risks facing the Group, including on page 137. industries.
No one customer accounts those that would threaten its business for more than 1% of Group turnover.
As a model, future performance, solvency or Treasury and foreign consequence, the Directors believe that the liquidity, and undertook sensitivity and exchange Group is well placed to manage its business stress testing to determine the potential risks successfully despite the current The Group has in place appropriate impacts of the occurrence of one or more uncertain economic outlook.
treasury policies and procedures, which of the principal risks on sales, profit, margin are approved by the Board.
The treasury The Directors, having made appropriate and cash.
In addition to completing an function manages interest rates for both enquiries, consider that the Company impact assessment of the principal risks, borrowings and cash deposits for the and the Group have adequate resources the Directors considered the probability Group and is also responsible for ensuring to continue in operational existence and of occurrence of the principal risks, the there is sufficient headroom against any that the Directors intend to do so, for at Companys ability to control them and the banking covenants contained within its least one year from the date the Financial effectiveness of mitigating actions.
credit facilities, and for ensuring there are Statements were signed, and that therefore The Groups resilient business model has appropriate facilities available to meet the it is appropriate to adopt the going concern proven strong and defensive in the long term Groups strategic plans.
basis in preparing the Annual Report.
and has enabled the business to prosper, In order to mitigate and manage exchange Pages 109 to 112 form the Directors even in challenging market conditions.
rate risk, the Group routinely enters into Report for the purposes of the Companies The diversity of our end user markets and forward contracts and continues to monitor Act 2006. customers, broad product range, wide exchange rate risk in respect of foreign geographic spread, high replacement The Strategic Report and the Directors currency exposures.
revenue streams and large base of installed Report were approved by the Board on equipment worldwide, together with our All these treasury policies and procedures 2ndMarch 2016. effective direct sales business model, are regularly monitored and reviewed.
enhances the viability of the Group in the It is the Groups policy not to undertake Viability statement face of adverse economic conditions and speculative transactions which create In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the or political uncertainty, as does our ability to additional exposures over and above those UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, self-generate business through identifying arising from normal trading activity.
the Directors have assessed the viability of solutions to our customers difficult process the Group over a three-year period, taking challenges andour ability to adjust our Political donations into account the Groups current financial cost base.
The Group has a policy of not making position, business strategy, the Boards political donations and no political donations Whilst no Board can ever fully foresee all risk appetite and the potential impacts of possible risks facing the business in the were made during the year 2014: nil.
the principal risks, outlined on pages 32 future, the Directors are of the view that and 33 of the Strategic Report.
Based on a robust assessment was undertaken of Greenhouse gas emissions this assessment, the Directors confirm the severe but plausible scenarios that that they have a reasonable expectation Details of our greenhouse gas emissions may feasibly impact upon the business that the Company will be able to continue can be found on page 61 of the over the next three years.
Furthermore, in operation and meet its liabilities as Sustainability report.
the Board remains confident in the they fall due over the three-year period to Groups risk management process and 31stDecember 2018. the risk mitigation actions taken to address identified risks.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 111 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Regulatory disclosures continued Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report The Board has prepared a Strategic Report including the Chairmans statement and the Group Chief Executives report which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended 31st December 2015 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the management report can be found in the Strategic Report and these Regulatory disclosures, including the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report, pages 92 and 93 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Regulatory disclosures, page 110 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Regulatory disclosures, page 109 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary 2nd March 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Registered no.
596337 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 112 Annual Report 2015
