Strategic Report Our business model in action: customer closeness and applied engineering Our Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow businesses are anchored on the philosophy of understanding the detail of our customers processes and applying properly engineered solutions to assist steam and pump users to meet their challenges of improving process quality and efficiency, increasing throughput, and reducing energy and water consumption and plant emissions.
Our direct sales model Our sales force is a major investment At the heart of our customer value proposition is the deep Our sales and service engineers are highly skilled in both product application and systems knowledge of our direct sales and support applications and in systems understanding and troubleshooting.
The investment in our direct sales teams allows us to We invest heavily in training our sales and service people as we talk directly with end users and be proactive in understanding recognise that their knowledge and skill is a key differentiator and a their requirements.
By talking directly to our end users and having barrier to entry to competitors.
We monitor the return on investment extensive sector-specific industry knowledge, we are able to in our sales and service engineers and remain confident that the uncover problems, identify unrecognised needs and develop business they self-generate is making targeted financial returns.
solutions to improve our end users productivity, operational Our sales and service engineers, as the face of our businesses, efficiency and sustainability.
reinforce brand loyalty and goodwill.
Routes to market Approximately 73% of Group revenue is generated directly and the remaining 27% is generated indirectly from sales to distributors.
Our direct sales model plays an important role in all routes to market as our sales engineers call on end users and sell the benefits of our products, solutions and services.
End users may then purchase directly from us, specify our products in OEM equipment, request that contractors specify our products in their plans, or purchase from a distributor.
Direct sales 42% Direct sales End user 73% requirements identified by sales Spirax Sarco 17% engineers and WatsonOEMs Marlow sales companies, Sales selling our engineers 14% Contractors and products and consultants services to Sales End users customers engineers 27% End users purchase Distributors or specify our products Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 16 Annual Report 2015 The benefits of our direct sales approach Bridge the knowledge gap Many end users no longer have the knowledge or engineering resources that they once had, so they do not understand the problems they have or how to fix them.
We bridge this knowledge gap.
Leverage information Focus on valuefrom our unique creating solutions databases We are increasingly acting We have large and unique as a trusted engineering adviser to our customers: databases of contact Our information for our solving their problems, identifying efficiency customers and potential direct sales customers.
Leveraging this improvement opportunities and providing valueinformation gives us a approach formidable advantage for creating solutions.
Encourage innovative Self-generated product and solution growth opportunities development As our sales engineers walk A deep understanding of our end users plants they use their wide experience our end users processes drives product innovation.
and industry knowledge to identify unrecognised needs.
We have led the way in developing ready to install Providing solutions to these needs creates opportunities packaged solutions which provide convenient, effective for self-generated growth.
and reliable solutions to customers problems.
Instrumental in creating added value and self-generated growth opportunities Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 17 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
