INNOVATIVE CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS MATERIALS ANALYSIS Accelerating drug development in the biopharmaceutical industry Background most promising candidates with acceptable The life science sector is undergoing rapid viscosity and particle size profiles progressed development and is one of Spectris key to clinical trials for wide-ranging applications strategic growth markets.
In 2012, we such as cancer therapies and the treatment established the Bioscience Development and prevention of viral diseases.
Initiative BDI within our Materials Analysis segment to focus on how we could best bring The solution our characterisation expertise to specific Malvern Instruments Viscosizer TD was used biopharmaceutical measurement problems.
to accurately measure the particle size in, and Through partnerships with key customers in the viscosity of, very small samples.
As a result, industry and academia, our experts within 15% of the antibody candidates measured failed BDIaimed to develop solutions for some the new test criteria.
The instrument was also ofthechallenges within biopharmaceutical able toreturn the samples intact for further development and manufacture.
testing, providing additional cost savings to the customer.
The challenge A major pharmaceutical development company The benefit needed to screen candidate therapeutic Effective pre-screening resulted in substantial antibody molecules as early as possible in the cost savings for the customer through not development process, using only very small having to continue with development of sample volumes.
This ensured that only the non-viable antibody candidates.
10 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 11 www.
com INNOVATIVE CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS CONTINUED TEST AND MEASUREMENT Reducing costs for the aviation industry Background The solution Aircraft manufacturers are required to meet strict In order to speed up testing and certification regulations on noise and emissions whilstat the of the LEAP engine, which will power the next same time seeking to reduce fuel consumption.
generation of single-aisle commercial jets, French company Snecma, part ofinternational Snecma selected a Brel & Kjr Sound & group Safran, which supplies engines to Vibration gas turbine testing system.
This is companies such as Boeing and Airbus, has based on LAN-XI data acquisition hardware developed a new engine called LEAP.
This and PULSE Reflex data processing software, features some of the industrys mostadvanced which together provide dynamic data technology to make it quieter and more fuel recording, real-time monitoring and efficient, helping the aviation industry meet post-test analysis, with the flexibility itsenvironmental protection objectives.
The challenge The benefit Snecma has optimised the aerodynamic design Brel & Kjrs system helps gas turbine testers of the engine turbine blades, using woven to increase test efficiency and flexibility and carbon fibre composite fan blades to achieve improve data integrity.
The system can be set greater performance.
However, the gas turbine up quickly, which significantly shortens test is a highly complex machine that needs times.
Real-time instant feedback is provided through multiple networked monitoring comprehensive testing and analysis during stations to ensure the validity of the test development in order to optimise its dynamic dataand eliminate the need for a re-test.
Each test is a major operation which requires detailed planning: test systems must be scalable and capable of handling large amounts of data from parameters such as strain, vibration, pressure and speed.
12 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 13 www.
com INNOVATIVE CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS CONTINUED IN-LINE INSTRUMENTATION Optimising machine uptime in the energy sector Background The solution Hydroelectric power generation is playing Brel & Kjr Vibros monitoring systems anincreasingly vital role in global energy willbe installed in each of the six hydropower production.
Many newer hydroelectric power stations and a Compass 6000 condition stations are purpose-built for peak load monitoring platform will be centrally located operation and are subject to multiple stops at the Los Quilos station for remotely and starts, and the generating units have monitoring all the machines.
The comprehensive tobefully operational when needed.
Our service and training Brel & Kjr Vibro offers systems detect vibration which provides was also a key factor in gaining the contract.
anearly indication of machine faults in  failures and The benefit .
Remote monitoring of the hydropower station machines will enable Colbn to understand The project machine conditions by detecting faults before Brel & Kjr Vibros monitoring systems are they can cause failure, thus optimising installed in more than 750 hydro turbines machine uptime and reliability and reducing around the world.
The company was recently maintenance costs.
awarded a contract by Colbn, the secondlargest electric utility company in Chile, for protection and condition monitoring at all six of its cascade hydropower stations on the Aconcagua river basin.
Environmental impact has been minimised as no dams needed to be built and the use of hydropower means there isless dependence on coal and natural gas.
14 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 15 www.
com INNOVATIVE CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS CONTINUED 16 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 INDUSTRIAL CONTROLS Improving efficiency in the power industry Background The solution Germany continues to lead the energy Using Red Lion Controls Sixnet VersaTRAK revolution by integrating alternative energy remote terminal units, Deutsche Energie Funk sources into its mainstream electrical grid is able to reliably collect and store input and supply.
German company Deutsche Energie output data points from substation equipment Funk is a provider of electricity demand and located in or near windfarms, solar plants and monitoring solutions for the power generation co-generation facilities.
The data is then market, connecting decentralised plants and pushed to radios which securely communicate distribution grids to a central control point.
with the energy supplierrooms so that the appropriate mix ofgeneration methods can The challenge bematched withcurrent energy demand.
The company needed to develop a solution to address the demands of collecting real-time The benefit data from different power generation sources Red Lion Controls solution helps to ensure and providing it to downstream systems such reliable network security and management, as electrical transportation, storage and providing a fail-safe communication network substations.
These rely on real-time accurate which enables the smart grid provider to data for efficient power source and electrical betterserve its customers.
However, wind farms and solar plants are typically remotely located, making monitoring and control more difficult.
