STRATEGY FOCUS ON PROVIDING INNOVATIVE CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS Strategic priority Description Achievements in 2015 Key performance indicators Priorities for 2016 Risk Our understanding of our customers businesses We invested 89 million in R&D, representing 7.5% Continue to invest around 7% of sales in the development of new New product development.
0% 15.2% and the productivity challenges that they face of Group sales, and launched a number of new products, technologies and solutions.
Organic sales growth Return on sales FOCUS ON enables us to enhance our offering to them, products and solutions.
at constant currencies INNOVATIVE whether that involves the supply of improved Focus on innovative differentiated customer solutions which offer Information security.
equipment or a packaged solution involving MiniLaser gas analyser.
CUSTOMER -8% Growth in theprovision of services, software and Zetium x-ray spectrometer.
Continue to build relationships with customers to offer more value-added Viscosizer biophysical characterisation tool.
services such as consultancy, software, testing, maintenance and training.
We build leadership positions in attractive niche We increased our presence in several strategic Focus on key strategic growth markets, particularly: New product development.
0% 15.2% markets where we believe there are opportunities growth markets.
Organic sales growth Return on sales INCREASE PRESENCE for technology-led productivity enhancement.
Cloud-based data analysis and services.
at constant currencies IN KEY STRATEGIC These markets currently include segments within Secured new contracts in life science sector.
the life science and pharmaceuticals, energy, Established an Industrial Internet of Things Life sciences.
MARKETS -8% transport, basic materials and technology sectors, Innovation Centre.
Fluctuations in adjusted EPS but we also review and actively pursue Acquired ReliaSoft to expand engineering Test services.
In response to a customer base that is Acquired Sunway Scientific Corporation, Continue to expand our international footprint to be closer Intellectual property.
0% 15.2% extendingits international operations and aTaiwanese distributor for Particle tocustomers through direct and indirect market presence Laws and regulations.
Organic sales growth Return on sales EXPAND BUSINESS becoming increasingly sophisticated we MeasuringSystems.
at constant currencies GLOBALLY  globally, with Good growth in Omegas international Acquisitions.
particularemphasis on emerging markets businesses, where sales grew by 9%.
Continue to grow Omega in Asia and Latin America.
-8% suchas China, India and Latin America.
ESG established offices in the Middle East Growth in Fluctuations in adjusted EPS and Mexico.
Ensure that we have the right talent to grow our business exchangerates.
We strive for continuous improvement in all Average working capital as a percentage Drive greater efficiency through operational excellence, extending Supply chain disruption.
15.2% 89,030MWh aspects of our business operations, both to of sales improved by 0.5 pp in Test Lean, Kaizen and Six Sigma initiatives throughout the Group.
Return on sales Energy consumption ACCELERATE enhance customer experience and to generate andMeasurement.
Increase employee training in these techniques and tools to build OPERATIONAL efficiency and productivity gains.
In addition, Improved process management in BTG that a continuous improvement culture.
91% 4.5 we seek to improve performance and profitability reduced waste of scrap steel during creping EXCELLENCE Cash conversion Reportable accidents by driving synergistic opportunities within and blade production by 20%.
per 1,000 employees Encourage individual ideas and collaborative team sessions between our operating companies and across togenerateefficiency projects and share best practice across the Group as a whole.
We acquire businesses which materially Invested 45 million in five bolt-on Focus on acquisition strategy to expand portfolio and reach.
0% 15.2% strengthen our operating companies through acquisitions: three in Test and Organic sales growth Return on sales DEPLOY CAPITAL broadening their customer offering, reaching Measurement, one in Materials Analysis Fully integrate recent acquisitions to support continued at constant currencies FORBOTH PLATFORM new customer segments or expanding their andone in IndustrialControls.
Acquisitions contributed 3 pp of salesgrowth.
AND BOLT-ON M&A -8% Growth in Continue to look for new opportunities in key strategic growth adjusted EPS In addition, we invest in new platform businesses markets through acquisition or licensing of technologies.
in order to establish a presence in strategic markets or complementary capabilities.
For more information see pages 6 and 7 For more information see pages 34 to 41 22 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Our strategic objective is to deliver sustainable profitable growth for shareholders by enhancing theproductivity of our customers.
Our progress is set out below.
Strategic priority Description Achievements in 2015 Key performance indicators Priorities for 2016 Risk Our understanding of our customers businesses We invested 89 million in R&D, representing 7.5% Continue to invest around 7% of sales in the development of new New product development.
Organic sales growth Return on sales enables us to enhance our offering to them, products and solutions.
atconstant currencies whether that involves the supply of improved Focus on innovative differentiated customer solutions which offer Information security.
-8% Growth in theprovision of services, software and Zetium x-ray spectrometer.
Organic sales growth Return on sales for technology-led productivity enhancement.
atconstant currencies These markets currently include segments within Secured new contracts in life science sector.
-8% transport, basic materials and technology sectors, Innovation Centre.
Organic sales growth Return on sales becoming increasingly sophisticated we MeasuringSystems.
atconstant currencies  globally, with Good growth in Omegas international Acquisitions.
Return on sales Energy consumption enhance customer experience and to generate andMeasurement.
Increase employee training in these techniques and tools to build efficiency and productivity gains.
In addition, Improved process management in BTG that acontinuous improvement culture.
91% 4.5 we seek to improve performance and profitability reduced waste of scrap steel during creping Cash conversion Reportable accidents by driving synergistic opportunities within and blade production by 20%.
0% 15.2% strengthen our operating companies through acquisitions: three in Test and Organic sales growth Return on sales broadening their customer offering, reaching Measurement, one in Materials Analysis Fully integrate recent acquisitions to support continued atconstant currencies new customer segments or expanding their andone in IndustrialControls.
-8% Growth in Continue to look for new opportunities in key strategic growth adjusted EPS In addition, we invest in new platform businesses markets through acquisition or licensing of technologies.
F or more information see pages For more information see pages 32 and 33 For more information see pages 6 and 7 26to 30 23 www.
