Strategic Report Steam specialties: Europe, Middle East and Africa Organic sales grew by over 2% to 219.4 million andoperating profit increased by 11% at constant currency to 42.7 million.
Currency movements wereunfavourable reducing sales by 8% and protby 16%.
Neil Daws Executive Director, EMEA Market overview Revenue Revenue m Overall industrial production growth in EMEA was lower in 2015 than in 2014, m although it remained positive throughout 219.4m 2014: 236.2m the year at very low levels of growth.
2015 219.4 In our larger markets, industrial production -7% a t reported exchange rates 2014 236.2 growth slowed quite sharply in the UK and Germany but accelerated in France, 2013 244.3 1% at constant currency Italy and Spain.
Russia, which accounts for around 1% of steam business sales, 2012 232.8 was in an industrial recession throughout 2011 250.1 the year reecting the impact of sanctions.
Markets in Eastern Europe were more positive but in our smaller markets in the Nordic area and in Africa, conditions were mixed.
Project business was again lower, due to a decline in larger projects, with Operating profit delayed decision making by customers.
Operating profit m Progress in 2015 m 42.7m 2014: 45.9m In EMEA, organic sales grew by over 2% 2015 42.7 to 219.4 million.
Currency movements were very unfavourable impacting sales -7% a t reported exchange rates 2014 45.9 on translation by 8% reecting the euro 2013 48.2 weakening by 10% against sterling and 11% a t constant currency the 32% devaluation of the rouble average 2012 36.7 exchange rate.
The disposal of M&M in July 2015 reduced sales by 1%, leaving reported 2011 36.8 sales down 7% from the 236.2 million Before corporate expenses.
Sales were ahead in virtually all operations, including our larger markets Operating margin Group revenue % Our division at a glance 24 operating units 19.5% 2014: 19.4% 32 c ountries with a direct sales 10 bps a t reported 33% presence exchange rates 2,114 employees average 170 bps a t constant currency Operating companies, branches and Associate.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 42 Annual Report 2015 in France, Germany, Italy and Spain, with in Europe were overall ahead, despite a purchasing, planning and supply chain, and good growth in South Africa, Turkey and fall in demand on our factories in Europe.
better stock quality management leading to our recently established operation in the Unfavourable currency movements reduced increased delivery performance and lower Netherlands.
The UK could not repeat the operating profit by 16%, including both inventory levels.
All these changes underpin growth achieved over the two prior years translation and a significant exchange our strategic drive to generate more of our and sales were modestly down as sales to transaction effect in our European own growth and to outperform our markets.
Business levels companies from purchases of product Outlook were down in Russia, reflecting lower sales from our UK manufacturing plant.
This was Our markets remain challenging, with into the Food & Beverage and Chemical reflected in an overall decline of 7% in sectors in particular.
Our new operation in profit from the prior years 45.9 million at industrial production growth rates overall positive, although at very low Egypt made a very positive start.
The operating profit margin for EMEA at 19.5% levels of growth.
We are not assuming Our businesses performed well in 2015 any meaningful improvement in market 2014: 19.4% was slightly ahead, despite and overall operating profit was ahead the significant currency impact, as a result of conditions but remain well-placed to 11% at constant currency to 42.7 million.
capitalise on any pick-up in market the many operational improvements.
We benefited from the higher sales, which sentiment.
We have a robust business included continued price management Strategy update model, a diverse spread of end markets actions, and costs were closely controlled We have been very active in EMEA and good exposure to some of the more whilst continuing to invest in our strategic progressing many aspects of strategy resilient sectors such as Food & Beverage.
Operating profits increased at deployment.
Our young operating We remain positive and are confident constant currency in virtually all operations companies in the Netherlands and the that our strategy will continue to identify and were well ahead in South Africa, Middle East performed well, as did our opportunities for growth.
2016 will also Turkey, Benelux and the Middle East.
new operation in Egypt, with further market benefit from the full-year effect of the cost We took action early in the year to cut developments at an advanced stage for savings in the UK from the headcount costs in our manufacturing operation in 2016.
The development of the knowledge reductions and one-off costs in early 2015. the UK.
Headcount was reduced by 8% at and skills of our direct sales force was We will continue to carefully balance the a cost of 1.0 million, yielding annualised a particular focus, in preparation for the investment in strategic initiatives with close savings of 2.2 million from the start of introduction of the new Spirax Academy.
The net benefit in Good progress was made in our strategic 2015 was therefore 0.6 million, which sectors of Food & Beverage, Healthcare, positively impacted profit in the second Chemical and OEM, as well as in the onhalf-year, with a further year-on-year benefit going process of sectorisation of our sales in 2016.
Overall, material costs were teams.
Improvements were made in the subdued and operational improvements management of health and safety, with a resulted in increased efficiency and lower resultant significant reduction in lost time costs, including reduced energy costs accidents.
Strategic developments in our from the Combined Heat and Power supply chain included improvements to the plant that came on stream at the start process for the introduction of new products of the year.
In addition, service levels to reduce time to market, increased increased and stock levels were reduced.
resources to drive improvements in Profits from our manufacturing operations Overall industrial production growth Key market performance Industrial production rates very low during 2015 growth rate 2015 Oil & Industrial production slowed sharply in Food Petrochemical the UK and Germany but accelerated in France, Italy and Spain Industrial recession in Russia impacted sales into the Food & Beverage and Chemical markets Pharmaceutical Good progress made in our strategic & Biopharm Chemical sectors of Food & Beverage, Healthcare, Chemical andOEM 4% 0% to 2% 2 to 4% 0% Compared with the prior year.
Source: Global Industrial Production Watch, CHR Economics, February 2016 Positive Neutral Negative Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 43 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Steam specialties: Asia Pacic The slowdown in industrial production growth continued through 2015.
Organic sales declined by 4% to 171.8 million and operating profit reduced by 7% at constant currency to 44.7 million.
Paul Lee Divisional Director, Asia Pacic Appointed 1st March 2016.
Market overview Revenue Revenue m The slowdown in industrial production growth in the second half of 2014, m continued through 2015.
There were 171.8m 2014: 177.7m pockets of industrial production growth in 2015 171.8 some of our smaller markets but overall -3% at reported exchange rates 2014 177.7 conditions were dominated by the industrial recession in Korea and the well-publicised 2013 182.8 -4% a t constant currency slowdown in China, driven by excess capacity in many sectors.
Project business 2012 166.9 in the region, especially large projects, was 2011 147.1 well down on the prior year with project postponements reecting the more difficult investment climate in many Asian markets, including in the Oil & Petrochemical and Palm Oil sectors, and also in Food & Beverage and in hospitals, many of which Operating profit are state owned.
Against this background, Operating profit m our focus switched, with good effect, to generally smaller self-generated projects m 44.7m 2014: 46.4m and end user maintenance work, and we 2015 44.7 noted an encouraging stabilisation in overall demand in the second half of the year.
-4% a t reported exchange rates 2014 46.4 Pricing was reasonable in most markets 2013 48.0 and there was no price increase in China.
-7% at constant currency 2012 43.9 Progress in 2015 Organic sales declined by 4% to 2011 37.8 171.8 million reecting some relative Before corporate expenses.
improvement in the second half-year, with a lower rate of decline than in the first half-year.
Sales were impacted by Operating margin Group revenue % Our division at a glance 14 operating units 26.0% 2014: 26.1% 15 countries with a direct sales -10 bps a t reported presence exchange rates 1,067 employees average -90 bps a t constant currency Operating companies, branches and Associate.
At time of publication including Spirax Sarco Vietnam, 26% established 1st January 2016.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 44 Annual Report 2015 project delays and we nished the year Elsewhere in Asia Pacic, we were pleased overall favourable, increasing operating profit with a larger order book than at the end of with the further good progress in Japan, by 4%, leaving operating profit down nearly 2014.
Exchange movements were overall where we achieved higher sales and 4% at reported exchange rates compared positive, adding 1% to sales on translation markedly improved profits, despite currency with operating profits of 46.4 million in the due to the 6% strengthening of the RMB headwinds increasing landed costs of prior year.
The operating profit margin at versus sterling, largely offset by currency imported product.
This reects the significant 26.0% was just 10 bps lower 2014: 26.1%, weakness in most other smaller markets.
investment in developing the knowledge due to the much improved performance in Reported sales were therefore 3% below and skills of our Japanese direct sales force the second half-year.
the prior year sales of 177.7 million.
Sales and profits were Strategy update also ahead in Indonesia.
In Australasia, we In China, sales and profits were marginally We continue to aggressively enter into new saw a decline in performance against a ahead at constant currency.
Project work, difficult market background, reecting lower markets, with increased local sales resource which historically comprised approaching in a number of markets including Myanmar government spending on hospitals and 50% of our business in China, was again reduced investment in the Food & Beverage and Cambodia, and a new operating down on the prior year but was successfully company in Vietnam that commenced local industry from the prolonged drought and compensated by generating increased global dairy prices.
The onlevels of smaller projects targeting process going and progressive sectorisation of sales improvements, energy efficiency and Our strategically important investment in our teams was taken forward, with an increased maintenance savings for end users.
new wholly owned direct sales operation focus on our strategic industry sectors.
Increasing localisation of manufacture, in line in India took a significant step forward and significant business system upgrades were with our regional manufacturing strategy, commenced trading from 1st July 2015, completed during the year and supply chain has reduced costs and mitigated local contributing a small amount to sales from a resources added in the region, with the aim wage ination, also improving customer zero base.
It has taken longer than expected of increasing local product availability, cost delivery performance which will be further to achieve all the regulatory approvals but effectiveness and exibility.
enabled by the 13 million plant expansion good progress has been made and the project that is expected to be completed 12 million project to create a new world Outlook in early 2017.
We remain positive about the class manufacturing plant, training centre Overall, industrial production growth in prospects for our business in China: the and ofces will be completed in April 2016.
Asia Pacic progressively slowed through short-term economic indicators are not Pre-trading and start-up operating losses 2015 and the immediate future trajectory very encouraging but the move to a more approaching 2 million were incurred and is uncertain, dependant in large part on consumer driven economic model will benefit are included in the adjusted operating the outlook in China, which directly and our key customer sectors in the longer term.
results for the Asia Pacic region.
indirectly drives regional economic activity.
Sales were down and profits somewhat Overall in Asia Pacic, operating profit However, we are clear that there are good lower in Korea, where we were unable to reduced by 7% at constant currency to medium and long-term opportunities that repeat the strong performance in 2014.
44.7 million, with over a third of this decline we are increasingly well placed to address As expected, the traditionally high level caused by the start-up investment in India.
through the further development of our of projects in prior years, some destined As expected, the second half in Asia Pacic direct sales business model, focus on key for the oil rening industry in the Middle showed a significant improvement on strategically important industry sectors, East, were not sustained.
This, combined the 17% profit reduction in the first halfsuch as Food & Beverage and Healthcare, with a small number of delayed project year, as strong cost controls enabled full and improvements to our supply chain, shipments, impacted sales for the year.
gearing of the second half sales volumes.
combined with continued geographic The order book taken into the new year was Excluding India, second half profits were at market development.
Currency movements were Overall, industrial production growth Key market performance Industrial production slowed throughout the year, with growth rate 2015 industrial recession in Korea and Buildings HVAC Food slowdown in China but with small pockets of growth elsewhere Project postponements impacted across a number of sectors, including Oil & Petrochemical, Palm Oil, Food & Beverage and Healthcare Oil & Beverage Petrochemical Focus switched to smaller selfgenerated projects and end user maintenance work, to good effect Future industrial production growth 4% 0% to 2% rates uncertain but good medium to 2 to 4% 0% long-term growth opportunities Compared with the prior year.
Source: Global Industrial Production Watch, CHR Economics, February 2016 Positive Neutral Negative Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 45 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Steam specialties: Americas Sales increased by 1% at constant currency to 123.4 million, with a modest 2% reduction in sales in North America and a 5%increase in Latin America.
Sheldon Banks Divisional Director, Americas Market overview Revenue Revenue m The healthy pace of industrial production growth in 2014 in North America, slowed m markedly through 2015 reecting the direct 123.4m 2014: 126.2m effects of the steep fall in oil prices, the six- 2015 123.4 month strike in the reneries and four-month -2% at reported exchange rates 2014 126.2 strike in California ports, and the wider indirect effects on industrial confidence 2013 132.0 1% at constant currency in the USA and Canada of the slowdown in global growth.
Economic conditions 2012 137.5 in South America were overall very 2011 134.4 difficult for a second year, with our largest market in Brazil suffering a deepening industrial recession.
Progress in 2015 Sales in the Americas increased by 1% Operating profit at constant currency to 123.4 million, Operating profit m with a modest 2% reduction in sales in North America and a 5% increase in Latin m 27.1m 2014: 28.0m America.
We achieved a good increase in 2015 27.1 our strategic focus sectors, in particular in Food & Beverage, largely offsetting -3% at reported exchange rates 2014 28.0 weakness in our Oil & Petrochemical 2013 26.1 business.
There were significant currency 0% a t constant currency uctuations in the region and an overall 2012 26.2 3% net reduction in sales on translation reecting all currencies weakening 2011 27.4 against sterling except the US dollar, Before corporate expenses.
In particular, the Brazilian real depreciated by nearly 25% Operating margin Group revenue % Our division at a glance 8 operating units 22.0% 2014: 22.2% 10 c ountries with a direct sales -20 bps a t reported presence exchange rates 823 employees average 18% -20 bps a t constant currency Operating companies, branches and Associate.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 46 Annual Report 2015 and although the average exchange rate which we mitigated through increased during the year.
Market development for the Argentinian peso was 7% weaker sales in our target industries and growth in resources were added in Chile and also for the year, the currency devalued by 25% services.
Our new operation in Colombia in Colombia, following the purchase of in December 2015.
At reported exchange commenced trading in October, having the steam specialties business of our rates, sales in the Americas were down 2% acquired the steam specialties business former distributor.
Our business time in training during the year in further in Mexico performed strongly and in developing solution selling and key account In North America, we continue to make Argentina, profits were ahead from higher management, and in the creation of subject good progress with the implementation of sales into the domestic market, where matter experts, as we focus increasingly changes to our business that are aimed at there were a number of good project wins, sectorised sales teams on target markets strengthening our direct sales approach and benefiting from dollar-based pricing.
in Food & Beverage, Buildings, Chemical, in the USA.
Our more proactive sales We completed an extension to our plant and Oil & Petrochemical.
We have benefited resources are increasingly working with in Argentina and we are now well-placed from sharing best practice and workshops customers, on a sector basis, to grow the to capitalise on our greater capacity for covering new products, including total market by unearthing and developing packaged solutions.
Operating profits controls, meters and the boilerhouse.
hitherto unrecognised opportunities to in Latin America were marginally ahead Improvements were made in health and provide solutions for customers steam at constant currency, benefiting from safety processes, with a reduction in lost systems.
We continue to support and the increased sales and close control of time accidents.
Supply chain initiatives were develop our well-established distribution overheads in an inflationary environment.
also progressed, with an improvement in network, which will remain an important stock management.
Sales were 2% lower, Overall in the Americas, operating profit of partly due to reduced metering business 27.1 million was flat at constant currency, Outlook as part of the closure of our small EMCO following the significant 31% profit increase Industrial production growth in North metering manufacturing plant in Colorado in 2014.
Currency movements were overall America continues on a downward trend, and the reorganisation of our energy unfavourable, reducing operating profit as does Latin America where the industrial management and metering activities, by 3% at reported exchange rates versus recession is deepening, especially in where a focused, technically skilled, sales 28.0 million in 2014.
The operating profit Brazil where the economy is suffering the support and development team remains margin was 22.0% 2014: 22.2% reflecting fall-out from a toxic cocktail of political in place.
The lower sales from distributor our strategic investments and inflationary and economic events.
Our focus, and the fide-stocking were mitigated by success with cost pressures in Latin America, mitigated thrust of our strategy, is on outperforming key accounts.
Operating profits in North by cost saving actions in the USA and Brazil our markets.
We are confident that the America were modestly lower at constant in particular.
One-off, mostly non-cash, significant changes being made in the currency, reflecting increased sales closure costs of 3.8 million in respect of the USA and increased effectiveness of our resources, largely offset by the metering metering unit were incurred that have been direct sales approach in all markets, will unitcost savings and favourable mix.
excluded from the adjusted operating profit generate additional sales growth.
2016 will but charged against profit in the statutory In Latin America, our businesses performed benefit by 0.5 million from the non-repeat results for the Americas segment and well, growing sales by 5% in very difficult of EMCO metering losses in 2015 and the Group.
economic conditions, with all our operations also benefit from the many process and increasing sales at constant currency efficiency improvements.
Following the Strategy update except Brazil.
As expected, the second devaluation in December 2015, Argentina Geographic expansion has continued, with half-year deteriorated in Brazil and sales may see a deterioration in short-term market were down mid-single digit for the year, as the creation of a new direct sales operating conditions but could be more positive in the company in Peru that commenced trading major customers froze capital expenditure, medium term.
Industrial production slowed markedly Key market performance Industrial production in North America, difficult economic growth rate 2015 Oil & conditions in South America Food Petrochemical Good increase in sales in strategic focus sectors, particularly Food & Beverage Weakness in Oil & Petrochemical market Pharmaceutical Increasingly sectorised sales teams Buildings HVAC & Biopharm focusing on target markets of Food & Beverage, Buildings, Chemical, and Oil& Petrochemical 4% 0% to 2% 2 to 4% 0% Compared with the prior year.
Source: Global Industrial Production Watch, CHR Economics, February 2016 Positive Neutral Negative Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 47 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
