Strategic Report Watson-Marlow Sales increased by nearly 13% at constant currency to 152.6 million.
Organic sales increased by 9% and acquisitions contributed a further 4%.
Jay Whalen Executive Director, Watson-Marlow Market overview Revenue Revenue m General economic conditions and industrial production growth in the various regions of m the world were the same as for the steam 152.6m 2014: 138.2m specialties business.
Our Watson-Marlow 2015 152.6 niche peristaltic pumps and associated uid 10% a t reported exchange rates 2014 138.2 path technologies business serves a diverse range of sectors, the largest of which is 2013 130.3 13% at constant currency Biopharmaceutical that now accounts for almost 45% of sales.
Biopharmaceutical has 2012 124.5 remained a good market, with continued 2011 118.4 investment by customers and new sales synergy opportunities as we have integrated the BioPure, Asepco and Flow Smart acquisitions.
Food & Beverage markets have been positive and OEM activity has been strong, with a good number of Operating profit projects won.
General industrial markets Operating profit m were modestly lower, reecting the slowing industrial production growth in most parts m 48.0m 2014: 43.5m of the world.
Water & Wastewater markets 2015 48.0 were more difficult following the particularly strong growth in the prior year.
Finally, 10% a t reported exchange rates 2014 43.5 Mining & Precious Metal Processing was 2013 39.5 also more difficult against a background of 10% a t constant currency uncertainty in the industry.
Overall project 2012 36.8 work increased, largely through smaller 2011 34.4 and mid-sized projects, with a reduction in large project sales, particularly in Water & Based on adjusted operating profit.
Operating margin Group revenue % Our division at a glance 31 operating units 31.4% 2014: 31.5% 29 countries with a direct sales 23% -10 bps a t reported presence exchange rates 803 employees average -80 bps at constant currency Operating companies, branches and Associate.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 48 Annual Report 2015 the USA achieved steady growth across all to direct sales across five product lines in Progress in 2015 core sectors, with the exception of general six countries, increasing focus and growing Sales increased by nearly 13% at constant industrial where large projects in 2014 were our addressable market.
Additional sales currency to 152.6 million.
In Latin America, sales were engineers were added to support growth increased by 9% and the acquisition of well ahead at constant currency due to and to develop emerging markets in Asepco in April 2015, the Japanese PRIMIX Mexico and Argentina: in Brazil, a decline Asia and Latin America in particular.
business in July 2015 and Flow Smart in in Mining and Water & Wastewater markets New sales operations were established November 2015 contributed a further 4% was compensated by growth in Food & in Chile and Taiwan, and we completed to sales.
Net currency movements were Beverage.
Organic sales in Asia Pacific were preparations for further expansion in unfavourable, reducing sales by 2% on modestly ahead due to Korea, Malaysia and 2016 in a number of other locations.
translation, with most currencies weakening Singapore, and broadly flat in China due to We continue to drive a market sectorised against sterling, mitigated by gains from the fewer projects in Biopharmaceutical and approach to leverage skilled sales resources stronger dollar.
Sales at reported exchange Food & Beverage.
rates were over 10% ahead of the prior year Product development remains a key driver sales of 138.2 million.
Growth was achieved Watson-Marlows operating profit of of sales growth, as we apply carefully 48.0 million 2014: 43.5 million, increased across virtually the entire product range, targeted and innovative products to grow supported by new product introductions by 10% at both constant currency and at the addressable market of our niche pumps reported exchange rates, with exchange over recent years.
Strongest growth was and associated fluid path technologies in BioPure in its second full year in the losses on translation being broadly and expand our market share.
We very matched by exchange transaction gains Group, with expanded plant investment in successfully extended the implementation Portsmouth installed and commissioned on the transfer of product manufactured of a global ERP solution and around 70% predominantly in Europe to the USA and at the end of the year to increase capacity, of our business is now being transacted followed by strong Alitea growth in the OEM elsewhere.
The operating profit margin through the new system.
Significant effort edged 10 bps lower to 31.4% 2014: 31.5%, sector and MasoSine in Food & Beverage.
has been invested in people development Tubing sales expanded double-digit.
as we continue our strategy of investing and in improving health and safety processes.
in product development and market Asepco made a good first-time contribution, exceeding expectations, and the integration expansion for future growth.
In addition, the Outlook dilutionary effect of acquisitions completed into the Group has progressed exceptionally Our markets reflect general levels of well.
The MasoSine manufacturing and in 2015, as well as the expected non-repeat industrial production growth and the level of the unusually favourable product mix distribution business in Japan, acquired in of investment in our core focus sectors, July 2015, performed well and forms the that we saw in 2014, also contributed to the in particular Biopharmaceutical, Food & 80bps margin decline at constant currency.
platform for future growth in what is an Beverage and OEM that are expected under-developed market for us.
It is early to be more resilient: Mining & Precious Strategy update days for Flow Smart, acquired in November, Metal Processing is expected to remain Our strategy has been consistently executed but early indications are very encouraging.
difficult with low levels of project activity.
through the year, with progress across the Sales growth was achieved in all geographic We continue to generate our own range of strategic initiatives.
Strongest growth was in EMEA opportunities for growth by the expansion of thrust of our actions is aimed at market with widespread improvements from our our addressable markets through product development and product development, focused direct sales approach across our development, taking market share from supported by our Global Excellence key industry sectors.
Sales were well ahead other pump types, and market development, in Manufacturing GEM programme in both developed markets, especially in on a sector basis in both developed markets that is effective in delivering continuous Austria, Italy, the Netherlands and Sweden, and in new markets, as we aggressively improvement and cost reduction.
and in emerging markets, including Russia.
Further small distributors were converted In the Americas, our largest operation in Progressively slowing industrial Key market performance Industrial production production, with a global rate growth rate 2015 Pharmaceutical Water & around zero and a decline in non- & Biopharm Wastewater OECD markets Good growth in Biopharmaceutical market, strengthened by acquisitions Food & Beverage sales positive and strong OEM sales Mining & Precious Mining & Precious Metal Processing Food Metal Processing weaker, amidst sector uncertainty 4% 0% to 2% 2 to 4% 0% Compared with the prior year.
Source: Global Industrial Production Watch, CHR Economics, February 2016 Positive Neutral Negative Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 49 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
