OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Directors Report is formed of the Corporate Results and dividends Governance Report, the Directors Remuneration The results for the year are set out on pages 102 to 167.
Adjusted operating profit for the year Report and Other Statutory Information which amounts to 181.1 million 2014: 198.1 million.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts Dividends paid and proposed are as follows: are cross-referenced where appropriate.
Taken 2015 2014 together, they fulfil the combined requirements Dividends Pence per share Pence per share of company law, the Disclosure and Interim paid 17.3 16.0 Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules LR.
Final proposed 32.2 30.5 Strategic Report Total dividend 49.5 46.5 The Board has taken advantage of Section 413C of the Companies Act 2006 to include in the The final dividend will be paid on 24 June 2016 to shareholders on the register on 27 May 2016.
Strategic Report disclosures on the following items which it considers to be of strategic Power of Directors importance to the Company: The Companys Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the the Groups business model on pages Articles, and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the AGM.
18to21: likely future developments of the business Articles onpage 23: The Companys Articles give power to the Board to appoint Directors, but require Directors to submit the Groups principal risks and risk themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment, and for annual re-election management policies on pages 24 to 30: atsubsequent AGMs.
The Articles can be amended by means of a special resolution of the the Directors viability statement on page 31: shareholders.
Spectris Articlesare available on the Companys website www.
greenhouse gas emissions, methodologies used for reporting and intensity ratios on Branches pages 44 and 45: The Company, through its subsidiaries, has a number of branches in the countries in which the Groups employment policies, including itoperates.
approach to diversity, the employment of disabled people and employee involvement AGM on pages 45 and 46: and The AGM will be held at Great Fosters, Stroude Road, Egham, Surrey, TW20 9UR on Friday, the Groups R&D activities on pages 19 20May2016 at 12.30 p. m. The Notice of AGM is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman and20.
The results of the 2015 AGM can be found on page 76.
There was no significant vote against anyofthe resolutions.
The results of the 2016 AGM will be published on the Companys website shortly after the meeting www.
Directors remuneration and interests Details of Directors remuneration and their interest in the Companys shares can be found intheDirectors Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 93.
94 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Share capital Authority to allot shares The share capital of the Company comprises Included in the special business of the 2016 AGM are proposals to renew the Directors authority to ordinary shares of 5 pence each: each share allot shares up to prescribed limits.
carries the rightto one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The authorised and issued share Major shareholders capital of the Company, together with movements The Company has been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency in the Companys issued share capital during the Rules, of the following shareholdings.
All significant holdings are held by institutional investors: year, is shown in Note 42 to the Financial Percentage of issued Percentage of issued Statements on page 162.
The Articles, available Shareholding in share capital as at share capital as at the on the Companys website, contain provisions Spectris shares 31December 2015 date of this report governing the ownership and transfer of shares.
Standard Life Investments Limited 5,920,593 4.97% 4.97% Royal London Asset Management 3,603,345 3.03% 3.03% Authority to purchase own shares Massachusetts Financial Services At the 2015 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company 12,039,317 10.11% 10.11% Directors to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 11,899,000 shares, representing No changes have been disclosed in accordance with these rules in the period 31 December 2015 approximately 10% of the issued share capital of tothe date of this report.
the Company excluding treasury shares and to either cancel the shares or hold them as treasury Change of control shares which may then be cancelled, sold for There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of cash or transferred for the purposes of the the Group following a takeover, such as bank loan agreements and Company share plans.
None of Companys share plans, depending on the best these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group interests of the Companys shareholders at the asa whole.
It is also possible that funding arrangements for the Groups defined benefit pension time.
This authority remains valid until the date arrangements would need to be enhanced following a change of control if that resulted in a of the next AGM.
No such purchases were weakening of the employer covenant.
At the close of business on 15 February 2016, the Company had The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or employee that would provide 125,005,123 ordinary shares in issue, of which forcompensation for loss of office or employment following a takeover bid.
During the year 155,927 shares were transferred out of treasury Events after the balance sheet date to meet the Companys obligations under its Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in Note 32 to the Financial Statements.
share plans, with no shares being cancelled out of treasury.
An authority to make further market Political donations purchases of the Companys ordinary shares, The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and none were made during the financial ifbelieved appropriate, will be sought at the year 2014: nil.
forthcoming AGM, although the Board has nopresent intention of so doing.
com OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, the information required to be disclosed can be found in the following locations: Section Required information Location in Annual Report Page 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report 87 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Directors Remuneration Report 86 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7, in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Use of financial instruments Statement of Directors responsibilities Company and of their profit or loss for that Information on the Groups financial risk in respect of the Annual Report and the period.
In preparing each of the Group and management objectives and policies, its Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements, the exposure to foreign currency risk, interest The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors are required to: raterisk, liquidity risk, credit risk and capital Annual Report and the Group and Parent management is contained in Note 26 to Company Financial Statements in accordance select suitable accounting policies and theFinancial Statements on pages 148 to 151. with applicable law and regulations.
thenapply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that Auditor Company law requires the Directors to prepare arereasonable and prudent: Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG as Group and Parent Company Financial for the Group Financial Statements, auditor and to authorise the Directors to agree Statements for each financial year.
Under that statewhether they have been prepared in its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: International Financial Reporting Standards for the Parent Company Financial Statements, Going concern IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law state whether applicable UK Accounting Having reviewed the Groups plans and available and have elected to prepare the Parent Company Standards have been followed, subject to any financial facilities, the Board has a reasonable Financial Statements in accordance with UK material departures disclosed and explained in expectation that the Group has adequate Accounting Standards, including FRS101 the Parent Company Financial Statements: and resources to continue in operational existence Reduced Disclosure Framework.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going for at least 12 months following the signing of concern basis unless it is inappropriate to the accounts.
For this reason it continues to Under company law the Directors must not presume that the Group and Parent Company adopt the going concern basis in preparing the approve the Financial Statements unless they are will continue in business.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 96 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 The Directors are responsible for keeping Responsibility statement of adequate accounting records that are sufficient theDirectors in respect of the to show and explain the Parent Companys AnnualReport and Accounts transactions and disclose with reasonable We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: accuracy at any time the financial position of theParent Company and enable them to ensure the Financial Statements, prepared in that its Financial Statements comply with the accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Companies Act 2006.
They have general of the assets, liabilities, financial position and responsibility for taking such steps as are profit or loss of the Company and the reasonably open to them to safeguard the undertakings included in the consolidation assetsof the Group and to prevent and taken as a whole: and detectfraud and other irregularities.
the Strategic Report includes a fair review ofthe development and performance of the Under applicable law and regulations, the business and the position of the issuer and the Directors are also responsible for preparing a undertakings included in the consolidation, Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors taken as a whole, together with a description Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance of the principal risks and uncertainties that Statement that comply with that law and they face.
We consider that the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for the Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and maintenance and integrity of the corporate and understandable, and provides the information financial information included on the Companys necessary for shareholders to assess the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Groupsposition and performance, business preparation and dissemination of financial model and strategy.
statements may differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
By order of the Board Directors statement on disclosure Roger Stephens to the auditor Secretary The Directors who held office at the date of 16 February 2016 approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information, which would be needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing its audit report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
