Strategic Report Our products and markets: in more detail We continue to grow our market share by focusing on our strategy for growth.
Our market share at a glance Fluid Technology Group 5.0bn 14% 13% 19% Estimated size Our estimated global of our total share of our total addressable market addressable market 4.1bn 0.9bn Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
Steam specialties market Niche pumps market Spirax Sarco market share Watson-Marlow market share Understanding our marketplace Our global addressable market comprises four key areas Condensate Controls and we provide products and services in each.
management Market size: Market size: 1.2 billion 1.1 billion Our typical products: Our typical products: 18% 24% S team traps A utomatic control Niche pumps Condensate valves C ondensate return management pumps Pressure regulators Isolation valves Temperature controls Our market share Our market share 5.0bn 24% 12% Total market size 35% Energy Niche pumps 23% Energy and associated equipment management Controls management Market size: Market size: 1.8 billion 0.9 billion Our typical products: Our typical products: Metering products P ositive displacement Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
pumps Boiler house products Tubing Heat transfer packages The revised market size reects underlying changes in market segment sizes, changes in the scope of the addressable market Filling machines Energy services as a result of acquisitions, divestments and product development, Our market share Our market share and the impact of exchange movements.
Market share includes annualised revenue from acquisitions made during 2015 and excludes revenue from businesses that were sold during 2015.
6% 19% Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 20 Annual Report 2015 Operating across a wide and balanced range of industries Food Beverage Pharmaceutical & OEM Machinery Biopharmaceutical Clean steam reduces the Original Equipment Steam is widely used in Steam is essential for brewing risk of product and process Manufacturers OEMs are the processing of foods for and distilling processes.
contamination, and our companies that build and blanching, cooking, baking, It is used to protect product peristaltic pumps, valves supply machines for use in packaging, cleaning and quality and avour, and ensure and single-use components industry.
Our pumps and compliance with industry enable precise ow OEMs vary from simple associated equipment are standards.
Pumps are control and uid isolation product supply to advising used to meter ingredients, used to transfer fruit, juice, in the Pharmaceutical and on machine performance deliver food to process lines concentrates, yeast and Biopharmaceutical industries.
improvements and process and treat process waste.
Oil & Petrochemical Healthcare Chemical Buildings HVAC Our steam system products Steam is used in hospitals Steam is widely used as an Our steam products are used and services enable optimum and clinics for space heating, energy source in chemical to provide space heating, performance in steam and hot water production, production and product humidication and hot water condensate systems, and humidication and sterilisation.
processing, while our pumps to create comfortable working reduce energy use during oil Pumps and associated are used to safely and conditions for employees and petrochemical production.
equipment are used in the accurately transfer and dose and visitors in public and manufacture of products for critical chemical components.
Mining & Precious Water & Wastewater Pulp & Paper Power Generation Metal Processing Peristaltic pumps reduce Peristaltic pumps areusedto Our steam and pump Superheated steam is an water, energy and chemical accurately dosechemicals products facilitate the accurate ideal uid to transfer chemical use and increase reliability and during water treatment control of critical processes, energy in fuel into electrical productivity while moving and processes and efficiently such as washing, bleaching, energy through steam processing highly abrasive transfer viscous and dyeing, drying and nishing, in turbines.
Steam is also used ores and slurries.
the manufacture of paper and to distribute and re-use waste a wide range of domestic and heat formed during the power industrial tissues.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 21 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
