EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS Read the biographies for John OHiggins, ChiefExecutive, Clive Watson, GroupFinance Director and Roger Stephens, Head of Commercial andCompany Secretary, who are members of the Executive Committee Pages 56 and 57 Jo Hallas Ken Smith Business Group Director President, Asia Pacific for the In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls Appointed July 2012 segments Committees Executive Appointed May 2014 Skills and experience Ken Smith has over 30 years Committees Executive engineering and industrial business experience, 23 Skills and experience Jo Hallas has extensive management ofwhich have been spent in Asia.
Having started expertise in a range of engineering and industrial hiscareer in Switzerland, with various management businesses, having previously been general manager positions in R&D andproduct portfolio management, residential controls at Invensys plc.
Prior to this, she was he moved to Asia where he had a number of at the Bosch Group where she held management operational roles, including president of Schindler positions in both the UK and Germany.
She started her Japanand president Asia and global materials career at Procter & Gamble where she served in a number divisionfor Deloro Stellite.
of management roles in Germany, the USA and Asia.
Other current appointments Non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee of Norcros plc.
Read the overview from the BusinessGroup Director Page 38 Eoghan OLionaird Robin Stopford Business Group Director Group Head of Corporate Development for the Materials Analysis and Test and Appointed November 2013 Measurementsegments Committees Executive Appointed February 2014 Skills and experience Robin Stopford has extensive Committees Executive experience in leading corporate growth, from the Skills and experience Eoghan OLionaird has widedevelopment of the strategy through to its ranging engineering and commercial expertise, having implementation, within diverse industrial groups such previously been president of the Leica Microsystems as Doncasters and Low & Bonar PLC.
Robin also spent division of Danaher Corporation in Germany.
Prior to this, several years at Bain & Company, the leading strategy he spent 11 years in Philips in a number of management consultants.
Robin began his career at Rolls-Royce plc roles, latterly as CEO of the respironics sleep business where he served in a variety of engineering and unit based in the USA.
He started his career with Mitsui management roles.
Mining & Smelting where he held a number of Other current appointments None.
Read the overview from the BusinessGroup Director Page 34 58 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
