Directors Report Chairmans introduction to SSE corporate governance Board evaluation A strong corporate Evaluation is a critical element in confirming that we have an effective and responsible Board, capable of making the right decisions, to ensure governance culture is SSE is well positioned to continue to deliver for the benefit of our shareholders.
An internal Board evaluation was carried out in 2014 15. fundamental to SSEs Measuring against the objectives set last year, I am pleased with the progress made by the Board and have identified further areas for success allowing it improvement which will form part of the Board agendas going forward.
The evaluation confirmed that the Board and its Directors to be a values-based, operate effectively and support our overall strategic direction, values and governance.
In line with best practice an external evaluation responsible, transparent will be carried out during 2015 16.
Board changes and succession planning and sustainable company.
As I detailed in last years report, we welcomed Peter Lynas to the Board as a non-Executive Director on 1 July 2014.
At the conclusion of the AGM on 17 July 2014 both Lady Rice and Thomas Thune Andersen stepped down from the Board.
Introduction The UK Corporate Governance Code Details of the changes to the composition of We believe that creating a strong corporate SSE is fully supportive of the comply or explain Board Committees made during the year, governance culture is fundamental to SSEs model outlined in the Code, which is issued by along with plans for ongoing refreshment success, allowing it to be a values-based, the Financial Reporting Council and is available are explained in the respective reports.
responsible, transparent and sustainable in full on their website at www.
The Governance Report and Board The Boards ongoing succession plan, including Committee Reports which follow, provide The Code provides organisations with flexibility Richard Gillingwaters appointment to Deputy explanations of how we have applied the main and the opportunity to adopt governance Chairman on 1 January 2015 and then Chairman principles of The UK Corporate Governance practices that are appropriate in supporting on 23 July 2015, subject to being re-elected as a Code 2012 the Code and details can be the effective operation of the business.
For the director by shareholders, and the plans underway found on the following pages with respect to: reporting year 2014 15 I am pleased to confirm to appoint a new non-Executive Director who Leadership page 73 : Effectiveness page 78 compliance with the Code, with the exception will also assume the role of Senior Independent and Nomination Committee pages 82 and 83 : of provision C3.7, whereby the external audit Director, can be found in the report of the Accountability page 79 and Audit Committee contract should be put out to tender at least Nomination Committee on pages 82 and 83. pages 84 to 87 : Remuneration pages 90 to every 10 years.
A detailed explanation of the 108 : and Relations with Shareholders page81.
non-compliance, along with the anticipated Stepping down timeline for the tender of the external audit I joined the Board in 2003 and have served contract can be found in the Audit Committee as Chairman since 2005.
In November 2014 Report on pages 84 to 87.
I announced my intention to stand down and the Board have overseen a rigorous process in The Code was subject to revision in September the appointment of my successor.
Im delighted 2014, making changes to the areas of Directors that Richard Gillingwater will assume the role remuneration, risk management and internal upon my departure at the completion of the control including the requirement for a viability AGM on 23 July 2015.
This is earlier than statement, and engagement with shareholders planned following my appointment as Chairman upon a significant vote against any resolution.
to another UK listed company.
Richard was The 2014 version of the Code applies to SSE from made Deputy Chairman in January of this year 1 April 2015, and the Board considered the new and will continue to act as Senior Independent requirements at its meeting in January this year.
Director to the Board until taking on the Chairmanship.
Having worked alongside Richard Risk since he joined the Board in 2007, I believe We have carried out substantial work during the wealth of experience and knowledge he 2014 15 to improve both the approach to risk will bring to the role to be invaluable and I wish management and the system of internal control.
This has included further development of the processes applied in the identification of SSEs principal risks.
A full description is detailed in Lord Smith of Kelvin the Strategic Report on pages 12, 13 and 66.
Chairman 72 SSE plc Annual Report 2015
