Other Statutory Information Disclosures in Strategic Report Substantial shareholdings The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 71.
As at 19 May 2015 the Company has been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency The Board has taken advantage of Section Rules of the interests in its shares as shown in the table below: 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 to include disclosures in the Strategic Report on: Entity Number of shares Percentage Nature of holding - Employment of disabled people on page 64.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 129,815,241 13.07% Indirect - Employee involvement on pages 62 to 64.
- A summary of the principal risks facing the Invesco Limited 45,775,918 4.69% Indirect Company on pages 66 to 71.
Norges Bank 39,657,849 3.99% Direct - An indication of likely future development in the business of the Company see pages 1 to 71.
At date of disclosure by relevant entity.
- Greenhouse gas emissions on pages 59 to 61.
- Information on the Companys Research and Share capital Development activities during the period on There are no restrictions on the transfer of page 61.
Details of the Companys issued share capital Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company as at 31 March 2015, which includes options other than certain restrictions which may from Results and dividends granted under the Groups employee share time-to-time be imposed by law for example, The Group profit attributable to Ordinary option schemes, are set out in Notes 27 and insider trading law.
In accordance with the Shareholders for the financial year amounted 31 to the Financial Statements.
Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, to 543.1m.
The Directors recommend a final certain employees are required to seek the dividend of 61.8p per Ordinary Share which, Authority to purchase shares approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
subject to approval at the 2015 AGM, will be The Company was authorised at the 2014 AGM payable on 18 September 2015 to shareholders to purchase its own shares within certain limits.
Employees who participate in the Share Incentive on the Register of Members at close of business During 2014 15, SSE did not purchase any shares Plan whose shares remain in the schemes trusts on 24 July 2015.
With the interim dividend under this authority.
The Directors will, however, give directions to the trustees to vote on their of 26.6p per Ordinary Share paid on 20 March seek renewal of their authority to purchase in behalf by way of a Form of Direction.
2015, this makes a total dividend of 88.4p per the market the Companys own shares at the Ordinary Share.
2015 AGM and this remains a benchmark against The Company is not aware of any agreements which financial decisions are taken.
between shareholders that may result in Dividend ratification restrictions on the transfer of securities and The Board has recently become aware of a Accounting policies, financial or voting rights.
The rules governing the technical issue with regard to the Companys instruments and risk appointment and replacement of Directors are procedure for the payment of the final dividend Details of the Groups accounting policies, set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
to shareholders in September 2014 and the together with details of financial instruments The Companys Articles of Association may only interim dividend to shareholders in March 2015 and risk, are provided in Note 32 and be amended by a special resolution at a general together, the Dividends.
Basis of meeting of shareholders.
consolidation and significant accounting When the Company paid each of the Dividends, policies to the Financial Statements.
The Company is not aware of any significant although it had sufficient distributable reserves agreements to which it is party that take effect, to make each payment at each payment date, Indemnification of Directors alter or terminate upon a change of control of interim accounts showing the requisite level of and insurance the Company following a takeover.
distributable profits had not been filed with the The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity Registrar of Companies and as a result, each provision contained in the Companys Articles Each of the Directors who held office at the date Dividend was paid in technical infringement of Association.
They also have been granted a of approval of this Directors Report confirms of CA 2006. qualifying third party indemnity provision which that, so far as each Director is aware, there is was in force throughout the financial year and no relevant audit information of which the It is clearly not the intention of the Company remains in force.
The Company also purchased Companys Auditors are unaware and each that any such claims should be made by the and maintained throughout the financial year Director has taken all the steps that ought to Company against either its shareholders or its Directors and Officers liability insurance in have been taken in his or her duty as a Director directors.
The position can be remedied by the respect of itself and for its Directors and Officers.
to make himself or herself aware of any relevant shareholders passing a resolution which puts audit information and to establish that the shareholders and directors into the position in Requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Companys Auditors are aware of that which they were always intended to be.
The table on page 110 contains cross references information.
Resolution 18, full details can be found in the to the information required by Listing Rule Notice of Annual General Meeting 2015 which 9.8.
4R for the reporting period, where applicable The Directors Report set out on pages 72 is proposed as a special resolution, will ratify the to the Company.
to 111 has been approved by the Board of appropriation of profits to the payment of each Directors in accordance with the Companies Dividend, waive any rights of the Company Additional information Act 2006. against both past and present shareholders of Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors the Company who received the Dividends, Report, the following provides the information waive any rights of the Company against past required to be disclosed by Section 992 of the and present directors of the Company in respect Companies Act 2006. of each Dividend, and approve the Company entering into deeds of release in favour of such Each Ordinary Share of the Company carries shareholders and directors.
one vote at general meetings of the Company.
109 Directors Report Other Statutory Information continued Requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Relevant to Annual Report section No.
4R the Company X and page reference 1 Capitalised interest Statement of amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the financial year 138-139 2 Long-term incentive schemes Details of any long-term incentive schemes.
90-105 By order of the Board Sally Fairbairn Company Secretary 19 May 2015 110 SSE plc Annual Report 2015
