Strategic Report Our value chain explained How we work for customers, communities and investors Earning a profit and using it in a responsible way Wholesale Networks Retail Producing energy Delivering energy Supplying energy SSEs generation assets produced over 27TWh of SSE delivers electricity to 3.7 million homes SSE supplies electricity and gas to around 8.5 electricity in 2014 15 and its share of the output offices and businesses through the 130,000km million customers throughout the UK and Ireland.
from the gas fields in which it has an ownership of overhead lines and underground cables it It also provides energy efficiency advice and energy interest was almost 400m therms.
related services to households in these markets and, through its Enterprise business, similar key SSEs Wholesale business works to earn the SSEs Networks business works to earn the services for industrial, commercial and public majority of its profit by selling the electricity and majority of its profit by charging electricity sector customers.
gas it produces in competitive and transparent generators and energy suppliers for the use of wholesale energy markets.
The price it is allowed to charge SSEs Retail business works to earn the majority is fixed by the energy regulator Ofgem.
of its profit through the competitive market price it charges its customers for the energy and services they use.
How SSE shares the value it creates earns from producing, delivering and supplying 3.
Creating sustainable jobs SSEs SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people energy also enables it to do five key things.
commitment to investing in its human need in a reliable and sustainable way.
In fulfilling capital is demonstrated by its commitment this core purpose, SSE aims to offer value to 1.
Investing in a sustainable energy system to paying the Living Wage and creating one its customers, create value for investors and SSE plans to invest 1.75bn in 2015 16 to of the strongest apprenticeship programmes employees, and contribute value to society.
An play its part in modernising, upgrading and in the UK.
independent study, published in May 2015, found maintaining the energy systems in the UK 4.
Paying its fair share of tax In 2014 15 that SSEs activities had contributed over 27bn and Ireland.
SSE paid over 506m in tax to government in to the UK economy in the last three years and 2.
Delivering better and more reliable services the UK and SSE is the first FTSE 100 company supported on average over 110,000 jobs each year.
for customers Investment in smart meters to be accredited with the Fair Tax Mark in and digital technology will enable SSE to recognition of its responsible approach to SSE is able to sustain this level of contribution maintain its record for good customer service paying Corporation tax.
In 2014 15, SSE delivered in its Retail business and investment in new 5.
Rewarding and attracting investors adjusted profit before tax of 1,564.7m full technology and management systems are SSE aims to deliver to shareholders annual details are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Beyond the delivering improved customer service and dividend increases that at least keep pace economic contribution SSE makes, the profit SSE reliability across its Networks business.
with inflation to give them a return on the investment they make.
Around 1.5bn invested each year to modernise the energy systems in the UK and Ireland.
Playing our part in ensuring we are able Rewarding Delivering to provide the energy Creating Paying our and better and sustainable fair share people need in the attracting more reliable jobs of tax future investors services Investment Dividends Tax Our profits 09
