26 Corporate governance Board of Directors Vagn Srensen Kate Swann Jonathan Davies Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Vagn joined the SSP Board as Kate joined SSP as Chief Jonathan has been the Chief Chairman in June 2006.
Executive Officer in September Financial Officer of SSP since its 2013. formation within Compass Group Board Committees: in 2004.
Member: Nomination Committee Board Committees: None Board Committees: None Previous experience: Previous experience: Vagn was the President and Chief Kate began her retail career with Previous experience: Executive Officer of Austrian Tesco plc before working with Jonathan began his career in Airlines Group from 2001 to some of the UKs best-known the food industry with Unilever 2006 and held various senior companies, including Homepride plc, before joining OC&C, commercial positions and served Foods, Coca-Cola Schweppes the strategic management as Deputy Chief Executive and Dixons Retail plc.
Over the Officer with SAS Scandinavian joined Homebase part of the following eight years he was Airlines System.
He has served as Home Retail Group, ultimately part of its rapid growth and the Chairman of the Association in the role of Managing Director, development from a start-up to of European Airlines and as and in 2000 was made Managing becoming a leading international a member of the Board of Director of Argos.
In 1995 Jonathan Governors of the International WH Smith plc as Chief Executive joined Safeway plc, where he Air Transport Association.
In 2012 she was responsible for strategy received both The Daily Telegraph and planning, before becoming Current external appointments: award for Business Leader of the Finance Director on the Executive Vagn is a Senior Industrial and Decade at the National Business Board between 1999 and 2004.
Investment Advisor to EQT Awards and the Institute for Partners.
He is Chairman of Turnaround Chairmans Special He has a degree in Chemistry Scandic Hotels AB, Automic Award for exceptional and from Oxford University and an Software GmbH and a board extraordinary performance in the MBA from INSEAD Business member of Air Canada, Royal transformation of WH Smith.
Caribbean Cruises Limited, Lufthansa Cargo AG, Braganza Current external appointments: AS, F L Smidth & Co A S, Nordic Kate has been a Non-Executive Aviation Capital A S, TDC A S, Director at Babcock International TIA Technology A S, DFDS Group plc since 2011.
In addition, Vagn is a consultant Kate graduated from the Senior Advisor to Morgan University of Bradford in 1986 with Stanley in the Nordic region.
a BSc in Business Management and received an honorary He has a M. Sc.
in Economics doctorate from the university in and Business Administration 2007 where she is now Chancellor.
from Aarhus Business School in She is also a member of the Denmark.
advisory Board to the Selfridges Group.
SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance 27 John Barton Ian Dyson Per Utnegaard Denis Hennequin Senior Independent NonIndependent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Executive Director Director Director Director John joined SSP as an Ian joined SSP as an independent Per joined the SSP Board as an Denis joined the SSP Board as independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director in April independent Non-Executive an independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
Board Committees: Board Committees: Board Committees: Board Committees: Chairman: Nomination Chairman: Audit Committee Member: Remuneration Member: Nomination Committee, Committee, Remuneration Member: Nomination Committee, Committee, Audit Committee Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Member: Audit Committee Previous experience: Previous experience: Pers previous roles include Previous experience: Previous experience: He was formerly Chief Executive Group Wholesale Director and a Denis began his career at John has served as Chairman Officer of Punch Taverns plc, member of the Group Board at The McDonalds Corporation, of Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group Finance & Operations Alliance UniChem plc, Senior Vice becoming President of plc, Brit Insurance Holdings plc Director at Marks & Spencer President, Corporate Business McDonalds Europe in 2005 and Wellington Underwriting Group plc and Finance Director Development at Danzas Holding where he was responsible plc.
He was previously Senior of The Rank Group plc.
Prior Ltd. a subsidiary of Deutsche for 6,600 restaurants in 40 Independent Director of WH to this he was Group Financial Post AG and various senior countries.
He was Chairman and Smith plc and Hammerson plc.
Controller of Hilton Group plc.
He positions at TNT Post Group.
Chief Executive Officer of Accor He was also the Chief Executive joined Hilton from Le Meridien, a Between 2004 and 2013 he was S. A. the worldwide hotel group, of insurance broker JIB Group division of Forte Group plc, where also a Non-Executive Director at until 2013. plc from 1984 to 1997.
After JIBs he had been Finance Director.
merger with Lloyd Thomson in was a Non-Executive Director of Current external appointments: 1997, he became Chairman of the Misys plc until September 2005.
Current external appointments: Denis is currently a Noncombined group, Jardine Lloyd Per has been a member of the Executive Director of Eurostar Thompson Group plc, until 2001.
His early career was spent Board of Swissport International International Limited and the with Arthur Andersen, where Ltd since 2007.
He has been its John Lewis Partnership.
His Current external appointments: he qualified as a chartered Vice Chairman since August 2015 other directorships include EIL John was appointed to the Board accountant in 1986 and was and was previously its Group Hospitality Ltd, The Green Jersey of easyJet as Chairman in May promoted to a Partner of the firm President and CEO.
2013 and is also Chairman of in 1994.
He is also a director of Per has been Non-Executive Matheson & Co. Limited.
Current external appointments: Director of Palletways Group Ltd Ian is Senior Independent since 2008 and a Board Member John is a qualified chartered Director of Betfair Group plc and of Envirotainer AB since 2010. accountant and received an MBA ASOS plc and Non-Executive Per has been Chairman of the from Strathclyde University.
Director of Intercontinental Executive Board of Bilfinger SE Hotels Group plc and Punch since June 2015.
