Strategic Report Strategy Focused on creating long-term value Core purpose SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy Core purpose people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
To provide the energy people need Consistent strategy in a reliable and sustainable way SSEs strategy for achieving its financial objective is to deliver the efficient operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of  and market-based businesses in energy production, storage, Consistent strategy transmission, distribution, supply and related services in the UK and Ireland.
Financial objective SSEs success in fulfilling its core purpose Efficient Disciplined Balanced Geographic enables it to achieve its first financial objective, operations investment business focus which is to remunerate shareholders investment in the company through the payments of dividends that increase each year by at least RPI inflation.
X For more information see pages 16 to 22.
Long-term values Financial objective SSE believes that companies dont just have to fulfil their core purpose, achieve their financial Annual dividend growth objective and execute their strategy: they have to do so in a responsible way.
For this reason, SSE adopted in 2006 the SSE SET of core values: - Safety we believe all accidents are preventable, so we do everything safely and responsibly or not at all: Long-term values - Service we give our customers service we are proud of and make commitments that we deliver: - Efficiency we keep things simple, do the work that adds value and avoid wasting money, materials, energy or time: - Sustainability our decisions and actions are ethical, responsible and balanced, helping to achieve environmental, social and economic Safety Service Efficiency well-being for current and future generations: - Excellence we strive to get better, smarter and more innovative and be the best in everything we do: and - Teamwork we support and value our colleagues and enjoy working together as a team in an open and honest way.
Sustainability Excellence Teamwork 06 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 2015 0.12 2014 0.12 2013 0.14 1.
2014 15 Strategic priorities Efficient Disciplined Balanced Geographic operations investment business focus At the heart of SSEs business Central to SSEs strategy is SSE has reportable segments SSEs strategy is to operate and are core operations: in 2014 15 efficient investment in a covering Wholesale, Networks invest in a balanced range of it produced enough electricity balanced range of energy and Retail including Enterprise energy-related businesses in to power 8.6 million homes: businesses.
The balance between the UK and Ireland.
Across these delivered electricity to 3.7 million investments should be: these activities means that: countries there are two principal homes, offices and businesses: - in line with SSEs commitment - while energy is at their core, energy markets: Great Britain supplied electricity and gas to to strong financial SSE has a diverse range of and Ireland with, for example, 8.58 million customer accounts management: businesses: a common electricity wholesale and, through its Enterprise - complementary to SSEs - within those businesses, SSE has market across Ireland and business, provided energyexisting portfolio of assets a diverse range of assets: and Northern Ireland.
related services to around and consistent with the - to add to those assets, SSE has 250,000 customers.
maintenance of a balanced a diverse range of investment Total interconnection of the two range of assets within options.
markets consists of: This operational focus means SSEs businesses: - Moyle electricity SSE has to: - consistent with developments This means SSE has a broad interconnector: - focus first and foremost in public policy and platform from which to deliver - East-West electricity on safety of people and regulation: and the levels of profitability and long interconnector: maintaining the integrity - governed, develop and term value required to support - Scotland-Northern Ireland of plant and equipment: executed in an efficient annual dividend growth.
gas pipeline: and - secure efficient use of money, and effective manner.
Moreover, the risks to the - Scotland-Republic of Ireland materials and energy in its achievement of that growth are gas pipeline.
Wholesale businesses: and In the five years to 31 March contained by that balance and by - put customers at the heart 2015, SSEs investment and the diversity of SSEs businesses, Operating and investing in the of the Networks and Retail capital expenditure has totalled assets and investment options.
UK and Ireland gives SSE a clear including Enterprise over 7.7bn.
In 2014 15, this geographical focus, allowing it businesses.
has resulted in a significantly SSEs balanced business also to maintain and deploy strong expanded asset base, including means it can apply across all experience and understanding SSE also seeks to secure the addition of 68MW in wind of its businesses best practice of the markets in which it operational efficiency through farm capacity to generate in critical areas such as safety, operates and to focus on the the breadth and depth of electricity: and 530m in the customer service, large capital needs of the customers it serves.
understanding of the energy Regulated Asset Value of its project delivery and disciplined In addition, it positions SSE well sector secured by having a broad electricity networks.
if and when there is greater and balanced range of businesses.
harmonisation of energy Key development in 2014 15 Key development in 2014 15 markets.
Key development in 2014 15 SSEs subsidiary Scottish Hydro To expand its Enterprise business, SSEs Total Recordable Injury Rate Electric Transmission confirmed SSE acquired for 66m the Energy Key development in 2014 15 per 100,000 hours worked by that it would accept Ofgems Solutions Group which designs, Progress towards the employees was 0.12, compared proposals for the funding of the installs, maintains and supports completion and commercial with 0.12 in 2013 14 and 0.14 new Caithness-Moray link at a building management systems operation of SSEs first new in 2012 13.
This was, however, cost of 1.12bn, which is SSEs and solutions for industrial, thermal power station in Ireland, overshadowed by the loss of an biggest-ever capital project.
commercial and public sector at Great Island, County Wexford, employees life in a road traffic customers.
resulted in it being fully collision in February 2015.
Investment and capital commissioned in April 2015. expenditure composition Operating profit composition Total Recordable Injury Rate in 2014 15 % in 2014 15 per 100,000 hours worked Economic contribution Other 8% Corporate 1% in 2014 15 0.15 Wholesale UK: 8.8bn 29% Retail 24% 0.10 Ireland: 954m Retail and Wholesale 25% Enterprise 9% 0.05 Key priority in 2015 16 Networks 50% Networks 54% Full and constructive engagement in any market Key priority in 2015 16 Key priority in 2015 16 reforms arising from the Key priority in 2015 16 Ensure the safe and sustainable Maintain a diverse balance newly-elected UK government, In addition to safe working, make development, construction and between Wholesale, Networks the CMA market investigation substantial progress in upgrading commissioning of new assets and Retail businesses and in Great Britain and the new the quality of service Networks in electricity generation support the long-term Integrated Single Electricity and Retail customers can expect and transmission.
