EVERYTHING IS CHANGING EVERYTHING IS CHANGING SPORTS DIRECT NATIONAL DISTRIBUTION CENTRE, SHIREBROOK Phase Three of the expansion of our National Distribution Centre in Shirebrook, the construction of an additonal c. 700,000 sq.
ft. warehouse and office facility, is now well underway, with completion scheduled for late 2015.
We have also commenced work on an additional retail unit and training centre at our Shirebrook campus, with completion also anticipated for late 2015.
These expansions will have a range of benefits for the Group, including an improved environment for staff training.
5 BUILDING ELECTRICAL DATA 3 29,000 m Concrete 60 km Cable 28 km Fibre optic cable 3,600 tonnes Steelwork 30 km Lighting bus-bar 250 km Category 6 data cable 2 68,000 m Roof cladding 11,000 Light fittings 3,000 Information outlets 2 21,000 m Wall cladding 7 km Cabling containment 8 km Pipework 14 km Fire alarm pipework 1.5 km Building perimeter EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... EVERYTHING IS CHANGING GROUP BRANDS Karrimor launched their new multichannel running campaign, with predominant focus on TV, digital, and in-store channels, to coincide with the world renowned London Marathon.
The campaign focused on the latest running apparel and footwear but also contributed to the launch of the new Karrimor Elite running app.
2014 also saw Karrimor expand their ambassador line-up by agreeing a three year deal with Countryfile presenter Helen Skelton and resigning Olympic Gold Medallist James Cracknell for a further two years.
Throughout the year Lonsdale has continued to go from strength to strength, further establishing its position in the fight sports market.
The Lonsdale brand has been showcased at various events such as BAMMA and the Queensbury Boxing League.
It was also a main sponsor at one of the biggest fights of 2014 which saw Lonsdales leading brand ambassador Carl Froch knock out George Groves in front of 80,000 at Wembley Stadium.
The pay per view event was viewed by millions across the globe.
Furthermore, Lonsdale signed boxer Nathan Cleverly for a three year deal which will 6 carry the partnership into 2017.
USA Pro launched its new Join Our Movement campaign which focused on vibrant hero prints and demonstrated the depth and breadth of the USA Pro collection.
The campaign featured women at the top of their game to show that USA Pro is not just a stylish fitness brand.
Launched in USC and Sports Direct across a number of channels including TV, retail and digital, the Join Our Movement campaign is a perfect reflection of how USA Pro is continuing to expand its product offering and increase its dominance in the female fitness market.
Slazenger and The Championships, Wimbledon agreed to extend their longest standing sporting sponsorship in the history of sport for a further three year term which will take the overall agreement to 116 years.
The partnership is a perfect reflection of the prestige and longevity of the brand and the extension will continue to showcase Slazenger worldwide on the biggest stage there is.
Also this year, Slazengers cricket ambassador, England fast bowler Jimmy Anderson, surpassed Sir Ian Botham as Englands all-time test wicket-taker with his 384th wicket in his 100th match.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EVERYTHING IS CHANGING PARTNER BRANDS Following the successful launch of Nikes MPT market place transformation area in our Shirebrook store in FY14, we decided to lead our new Oxford Street flagship store at the beginning of FY15 with an impressive Nike mens training area in the entrance.
The Nike area and overall store merchandising standards and customer service have been maintained to a very high standard since opening and both businesses are pleased with the feedback and initial results.
We have shared plans to roll out further Nike branded areas in our large format city centre stores and will continue to work closely with our Nike team in Shirebrook in developing product and retail solutions to give our customers enhanced shopping experiences throughout our store portfolio.
We see the Under Armour brand as a significant future partner for the Sports Direct business and in FY15 committed to a long term joint business plan.
Under Armour shop in shop in our recently refurbished and extended Glasgow City Centre store on Argyle Street.
We are planning additional space for the Under Armour brand as it grows in popularity in the new large format city centre stores as they roll out.
In addition to this, 200 stores will also feature bespoke Under Armour base layer fixtures by the end of the 2015 calendar year.
7 The adidas Group has committed to investing several million pounds with Sports Direct across FY16 to build upon the repositioning work started in FY15.
To date this has included two all door Sports Direct window marketing campaigns, a 170 door roll out of a new football Bootroom panel concept, branded space in key location doors and continued marketing support Ultra Boost for the Sweatshop business.
In FY16 Sports Direct will be a key partner for their new football silo launch Ace v X including another all door window campaign and Bootroom update.
There are also plans to roll out refreshed fixtures for mens apparel across the wider estate and a more focused Manchester United launch in appropriate stores.
The adidas Group is also investing in a much larger showroom space at our Shirebrook Head Office which will feature a staff training facility and a dedicated space for the Reebok brand which we are also planning to trial with some branded apparel space in key doors in FY16.
Puma continue to be a key strategic partner for the Sports Direct business and in FY15 cemented their strategic investments in the football category by rolling out 150 Bootroom centre panels to showcase their new boot concepts which was supported by an extensive period of staff training.
They are also taking a significantly larger office and showroom space in our Shirebrook Head Office and have invested in a dedicated retail specialist to manage their branded space roll out and assortment planning process.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... EVERYTHING IS CHANGING SPORTS DIRECT FITNESS During the year, the Group entered the fitness industry with the development of Sportsdirect Fitness.
com, comprising 25 standalone gyms purchased from LA Fitness and an additional two new build combined retail and gym spaces.
A further two gyms in St Helens and Dundee are planned for early autumn 2015.
Membership continues to grow and we have already surpassed our full year targets.
COM AINTREE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 EVERYTHING IS CHANGING MEGASTORES We have worked hard to improve and invest in our store portfolio during the year, with a particular focus on larger city centre stores.
During the year we relocated our Oxford Street store to the c. 50,000 sq.
ft. former HMV store and have completed a c. 30,000 sq.
ft. extension of our Glasgow store.
We have recently also acquired the freehold of the former Primark store in Leeds.
Works are currently underway on this four floor, c. 50,000 sq.
ft. store which is due to open this summer.
MEGASTORES OPEN SHIREBROOK - C. 57,000 SQ.
FT. 9 GLASGOW, ARGYLE STREET BEFORE AND AFTER EVERYTHING IS CHANGING...
