Strategic Report Retail Doing more for our customers Overview Retail operating profit Enterprise profit Supplying Energy and other services m m SSE supplies electricity, gas and related services such as telecoms in markets in Great Britain 456.8m 70.4m and Ireland.
It is focused on attracting and 39.7% 23.9% retaining customers through excellent service and a brand people trust.
It also incorporates SSE is involved in the supply of electricity, gas Enterprise brings together key SSE and other energy related services to household services for industrial, commercial SSE Enterprise, which brings together key customers and, through its Enterprise business, and public sector customers.
to industrial and commercial customers.
SSE services for industrial, commercial and public sector customers.
Energy customer accounts Debt overdue by more than six Financial assistance for vulnerable Meters read millions months m customers m millions 8.58m 106.2m 51.3m 13m -5.7% -9.8% 1.6% -7.8% SSE supplies electricity and gas to household SSE aims to engage as early as possible with SSE provides assistance for customers who SSE is involved in supplying, installing, and business customers in the energy markets customers who are struggling with debt struggle to pay for their basic energy needs, maintaining and reading meters in the in Great Britain and Ireland.
It is the second through agreeing payment arrangements that including discounts on energy bills.
household, commercial, industrial and largest supplier in both markets.
lower balances from the outset and helping generation sectors in Great Britain.
to spread the cost of energy over the year.
47 Strategic Report Retail continued SSE aims to earn a medium-term i. e. three Retail key indicators to five years average profit margin of around March 14 5% across the whole of its Energy Supply March 15 Restated business.
As demonstrated by the extension of Energy Supply its unconditional freeze on standard household Operating Profit m 368.7 246.2 energy prices in Great Britain, originally Electricity customer accounts GB domestic m 4.37 4.66 introduced in March 2014 and now extended Gas customer accounts GB domestic m 2.96 3.21 until at least July 2016, SSE is responding to Energy customers GB business sites m 0.45 0.42 customer concerns over future increases in AllIsland energy market customers Ire m 0.80 0.81 the cost of energy.
Guaranteeing such Total energy customer accounts GB, Ire m 8.58 9.10 unprecedented price stability and peace of mind Electricity supplied household average GB kWh 3,842 3,991 for customers would not be possible without Gas supplied household average GB th 438 465 taking a longer-term approach to managing Household small business aged debt GB, Ire m 106.2 117.8 costs.
Costs and therefore profitability in Energy 1 Customer complaints to third parties GB 1,528 1,208 Supply are inherently volatile and SSE therefore 1 Energy Ombudsman, Consumer Focus and Consumer Direct continues to focus on performance over the medium term, i. e. a three to five year average.
Energy related services # Operating profit m 17.7 24.1 Operating profit for Energy Related Services fell Home Services customer accounts GB m 0.35 0.37 by 6.4m, reflecting a reduction in customer Meters read m 13.0 14.1 numbers in Metering, Telecoms and Home Services.
Some of the activities within Energyrelated Services also support SSEs aim Enterprise to be a supplier of energy and essential # Operating profit m 70.4 56.8 services, offering customers energy and SSE Contracting Order Book m 97 85 non-energy propositions.
# Operating profit for the year to March 2014 restated in line with establishment of Enterprise division and as set out in the Notification of Close Period on 29 September 2014 Operating profit for the new Enterprise division was 13.6m higher than that reported in 2013 14, due to the one-off benefit of the Supplying energy and essential was 4.6% before tax compared with 2.9% in disposal of the gas connections business services across the Great Britain 2013 14 and 4.2% in 2012 13.
Energy Supply on 1 September 2014. and Ireland markets profit margin has averaged 3.9% over both SSE is one of the largest energy suppliers in the past five and three years.
Preparing Consolidated the competitive markets in Great Britain and in Segmental Statements Ireland.
At 31 March 2015, it supplied electricity The recovery in Retail performance follows Since 2010, Ofgem has required the leading and gas to 8.58 million household and business an increase in household electricity and gas energy suppliers in Great Britain to publish a accounts.
It also provides other energy-related tariffs in November 2013 and a sustained focus Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS setting products and services to 350,000 household on operational efficiency through 2014 15, out the revenues, costs and profits or losses and business customers.
particularly in the Energy Supply business, of their electricity generation and energy which, after a difficult 2013 14, earned a profit supply businesses.
As an energy and essential services supplier, margin closer to the more typical level reported the principal purpose of the Retail business is for 2012 13.
Profit in Energy Supply is naturally SSE expects to publish its CSS for 2014 2015 to meet the needs of its customers in a reliable volatile and, in fact, SSE expects to see a before 31 July.
The CSS, which will be reviewed and sustainable way: in doing so, it is focused on reduction in Energy Supply profit during by SSEs auditors KPMG under guidelines set attracting and retaining customers by offering 2015 16 following its reduction in household by Ofgem and reconciled to SSEs published industry-leading customer service, value for gas prices in Great Britain in April 2015. financial statements for absolute transparency, money and strong energy and non-energy is expected to show that SSEs profit margin in its propositions under a recognised and SSE is an efficient energy supplier committed domestic electricity and gas supply business in differentiated brand.
to maintaining relatively low operating costs in Great Britain was 6.0% before tax in 2014 15. order to make a fair profit.
Early analysis of the Financial performance in Retail Consolidated Segmental Statements submitted This means that SSEs operating profit from During the year to 31 March 2015 operating to Ofgem by other obligated energy suppliers the supply of electricity and gas to a household profit in Retail was 456.8m.
suggests that SSEs indirect costs per customer in Great Britain was an average of 69 during are around 20% lower than the average across 2014 15.
From this profit, SSE is required to pay In 2014 15, SSEs profit margin operating profit the rest of the major suppliers.
On the strength tax and interest.
Across the six years since the as a percentage of revenue in Energy Supply of running its business efficiently for customers, CSS was introduced in 2009 10, up to and including March 2015, SSE expects to have Retail operating profit made an average profit margin of 5.1%.
March 14 March 13 March 15 Restated Restated Particularly for asset-light businesses like Energy Supply m 368.7 246.2 363.2 Energy Supply, SSE firmly believes that profit Energy related services m 17.7 24.1 29.3 margin earned before interest and taxes EBIT Enterprise m 70.4 56.8 52.5 margin is the most effective way to measure Total retail operating profit 456.8 327.1 445.0 profitability because: 48 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
- it is widely accepted as the most appropriate Energy Supply and Energy In March 2014, SSE became the only energy measure for this sector, and is relied upon Related Services supplier in Great Britain to offer an unconditional by both industry analysts and investors: Fulfilling SSEs responsibilities commitment not to increase standard - it takes into account all costs associated as an energy supplier household energy prices until 2016, and in with the supply of energy, including overhead SSE appreciates that its customers rely on January 2015 extended this promise further and non-variable costs, depreciation and its core products of electricity and gas to still, until at least July 2016.
This is the longest amortisation: and power and heat their homes in order to live price commitment of its nature the GB energy - there is greater availability of data on an comfortably.
It takes this responsibility very market has ever seen.
By July 2016, SSEs EBIT basis, increasing the robustness of seriously and has therefore sought first and standard household prices will not have gone any benchmarking analysis and enabling foremost to offer all its customers peace of mind up for more than two and a half years: prices simple like-for-like comparisons to improve about their future energy costs at a time when will have, in fact, been cut at least twice in transparency and understanding.
energy affordability remains a serious concern.
Playing our part in the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games The Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth support roles before, during and after Games were, in the words of the Games: 60 employees became Commonwealth Games Federation Clydesiders and, with SSE support, President Prince Imran of Malaysia: between them spent a total of 629 days The biggest and best ever.
volunteering: and in recognition of their outstanding contribution to their local SSEs sponsorship of Glasgow 2014 communities, 20 employees were given was something completely new the unique opportunity of being torch and different for a company that had bearers in the Queens Baton Relay.
never undertaken such a major sport sponsorship before.
SSE successfully The SSE activity that will truly leave a played its part in helping to deliver a lasting legacy is its Next Generation stunning Commonwealth Games and programme.
In partnership with make Glasgow 2014 an event that will SportsAid, 100 young athletes will live long in the memories of everyone be supported in their development who was there.
into competitive sport and have already experienced some great A once-in-a-lifetime volunteering opportunities to be mentored by opportunity arose from Glasgow 2014, some of their sporting heroes with many employees undertaking thanks to the programme.
49 Strategic Report Retail continued SSE Energy Supply customer account numbers While annual consumption varies considerably based on the weather, customers use of March 15 March 14 electricity and gas is now more than 13% lower Electricity customer accounts GB domestic m 4.37 4.66 than it was five years ago measured on an Gas customer accounts GB domestic m 2.96 3.21 underlying year-on-year basis, largely due Energy customers GB business sites m 0.45 0.42 to the impact of structural, technological and All-Island energy market customers Ire m 0.80 0.81 behavioural energy efficiency improvements.
The impact of ongoing efforts to help customers Total SSE Energy Customers 8.58 9.10 use energy more efficiently is also reflected in the fact that, on a weather-corrected basis, Guaranteeing not to increase prices for such new and existing customers stability and energy consumption by SSEs household a long period of time requires a responsible, peace of mind while laying the foundations customers in 2014 15 was the lowest since 2006. long-term approach to managing all of the costs for future growth.
Having driven further of supplying energy: SSE therefore continues operational efficiencies through 2014 15, Putting customers first to believe that its commitment should also be SSE is now making significant investments in At the same time, SSE is doing what it can to judged over the long term.
In the meantime, SSE improving the customer experience with new, provide customers with value for money, peace will continue to pass on savings where possible state-of-the-art digital platforms, an enhanced of mind and industry-leading customer service.
and make the most competitive offers it can, customer relationship management CRM To that end, in the year to 31 March 2015, whilst providing absolute peace of mind for system and more engaging communications.
SSE has: those customers who prefer the flexibility With these tools in place, SSE is well placed to - announced a 4.1% average reduction in of a standard variable tariff.
standard household gas prices from 30 April 2015: SSE would like to extend its price freeze again, All of this reaffirms SSEs view, which it has put - committed to cap these prices at their new or even cut prices if further costs can be taken to the Competition and Markets Authority CMA level until at least July 2016, extending its out of energy supply, and will work with the new that the retail energy market in Great Britain is already unprecedented freeze on standard UK government or indeed any stakeholder to working in the interests of consumers.
Whilst household energy prices: find such solutions.
It believes further savings for SSE recognises that the CMAs analysis of - launched an industry-leading offer of two consumers worth around 100 forecast to rise the retail market is still in development, its years free unlimited broadband to give to around 200 by 2020 could be made with characterisation of the retail sector so far does customers additional value and deepen political action to end the practice of levying not reflect SSEs experience or market realities.
customer relationships: policy costs on energy bills.
Recouping the cost It is clear that customers are very engaged with - introduced continuous improvement through energy bills takes no account of an the market and are exercising their ability to hubs through which customer service individuals ability to pay and is therefore socially switch and benefit from supplier competition advisers, who help customers every day, regressive, with the impact likely to worsen as in a tough and evolving marketplace.
are encouraged to identify ways in which policy costs on energy bills increase into the the customer experience can be enhanced: latter part of this decade.
SSE has therefore SSE continues to have an appetite for change - began identifying repeat callers so that their continued to call for more of these levies to that is in the genuine interest of customers and queries can be picked up immediately by be moved into general taxation, making bills is engaging constructively with the CMA to help the appropriate teams and resolved more cheaper and fairer for those less able to pay.
identify ways in which the market can be further swiftly: and improved for customers, as well as seeking to - decided to introduce a new system to tackle Supplying energy to customers ensure that analysis of important issues such call waiting by enabling customers to request across Great Britain and Ireland as sector profitability or the potential savings a call back rather than holding on in a queue.
In the year to 31 March 2015, SSEs energy available to customers by switching is customer accounts in Great Britain and conducted robustly, fairly and representatively.
This focus on continuous improvement and Ireland fell from 9.10 million to 8.58 million.
putting customers first has been acknowledged Meeting customers need for energy by three independent reports in 2014 15: SSEs total customer base is now the same size SSE estimates its household customers in - in June 2014, SSE was named best major as it was in 2008, having peaked at 9.65 million Great Britain used, on average in the year energy supplier for customer service in March 2011.
The decline in customer account to 31 March 2015: satisfaction for the fourth year in a row in numbers reflects the increasingly challenging the National Customer Satisfaction Index March 15 March 14 and highly competitive market conditions in UK NCSI-UK : Electricity supplied Great Britain, in which there are 10 suppliers of - in September 2014, Ofgem published household average scale with over 250,000 customers competing the results of its Complaints to Energy GB kWh 3,842 3,991 to retain and gain customers.
This is in addition Companies report, which found SSE Gas supplied household to a growing number of smaller suppliers, who was the only major supplier to improve average GB th 438 465 are exempt from the cost of certain government its performance since their last survey social and environmental policies, and therefore two years earlier: and have a competitive advantage, and a strong Relatively low consumption was driven by a - Citizens Advice reported that SSE was again focus by other suppliers on Internet Comparison continuation of the mild weather conditions that the best performing major energy supplier Sites.
At the same time, the dynamics of the have characterised the two years to March 2015. for complaints in the Energy Supplier energy market are undergoing a fundamental This is illustrated by the fact that in the year to Performance report with a score of 44.5 transformation with the rise of digital 31 March 2015, the UK mean temperature was 0.7 per 100,000 customers for the period from technologies and smart metering.
degrees Celsius above the 1981-2010 climatology October to December 2014.
To put this into based on provisional Met Office data.
context, the next best performing supplier For SSE, the corollary of this has been a period had a score of 72.3. during which it has focused on offering both 50 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Although disappointingly the overall number helping to spread the cost of energy across the - helped improve the energy efficiency of of complaints to third parties increased during year.
SSE will continue to work sympathetically over 210,000 homes across Great Britain: 2014 15, SSE continues to perform far better and constructively with customers who are - delivered energy efficiency improvements than the rest of the industry, accounting for struggling with debt, making better use of data equivalent to 4.59 MtCO saved: and 2 around 2% of all Ombudsman complaints in and insight to target proactive customer contact - provided around 850m of notional lifetime March 2015 despite having a market share more effectively.
bill savings for vulnerable customers.
of over seven times that amount.
That said, SSE is determined to improve its complaints Helping vulnerable customers In December 2014, SSE agreed a settlement performance and, partly through the initiatives SSE helps customers in need to manage their with Ofgem under which it made a contribution outlined above, aims to reduce the overall energy costs in a number of other ways: of 1.75m to support vulnerable customers number of customer complaints in 2015 16.
The Warm Home Discount WHD scheme after it did not meet on time its targets under the enables pensioners and vulnerable customers to previous Community Energy Saving Programme Treating customers fairly receive help with their fuel bills in the form of a CESP.
SSE committed to learning from this and Underpinning SSEs approach to dealing with 140 rebate.
As part of the WHD Scheme, SSEs to working hard to ensure that other obligations customers is the principle, now enshrined in Priority Assistance Fund provides additional such as ECO are delivered on time.
energy supply licences, of treating customers support to low income and vulnerable customers, fairly.
The Treating Customers Fairly standards including debt relief, free energy efficient It is clear that, beyond 2017, the UK will need to continue to be embedded in SSEs decisionappliances, and help with bespoke payment continue to improve the energy efficiency of its making, from the Board through to the Executive arrangements.
More than 330,000 customers building stock.
With the existing ECO scheme Committee and throughout the organisation.
received assistance from SSE worth over 51.3 coming to an end in 2017 and no successor SSE published its updated Treating Customers million through these initiatives and partnership scheme currently in place, this represents a Fairly Statement in August 2014 and has since projects with National Energy Action NEA, valuable window of opportunity to review been working on further improvements for Citizens Advice and the Home Heat Helpline.
and improve upon previous initiatives to drive customers, which will help form the basis of take-up of energy efficiency measures.
SSE is its TCF statement for 2015.
These include: SSE also operates a free Careline priority service, keen to engage constructively with the new UK - being among the first energy suppliers to dedicated to helping customers who are elderly, government and any interested parties on ways reduce voluntarily the amount of time it takes disabled or have special medical needs.
It takes to achieve this, but believes that in principle any to switch supplier to just 17 days, inclusive a proactive approach to monitoring top-up scheme should: of the two-week cooling off period: behaviour of its prepayment customers to - be funded progressively through taxation, - committing to refer customer complaints minimise the risk of self-disconnection.
Between taking into account an individuals ability to an internal centre of excellence whenever the start of December and the end of February to pay: a same-day resolution is not possible: or longer if the weather is unseasonably cold, - be as cost-effective as possible: - the joint publication with the Dementia SSE has a no-disconnection policy covering all - ensure that the benefits are targeted primarily Services Development Centre at Stirling household customers.
at the most vulnerable households: University of a handbook offering heating - minimise administrative complexity, for and lighting tips to people living with In September 2014, SSE announced, along example by introducing deemed scoring: dementia and their carers: with other suppliers, that it would use any future - minimise the risk to customers of fraud: and - a commitment to roll out enhanced disability unclaimed credit balances which cannot be - be designed to ensure a smooth transition and equality training to ensure customer returned to customers to help provide additional between schemes.
service advisers can provide the best possible support for vulnerable customers.
It committed, support to elderly or disabled customers: in advance, a total of 8.8m to cover the next Rolling out smart meters - the introduction of new video call facilities to two years and has already spent more than to customers across Great Britain enable real-time, face-to-face conversations 8m providing relief to vulnerable customers The rollout of smart meters to every home in with customers who have impaired hearing: struggling with debt.
Great Britain represents a unique opportunity and to transform the relationship between customers - an end to charges for the removal of Working to reduce customers and the energy they use.
Empowering customers prepayment meters, subject to customers energy consumption with real-time data about their energy usage, successfully completing a credit check.
Helping customers use energy more efficiently providing them with more accurate bills and is the most sustainable way to keep bills low unlocking innovation in tariffs and propositions, Working with customers to over the longer term.
With that in mind, SSE smart meters have the potential to drive ever manage energy-related debt was pleased to meet, ahead of the 31 March greater consumer engagement with energy.
At 31 March 2015, the total aged debt i. e. debt 2015 deadline, all of its targets under the first that is overdue by more than six months of phase of the Energy Company Obligation ECO, In preparation for the introduction of the critical SSEs domestic and small business electricity which mandates energy suppliers with more infrastructure that will enable mass rollout and gas customers in Great Britain and Ireland than 250,000 customer accounts to install to begin, SSE has been focused primarily on was 106.2m, compared with 117.8m at energy efficiency measures in customers building and testing systems and gradually 31 March 2014.
A bad debt charge of 65.3m homes.
SSE is now focused on delivering ramping up delivery, in line with its strategy was recognised in the period compared to against its targets for the final phase of the of doing it once and doing it right.
At 31 March 67.8m in the same period last year.
current ECO scheme before 31 March 2017.
2015, SSE had installed over 40,000 smart meters in customers homes.
In the coming Debt levels have stabilised following an increase In the first two years of ECO ending 31 March year ending 31 March 2016, it expects to in 2013 14, reflecting the lower consumption of 2015, SSE has: install a further 210,000 smart meters to energy during this period, as well as SSEs efforts - promoted the installation of almost 250,000 bring the cumulative total to 250,000. to engage with customers with arrears as early energy efficiency measures, including as possible, agreeing payment arrangements loft, cavity and solid wall insulation and that have lower balances from the outset and boiler replacements: 51 Strategic Report Retail continued With the cost of the rollout being levied on customer bills, and with the net benefit of smart meters largely dependent on consumers embracing the technology, it is critical that the Proud to make programme is delivered in a way which is both cost-effective and customer-centric.
In other words, if the cost of the programme increases, a difference or consumers become disengaged with the technology, the business case will be eroded and the opportunity will have been missed.
In October 2014, SSE embarked digital and social media formats.
upon its first large-scale advertising The adverts have been viewed over 1.7 SSE has consistently stated that achieving a campaign for the SSE brand.
million times online, and it is estimated cost-effective and customer-centric rollout will that 58% of people in the UK will have require a delivery window of five unconstrained Through the use of Maya, a unique heard the radio adverts, 75% of people years.
However, despite ongoing delays to computer generated character, the will have seen the billboards, and 59% critical infrastructure such as that provided by Proud to make a difference campaign will have read the adverts in the papers.
the Data Communications Company DCC, has encouraged people to look at and other constraints still inhibiting suppliers energy with fresh eyes, and highlighted Industry research has shown that the ability to install smart meters at volume, the the actions SSE has been taking to make campaign reached over 25 million end target of 100% of homes by 2020 has not a difference for customers.
people, ensuring the Proud to make a moved.
This means that the delivery window is difference campaign has been hugely shrinking: with less time to achieve the same The campaign has spanned TV, radio, successful in building the SSE brand.
target, the only logical outcome is that costs will billboards, print media and various increase and the customer experience will be worse than it would otherwise have been.
In order to ensure that the crucial smart opportunity is not missed, while remaining supportive of the role of DCC, SSE is calling for: - delays to the front end of the delivery window to be reflected at the back end such that suppliers have a period of five years unconstrained in which to deliver their obligations: - a reversion to the EU requirements to deliver smart meters to 80%, rather than 100%, of homes by 2020 in order to prevent cost escalations: and - the programme to be subject to a review to provide sufficient assurance that it is being delivered in a way which achieves its aim of being cost-effective and net positive for customers.
Investing in becoming a market-leading retailer of energy and essential services In the context of a fiercely competitive market for energy, SSE has a clear strategy to differentiate itself and create value by becoming a market-leading, digital and diversified retailer of energy and essential services.
With energy, telephone, broadband, gas boiler and electrical maintenance and installation offers already in place, it is uniquely positioned to offer a complete suite of essential services in the home.
Throughout this period of consolidation, SSE has been investing in laying the foundations for growth in an integrated GB domestic business, bringing together its energy and non-energy businesses to create broader, deeper and more valuable customer relationships.
To that end, in the 12 months to March 2015, SSE has: - launched a new brand campaign in both Great Britain and Ireland: 52 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
- continued to invest in a fundamental overhaul SSE is continuing to engage positively changes to those prices, requires the of its digital channels in order to create a with the UK government, the Federation formal approval of Northern Irelands Utility simple, seamless and intuitive customer of Small Businesses and leading Third Party Regulator under a defined annual Price experience and provide the best possible Intermediaries TPIs in order to understand Control review process.
From 1 April 2013 SSE service at the lowest possible cost: better the needs of its customers and identify Airtricitys natural gas prices have been frozen, - introduced a new customer relationship further ways in which it can make improvements providing customers stability and peace of management CRM platform to enable for small business customers.
mind for a period of two years.
In February it to make better use of data, understand 2015, SSE Airtricity announced it was reducing more fully its customer base and tailor Looking ahead, as it moves into the delivery its regulated natural gas prices for its communications and propositions to the stage of its development plan, SSE will be household and small business customers by needs of different customers: launching a new portfolio management and 7.8% on average with effect from 1 April 2015, - invested in new systems to support the national energy analytics tool which will allow customers saving 53 for a typical household natural gas expansion of its home services offering: and direct access to their data, as well as providing customer.
The next interim Price Control - developed and reopened sales channels the opportunity for data hosting.
In 2015 16, review will be conducted by the company and processes that will facilitate assured it is also looking to accelerate its growth as and the NI Utility Regulator in October 2015: and compliant growth.
a business gas supplier by entering the daily - Northern Ireland electricity : Also in February metered sector.
2015, SSE Airtricity announced it was reducing Building a brand that customers its standard electricity prices by 8% from know and trust Supplying energy and energy-related 1 April 2015, saving 55 for a typical In order to become a market-leading, digital services to customers in Ireland household electricity customer: and and diversified supplier of energy and essential SSEs retail brand SSE Airtricity is the second - Republic of Ireland: In January 2015 SSE services, SSE needs to be a household brand largest energy provider in Ireland and the only Airtricity announced it was reducing its prices that customers know and trust.
The launch in energy supply brand to operate in all of the for around 440,000 household customers in October 2014 of the companys first-ever competitive gas and electricity markets across Irelands highly competitive and deregulated national television advertising campaign was the island.
At 31 March 2015, SSE Airtricity supplied energy markets by 4% for natural gas and by therefore a significant step on this journey.
electricity and gas to 802,000 household and 2% for electricity.
The price cuts, which took business accounts in the Republic of Ireland effect from 1 April 2015, equate to a typical Complementing the brand campaign and ROI and Northern Ireland NI.
annual saving of 58 for customers on SSE further enhancing the value it offers customers, Airtricitys most popular Direct Debit and SSE has continued to develop its sponsorship In addition to being the largest single provider eBilling Dual Fuel Standard tariffs.
activities and in March was announced as one of wind power in the all-island Single Electricity of the official sponsors of ITVs coverage of the Market SEM, with 40% of the electricity it Operating a national metering business 2015 Rugby World Cup.
supplies coming from renewable sources, SSEs metering business undertakes meter SSE Airtricity is also a market-leader in awardreading operations and meter operator work Having increased awareness of SSE as a winning digital service with around 65% of in all parts of the UK.
Because metering currently leading national brand, SSEs brand campaign all customer interactions performed via the involves being at customers premises, there and sponsorship activities provide SSE with a companys online, digital and mobile platforms.
are significant operational issues and risks valuable platform from which to launch new associated with this activity.
The number of products and services as it seeks to attract and Highly competitive market conditions, in SSE electricity and gas supply customers who retain customers.
This is especially important for particular in the Republic, which has seen the receive bills based on actual meter readings home services, where a new national offering, emergence of new domestic market entrants stands at 96.2%, compared to 96.7% last year.
underpinned by improved CRM capabilities and in the deregulated gas and electricity markets, SSE Metering has also installed over 25,500 AMR market-leading propositions, mean the business led to a reduction in SSE Airtricity customer automatic meter reading meters which are read is well positioned for growth having already numbers in the first half of the year.
In the 12 months to 31 March, SSE begun to stabilise customer numbers.
of its new brand campaign in October marked a collected 7.8 million electricity readings and return to growth, however, and by year end SSE 5.2 million gas readings.
Providing tailored services for Airtricity continued to have an all-island share by business customers customer numbers of 21% of the total combined Energy Supply and Energy Related SSE has made good progress with its strategy gas and electricity markets.
Services priorities in 2015 16 and beyond for developing Business Supply, as it seeks to For 2015 16, SSEs key priorities in Energy Supply become a business that offers solutions across In addition to electricity and gas, SSE Airtricity and Energy Related Services remain to: the energy value chain to its customers, working offers energy-related products and services - acquire and retain customers through with them as their energy partner rather than including natural gas boiler and heating services competitively priced, compelling simply their energy supplier.
such as repair and installation.
During the propositions, industry-leading customer year the company completed a buyout of its service, and enhanced Customer Relationship In 2014 15, SSE has continued to drive successful joint venture SSE Airtricity Energy Management CRM driven by better use of improvements for its small business customers, Services.
This company is positioned for future data and segmentation: ending the practice of automatic contract rollovers expansion and to that end has been fully - build successfully the new brand and for small business customers, as well as extending integrated into SSEs existing operations.
maximise the opportunity this presents to to these customers its existing commitment not engage with customers, the public and all of to back-bill micro-business customers for more In early 2015 SSE Airtricity announced changes SSEs stakeholders and illustrate that SSE is than 12 months where they have previously been to its standard energy prices in each of the committed to progressive reform in energy: under-billed due to a genuine billing error on SSEs markets in which it operates in Ireland and - engage constructively with the CMA with a part.
Unlike some suppliers, SSE also publishes its Northern Ireland: view to delivering the right outcomes for Variable Business Rates clearly on its website to - Northern Ireland gas : The setting of SSE energy customers and investors: help smaller businesses benchmark and compare Airtricitys regulated gas prices, including any - take the digital opportunity by creating an prices simply.
effortless online customer experience and 53 Strategic Report Retail continued developing best-in-class applications, Solutions Group ESG, since re-named SSE data sources, the business has invested products and services: and Enterprise Energy Solutions, in July 2014, significantly in the development of new - take costs out of supplying energy, added new capabilities to the business.
both internally by driving operational efficiencies and externally, working with Creating a shared value philosophy with Setting the right priorities the new government to ensure that energy customers is a driving force within SSE for SSE Enterprise policies are as cost-effective as possible and, Enterprise.
It focuses on creating a long-term The focus for Enterprise in 2015 16 is on ultimately, funded more progressively relationship through key account managers realising the benefits from consolidation of through taxation.
for its larger and more complex customers.
activities and developing effective customer relationship management and thereby laying Enterprise SSE Enterprises principal businesses are: the foundations for sustainable business growth Introduction SSE Enterprise Contracting SSEC is one of in the period to 2020 and beyond.
SSE Enterprise provides services in Mechanical the UKs leading mechanical and electrical & Electrical Contracting, Energy Solutions, contractors, delivering services ranging from Retail Conclusion Lighting, Utilities and Telecoms.
It helps small works to major design and build projects.
The energy market in Great Britain and Ireland businesses achieve energy savings and provides SSEC is also the largest street lighting contractor continues to face great competitive, political and knowledge and expertise which enables responsible for managing over one million regulatory pressure.
However, as a progressive businesses to become more sustainable.
SSE lamps in 24 local authorities located across company, SSE is responding positively to these Enterprise has a significant self-delivery capability England, Wales and Scotland, and a further challenges delivering for customers with a two enabling it to provide engineering excellence in 28 authorities in the Republic of Ireland.
and a half year price freeze while getting its own sensitive environments including hospitals, data house in order by driving through operational centres, refineries and core utilities.
Its solutions SSE Enterprise Telecoms SSEET provides efficiencies and making the investments are designed, engineered and delivered to the class-leading connectivity and data centre required to thrive in the future energy market.
particular needs of the customer.
services from a 13,800km private fibre optic network connected to more than 65 data Financial performance in SSE Enterprise centres and 240 points of presence spanning SSE Enterprises businesses were previously the UK.
With its extensive telecoms and reported under Other Networks and Energydata centre operational expertise, it offers related Services.
In 2014 15, this Enterprise commercial security with unrivalled in-house segment, including SSE Enterprise Energy engineering teams.
It also offers modern Solutions for eight months see below, delivered businesses the bespoke connectivity and operating profit of 70.4m, compared with communication solutions they need to succeed.
This followed the disposal of the gas connections business in September 2014.
SSE Enterprise Utilities SSEEU is a multiutility service provider with extensive experience and Enabling SSE Enterprise to focus expertise in working with all domestic, retail on core opportunities and commercial industry sectors.
It works with In order to enable SSE Enterprise to focus on the developers in England, Scotland and Wales opportunities which are core to its future plans, providing infrastructure solutions, carbon SSE sold during 2014 15 its gas transportation reduction and capital investment, from major business, a data centre in Hampshire and its electrical, gas and water infrastructure to extensive equity interest in special purpose entities for heat networks.
It is firmly established as one of the delivery of seven street lighting projects for the countrys largest operators of an Independent a total of around 390m, including proceeds Gas Transporter network with over 140,000 received and debt reduced.
SSE is progressing connections: and it now runs 12 district heating the sale of equity in its two remaining schemes throughout the UK with more to follow.
SSE Enterprise Energy Solutions SSEES is Building a new division focused the UK`s leading supplier of building control on business customers solutions.
It designs, installs and optimises SSE Enterprise brings together the services building management technologies which SSE offers to compete in competitive markets deliver efficient operating environments for its for industrial, commercial and public sector customers.
Customers benefit from reduced cost customers.
SSE Enterprise seeks to provide of technology deployment, increased comfort essential services for business, delivered and productivity of their employees and more with energy.
As a nationwide business, SSE effective management of escalating energy Enterprise employs 3,500 skilled engineers costs.
The business previously traded as The and technicians, serving more than 250,000 Energy Solutions Group and was acquired by SSE customers, across more than 50 locations.
It is now committed to becoming the UK`s leading provider of energy management SSE Enterprise has an established track record solutions for business customers.
In line with of delivering solutions for customers in energy increasing pressures on customers to understand and related services for the retail, financial, and comply with changing legislation, such as public and utilities sectors.
The acquisition of the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme ESOS, the energy management company Energy reduce costs and understand multiple complex 54 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Ideas at work Every day leading businesses and developers needed a robust, economic public services help keep the UK solution for its utilities infrastructure.
SSE Enterprise delivers the fundamental energy-related SSE Enterprise demonstrated the scale business services that many and skills required to build and operate of these organisations need a multi-utility network for the centre.
For larger projects in and around most Birminghams Bullring is one of the major UK cities, SSE Enterprise is also largest shopping centres in the UK.
At able to support the development of 1.2 million square feet, with 160 stores, utilities infrastructure, giving developers this iconic destination draws millions the technical backing of a major of visitors every year, but it also draws national organisation and the potential on a lot of electricity.
Thats why its for substantial financial savings.
