OUR STRATEGY OBJECTIVE SO FAR WHAT NEXT?
IDENTIFY Our Oxford Street store opened in May 2014, and our Glasgow City Centre extension was Due to the success of the Oxford Street and Glasgow City completed in spring 2015.
Centre stores, we are now looking to replicate the look and feel in other major markets, starting with our new Leeds Across the UK and Europe, we have continued to invest in specialist performance areas and product IN-STORE store, which is set to open in summer 2015. collections, including Karrimor and Sondico.
Improved visual merchandising has enhanced the customer shopping experience.
We have on-going collaborations with key brands such as Under Armour, along with European brands such as Salomon, to deliver enhanced in-store merchandising.
The Group has acquired 25 former LA Fitness gyms, all of which are located in the UK.
Acquisitions remain a high priority, particularly outside of the UK, which will broaden the customer offering across the A number of other acquisitions have taken place in the year, including Gul Watersports, although ACQUISITIONS Group.
We anticipate that the number of acquisitions will the number has remained somewhat smaller than anticipated.
increase over the coming year.
INVEST During FY15, we opened 39 stores in the UK, closing 16, and opened a further 16 stores in The Group intends to continue to enhance its store portfolio Europe, closing seven.
As at 26 April 2015, Sports Retail operated in 20 countries in Europe, as in both the UK and internationally.
The Group will continue well as in the UK.
with the strategy to identify strategic partners in new STORE territories while expanding operations in those countries Our Oxford Street store and our newly expanded Glasgow City Centre store both now span PORTFOLIO where we currently have a presence.
ft. We endeavour to replicate this in other major cities.
expand Sports Retail operations into all the major countries The construction of a further retail unit on our Shirebrook campus is currently underway, with in the European Economic Area.
The efforts of our dedicated staff have been instrumental to the success of the Group.
Due to the success of the 2009 Share Scheme, participating employees are further incentivised by the 2011 and 2015 The 2011 Share Scheme has been a key tool used in motivation and retention.
The targets have Share Schemes.
been successfully achieved and the scheme vests for participants later in 2015 and in 2017.
PEOPLE The 2015 Share Scheme was approved by shareholders during FY15.
Mike Ashley has withdrawn from the Scheme in order to ensure that the focus remains on aligning targets with the wider Sports Direct team, and not on his potential personal allocation.
DEVELOP Following successful trials during the year, Click and Collect has now been launched in the UK in Our aim is to roll out Click and Collect across other UK both Sports Direct and USC and has proved very successful.
Over 20% of all UK Sports Retail online Group websites.
orders and over 15% of USC online orders are now being delivered by Click and Collect.
To improve the customer experience in Europe, we plan to We have re-designed our checkout, introducing a guest checkout option and streamlining the introduce dedicated websites and allow customers to use checkout process.
additional payment methods while shopping online, including Ideal, Giro and Sofort.
Customers are now also able to purchase and redeem gift cards online.
WEBSITE We will provide continued investment in the online business.
Particular attention has been paid to improving the language and currency conversion on our sites Online visits and sales have shown notable increases year for non-English speaking countries.
The improvements have led to a significant reduction in dropped on year.
baskets, most notably in France and Germany.
We plan to introduce a fast pay checkout solution, allowing Following investment into our mobile platforms, mobile visits now equate to over 50% of visits to customers to purchase a large number of products in a small SPORTSDIRECT.
PROMOTE The Group has continued to exploit its brands by offering wholesale and licensing opportunities, Expansion of the heritage brands, including Everlast, Dunlop in addition to selling brands in Group retail outlets.
Wholesale and licensing enables an increased and Slazenger, is expected to continue.
area of distribution, following which brands can reach audiences which would otherwise Dunlop remains a key focus for expansion, particularly into remain untapped.
categories which have not previously been explored by the The focus is to remain on international wholesale, including the USA, which currently represents Group, including automotive accessories.
c. 40% of the total wholesale revenue.
Acquisitions of key brands will remain a high priority, Sports Direct Retail licensing continues to grow with 14 stores now open in Malaysia and 13 open increasing our brand portfolio and weakening the position of BRANDS in the Middle East.
Licensing is a key driver of the Brands division.
58 new license agreements were signed during Asia Pacific will remain a main area of focus along with FY15, guaranteeing a minimum of $25m in royalties over the contract periods.
Australasia, expanding the global presence of the Group.
Our well established brands, including Slazenger and Dunlop, The brand portfolio increased during the year through the acquisition of the Dunlop and Slazenger will lead the way in the region.
rights in the Australasia region.
Investment in key Group brands is expected to continue in order to allow products to reach new markets and customers.
