Strategic Report Wholesale Securing and producing the energy people need Overview Wholesale operating profit Total Generation capacity Energy production, generation and storage m MW SSE provides energy and related services for customers in wholesale energy markets 473.8 11,733 in Great Britain and Ireland.
It delivers this -25.3% 0.6% through Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation, Gas Production The businesses in SSEs Wholesale segment SSEs generation capacity including its source, produce and store energy through share of joint ventures incorporates and Gas Storage.
Amongst other things, energy portfolio management, electricity 5,330MW of gas-fired generation 3,394MW generation, gas production and gas storage.
of renewable generation, and 3,009MW it is the leading generator of electricity from of coal-fired generation.
renewable sources across the UK and Ireland.
Total Generation output Renewable generation capacity Renewable generation output Gas production TWh MW TWh million therms 27.6 3,394 8.7 397.9 -25.4% 2.0% -6.6% -3.9% SSEs generation output covers the amount Renewable generation capacity covers hydro Renewable generation output covers Gas production is responsible for the efficient of electricity generated by the gas-fired, electric schemes conventional and pumped conventional hydro electric schemes delivery of gas from the physical gas fields that renewable and coal-fired power stations storage, wind farms onshore and offshore and pumped storage on and offshore, SSE has a shared ownership in.
in which SSE has an ownership or and dedicated biomass plant.
wind farms and dedicated biomass plant.
Output is affected by the amount of plant in operation and by weather conditions.
29 Strategic Report Wholesale continued Electricity Generation is responsible for: the Wholesale key indicators operation and management of SSEs generation March 15 March 14 assets, their maintenance and ensuring these Energy Portfolio Management EPM and Electricity Generation assets are available when required and able to EPM and Generation operating profit m 433.3 496.1 meet contractual obligations: and developing EPM and Generation capital expenditure and investment m 399.6 616.5 future opportunities.
Generation In addition, also within Wholesale, Gas Gasand oil-fired generation capacity GB and Ire MW 5,330 5,330 Production is responsible for the efficient Coal-fired generation capacity inc. biomass cofiring MW 3,009 3,009 delivery of gas from the physical gas fields that Renewable generation capacity GB and Ire inc. pump storage MW 3,394 3,326 SSE has a shared ownership in and developing future opportunities: and Gas Storage is Total electricity generation capacity GB and Ire MW 11,733 11,665 responsible for the operation and management of SSEs gas storage facilities, their maintenance Gas power station availability % 96 92 and ensuring they are available for use by SSE Coal power station availability % 74 84 and third parties.
Onshore wind farm availability % 97 97 Hydro storage at end March % 77 75 The markets in which SSEs Wholesale businesses Gasand oil-fired inc. CHP output GB and Ire GWh 9,788 10,111 operate continue to be impacted by a number Coal-fired inc. biomass co-firing output GWh 9,143 16,576 of key long-term trends, including an uncertain Total output from thermal power stations GB and Ire GWh 18,931 26,687 macroeconomic environment: volatile commodity prices: increasing government intervention and competition: and the continued journey to a low Conventional hydro output GWh 3,726 3,753 carbon economy.
Wind output GB and Ire GWh 4,677 5,199 Dedicated biomass output GWh 63 67 This has resulted in an environment that is Total output of renewable energy GB and Ire GWh 8,466 9,019 increasingly dynamic, but which will in turn Total output from pumped storage GWh 190 252 give rise to attractive opportunities for those who have the assets, capabilities and attributes Total Generation output all plant GWh 27,587 35,958 required by key stakeholders.
SSEs Wholesale segment will therefore continue to review its Notes 1 Capacity is wholly-owned and share of joint ventures.
portfolio in the context of market and regulatory 2 Output is electricity from power stations in which SSE has an ownership interest output based on SSEs contractual share.
conditions going forward to ensure it can 3 Capacity includes 735MW of mothballed plant at Keadby and 1,180MW at Peterhead while TEC for these stations is zero continue to meet its objectives.
and 400MW respectively from 1 April 14 and excludes 464MW at Great Island net increase 224MW operational from 17 April 2015.
4 Capacity excludes Ferrybridge units 1 and 2 c. 980MW and 2 units at Uskmouth c. 230MW which ceased operations Market and regulatory conditions could be at the end of March 2014.
5 Wind output excludes 268GWh of constrained off generation in 2014 15 and 243GWh in 2013 14. impacted by the outcome of the CMA investigation into the supply and acquisition Gas production of energy in Great Britain, which is examining Gas production operating profit m 36.6 130.2 issues in wholesale as well as retail markets.
Gas production m therms 397.9 414.1 SSE believes that the energy markets are Gas production capital investment m 21.0 40.9 generally well-functioning while being supportive of reforms that produce additional Gas storage benefits for competition, customers and Gas storage operating profit m 3.9 8.3 participants.
The CMA is currently expected to Gas storage customer nominations met % 100 100 produce its final report around the end of 2015.
Gas storage capital investment m 14.3 10.6 In line with its commitment to transparency in performance management and reporting: and in keeping with the ongoing evolution of its business, SSE has completed the incorporation Sustainably sourcing SSEs Wholesale segment delivers this through: of a new subsidiary company for energy and producing energy Energy Portfolio Management EPM and portfolio management, SSE EPM Limited, which SSEs long-term objective for its Wholesale Electricity Generation.
will sit alongside the separately disclosed Energy segment is for it to make a sustainable Supply and Generation activities of the Group contribution to the implementation of SSEs core EPM is responsible for ensuring SSE has the and will produce separately audited accounts purpose and financial goals, through excellence energy supplies it requires to meet the needs from April 2015 onwards.
SSE is also ensuring in the provision, storage and delivery of energy of customers: procuring the fuel required by that the financial arrangements between its and related services for customers in wholesale the generation plants that SSE owns or has a companies continue to be clear and transparent.
energy markets in Great Britain and Ireland.
contractual interest in: selling the power output from this plant: where appropriate, securing Financial performance in Wholesale This is achieved through maintaining a diverse value and managing volatility in volume and During the year to 31 March 2015 operating portfolio of assets, contracts and innovative price through the risk-managed trading of profit in Wholesale was 473.8m.
The principal energy solutions: and the ability to respond energy-related commodities: and providing issues relating to operating profit in SSEs quickly and effectively to changing market energy solutions and services.
Wholesale businesses are as follows: conditions and opportunities.
Wholesale operating profit and the value of the power produced compared to the historically low levels of March 15 March 14 March 13 2013 14 which had resulted in greater use of EPM and Electricity Generation m 433.3 496.1 450.6 coal-fired plant.
This uplift in spark spreads Gas Production m 36.6 130.2 39.6 combined with the April 2014 increase in the Gas Storage m 3.9 8.3 18.4 Carbon Price Support Rate see below resulted in greater use of gas-fired generation relative Total Wholesale operating profit 473.8 634.6 508.6 to coal.
The long-term trend points to gas continuing to enjoy this comparative advantage.
- EPM and Electricity Generation lower - contracts: long-term gas producer contracts, output from renewable energy primarily due power purchase agreements with SSEIncreasing wholesale to lower average wind speeds compared to owned plant and third parties and solid market transparency the previous year: lower coal-fired power fuel contracts: and SSE has led the way in responding to station output as a result of the March 14 - trading: where energy contracts are stakeholders desire for greater transparency closure of Units 1 and 2 at Ferrybridge and the transparently traded on international exchanges and increased liquidity in the short-term Ferrybridge Unit 4 fire in July 2014: and lower or through over the counter markets.
For three years dark spreads the difference between the it has consistently placed 100% of its electricity cost of coal and emissions allowances and Managing risks associated with energy generation and demand into NASDAQ OMX the price received for electricity generated procurement across these three routes is a Group Inc. and Nord Pool Spot ASs N2EX daily across the year all contributed to the fall in key challenge for EPM.
In taking this action SSE has helped to operating profit: procurement through a diverse portfolio, SSE deliver a new level of market transparency and - Gas Production day ahead wholesale ensures that, to an extent, its customers are liquidity which is now sufficient for independent gas prices were around one third lower on protected from the unavoidable volatility that retailers and does not represent any kind of average than for the same period last year exists in global markets.
which is the main reason for the significant fall in operating profit.
Overheads also Responding to market opportunities EPM priorities for the remainder increased by c. 10m in the year due to A number of key long-term trends, including of 2015 16 and beyond additional costs in the Bacton area: and an uncertain macroeconomic picture: volatile EPMs priorities include: - Gas Storage continued low gas price commodity prices: intense competition and - securing a stable and predictable supply volatility has further reduced the spread increasing government intervention: and the of energy to meet SSEs customers needs: between summer and winter gas prices continued journey to a low carbon economy, - driving business change to respond resulting in a lower Standard Bundled have resulted in wholesale markets which are effectively to new UK, RoI and EU regulations: Unit price being achieved.
This creates attractive - responding to market evolution and change: opportunities for those who have the assets, - identifying and agreeing new long term Energy Portfolio Management EPM capabilities and attributes required by key opportunities: and Maintaining a diverse energy portfolio stakeholders.
EPM will continue to proactively - continuing to support improved market The wholesale price of energy can fluctuate seek out these opportunities through a range transparency and liquidity initiatives.
significantly due to a number of factors including of activities including contractual agreements the economy, the weather, customer demand, and the provision of system services.
Generation Great Britain infrastructure availability, and world events.
EPM and Ireland overview seeks to manage the impact of these variables by Managing market issues in 2014 15 Managing and developing Generation maintaining a diverse and well-balanced portfolio Global energy markets continued to be volatile in assets to meet key priorities of contracts, trading positions and assets, both 2014 15, with knock-on impacts for UK markets SSEs primary objective for its Generation long and short term.
In doing so, SSE has: and customers.
Spot and day-ahead gas prices, division is to maintain a diverse generation - greater ability to manage wholesale energy which had reduced through the end of the winter portfolio, including the largest amount of price volatility, thereby protecting customers 2013 14 period, continued to fall into the renewable energy capacity in the UK and and ensuring greater retail price stability: summer of 2014 15 and beyond, with day-ahead Ireland, that helps keep the lights on by being - lower risk from wholesale prices through prices dropping to below 35p therm in early July, available, reliable and flexible.
This objective reduced exposure to volatility in any single their lowest level since September 2010.
This is underpinned by six principles that direct commodity: and trend, broadly, continued through the winter with the operation of, and investment in, its - more scope to deliver the investment needed prices averaging 50.5p therm over Winter 14 Generation portfolio: in Generation and Gas Production because compared to 63.8p therm the previous winter.
- compliance: with all safety standards and the risks associated with large-scale and environmental and regulatory requirements: long-term investments are contained by the This reduction in prices was initially driven by - diversity: to avoid over-dependency on balanced nature of SSEs energy businesses.
mild weather over the previous winter period particular fuels or technologies: 2013 14 and gas storage levels, which were - capacity: to contribute to the requirements In recent years, SSE has typically required around at their highest level in five years going into of the GB and Irish electricity systems: seven million therms of gas per day to supply summer 2014.
Another mild winter, coupled with - availability: to respond to system demand its customers and to fuel its power stations, geopolitical events, most notably the fall in the and market conditions: and around 130GWh of electricity per day global oil price, has kept downward pressure on - flexibility: to ensure that changes in demand to supply all its customers.
EPM has three commodity prices.
for electricity and the variability of generation primary routes to competitively and sustainably from wind farms can be addressed: and procure the fuels and energy it needs to meet Changes to the gas price have impacted the - sustainability: to support progressive this demand: profitability of electricity generation and gas reduction in the CO intensity of electricity 2 - assets: including upstream gas exploration production assets.
2014 15 saw an uplift in spark generated through the cost efficient and production and thermal and renewable spreads the difference between the cost of decarbonisation of its generation fleet.
electricity generation: gas and emissions allowances used by a CCGT 31 Strategic Report Wholesale continued Electricity generation capacity how much capacity is required to ensure security of supply under each of these March 15 March 14 mechanisms.
Once this volume has been Gas-fired generation capacity GB MW 4,262 4,262 determined they will signal the market, and Gasand oil-fired generation capacity Ire MW 1,068 1,068 then procure the necessary capacity through Coal-fired generation capacity GB inc. biomass co-firing MW 3,009 3,009 a competitive auction tender process.
Renewable generation capacity GB and Ire inc. pump storage MW 3,394 3,326 Responsibility for determining the volume of Total electricity generation capacity GB and Ire MW 11,733 11,665 capacity required to ensure a secure electricity supply, and for the timely signalling of this to Capacity excludes Ferrybridge units 1 and 2 c. 980MW and 2 units at Uskmouth c. 230MW which ceased operations at the end of March 2014. the market, therefore lies with National Grid and DECC.
Both organisations are confident SSEs generation assets are underpinned by on top of the cost of complying with the EU that they will fulfil this responsibility.
SSE will play a strong engineering focus on asset life and ETS.
The CPS rate has risen to c. 18 tonne in its part by working with DECC and National Grid ongoing equipment monitoring to maximise 2015 16: but the 2014 Budget announced that and by focusing on ensuring that its plant, where efficiency.
it would then be frozen until 2018 19, instead practicable, is available to generate at times of increasing as previously proposed.
It will also continue Maintaining a diverse - Capacity Market: In December 2014 the first to assist the UK government and National Grid Generation portfolio Capacity Auction for generation capacity in with their policy development and will engage In moving towards a lower carbon generation GB was held.
This competitively determined constructively with all parties on this issue.
mix SSE will, by the end of the decade, transition the volume of plant 49.3GW which would its generation assets from a portfolio weighted take on a capacity obligation, and the level Managing gas-fired power stations towards gas and coal, towards a portfolio more of capacity payment 19.40 kW these will SSE has three wholly-owned gas-fired power weighted towards gas and renewables.
receive for successfully providing capacity.
stations: Keadby Lincolnshire: 735MW : Medway A total of 4.4GW of SSEs 7.2GW pre-qualified Kent: 700MW and Peterhead Aberdeenshire: With this portfolio SSE continues to have plant were successful in the auction, and will 1,180MW.
In addition, SSE has a 50% stake in significant fuel diversity for producing electricity receive a total of 85m if they deliver this gas-fired power stations at Marchwood 840MW and retains a very flexible asset fleet.
It also capacity in 2018 19. total capacity and Seabank 1,164MW.
All of makes SSE the largest generator of electricity the stations output is contracted to SSE and from renewables across the UK and Ireland.
Contributing to security in 2014 15 these stations generated a total of electricity supply of 7.5GWh of electricity.
Each of SSEs three Generation Great Britain thermal Ofgem has consistently maintained that over wholly-owned gas-fired power stations has Managing the impact of marketplace the coming years electricity generation capacity recently undergone, or is undergoing, an conditions and the public policy margins will be lower than they were in recent investment programme: framework years due to weak market economics and EU - Keadby has been mothballed since March Uncertainty around market conditions and the regulations closing down older plant.
In March 2015 SSE announced that it public policy framework affecting electricity would look at options available to return the generation in Great Britain have continued to The UK Government, together with National station to service for the winter of 2015 16 create challenging conditions for SSEs thermal Grid as the System Operator and Ofgem, has and intends this to happen by the end of and renewables businesses.
decided to address this issue in two ways: October 2015: a final decision will be taken - in the longer term through the introduction later this year.
The station has taken on a As detailed above changes to commodity of a Capacity Market, which will begin in capacity obligation for 2018 19: prices resulted in the running hours and 2018 19: and - Medway is operational, and has taken on relative profitability of gas stations increasing - in the intervening period, through the a capacity obligation for 2018 19: and at the expense of coal stations during 2014 15.
Supplemental Balancing Reserve SBR - Peterhead reduced its TEC Transmission There have also been a number of public policy which began last winter 2014 15.
Entry Capacity to 400MW from 1 April interventions in recent years that impact on both 2014, which has prevented the station the development and operation of thermal In addition to these mechanisms National Grid from participating in the electricity market plant.
These include: already has the ability to manage moments since then due to its current configuration.
- Carbon Price Support: On 1 April 2013 when demand outstrips supply through a range Previously announced investment to alter the UK government increased the Carbon of different balancing and optimisation tools.
this configuration is under way, and will allow Price Support CPS rate in line with the level 400MW of Peterheads capacity to participate confirmed in Budget 2013.
This added a cost The design, implementation and operation of in the market from the end of October 2015. of 9.55 tonne of CO emissions in 2014 15 these mechanisms is ultimately determined by 2 for fossil-fuelled generation in Great Britain, DECC and National Grid.
They will determine In addition Peterhead has secured a number of contracts to provide support services to National Grid: GB thermal output - In May 2014 SSE signed a contract with National Grid to provide ancillary support March 15 March 14 services to the electricity system in the north Total Gas and oil-fired inc. CHP output GB GWh 9,537 10,085 of Scotland for one year.
Coal-fired inc. biomass co-firing output GWh 9,143 16,576 - This contract was terminated on 28 October 2014 when SSE signed a contract to provide Total output from thermal power stations GB GWh 18,680 26,661 up to 780MW of capacity to National Grids Gas and oil-fired inc. CHP output GB from fully owned stations included above GWh 2,000 4,729 Supplemental Balancing Reserve SBR 32 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
3. service, a contract which it successfully - the above capacity at Ferrybridge has been While factors such as compliance with executed over the winter.
opted in to the Limited Life Derogation option emissions regulations: the existing and - In March 2015 Peterhead was awarded a under the Industrial Emissions Directive IED.
likely future policy framework: SSEs own contract to provide voltage support to the long-term decarbonisation and business electricity system in the north of Scotland None of Ferrybridges capacity was successful objectives apply equally to coal-fired operations between April 2016 and September 2017. in the Capacity Market auction, whilst 1,294MW at both Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry, this fide-rated of Fiddlers Ferry 3 out of its 4 units announcement does not impact on existing Peterheads ability to successfully support did take on capacity obligations for 2018 19. operations at Fiddlers Ferry.
It has a derogation National Grid, together with the ongoing SSE has consistently said that the cost of the under the Transitional National Plan which investment in Carbon Capture and Storage at Carbon Price Support, along with the constraints allows it to remain open within specific the station see below, illustrates its strategic, imposed by the Industrial Emissions Direction, environmental and operating constraints: long-term value to the UK.
It also demonstrates the introduction of full auctioning of EU and a contract for the station to provide that there are options for existing assets outside emissions allowances, and the age of the 1,294 MW of fide-rated capacity for one year of the Capacity Market process.
stations, have been weighing heavily on the from October 2018 was secured in the Capacity long-term viability of coal assets.
The retention Despite experiencing challenges in recent years, of some coal-fired capacity contributes to and despite expected longer-term changes in As a result it announced, in March 2015, that it the diversity of SSEs generation portfolio and the way electricity is generated and used, it is would carry out a comprehensive and detailed maintains Fiddlers Ferrys contribution to the still anticipated that gas-fired power stations will review of its coal generation assets.
SSEs review security of electricity supplies.
The capacity eventually play an increasingly important role examined a number of factors including current at the station will, therefore, be entered into in electricity generation.
As a result, SSE will and future economic viability: compliance with the next Capacity Market Auction, at the end continue to maintain an option for CCGT, in emissions regulations: the existing and likely of 2015.
Great Britain, at Keadby 2 Lincolnshire.
It will future policy framework: SSEs own long-term not, however, make any significant additional decarbonisation and business objectives: and Investing for the future commitments to the project unless it is entered the impact on SSEs employees and the local through multi-fuel into and is successful in the Capacity Market communities within which the assets are based.
SSEs generation strategy is built upon managing auction process.
This means SSE will be risk through owning a diverse range of assets reviewing its options for Abernedd South Based on the conclusions of this review SSE has, and fuels from which to meet its customers Wales, and is putting all development work regrettably, made the difficult decision to cease needs.
Solid fuel remains an important part at Seabank 3 Bristol on hold.
coal-fired electricity generation at Ferrybridge of that strategy.
The emissions abatement Contributing to the development equipment on one of the two units at the station, Multi-fuel plants use waste derived fuels to of Carbon Capture and Storage Unit 4, was badly damaged during a serious fire generate electricity and therefore benefit from SSE is continuing to work with Shell UK as a at the site in 2014.
SSE has been pursuing options an additional revenue opportunity in the form strategic partner in the proposed CCS project at to reinstate this equipment, but this activity will of a gate fee for taking the waste.
They offer SSEs gas-fired power station in Peterhead.
The now stop, although the work to demolish the a sustainable energy solution that has lower project aims to create the first commercial-scale damaged equipment will continue.
As a result, carbon intensity than other solid fuels and application of CCS technology at a gas-fired Unit 4 will be removed from service with which further diversifies the range of fuels power station anywhere in the world by capturing immediate effect.
Unit 3 will return to service in that SSE can deploy in its generation fleet.
up to one million tonnes of CO annually.
Shell is August 2015 following successful completion of 2 leading the development of the project, and will the planned outage which began in April 2015.
As noted above, the SSE and Wheelabrator take responsibility for the construction of the CO Technologies Inc. 50:50 joint venture Multifuel 2 capture plant and thereafter the operation, SSE currently employs 172 people at its Energy Ltd MEL is currently commissioning transport and storage elements of the project.
It is a 300m 69MW multi-fuel generation facility expected that some will be redeployed to adjacent to SSEs existing Ferrybridge coal Front End Engineering Design FEED work elsewhere in the SSE group, including Keadby power station.
Construction of the facility is has been ongoing throughout the 2014 15, power station, or will have a continuing role complete, the commissioning programme and the project team is in discussions with the beyond March 2016 in managing the closure is well under way and the plant is expected UK Government about securing the next stage and decommissioning of the plant.
SSE will to be fully operational in autumn this year.
of support through its CCS Commercialisation also offer voluntary release on enhanced terms, The station has taken on a capacity obligation programme.
and seek to avoid compulsory redundancies.
Managing coal-fired power stations SSE remains committed to the Ferrybridge A Development Consent Order DCO SSE has two wholly-owned coal-fired power site, and the local community in which it sits.
Application for a second multi-fuel facility stations: Ferrybridge Yorkshire: 1,014MW The 300m Ferrybridge Multifuel 1 project is at the Ferrybridge site has been submitted and Fiddlers Ferry Lancashire, 1,995MW : due to be fully commissioned in the second to the Planning Inspectorate with a final - all of the above capacity at Fiddlers Ferry half of 2015, and will provide 50 full-time jobs decision expected by the autumn.
and Ferrybridge is compliant with the Large at the site, with more created in the supply Combustion Plant Directive LCPD and chain.
It supported over 500 jobs at the peak able to continue to generate electricity of construction, and involved around 30 local beyond 2015: companies.
The Ferrybridge Multifuel 2 project, - the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry as well as all currently being developed at the site, would of SSEs gas-fired power generating plant create similar benefits if it is granted planning has been opted in to the Transitional National consent a planning decision is due in 2015, Plan TNP for emissions and dust: and see below.
33 Strategic Report Wholesale continued Generation Great Britain renewable Producing electricity from renewable sources SSE continues to be the UKs leading generator Investing in sustainable of electricity from renewable sources and the largest generator of electricity from wind across the UK and Ireland.
communities Managing the impact of market conditions and the public policy SSEs community investment organisations, community groups and framework programme delivers financial support charities working in the regions covered SSE continues to operate under the policy to a diverse range of community by the fund.
support regime for renewable generation projects near to its renewable capacity in GB, currently delivered through the energy developments.
The fund launched in the Highland Renewables Obligation RO the RO applies also region in May 2014.
The first round of in Northern Ireland : and the recently introduced More than 25 local SSE community awards totalled over 1m and included Contracts for Difference CfD mechanism.
funds have distributed over 18m across start-up grants of 5,000 for projects 1,200 projects in the last 10 years.
such as the surfing centre in Thurso, SSE believes the CfD to be a viable, long-term and larger grants like the 225,000 support mechanism for low carbon generation.
In 2014, SSE launched the SSE awarded to Scottish Canals for a new However, the mechanisms design changes Sustainable Development Fund, visitor centre, shop and five bespoke the way that investments in renewables are with the aim of supporting larger scale retail units for start-up businesses in evaluated by both developers and providers transformational projects at a regional Fort Augustus.
Absolute support for level allowing the benefits of its low carbon technologies is limited by the Levy renewable energy developments to The SSE Sustainable Development Control Framework budget which has the be accessible to a wider area.
The fund Fund and has since expanded to three reasonable objective of controlling costs to supports projects that deliver significant new local authority regions Scottish customers from government energy policies.
and sustainable benefits in at least one Borders, Perth and Kinross, and North This also means that there is competition for of three core areas: skills development Lincolnshire.
The fund is expected to support contracts.
In addition, the contract and job creation: community renewable deliver around 50m in funding for terms will impact the way in which renewable energy schemes: and enhancements strategic regional projects over the projects are developed and constructed.
to the natural and built environment.
It is open to all non-profit making SSE chose not to participate in the first CfD auction round, but will continue to analyse its portfolio with a view to participating in future.
Optimising the renewable development portfolio Since April 2007, SSE has invested nearly 4bn in renewable generation.
As it moves forward to the next phase of its renewable energy development pipeline, it is focusing on projects that best allow the efficient allocation of resources and economies of scale.
In order to support future investment in onshore wind assets SSE will, as outlined in March 2014, recycle capital by adding to its established programme of selective disposals of operational onshore wind assets and those in development.
Recent activity includes the agreement to sell Langhope Rig, a 16MW construction project, to GE Financial Services in March 2015.
Developing renewable energy schemes onshore In addition to projects in development see below, the following projects were in construction at 31 March 2015 and are key components of SSEs portfolio of strategic onshore wind projects in GB: - Strathy North 67MW Located in Sutherland, main site construction is under way and the site is due for completion in 2015.
- Dunmaglass 94MW Main construction at Renewable generation GB this site south of Inverness is progressing well: March 15 March 14 the site is scheduled for completion in 2016.
Conventional hydro capacity MW 1,150 1,150 Onshore wind capacity MW 1,008 940 SSE has a number of projects at different stages Offshore wind capacity MW 355 355 in the development cycle.
These include: Dedicated biomass capacity MW 38 38 - Clyde Extension pre-construction up to 172MW this project, an extension of SSEs Renewable capacity MW 2,551 2,483 operational Clyde wind farm, was consented Renewable capacity qualifying for ROCs MW c. 1,900 c. 1,900 by Scottish Ministers in July 2014.
In May 2015 Pumped storage capacity MW 300 300 a final investment decision FID was taken Pumped storage output GWh 190 252 to proceed with the project.
It is expected Conventional hydro output GWh 3,726 3,753 to be fully operational by the end of 2016.
Onshore wind output GWh 2,219 2,511 - Stronelairg with consent up to 240MW Offshore wind output GWh 1,191 1,338 located in the Great Glen in the Highlands the Biomass output GB GWh 63 67 project was consented by Scottish Ministers in June 2014.
In August the John Muir Trust Renewable output GWh 7,199 7,669 announced it had lodged a petition to the Wind output excludes 268GWh of constrained off generation in 2014 15 and 243GWh in 2013 14 Court of Session asking for this decision to be judicially reviewed.
SSE is participating fully in the legal process and a decision is expected before the end of the year.
The scale of offshore wind, and its long-held A final investment decision FID will only be - Bhlaraidh pre-construction up to 108MW commitment to maintaining a diverse portfolio made if the project provides the return on capital located in the Great Glen this project was of generation assets, means SSE does not investment required to be compatible with the consented by Scottish Ministers in January currently believe it is prudent to construct risks involved.
SSE is progressing the project towards multiple offshore wind projects in parallel.
In the near term SSE will therefore continue Other offshore projects being managed - Viking with consent up to 457MW SSE to focus on progressing the Beatrice project.
In addition to Beatrice, SSE has an interest in share 50% located in Shetland the project It will continue to minimise development spend three further offshore wind farm developments.
has been involved in a prolonged legal on the other projects in which it has an interest In the near-term, SSE will undertake minimal dispute since it was consented by Scottish but will review the position if a positive final development work on these projects now that Ministers in April 2012.
In February 2015 the investment decision FID for Beatrice is made relevant planning consents have been secured.
Scottish Supreme Court dismissed the legal in early 2016. challenge.
SSE, along with its Joint Venture Galloper 340MW, 50:50 partnership between partner, will now continue to develop the Preparing Beatrice for a final SSE and RWE Innogy.
In September 2014 project in 2015. investment decision SSE announced it would exit the project on - Strathy South in planning up to 133MW In April 2014, the UK government announced pre-agreed terms once RWE Innogy has made in July 2014 the Highland Councils Northern that Beatrice had been successful in securing a Final Investment Decision.
SSE is working with Planning Committee raised an objection to an Investment Contract or early CfD.
Securing RWE Innogy to explore alternative opportunities the project, which is located in Sutherland, this contract has enabled SSE and its partners for the project.
adjacent to SSEs Strathy North site.
This to continue to invest in the engineering and objection is now being examined further procurement work required to maintain progress Seagreen 3,500MW a 50:50 partnership at a Public Local inquiry, and SSE is towards a final investment decision FID in between SSE Renewables and Fluor Limited.
participating fully in this process.
Consent for the Phase 1 in the zone totalling 1,050MW was granted by Scottish Ministers Whilst current policy and market signals do In November 2014, SSE agreed to sell 25% in October 2014. not favour investment in new pumped storage, of the Beatrice Offshore Wind Farm BOWL SSE continues to explore the conditions for to fund management company Copenhagen Forewind 7,200MW a four-way partnership investment to allow progress with its 600MW Infrastructure Partners CIP.
The sale was with RWE Innogy, Statoil and Statkraft.
Consent consented pumped storage scheme at Coire consistent with SSEs strategic approach to the for the first two projects within the development Glas in the Scottish Highlands.
project announced in March 2014, and secured Creyke Beck A & B 2,400MW was granted a strong additional partner to take the project in February 2015, with a decision on the next Developing renewable energy forward.
After the divestment, SSE owns a 50% two projects expected in August.
capacity offshore share of the BOWL project: CIP owns 25% with In 2014 15 SSEs efforts and resources have Repsol maintaining its ownership of the been focused on progressing the Beatrice remaining 25%.
project up to 664MW planned for the outer Moray Firth: and obtaining consents for the Onshore wind farm development pipeline GB Dogger Bank Forewind Phase 1 and 2 and March 15 March 14 Seagreen Phase 1 projects.
It has successfully In operation MW 1,008 940 achieved these objectives.
In construction or pre-construction MW 457 246 With consent for development MW 475 358 In planning MW over 150 over 500 Pre-planning MW over 200 around 300 35 Strategic Report Wholesale continued Generation Ireland SSE Irish Generation capacity and output Producing electricity for the March 15 March 14 Single Electricity Market Onshore wind capacity NI MW 88 88 Through the last months of 2014 15 SSE carried Onshore wind capacity ROI MW 456 456 out final commissioning tests on the new All Ireland wind capacity MW 544 544 464MW Great Island CCGT unit grid connection Thermal capacity ROI MW 1,068 1,068 capacity set at 431MW, with the station being handed over for commercial operation on All Ireland generation capacity MW 1,612 1,612 17 April 2015.
The commissioning of the new Excludes 464MW at Great Island net increase 224MW operational from 17 April 2015. unit coincided with the retirement of the old 240MW HFO unit.
Onshore wind output NI GWh 212 208 Onshore wind output ROI GWh 1,055 1,142 The new CCGT station, which is now among All Ireland wind output GWh 1,267 1,350 the cleanest and most efficient natural gas Thermal output ROI GWh 251 25 power plants on Irelands national grid, will generate enough electricity to power the All Ireland generation output GWh 1,518 1,375 equivalent of half a million Irish homes and the transition from heavy fuel oil to gas improves Onshore wind farm development pipeline All Ireland the carbon intensity of SSEs fleet.
March 15 March 14 In operation MW 544 544 SSE is the third largest generator by capacity In construction or pre-construction MW 152 116 on the island and also trades across the With consent for development MW 33 56 interconnectors between GB and Ireland.
In planning MW c. 80 c. 100 Pre-planning MW over 150 over 150 Delivering and developing new capacity for electricity generation Galway Wind Park in construction 174MW project with JV partners Coillte has started Generation priorities in GB and around one third lower than the previous year.
construction and, once completed, will be Ireland for 2015 16 and beyond Overheads also increased in the year due to the Irelands largest wind farm.
This completion - Comply fully with all safety standards additional costs in the Bacton area.
date will qualify the project to be supported and environmental requirements: under the REFIT II support scheme.
- Ensure power stations are available to SSE continues to seek new opportunities to respond to customer demand, market increase its reserve base to meet portfolio Tievenameenta in construction 32MW conditions and contractual obligations: demand requirements.
The UK and north Located in County Tyrone, this 32MW project - Operate power stations efficiently to achieve west Europe remains the focus for this activity, is due to be commissioned in 2017, thereby the optimum conversion of primary fuel as it provides a relatively stable tax and fiscal qualifying for NIRO support.
into electricity: regime and is near to SSEs domestic energy - Manage effectively the transition of supply markets.
Slieve Kirk Extension consented 9MW Ferrybridge power station towards closure SSE recently received planning for the and decommissioning: and SSE has not set a target scale for its upstream extension, which will bring the total - Ensure new assets are commissioned and business and will continue to evaluate installed capacity at the site to 83MW operate successfully.
opportunities in line with its investment in 2017. criteria and financial discipline.
Gas Production March 15 March 14 Engaging in the ISEM reform process Monitoring developments gas production Operating profit m 36.6 130.2 Reform of Ireland and Northern Irelands SEM SSE currently has no involvement in any shale Production m therms 397.9 414.1 market is required in order to comply with the gas operations.
It is, however, continuing to Capital investment m 21.0 40.9 EU Electricity Target Model.
The regulators monitor the development of shale gas in the in each jurisdiction have progressed the UK and the proposed fiscal and tax regimes Integrated SEM I-SEM project over the Producing from North Sea assets surrounding its potential exploitation.
course of 2014 15, with the new market SSEs upstream portfolio is 100% gas weighted, due to be introduced by the end of 2017. and at 31 March 2015, it was estimated to hold Gas Production priorities for in excess of 2.2 billion therms of reserves.
2015 16 and beyond SSE has been heavily involved in all stages Gas Production priorities for the 2015 16 of the consultation process and will remain Total output in the year to 31 March 2015 was financial year include: engaged throughout the project, advocating 397.9 million therms, compared with 414.1 - ensuring the safe operation of all the assets an optimum design for customers and million therms in the previous year.
This slight in which it has an ownership interest: industry stakeholders.
fall in production in 2014 15 was due to a - stringent cost control on operator budgets natural decline in the field output.
and enhanced monitoring and reporting of Separately to reform of the market operator work programmes: and arrangements, the regulators and System The reduction in operating profit 36.6m - continuing the robust investment appraisal Operators are involved in a project to compared to 130.2m from gas production process to identify potentially suitable review the ancillary services necessary during the period was mainly a result of lower acquisition targets.
day ahead wholesale gas prices which were 36 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Gas Storage cost base as a result of ageing asset investment of around 12.
SSE is currently working with March 15 March 14 requirements and the decision by the Valuation affected employees in order to achieve this Operating profit m 3.9 8.3 Office Agency during the period to effectively reduction through voluntary means where Customer nominations double business rates for most gas storage possible, with good progress being made.
Capital investment m 14.3 10.6 Gas Storage priorities In the light of these challenges, alongside the in 2015 16 and beyond Delivering gas storage services requirements to continue to invest to ensure Gas storage priorities for the financial year and from Hornsea and Aldbrough the highest standards of asset management beyond include: Both sites have continued to operate to meet are maintained, SSE has been reviewing its gas - ensuring on-going high safety standards for the needs of its customers through 2014 15: storage business on an ongoing basis to ensure operation of the facilities at Hornsea and - Hornsea Atwick again met 100% of customer that it continues to provide valuable flexibility Aldbrough and the compliant and effective nominations with the site 98% available and hedging services to its customers and hence operation of the Gas Storage business: and during the winter period except in instances the wider UK gas market, while being as well - continuing to listen to existing and potential of planned maintenance and 87% available positioned as possible to take advantage of customers, working with them to shape flexible over the full year: and future market developments.
products which add value to their portfolios.
- Aldbrough met 100% of customer nominations and was 87% available overall SSE has, as a result, identified that the costs of Wholesale Conclusion except in instances of planned maintenance.
operating, maintaining and upgrading the older Creating sustainable, long-term value from Following temporary removal of two of the withdrawal plant at its Hornsea Atwick facility wholesale markets for SSE and its customers site caverns during the previous year, these are not currently supported by market returns is at the heart of SSEs Wholesale businesses.
were both in commercial operation by the and, as such, announced in March 2015 its The responsible production, storage and end of the year.
decision to mothball 33% of the withdrawal delivery of energy and related services: a focus capacity of the site 6mcm d with effect from on meeting the needs of its customers: ongoing However, the economic environment for gas 1 May 2015.
This change to the sites capability rigour in the development and delivery of new, storage facilities has continued to be challenging will alter the shape of the storage service it can and re-evaluation of existing, assets to optimise during the year as illustrated by the significant offer, creating a greater value product for SSEs its portfolio, mean that SSEs activities across reductions in operating profit reported by SSEs gas storage customers.
its Wholesale businesses continue to support gas storage business.
Operators have been faced the groups core purpose and first financial with low operating returns due to unfavourable As previously announced, this decision will result objective of annual growth in the dividend market conditions, combined with an increasing in a reduction in Gas Storage employee numbers payable to shareholders.
An efficient new gas-fired power station for Ireland SSEs new Combined Cycle Gas Turbine hours have been expended by the entire CCGT power station at Great Island, project team and at its peak over 1,200 Co. Wexford, Ireland entered into full contractors were employed on-site.
The project has now been successfully delivered on budget and to the highest The 464MW-rated CCGT station, safety and environmental standards, which is one of the cleanest and most in line with SSEs core values of Safety, efficient gas-fired power plant on Efficiency and Excellence.
Irelands national grid, will generate enough energy to power the equivalent The commissioning of the new CCGT of half a million Irish homes.
plant coincided with the immediate retirement of the existing 240MW Commercial operation marked heavy fuel oil power plant which was first the culmination of months of commissioned at Great Island almost 50 commissioning activities following years ago, in 1967.
The decommissioning more than two years of construction.
of the existing plant and the addition The project was acquired by SSE in of the new gas-fired plant to SSEs October 2012 from Endesa Ireland in generation fleet, significantly the very early stages of construction.
decarbonises electricity generation in Since then almost three million working the all-island Single Electricity Market.
