STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model Spire Healthcare is a well-diversified business and a key part of the UKs healthcare system.
Each of our 38 hospitals, 12 clinics and two Specialist Care Centres provide hotel-style surroundings and up-to-date equipment, as well as dedicated doctor, nursing and specialist staff to support the practice of our consultants.
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE % The patient pathway Orthopaedics We receive patients through multiple routes.
G ynaecology, plastic surgery, 23.0 urology and others The patients journey typically begins with a visit to their GP, who will either treat the patient directly or H igh acuity services, including cardiology, 49.5 cardiothoracic, neurosurgery, oncology provide a referral to a consultant.
The procedure or and general treatment provided by the consultant can be funded by the NHS, a PMI provider or by Self-pay.
Key relationships KEY ACTIVITIES % Referrers: Patients GPs and Payors and staff Diagnostic consultants Out-patient services 15.7 In-p atient daycase procedures 14.0 Diagnostic Physiotherapy Imaging In-patient daycase MRI CT scanning procedures Pathology Orthopaedics Patient 70.3 Out-patient services Cardiology Consulting Neurology Minor procedures Oncology GP referral Treatments General surgery Source: Company information.
Health checks Consultant FUNDING SOURCES % 3.6 PMI Self-pay Private NHS NHS Medical e-Referral 17.7 Self-pay Insurance Service Other 49.1 PMI provides almost half of Spire Healthcares Open, direct or fee-capped referrals revenue and is forecast to grow as the economic 29.6 recovery gathers momentum.
The NHS uses the independent acute medical NHS Spire sector extensively to meet capacity needs and hospital Local waiting list time targets.
Healthcare including contracting Patients without medical insurance are foundation hospital increasingly paying for PMI themselves.
16 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION How we are different How we create value Prompt access Patients EXCELLENT CLINICAL OUTCOMES Prompt and flexible access to diagnostics, giving patients the High-quality and experienced consultants, reassurance that comes from a clear treatment plan.
state-of-the-art equipment in modern facilities and exceptional nursing and medical support staff deliver excellent clinical outcomes and low infection rates.
Consultant-led care Spire Healthcares consultants are our partners in providing high Consultants levels of care to patients from start to finish of their treatment.
LEADERS IN THEIR FIELDS All our consultants are on the General Medical Councils We have invested consistently in further capacity, Specialist Register.
new hospitals, equipment and additional services, and continue to attract the very best consultants.
Superior facilities Employees Patients value the choice of when and where to be treated, in EXCEPTIONAL PEOPLE hospitals that combine exceptional levels of infection control High-quality training, investment in equipment with hotel-style levels of customer service.
and excellent hospital environments attract first-rate staff.
This, along with acknowledging good work when it is delivered, ensuring lines of communications are always clear and creating growth opportunities, contributes to retaining Well-invested, scaleable base a happy and successful workforce.
We have invested consistently in further capacity, new hospitals, equipment and additional services.
Shareholders DIVIDENDS We consider the dividend to be the core element of shareholder return and something on which INVESTED SINCE SPIRE HEALTHCARE WAS FORMED they should be able to depend.
We aim to continue to pay a dividend in line with our stated policy and will return surplus cash to shareholders 725m when available.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 17
