Strategic Report Networks Keeping the lights on and supporting growth Overview Networks operating Networks Regulated Asset Value Transmitting and distributing energy profit m RAV net bn SSE has an ownership interest in the energy networks businesses in electricity transmission 936.8m 7.35bn in the north of Scotland, electricity distribution 1.8% 7.8% in the north of Scotland and southern central England and in gas distribution in Scotland SSE is involved in: electricity transmission: The RAV is the price paid for  distribution and gas distribution regulated energy networks when they were and southern England.
These regionally through Scotia Gas Networks.
privatised plus allowed capital expenditure less depreciation.
It is indexed to the Retail defined businesses are subject to economic Price Index.
Customer minutes Customer minutes Distribution networks capital Transmission networks capital lost north lost south expenditure m expenditure m 69 57 327.6m 467.2m -10.4% -14.9% 6.3% 33.8% Excluding exceptional events, customer Excluding exceptional events, customer SSE owns and invests in two electricity SSE owns and invests in the transmission minutes lost is the average number of minutes lost is the average number of minutes distribution networks companies: Scottish network in the north of Scotland through minutes that customers are without electricity that customers are without electricity supply Hydro Electric Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission.
SSEs north of Scotland in a year.
SSEs network in central southern Southern Electric Power Distribution.
network distributes electricity to around England distributes electricity to around 800,000 properties.
39 Strategic Report Networks continued Electricity Transmission Network key indicators Increasing operating profit for March 15 March 14 Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission Electricity transmission In SHE Transmission, operating profit increased Operating profit m 184.1 136.7 by 34.7% to 184.1m.
This reflects the increase Regulated Asset Value RAV m 1,732 1,330 in regulated revenue as a result of the major Capital expenditure m 467.2 349.2 programme of capital investment undertaken Connection offers provided in required period 97 54 in recent years.
Since the current RIIO T1 Price Control started in April 2013, SHE Transmissions capital investment has totalled 816.4m.
For Electricity distribution 2015 16 as a whole, SHE Transmission expects Operating profit m 467.7 507.0 to invest over 600m, including the first full year Regulated Asset Value RAV m 3,159 3,050 of construction on the Caithness to Moray Capital expenditure m 327.6 308.3 transmission link.
Electricity Distributed TWh 39.6 40.4 Customer minutes lost SHEPD average per customer 69 77 Managing SHE Transmission Customer minutes lost SEPD average per customer 57 67 through a period of rapid growth Customer interruptions SHEPD per 100 customers 70 75 SHE Transmission is responsible for maintaining Customer interruptions SEPD per 100 customers 60 68 and investing in the transmission network that serves around 70% of the land mass of Scotland, Scotia gas networks including remote and island communities.
As Operating profit SSEs share m 285.0 276.6 the licensed transmission company for an area Regulated Asset Value SSEs share m 2,459 2,440 with a significant amount of generation from Capital and replacement expenditure SSEs share m 169.9 160.9 renewable sources seeking to connect to the Uncontrolled gas escapes attended within one hour % 98.7 98.7 electricity network, SHE Transmission is required SGN gas mains replaced km 1,042 1,088 to ensure that there is sufficient capacity for projects committed to generating electricity.
As a result of the requirement to connect Owning, operating and a financial backbone and operational focus for large volumes of dispersed renewable energy investing in Networks SSE and balance its activities in the competitive generation, SSE has committed to a major The performance of SSEs  and Retail markets.
programme of investment in electricity regulated electricity networks businesses is transmission infrastructure in the SHE reported within Networks, as is the performance The Networks businesses are core to SSEs Transmission area to support the transition to of SGN in which SSE has a 50% stake.
strategy in the short-, mediumand long-term lower carbon electricity generation, increase but they face challenges of increasing scale security of supply and promote economic growth.
 network and complexity in the years ahead.
To ensure companies with a growing Regulated they get the level of senior management input SSE maintains a significant portfolio of work to Asset Value they need to address those challenges, the develop and construct local connections for SSE has an ownership interest in five  of these businesses was re-shaped new generation sites across SHE Transmissions regulated energy network companies: in December 2014, including the appointment licence area.
In the year, 97 new connection - Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission 100% : of a new Managing Director.
offers were provided in the required period.
- Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution 100% : - Southern Electric Power Distribution 100% : Financial performance in Networks Delivering the Beauly-Denny line - Scotland Gas Networks 50% : and During 2014 15 operating profit in Networks Transmission Investment for Renewable - Southern Gas Networks 50%.
was 936.8m, contributing 49.8% of SSEs total Generation TIRG is a mechanism that preceded operating profit.
This comprised comparisons Strategic Wider Works see below to provide SSE estimates that the total Regulated Asset with the same period last year : a framework for funding large transmission Value RAV of its  projects.
SHE Transmission has one project in businesses is 7,350m, up 530m from 6,820m at 31 March 2014, comprising around: - 1,732m for electricity transmission: Networks operating profit - 3,159m for electricity distribution: and March 15 March 14 March 13 - 2,459m for gas distribution being 50% Transmission operating profit m 184.1 136.7 92.6 of SGNs total RAV.
Distribution operating profit m 467.7 507.0 511.6 SGN operating profit SSEs share m 285.0 276.6 234.1 SSE is the only energy company in the UK to be involved in electricity transmission, electricity Total Networks Operating Profit m 936.8 920.3 838.3 distribution and gas distribution.
Through Price Controls, Ofgem sets the index-linked revenue Electricity Transmission the network companies can earn through March 15 March 14 charges levied on users to cover costs and earn Operating profit m 184.1 136.7 a return on regulated assets.
Although the Price Regulated Asset Value RAV m 1,732 1,330 Control mechanism is complex and demanding, Capital expenditure m 467.2 349.2 these lower-risk, , Connection offers provided in required period 97 54  businesses provide 40 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
3. construction under this mechanism the replacement of the Beauly-Denny line between Beauly and Wharry Burn, near Dunblane.
It is on programme to complete the majority of its Working safely at height outstanding works associated with the BeaulyDenny network reinforcement in the summer of 2015.
SHE Transmission has, to date, successfully constructed 537 new towers along its section of Safety is the number one priority Work began in 2010 and finished the 220km overhead line route and has safely at SSE.
And when you consider the in October 2014.
The construction energised and integrated 127km of overhead line remote areas it operates in you can included a total of a 21 miles access between Beauly and Tummel Bridge substations.
track and 70 foundations on which the towers were built.
In February 2014, The Highland Council served SHE Transmission is responsible for the SSE with a noise abatement notice regarding the operation of transmission lines in some The team collaborated with stakeholders substation at Beauly.
SSE announced in August of the most challenging landscapes in including SEPA, Historic Scotland and 2014 that it would invest around 2.5m in noise the country.
None more so than the Scottish National Heritage to minimise abatement equipment.
This equipment has been Corrieyairack Pass, south east of Fort any environmental impact during installed and SSE and The Highland Council are Augustus.
The pass rises to over 2,500ft construction.
This included establishing continuing to monitor its impact.
and is on the route of the replacement a protected wildlife species plan and Beauly to Denny transmission line.
Construction of two remaining towers and fitting a further 16km of overhead conductor When replacing the previous Despite working in remote surroundings will complete the 400kV works in SHE transmission line, engineers from SHE and enduring harsh weather, combined Transmissions area.
Energisation of the final Transmission constructed a total of 70 with the logistics of working at the top 93km section is dependent on completion electrical towers over the pass, including of a mountain, the Corrieyairack Pass of Scottish Power Transmission works to the the highest in the UK.
They endured construction project was completed south of Wharry Burn, which SP Transmission challenging terrain and harsh weather on time and due to the extensive and reports are scheduled to be completed in as they worked their way to the summit.
careful planning and meticulous November 2015.
The remaining rationalisation preparation, no safety incidents occurred.
schemes located at Beauly, Amulree and in the Cairngorms National Park remain on course to be completed during 2015.
Works to dismantle the original 132kV overhead line and to reinstate land used during construction are progressing with a target completion date in 2016.
Based on expenditure to date 616.3 m and known issues, including the interface with SP Transmissions section of the line, the forecast cost is now not expected to exceed 680m.
Further discussions continue to take place with SP Transmission and Ofgem on coordination with the networks in the south of Scotland: and the timescales and full cost of completion.
SHE Transmission is in discussion with Ofgem regarding recovery of efficiently incurred costs following completion of the construction works.
Delivering under Strategic Wider Works SHE Transmission is now two years into the RIIO-T1 Price Control.
Under this framework Ofgem recognises the requirement for SHE Transmission to significantly expand its network over the period of the price control to facilitate the growth of renewable generation in the north of Scotland in order to meet national renewable energy targets.
The exact timing and scale of growth can be fluid and dependent on the changing requirements of developers.
To allow these projects to be delivered in this dynamic environment, Ofgem developed the Strategic Wider Works mechanism whereby it considers on a case-by-case basis the evidence presented by SHE Transmission to decide whether a project is needed.
It then considers SHE Transmissions proposed solution in detail, 41 Strategic Report Networks continued scrutinises the costs and approves funding.
on the delivery of an islands onshore wind strike - a broad framework for the regulation of SHE Transmission is currently delivering three price with associated budget allocation.
The UK transmission asset delivery: and major projects under the Strategic Wider Government is expected to confirm the position - expanded use of competitive tendering Works mechanism: including EU State Aid approval this summer, where Ofgem believes it can drive efficiency, enabling developers to bid for CfDs in the with a focus on new substantial assets that Caithness-Moray: auction scheduled to open in October.
SHE can be easily identified and separated from In December 2014, Ofgem announced its Transmission already has well-developed the surrounding network.
approval of capital funding of 1,118m 2013 14 proposals for a cable connection between prices for the upgrade of SHE Transmissions Beauly and the Isle of Lewis.
Work is under Ofgem issued its formal consultation on the network between Caithness and Moray, way with Ofgem to allow submission of a licence modifications to enhance the role of the including a High Voltage Direct Current HVDC needs case in December 2015 to enable System Operator and mitigate arising conflicts subsea cable beneath the Moray Firth.
The delivery of this potential project.
of interest in April 2015, with these modifications project will enable the connection of up to currently envisaged to take effect later this year.
1,200MW of additional generation capacity in the Shetland: The other changes remain subject to further, north of Scotland and the islands.
It is scheduled The delivery of a transmission connection more detailed development by Ofgem and to be operational by the end of 2018.
Contracts between Shetland and mainland Scotland is DECC the Department of Energy and Climate have now been awarded for all main elements subject to the same conditions that are being Change.
SHE Transmission will continue to of the work.
Enabling works are under way at addressed through the work of the Scottish engage with these parties as their proposals converter station sites in Caithness and Moray: Island Renewables Delivery Forum.
As in the develop in order to understand at the earliest and at substation sites in Caithness, Sutherland case of the Western Isles connection, SHE opportunity the potential impact on SHE and Ross-shire.
Early exploratory drilling at Transmission has a well-developed proposal Transmissions future investment programme.
the Noss Head landfall of the subsea cable in for the installation of an HVDC circuit between Caithness has helped to identify the optimal Noss Head in Caithness and Upper Kergord Supporting sustainable growth location to minimise risk during the installation in Shetland.
An option exists with a preferred SHE Transmission is committed to maximising process.
Manufacture of the specialised subsea supplier to deliver the cable within generation the positive economic and social impact of its and onshore cables required is under way.
Subject to resolution of work and the lasting benefits it can deliver for Enabling works for onshore cable installation the policy issues affecting island generators, SHE the communities it works in.
In the course of the in Caithness are due to begin later in 2015.
Transmission is working with Ofgem to prepare efficient delivery of its construction programme, The first revenues will be received in 2015 16. a needs case for submission in December 2015 it actively promotes opportunities for the local to allow timely delivery of the connection.
supply chain and supports a diverse range of Kintyre-Hunterston: training and employment opportunities in the Construction of the new substation building East Coast: local and regional economies.
To measure at Crossaig is complete and transformer SHE Transmission is planning to undertake and enhance its impact, SHE Transmission has deliveries took place in March and April 2015. works on the existing 275kV East Coast commissioned work which showed that the All 50 steel towers between Crossaig and Transmission line to increase the capacity Beauly-Denny project is delivering Gross Value Carradale have been constructed and onshore available from these circuits.
The line runs Added for the UK of around 528m 2010 prices cable installation in Kintyre was completed from Blackhillock in Moray to Kincardine in and has supported an average of 2,000 jobs in April 2015.
Marine cable installation and Fife.
Development of a needs case submission each year over seven years.
remaining onshore works at Hunterston, is under way for what is envisaged to be the in conjunction with SP Transmission, are first phase of works.
This will also consider Electricity Transmission priorities scheduled to allow energisation by the end the optimal timing for longer-term investment for 2015 16 and beyond of 2015.
Ofgem has given capital funding to upgrade the assets to 400kV as further For SHE Transmission, the core activity for the approval of 207m nominal prices.
rest of this decade will be construction.
Against this background, its priorities for the rest of Beauly-Mossford: SHE Transmission has a number of additional 2015 16 and beyond are to: All substation and underground cable works are potential SWW reinforcements at earlier stages - meet key milestones in projects under now complete.
The replacement overhead line in the planning and development process.
construction, in a way that is consistent with is on schedule to be completed in late 2015.
It continues to work with communities and all safety and environmental requirements: Ofgem has given capital funding approval of other interested parties to identify the best - provide an excellent service to all generation 68m nominal prices for the works.
available options to progress the necessary and demand customers who rely on consent applications in order to meet the its network: Working on future transmission links needs of generators.
- continue to implement the new operational SHE Transmission has a number of further regimes for the 2013-21 Price Control and projects at advanced stages in the development Responding to proposed regulatory maintain high levels of system availability: process.
These projects will be submitted for changes for electricity transmission - work within the changing policy and consideration by Ofgem once the necessary In its Final Conclusions on Integrated regulatory framework and, where appropriate, conditions are in place to support a needs case.
Transmission Planning and Regulation ITPR achieve regulatory approval for new links in published in March 2015, Ofgem confirmed its an efficient and timely manner: Western Isles: position on significant changes proposed to the - make progress with projects in development, SHE Transmission continues to work with all regulation of electricity transmission, and that it including implementing the programme of stakeholders on the development of grid links will take steps to implement: consulting with, and updating, interested parties: to the Scottish Islands, particularly through the - an enhanced role for the System Operator - maintain and develop effective stakeholder work of the Scottish Islands Renewables Delivery in identifying system needs and development relationships: and Forum.
In order to enable generation developers of options to meet them: - ensure it has the people, skills, resources to commit to funding island connections, the UK - measures to mitigate the conflict of interest and supply chain relationships that will be and Scottish Governments are actively working with the System Operators role: necessary to support growth.
Electricity Distribution with other agencies to identify customers with medical or other needs that require special March 15 March 14 attention during a power outage.
Operating profit m 467.7 507.0 Regulated Asset Value RAV m 3,159 3,050 In addition it has invested in improved customer Capital expenditure m 327.6 308.3 communications by: Electricity distributed TWh 39.6 40.4 - further developing the industry-leading Customer minutes lost SHEPD average per customer 69 77 Power Track app, which gives real time Customer minutes lost SEPD average per customer 57 67 information on outages by postcode: Customer interruptions SHEPD per 100 customers 70 75 - introducing a new rolling news website for Customer interruptions SEPD per 100 customers 60 68 up-to-the-minute information during storms: and - delivering more and earlier information Performance in Scottish and Southern During 2014 15, SSEPD invested 6.9m in through customer contact centres and social Energy Power Distribution SSEPD the replacement of the cable connecting media channels about power restoration times.
In a year of relatively mild weather which the Scottish mainland with Jura, which also included several periods of high winds affecting supplies the islands of Islay and Colonsay.
It SSEPD remains focused on listening to in particular the north of Scotland, SSEPDs expects to complete remaining work to protect its customers and delivering continuing networks achieved a reduction in both the the new cable during 2015.
It has engaged improvements, both to the resilience of its number of supply interruptions and the average actively with the development of Scotlands network and to the service it provides when time each customer was without power.
National Marine Plan to ensure that marine power cuts occur.
This work is in line with the new licensing arrangements recognise the interests RIIO-ED1 price control, under which financial The decrease in operating profit principally of customers in a secure and cost efficient incentives for customer satisfaction will be an results from a reduction in revenue across energy network serving the islands.
increasingly significant contributor to revenues.
the two networks compared with 2013 14 and higher ongoing depreciation charges.
Investment also included the widespread Keeping costs down and improving roll-out of innovative new technology capable customer service for RIIO ED1 If, in any year, regulated networks companies of delivering significant benefits to customers.
The DPCR5 price control period came to an end revenue is greater over recovery or lower For example, during 2014 15 SSEPD installed on 31 March 2015 and SSEPD is starting to tackle under recovery than is allowed under the 2,100 Bidoyng smart fuses on its low voltage the challenges and earn the potential rewards relevant Price Control, the difference is carried networks.
Under certain fault conditions, the of the new RIIO-ED1 regime which began on forward and the subsequent prices the smart fuse allows automatic restoration of 1 April 2015 and will run until 31 March 2023. companies may charge are varied.
In 2013 14 customer supplies within three minutes.
It the two networks over-recovered regulated also allows faster and more efficient location SSEPD has long supported the incentive-based revenue by 25m and this was reflected in of underground cable faults and can allow RIIO framework for networks price controls the 2014 15 tariffs.
During 2014 15 there was detection of imminent faults before they result given the clear benefits to customers of an under recovery of approximately 38m, in unplanned power interruptions.
SSEPD is increased transparency and greater focus meaning the year on year comparison has been currently the largest user of this technology on outputs and innovation.
It is clear from the impacted by around 63m as a result of timing in Great Britain, reflecting its commitment reduction in network allowed revenue under of revenue collection.
Due to a change in the to the timely application of innovations that the RIIO-ED1 settlement, the subsequent fall regulatory framework the 38m under recovery enhance customer service and deliver in underlying 2015 16 charges and the service in 2014 15 will not be reflected in customer operational efficiencies.
improvements required that customers will charges until 2016 17. benefit from this process.
Responding to feedback from customers Volume of electricity distributed SSEPD recognises the particular importance On 3 March 2015 British Gas lodged an The total volume of electricity distributed by the of its performance when exceptional weather appeal with the CMA on the RIIO-ED1 final two companies in the year to 31 March 2015 was events cause widespread disruption to customer determination affecting five Distribution 39.6TWh, compared with 40.4 in the previous supplies.
Following extensive consultation in the Network Operator groups, including SSEPD.
Under the electricity Distribution Price first half of 2014 and via constructive engagement Control for 2010-15, the volume of electricity with DECC and Ofgem storm reviews, SSEPDs SSEPD is focused on achieving the efficiencies distributed does not affect companies overall Reconnecting with Customers initiative has required by the new price control and ensuring allowed revenue although it does have an resulted in faster electricity supply restoration, that investors receive a fair return on the funding impact on the timing of revenue collection.
enhanced customer welfare support and clearer needed to operate and invest in the distribution communications during storm events.
It will engage Investing in distribution with the CMA as required to help ensure that any network resilience These improvements were recognised by outstanding issues are addressed in the right Capital expenditure in electricity distribution stakeholders following exceptional weather way and that the GB energy sector continues to networks was 327.6m in the year to 31 March events which affected the north of Scotland benefit from a stable and transparent regulatory 2015, taking the total for the 2010-15 Price during 2014 15.
The most recent of these events framework.
The CMAs determination of the Control to 1,441m.
The RAV of SSEs electricity occurred in early March 2015 and resulted in the appeal will not have an impact on distribution distribution networks at the end of the 2010-15 fastest ever restoration of supplies following companies base revenues in 2015 16. price control is estimated at 3,159m.
a Category 2 event in the north of Scotland, with over 110 high voltage faults tackled and all Co-operating with investigation SSEPDs network in the north of Scotland includes customers supplies restored within 24 hours.
On 20 January 2015, SSE plc was notified that 111 subsea distribution cables which are critical to SSEPD has also heavily promoted its Priority the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority had serving customers in 59 island communities.
Services for vulnerable customers and worked launched an investigation into whether SSE plc 43 Strategic Report Networks continued and the energy companies in SSE plcs group which provide electricity connections services had breached Chapter II of the Competition Act 1989 and or Article 102 Being part of Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in respect of the provision of noncontestable connections services in the a bigger team Southern Electric Power Distribution area.
Working for a new energy Team work is at the heart of SSEs especially those on its priority services solution for Shetland response to severe weather events register, are looked after while they are Since April 2014 SSEPD has been working that result in customers supply of without supply.
closely with Ofgem to prepare an open power being cut off.
competitive process to obtain from the market As a result of the storms in 2014 15 SSEs the lowest cost and most efficient solution to Before, during and after severe weather, Networks businesses engaged meet the future energy needs of customers on engineers, call centre employees and face-to-face with more than 6,000 its network in Shetland from 2019.
The future customer engagement teams from SSEs customers, serving them more than solution will take into account learning and Networks businesses all come together 4,000 meals from its own catering vans enduring elements from the Northern Isles to make sure people remain safe during in addition to providing food at local News Energy Solutions NINES project, which any power outage and have their supply hotels, restaurants and takeaways and was developed to reduce maximum demand reconnected as quickly as possible.
and enable the connection of more renewable energy generators in the context of the isolated The team working approach also The businesses have established close island network.
SSEPD is also working with extends beyond the company.
SSEs working relationships with Age UK, Ofgem to determine the best approach in Networks businesses have established Energy Action and Energy Action considering the timing and potential impact vital working partnerships with local Scotland, MacMillan Cancer Support of a mainland transmission cable link.
authorities, emergency services and and the British Red Cross to help fund an resilience and community groups agreed programme of crisis response Following public consultation with customers across its distribution areas in the north activities.
These will go to supporting and market participants, final preparations for of Scotland and central southern vulnerable customers who find the loss the competitive process are at an advanced England.
This ensures its customers, of power during an emergency situation.
The Pre-Qualification Stage began in April 2015 and, subject to final agreement with Ofgem, an invitation to tender will be issued in June 2015.
SSEPD is committed to working with Ofgem, communities and interested parties to conduct the required process and to deliver long-term, timely arrangements to meet the future needs of its Shetland customers.
Electricity Distribution priorities in 2015 16 and beyond During 2015 16 and beyond SSEs priorities in Electricity Distribution are to: - comply fully with all safety standards and environmental requirements: - place customers needs at the centre of plans for the networks, particularly by improving reliability so that the number and duration of power cuts is kept to a minimum: - ensure that the networks are managed as efficiently as possible, delivering required outputs while maintaining tight controls over day-to-day operational expenditure: - implement the changes required to deliver the cost efficiencies and customer service improvements to deliver a fair return to investors under the new RIIO-ED1 price control: - ensure that there is adequate capacity to meet challenging demand on the electricity system: and - continue progress on the deployment of innovative technology.
Gas Distribution SGN March 15 March 14 Performance in SGN Operating profit SSEs share m 285.0 276.6 SSE receives 50% of the distributable earnings Regulated Asset Value SSEs share m 2,459 2,440 from Scotia Gas Networks SGN, in line with Capital and replacement expenditure SSEs share m 169.9 160.9 its equity holding, and also provides some, Uncontrolled gas escapes attended within one hour % 98.7 98.7 but reducing, level of support through a SGN gas mains replaced km 1,042 1,088 managed service agreement.
The increase in SGNs operating profit reflects the timing of allowed revenue recovery, of the mains replacement expenditure was - meet regulatory outputs and maximise continued good operational performance incurred under the Iron Mains Risk Reduction incentives, while continuing to deliver and efficiencies.
In terms of operational Programme IMRRP which was started in 2002. value for all stakeholders: performance, 98.7% of uncontrolled gas This requires that iron gas mains within 30 - deliver a strong financial performance and escapes were attended within one hour metres of homes and premises must be replaced an acceptable shareholder return: and of notification, the same as last year, both over a 30 year period.
In 2014 15, SGN replaced - grow unregulated income to support exceeding the Ofgem standard of 97%.
1,042km of its metallic gas mains with modern the core business and build a diversified polyethylene plastic pipe.
portfolio of assets in the UK.
A small but growing part of SGNs operating profit is derived from non-GB regulated Innovating to deliver Networks Conclusion activities.
In February 2015, SGN and its partner sustainability and efficiency The continuing success of SSEs economicallyMutual Energy were awarded conveyance SGN continues to extend the delivery of regulated Networks will be founded on licences for the Northern Ireland Gas to the biogas through its network, with 10 working efficiency and innovation in operations, West project.
This investment of around 250m biogas plants connected to date.
Biogas is such as restoring power supplies following will involve the construction of 200km of high expected to play a key role in meeting 2020 interruptions: and investments, such as and intermediate pressure pipeline and 500km decarbonisation targets, while also contributing upgrading the transmission network in the of gas mains and services, bringing natural gas to the security and affordability of the UKs north of Scotland.
This efficiency, innovation to around 40,000 customers in eight mediumenergy supply.
During the year, SGN opened and investment, in turn, underpin SSEs ability sized towns west of Belfast for the first time.
its first biomethane injection site at Portsdown to target annual dividend increases of at least Construction is planned to begin during Hill, Hampshire, enabling highly efficient use RPI inflation.
2015 and continue into 2017, with the first of biogas with potential for wider application connections planned towards the end of of conditioning technology to other forms 2016 and first revenue earned in 2017. of gas in the future.
SGN aims to supply 250,000 customers with green gas by Implementing the new Gas 2021 and currently supplies around Distribution Price Control 67,000 homes.
SGN is focused on ensuring its outputs under the new RIIO framework are met, incentives Through Ofgems Network Innovation are maximised and innovation is delivered Competition, SGN is also delivering two effectively while running an efficient, safe pioneering projects with potential to deliver and reliable network.
substantial benefits to customers in the years ahead.
The Opening up the gas market project SGNs investment programme is key to this will deliver a 12 month trial to explore widening and, within overall cost allowances of over the range of gases that can be delivered through 4.6bn at 2012 13 prices, Ofgem has allowed the network, with potential to enhance security around 2.8bn over the eight year price control of supply and deliver a significant annual saving which runs until 2021 to cover new investment for UK gas customers.
and to manage the risks relating to SGNs existing assets.
This investment will allow During 2014 15, SGN became the first UK gas SGN to: distribution company to use the innovative - deliver a safe and reliable network for its robotics tool CISBOT, which allows inspection customers: and maintenance tasks to be carried out inside - minimise the impact on the environment and a live gas main, minimising associated road better communicate its work to customers excavations and removing the need for and communities: and disruption to customer supplies.
- deliver new customer-driven initiatives to help reduce fuel poverty and increase awareness Gas Distribution priorities of the dangers of carbon monoxide.
During 2015 16, SGNs priorities are to: - deliver excellent levels of safety and Investing in gas networks and operational performance: securing growth in its RAV - create an inclusive and engaged team, At 31 March 2015, SGNs total RAV is estimated proud to work for SGN: at 4.9bn SSE share 2.46bn.
During 2014 15, - shape the future of a low-carbon SGN invested 339.8m SSE share 169.9m environment by leading the way in the in capital expenditure and mains and service development of green gas: replacement projects, compared with 321.8m - minimise its effect on the environment and SSE share 160.9m in 2013 14.
The majority have a positive impact on local communities: 45
