Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Policy The following sets out SSEs Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
The Policy was approved by shareholders at SSEs AGM on 17 July 2014 and applies from this date.
In order to provide consistency with the Annual Remuneration Report pages 100 108, the opportunity has been taken to update some sections of the Policy Report.
These changes reflect decisions which the Committee made during the year in the following areas: - Malus and clawback provisions page 104 - Shareholding guidelines page 104 In addition, the Directors remuneration scenario charts page 98 have been updated to ensure that they remain relevant for 2015 16.
The Policy, which was approved by shareholders, is available at http: sse.
SSEs Executive Director remuneration principles SSEs principles are that Executive Director remuneration policy should: - provide a simple and competitive approach to total remuneration, which takes into account shareholder expectations: - reinforce the values and culture, including teamwork, to deliver the long-term sustainability and growth of the business: - set Total Remuneration Policy at levels which promote the long-term development of the business and reward individuals in line with performance: and - attract and retain Executive Directors who lead the Company effectively for the benefit of customers, employees and shareholders.
The total remuneration policy for Executive Directors is to remain below median of the FTSE 20-50, excluding financial services.
SSE also monitors its generally conservative positioning against direct peers and UK listed companies in related sectors.
SSEs remuneration policy is integral to overall HR strategy and the SSE SET of core values is supported in the principles outlined above, in the plan design and application of the Policy.
Remuneration Policy Base salary Purpose and link to strategy The base salary supports the retention and recruitment of Executive Directors of the calibre required to develop the Companys strategy, deliver efficient operations and investments, and engage effectively with the Companys key stakeholders.
It is intended to reflect the role and its responsibilities, business and individual performance measured against SSEs strategy and core purpose of providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way, and to have an awareness of competitive market pressures.
Operation The Committee sets base salary taking into account: - the individuals skills, experience and performance: - salary levels at other FTSE100 companies and other energy businesses: - remuneration of different groups of employees and wider internal pay arrangements: and - the overall policy objective to remain below market median on a total remuneration basis for the FTSE 20-50 excluding financial services companies.
Base salary is normally reviewed annually with changes effective from 1 April.
It may be reviewed more frequently or at different times of the year if the Committee determines this is appropriate.
Maximum opportunity While there is no maximum salary level, salary increases will normally be in line with the typical level of increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
However, increases may be above this level in certain circumstances, including but not limited to: - where a new Executive Director has been appointed to the Board at an initially lower base salary with the intention that larger salary increases would be awarded for an initial period of time as the Executive Director gains experience: - where there has been a significant increase in the scope and responsibility of an Executive Directors role or where they have been promoted: and - where a larger increase is considered necessary to reflect significant changes in market practice.
The current Chief Executive was appointed at a salary that was more than 15% lower than his predecessors and the Committee retains the flexibility to make further increases above normal levels for employees as he builds his experience in the role.
Performance measures The overall performance of the Executive Director is considered by the Remuneration Committee when setting and reviewing salaries annually.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy Pension planning is an important part of SSEs remuneration strategy because it is consistent with the long-term goals and horizons of the business.
The pension supports the Companys ability to retain experienced Executive Directors and develop talent internally.
Operation The current Executive Directors participate in either the Southern Electric Pension Scheme or the Scottish Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme.
These schemes are funded final salary pension schemes.
Where an Executive Director is subject to the scheme-specific salary cap which mirrors the provisions of the previous HMRC cap arrangements the Company provides top-up unfunded arrangements UURBS up to the maximum benefit outlined below.
The Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will operate for new appointments to the Board, and would also determine the value of such arrangements.
When determining pension arrangements for new appointments the Committee will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
Maximum opportunity For existing Executive Directors, the pension arrangements provide for a maximum pension of two-thirds of final salary, normally at age 60.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide a market-competitive level of benefits for Executive Directors.
Operation Benefit policy is to provide an appropriate level of benefit taking into account market practice at similar sized companies and the level of benefits provided for other employees in the Group.
Core benefits Benefits currently include car allowance, private medical insurance and health screening.
All-employee share plans Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share plans on the same terms as UK colleagues.
The Company currently operates the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
Relocation policy In the event that an Executive Director was required to re-locate to undertake their role, the Committee may provide additional reasonable benefits either on a one-off or on-going basis to reflect the relevant circumstances.
The Committee may introduce or remove particular benefits if it is considered appropriate to do so.
Maximum opportunity When determining the level of benefits the Committee will consider the factors outlined in the operation section.
The cost will depend on the cost to the Company of providing individual items and the individuals circumstances and therefore there is no maximum benefit level.
Annual incentive plan AIP Purpose and link to strategy In line with the need to achieve a suitable balance of fixed and variable remuneration the purpose of the AIP is to reward Executive Directors performance during the year, based upon achievement of performance targets.
The performance targets are linked to SSEs strategy and core purpose.
Deferral into Company shares provides alignment between Executive Directors interests and the long-term interests of shareholders.
Operation The Committee determines the level of incentive at its absolute discretion taking into account performance in each of the measures, the underlying performance of the business and Executive Directors management of, and performance in, all of the business issues that arise during the year.
Performance is typically assessed over a financial year.
The award is normally delivered: - 75% in cash: and - 25% in deferred shares.
The Committee may determine that a different balance of cash and deferred shares may be awarded.
Deferred shares will normally vest three years from the award and will typically be subject to continued employment unless the Committee determines an alternative vesting period is appropriate.
Until vesting, deferred shares may accrue additional dividend shares.
Dividend equivalents may be determined by the Committee on a cumulative basis and may assume reinvestment of dividends in the Companys shares.
93 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Policy In certain circumstances set out in the plan rules the Committee may at its discretion claw back outstanding awards prior to the vesting date.
The Committee may adjust and amend the terms of the deferred shares in accordance with the Deferred Scheme rules.
Maximum opportunity Maximum annual incentive opportunity is equal to 100% of base salary.
Performance measures The annual incentive is normally based on a mix of financial measures and measures related to the strategic performance of the business.
A minimum of 50% of the annual incentive will be based on financial performance.
The strategic performance of the business is generally determined with reference to its core purpose of providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way and therefore normally includes matters such as safety, customer service in the Retail and Networks divisions and investment decision-making and execution, as well as the personal performance of the Executive Directors.
The Committee determines the exact metrics each year depending on the key strategic objectives for the forthcoming year and ensures that they are appropriately stretching in the context of the business plan.
In determining the final out-turn the Committee considers Executive Directors management of, and performance in, all of the business issues that arose during the year.
The AIP starts accruing for entry level performance from 25% of salary.
Around 50% of the incentive is paid if target levels of performance are delivered with the full incentive being paid for delivering stretching levels of performance.
The part of the AIP that is converted into deferred shares is not subject to any further performance conditions.
Performance share plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy The purpose of the PSP is to reward Executive Directors over a three-year period for their part in delivering the sustained success of SSE and to ensure that their interests are aligned with those of the shareholders who invest in the Company.
Operation Shares are awarded which normally vest based on performance over a period of three years.
The Committee may apply additional holding periods, following vesting.
The Committee shall determine the extent to which the performance conditions have been met.
No shares shall vest unless the Committee is satisfied with the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Awards do not vest until after the end of the performance period.
Until vesting, PSP awards may accrue additional dividend shares.
In certain circumstances set out in the PSP rules the Committee may at its discretion claw back outstanding awards prior to vesting.
For further details see the section Recovery provisions on page 80.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards in accordance with the PSP rules.
Maximum opportunity The maximum value of award that can be granted under the PSP is equal to 150% of base salary.
Performance measures The Committee determines targets each year to ensure that they are stretching and represent value creation for shareholders while remaining realistically achievable for management.
Awards vest based on relative total shareholder return, financial based measures and customer satisfaction.
At least 70% of the award will be based on financial and relative total shareholder return measures.
The Committee may review the detailed targets and weightings of measures year on year, as well as the appropriate threshold levels of performance.
Share ownership policy Purpose and link to strategy A key element of Executive Director pay policy is to align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders who invest in the Company.
Operation Shareholding is normally built up via shares vesting through the PSP, deferred shares from the AIP and all employee share schemes.
Maximum opportunity Note updated to reflect the enhanced guidelines implemented for 2015 16.
The approved Policy incorporated a share ownership policy of one years base salary.
Executive Directors are expected to maintain a shareholding equivalent to two years base salary built up within a reasonable timescale.
Consent to sell shares is not normally given unless in exceptional circumstances until this level of shareholding is reached.
Chairman and non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link to strategy Fees are set at a level which provides reward for undertaking the role and are sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the calibre and experience to contribute effectively at Board level.
Operation The Committee is responsible for determining fees for the Chairman.
The Board is responsible for determining fees for other non-Executive Directors.
Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals against companies of a similar size and complexity.
Fees are set in a way that is consistent with the wider remuneration policy.
The fee structure is typically made up of: - a basic Board fee or Chairman fee: - an additional fee for any committee chairmanship: and - an additional fee for further responsibilities e. g. Senior Independent Director.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Annual Incentive Plan, Deferred Bonus Scheme or any of the share schemes, or contribute to any group pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive any benefits.
However, benefits may be provided in the future if, in the view of the Board for nonExecutive Directors or the Committee for the Chairman, this was considered appropriate.
Reasonable travelling and other expenses for costs incurred in the course of the non-Executive Directors undertaking their duties are reimbursed including any tax due on the expenses.
It is also expected that all non-Executive Directors should build up a minimum of 2,000 shares in the Company.
Maximum opportunity The aggregate level of non-Executive Director fees shall not exceed the maximum limit set out in the Articles of Association.
Performance measures While there are no direct performance measures relating to Chairman and non-Executive Director fees, the performance of the Board is subject to annual evaluation, including individual evaluation.
Moreover, all Directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
Recovery provisions Note updated to reflect the enhanced malus and clawback guidelines implemented for 2015 16.
Readers should refer to the approved Policy in the 2014 15 DRR for the provisions which apply to variable pay awards made prior to 2015 16.
Malus provisions apply on awards made in deferred shares under the AIP and PSP awards from 2012 onwards.
These provisions provide the Committee with the ability to reduce or cancel unvested awards if it considers that certain circumstances have occurred during the period between the granting and vesting of awards.
For 2015 16 these circumstances include a material mis-statement of accounts, a factual error in the calculation or vesting of performance-related awards, serious misconduct or significant reputational damage to the Company.
In addition, the Committee has subsequently implemented clawback provisions, which apply from the 2015 16 performance year onwards under the AIP and from the 2015 awards onwards under the PSP.
The provisions extend for three years post-payment under the AIP and for three years postvesting under the PSP.
They provide the Committee with the ability to claw back amounts paid or vested, should it consider that certain circumstances have occurred in the three-year period following the payment or vesting date.
These circumstances are a material mis-statement of accounts, a factual error in the calculation of vesting of performance-related awards or serious misconduct.
Committee discretion The rules of the AIP and PSP contain the following discretions in addition to those described elsewhere in the report: - In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event, the number of shares subject to an Award and or any performance condition attached to Awards, may be adjusted.
- The Committee may adjust PSP performance conditions for subsisting awards as it considers appropriate to take account of any factors which are relevant in the opinion of the Committee, for example to reflect modifications of accounting standards, provided that the revised performance conditions are not considered to be less challenging to achieve.
- In the event of a voluntary winding-up of the Company, the Committee may allow some or all of the outstanding PSP awards to vest and be exercisable within 30 days following the date the resolution for the winding-up is passed.
95 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Policy The Committee may make minor changes to this Policy for example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without seeking shareholder approval for that amendment.
Legacy commitments The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretion available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out in this report where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
This includes commitments relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements which were made before 27 June 2012.
Payments includes the Committee sanctioning awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
Any payments made outside of the remuneration Policy pursuant to legacy commitments will be disclosed in full in the relevant years Annual Report.
Directors service contracts and non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Current Executive Directors have service contracts terminable by the Company immediately without notice upon breach by the individual or by the Company giving to the individual 12 months notice or, at its discretion, payment in lieu of salary only during that notice.
The payment in lieu of notice may be made in staged payments, and may either reduce or cease completely where the departing Executive Director gains new employment.
The Executive Director may terminate his contract by giving the Company 12 months notice.
Contracts for new Executive Directors will be limited to 12 months notice by both parties or payment in lieu of notice in respect of the Company.
Both contracts of the Executive Directors are dated 7 November 2013.
The Committee may also determine that the Executive Director should receive outplacement support and legal advice at the expense of the Company.
The non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment, and are appointed for fixed terms of three years, subject to retirement and re-appointment at AGMs.
Non-Executive Directors on termination are not entitled to any payment in lieu of notice or any compensation for loss of office.
The letters of appointment are available for shareholders to view on sse.
Loss of office policy The Committee takes a number of factors into account when determining leaving arrangements for Executive Directors: - The Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations provided they are consistent with the Policy or have been entered into on a date on or before 27 June 2012 in accordance with relevant legislation.
- The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules, as set out below.
- The Committee may determine that the Executive Director should receive outplacement support and legal advice at the expense of the Company and any payments required by statute.
The Company may at its discretion terminate any Executive Directors contract by providing notice as set out above.
AIP The Executive Director may, at the discretion of the Committee, remain eligible to receive an AIP award for the financial year in which they ceased employment.
Any such AIP award will be determined by the Committee taking into account time in employment and performance.
If an AIP award is received in such cases it will not be subject to deferral into deferred shares.
Deferred shares If an Executive Directors employment terminates in circumstances such as death, injury, disability, ill-health as agreed by the Committee or other circumstances that the Committee deems appropriate, deferred shares shall vest in full at the time of termination of employment.
If an Executive Director leaves the business in other circumstances their deferred shares shall lapse.
Performance share plan If an Executive Directors employment terminates in circumstances such as death, injury, disability, ill-health as agreed by the Committee or other circumstances that the Committee deems appropriate, PSP shares may continue to vest.
The PSP shares will normally be reduced to reflect the time elapsed in the three-year performance period when the Directors employment ends and will normally remain subject to performance at the end of the performance period.
The Committee may determine, in exceptional circumstances, that PSP shares may be released at the time of cessation of employment.
In this circumstance, it will determine the level of vesting taking into account the extent to which the performance condition has been met at the time subject to modification if the Committee considers that the performance condition would be met to a greater or lesser extent at the end of the original performance period and the period the Executive Director has been in employment.
Where the Committee determines that PSP shares shall vest for reasons other than death, disability or ill-health, the Committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating or alter the time pro-rating fraction if it considers that the Executive Directors contribution to the business of the Group would not otherwise be properly recognised.
In this circumstance, the vesting of PSP shares would remain subject to performance until the end of the performance period.
If the Executive Directors employment ends for any other reason, PSP share awards will lapse.
Pension Where an Executive retires through ill-health they are entitled to an unreduced pension based on service to expected retirement.
In the event of any reorganisation or redundancy, Executives who are aged 50 or more with at least five years of service will be provided with an unreduced accrued pension.
If an Executive has not reached age 50 at the time of this event their pension will be paid from age 50.
From age 55 Executives are entitled to leave the Company and receive a pension, reduced for early payment, unless the Company gives consent and funds the pension being paid on an unreduced basis.
Dependent upon the circumstances surrounding the departure of the Executive Director and the financial health of the Company at the time, the Committees policy is to give consideration to a cash commutation of the UURB pension at the time of leaving.
Any cash commutation would limit SSEs liability, taking into account valuations provided by independent actuarial advisors, and would be undertaken on what was judged by the Committee to be on a cost neutral basis to SSE.
The following is information relating to the pension of Gregor Alexander as a participant in the HMRC approved Scottish Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme the terms of which also apply to the UURBS arrangement.
i Dependants pensions on death are half of members pension entitlements, together with a capital sum equal to four times pensionable pay.
On death in retirement, the Directors spouse will receive a pension equal to half of that payable to the Director.
In addition, on death within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is payable equal to the balance outstanding of the first five years pension payments.
ii Post retirement increases are expected to be in line with RPI.
The following is information relating to the pension of Alistair Phillips-Davies, as a participant in the HMRC approved Southern Electric Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme, the terms of which also apply to the UURBS arrangement.
i Dependants pensions on death are four-ninths of the members pensionable pay, together with a capital sum equal to four times pensionable pay.
If death occurs after attaining the age of 55 an additional lump sum between three to five times notional pension is payable dependent upon age and length of service.
ii On death in retirement, the Directors spouse will receive a pension equal to two-thirds of that payable to the Director.
iii Post retirement increases are expected to be in line with RPI guaranteed up to the level of 5% per annum and discretionary above that level.
Other arrangements If buyout awards are made on recruitment, the treatment on leaving would be determined at the time of the award.
For all-employee share plans, such as the Sharesave Scheme and the Share Incentive Plan, leavers will be treated in accordance with the HMRC approved plan rules.
Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company, performance in the PSP will be measured to that date subject to modification if the Committee considers that the performance conditions would be met to a greater or lesser extent at the end of the original performance period.
Awards will normally be scaled down to reflect the period up to the change of control, but the Committee has discretion to dis-apply or alter the pro-rating fraction if it considers that participants contribution to the creation of shareholder value during the performance period would not otherwise be properly recognised.
Any outstanding deferred shares from the AIP will vest automatically.
Recruitment policy The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration package offered with its remuneration policy outlined in pages 92-94 and would be subject to the variable pay limit outlined below.
Base salary would be set taking into account the individuals skills and experience and performance, salary levels at other FTSE 100 companies and other energy businesses, remuneration of different groups of employees, and the wider internal pay arrangements.
The Committee will determine appropriate pension provision for any new Executive Director.
When determining pension arrangements for new appointments the Committee will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice and the pension arrangements which operate elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee retains the flexibility to provide a higher variable remuneration opportunity for a new recruit.
For example, where the value of pension offered is lower than that offered to current executive directors, a higher level of incentive opportunity may be required to maintain broadly comparable total remuneration positioning.
More generally, it is considered appropriate for the Policy to provide some flexibility given the current very conservative positioning of SSEs incentive arrangements.
The over-riding objective in determining a total remuneration package for a new recruit would be to make decisions which are in the best interests of the Company, its shareholders and other stakeholders.
97 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Policy In this context the on-going variable incentive maxima currently 100% annual incentive and 150% PSP may be increased.
Were an increase to be made for a new recruit the Committee would consider very carefully the appropriate level, taking into account the rationale and circumstances.
The maximum incentive level would be an additional 50% of the current limits i. e. up to 150% annual incentive and up to 225% PSP.
The structure of any such incentive awards, including performance measures, would be in line with the established principles in the policy table.
The Committee may make awards on appointing an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they would have vested.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
To facilitate these awards, the Committee may make awards under Company incentive plans and other available structures.
The committee may make awards under Company incentive plans and under the Listing Rules exemptions LR9.4.
The use of the latter shall be limited to the granting of buy-out awards or share awards within the limits described above.
Shareholders views The Committee Chairman, on behalf of the Committee, regularly undertakes consultation with a number of institutional shareholders regarding a broad range of remuneration issues.
The Committee finds such consultation meetings a valuable opportunity to receive feedback on the work of the Committee and the key issues that it is considering.
The feedback received is extremely helpful in informing the Committees decisions.
In addition, the Committee monitors the views of other stakeholders and broader developments in executive remuneration generally.
Remuneration engagement across the Group The Committee appreciates the importance of an appropriate relationship between the remuneration levels of the Executive Directors, senior executives, managers and other employees within the Group although comparison metrics are not used.
Remuneration at all levels in SSE is designed to support its core remuneration principles, long-term business strategy and core purpose of providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
It is also designed to be consistent with and support the Companys core values of Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
The structure of reward necessarily differs based on scope and responsibility of role, level of seniority and location.
- Senior management population participate in an annual incentive and the performance share plan on a similar basis to Executive Directors.
- All employees have the opportunity to be share owners through the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Plan and those participating are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
- Pension planning is an important part of SSEs reward strategy for all employees because it is consistent with the long-term goals and horizons of the business.
SSE welcomes the introduction of auto-enrolment, an approach it has been practising for a number of years.
The terms of the funded final salary pension schemes apply equally to all members.
- As part of its Employee Engagement Survey the Company invites all Employees to provide a view on the benefits and pay that it provides.
The Head of Reward also provides an annual update to all SSE-recognised trade unions, explaining the Companys position on executive remuneration.
This covers many of the policy positions explained in this report.
Feedback from this meeting is shared with the Remuneration Committee.
The Company will continue to liaise with employee representative bodies in the future and welcomes their views and opinions on remuneration issues.
Illustration of the Remuneration Policy for 2015 16 Chief Executive Finance Director Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Total Remuneration, 000 Total Remuneration, 000 3,000 38% 3,000 38% 27% 2,000 25% 2,000 27% 18% 25% 18% 100% 54%37% Base salary, benefits, pension 1,000 1,000 100%54% 37% AIP PSP Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum The charts above are based on the current Executive Directors packages and show the amount of remuneration payable in three scenarios: 1 minimum performance where only base salary, benefits and pension is payable, 2 target performance and 3 maximum performance.
Underlying assumptions Minimum performance In this scenario only the fixed pay elements are payable i. e. base salary, benefits and pension calculated as: - Base salary effective from 1 April 2015.
- Benefits represent those shown on the single figure table on page 100.
- Pension is the value of accrual in a typical year assuming a pay increase of 2% using the same valuation methodology as in the single figure table on page 100.
Base salary Benefits Pension Total CEO 824,320 25,593 381,206 1,231,119 FD 637,133 22,607 282,558 942,298 Target performance This is what the Executive Director would receive in addition to the minimum performance element, if the Committee agreed that target level performance had been achieved: - AIP pays out 50% of maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary.
- PSP pays out 50% of maximum opportunity of 150% of base salary.
Maximum performance This is what the Executive Director would receive in addition to the minimum performance element, if the Committee agreed that the maximum level performance had been achieved: - AIP pays out 100% of base salary.
- PSP pays out 150% of base salary.
Notes The AIP figures are the gross value of the awards before 25% is converted into deferred shares.
The PSP awards are shown simply as the gross face value at the date of grant and do not include any assumptions for share price growth or dividend accrual.
