OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is focused on long-term sustainable growth.
Whilst we continue to grow our business in the UK, we are now keen to use the skills and knowledge we have gained to build and expand our Sports Retail business across the rest of Europe.
IDENTIFY Brand acquisitions & property enhancement ACHIEVE 4.
INVEST Group-owned Targets & Store portfolio & brands workforce Group success 14 3.
DEVELOP Website & mCommerce, enhanced product ranges Our offering has developed further in specialist sports categories and more fashion-based The Group has significant momentum and we must ensure that our product offering and retailing.
We are constantly refurbishing and upgrading our stores, in order to provide our customer proposition continue to grow and develop in order to retain our current customer customers with a compelling consumer experience.
The continued development of our base and to attract more customers in the future.
dedicated specialist areas and on-going collaboration with key suppliers such as Under Developing brand awareness is a key factor in ensuring a sustainable future, and the Armour and European brands such as Salomon on in-store concepts are further examples appropriate level of investment in advertising and technology are important components of this.
Acquisitions and strategic investments in related businesses are an important part of our Our international presence continues to grow through over 260 brand licensing partners, strategy.
Opportunities to develop into new product categories or markets, or to strengthen our online presence and on-going European store openings.
The Groups appointment of our position in existing areas, will continue to be considered on a case by case basis.
 celebrities and sporting professionals as key ambassadors also We aim to maintain our position as the market leader in the Sports Retail sector in the UK, promotes our brands on a global basis.
while also gaining momentum in our expansion into Europe.
The business model provides guidance for the Group to implement an effective growth strategy to maintain and develop the success achieved so far.
It compares our recent successes with our future ambitions in order that we can assess how to progress in the future.
