DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of Sports Direct International plc present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 26 April 2015.
A further authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal value of 2,992,324 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW being approximately 5% of the then issued share capital as if statutory pre-emption The Chief Executives Report on pages 21 to 24 provides a detailed review of the Groups rights did not apply, was also approved.
current activities and potential future developments together with factors likely to affect future development, performance and conditions.
There is also a table of the principal The authorities expire at the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, risks and uncertainties likely to affect the Group.
The financial position of the Group, its but a contract to allot shares under these authorities may be made prior to the expiry of cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review the authority and concluded in whole or part after the Annual General Meeting, and at that on pages 25 to 27.
The Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 32 reports on meeting other authorities will be sought from shareholders.
environmental matters, including the impact of the Groups businesses on the environment, the Groups workforce, and on social and community issues.
The Group was authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company of up to a maximum aggregate number 59,846,486 representing The principal activities of the Group during the year remained unchanged and were: 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The above authority expires at the close of the next Annual General Meeting retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment: of the Company.
wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment under Group-owned or licensed brands: and SHAREHOLDERS licensing of Group brands.
No shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as set out below, there are Further information of the Groups principal activities is set out in the front of this no restrictions in the transfer of shares or of voting rights.
document and in the Chief Executives Report on pages 21 to 24.
Mike Ashley has entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company.
Under the terms of the Agreement Mike Ashley undertook that, for so long as he is entitled to RESULTS FOR THE YEAR AND DIVIDENDS exercise, or to control the exercise of, 15% or more of the rights to vote at general Revenue for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 was 2,832.6m and profit before meetings of the Company, he will: tax was 313.4m compared with 2,706.0m and 239.5m in the prior year.
The trading results for the year and the Groups financial position as at the end of the conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group on arms year are shown in the attached Financial Statements, and discussed further in the Chief length terms and on a normal commercial basis: Executives Report and Business Review and in the Financial Review on pages 21 to 24 exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the Company being managed in 34 and 25 to 27 respectively.
accordance with the Listing Rules and the principles of good governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and not exercise any of his voting or other rights and The Board has determined not to recommend a dividend this year.
powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company: other than through his interest in the Company, not have any interest in any business SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL which sells sports apparel and equipment subject to certain rights, after notification to The authorised share capital of the Company is 100,000,000 divided into 999,500,010 the Company, to acquire any such interest of less than 20% of the business concerned, ordinary shares of 10p each and 499,990 redeemable preference shares of 10p each.
and certain other limited exceptions, without receiving the prior approval of the NonExecutive Directors: and not solicit for employment or employ any senior employee of Further information regarding the Groups issued share capital can be found on page 77 the Company.
The Company has been advised that the following parties had a significant direct or Details of our Share Schemes are also set out on page 77. indirect shareholding in the shares of the Company: There are 640,602,369 ordinary shares of 10p in issue and fully paid of which PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARE CAPITAL 42,137,508 are currently held in Treasury.
SHARES HELD WITH VOTING RIGHTS HELD NATURE OF HOLDING 1 Mike Ashley 330,000,000 55.14% Indirect There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, which are governed both by The Capital Group the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares Odey Asset 29,852,065 4.99% Indirect 3 that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Management 1 Mike Ashley holds the shares through two companies, namely MASH Beta Limited and MASH Holdings Limited, which hold 303,507,460 50.71% of the The Directors were authorised to allot shares in the capital of the Group up to an aggregate issued ordinary share capital of the Company and 26,492,540 4.43% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company ordinary shares respectively.
These figures are as at 21 January 2015, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
nominal amount of 19,948,829 being approximately one third of the then issued 2 These figures are as at 10 July 2015, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
share capital for the period expiring at 9 September 2015, the date of the 2015 Annual 3 These figures are as at 15 July 2015, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
In line with guidance from the Association of British Insurers the Company was also granted authority to issue a further third of the issued share capital to a nominal amount of 39,897,658 being approximately 35% of the issued share capital in connection with a rights issue.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The Group does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the training and SUPPLIERS employment of disabled people, and to ensure that training, career development and The Group understands the importance of maintaining good relationships with suppliers and it is Group policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers ranging from promotion opportunities are available to all.
standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and for payment to be made in accordance with these terms, provided the supplier has complied with its obligations.
The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment where current employees become disabled.
Attempts are made in every circumstance to provide employment, whether this involves adapting the current job role and remaining in the CONTRACTS ESSENTIAL TO THE BUSINESS same job, or moving to a more appropriate job role.
Job retraining and job adaptation are OF THE COMPANY The Chief Executives Report on pages 21 to 24 details information about persons with whom the just two examples of how the Group works in the interests of its workforce to promote Group has contractual or other arrangements and are deemed essential or material to the business of equal opportunities in order that an individuals employment within the Group may the Group.
The Group values the knowledge and expertise that employees have gained throughout their time with us, and therefore does not wish to lose TAKEOVERS valued employees.
The Directors do not believe that there are any significant contracts that may change in the event of a successful takeover of the Company.
Details of the impact of any successful With the aim of achieving our target of 25% female representation on our Board, we are takeover of the Group on the Directors bonus and share schemes are set out in the actively seeking applications from female potential Non-Executive Directors.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 52.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores and has arrangements SHARE SCHEMES with suppliers for the research and development of goods for the Brands division.
Details of the Executive Share Schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 45 and details of the Share Schemes for participating employees on page 28 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year, the Group made charitable cash donations of 117,000 STAFF INVOLVEMENT 2014: 147,000 in the UK.
No political donations were made 2014: nil.
There have been a number of further donations of sporting equipment made to worthy causes, and The Group currently has a c. 27,000 strong workforce in its stores, offices and warehouses.
The contributions that key employees have made to the Groups accomplishments have 35 played a vital role, and the overwhelming dedication shown was the deciding factor in encouraging the Group to propose a third Share Scheme.
DIRECTORS Details of current Directors, dates of appointment, their roles, responsibilities and The 2009 Share Scheme vested in August 2012 and 2013.
The 2011 Share Scheme is significant external commitments are set out on page 33. due to vest later in 2015 and in 2017.
Although the Companys Articles of Association require retirement by rotation of one third The 2015 Share Scheme was approved by shareholders at a General Meeting which of Directors each year, the Group has chosen to comply with the 2012 UK Corporate took place on 2 July 2014, with the EBITDA targets for the Scheme spanning between Governance Code and at each Annual General Meeting all of the Directors will retire and FY16 and FY19.
The Scheme differs from the previous two Share Schemes as eligibility stand for reappointment.
to participate in the scheme is open to both employees and Executive Directors, as determined by the Board.
Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company at 26 April 2015 and at the date of this The workforce is notified of announcements and major changes in the business via Report is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 and 51.
Company news emails and our intranet, as well as information being transmitted through line managers.
Training programmes and induction courses provide the workforce with Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and of the appointment letters of opportunities to keep up to date with the latest developments of the Group.
Our annual the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys conference offers them an opportunity to mix with teams with which they wouldnt registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
ordinarily mix, to learn about the Groups aspirations, and to keep up to date with the No Director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other Director latest changes in the Group.
This is a full day event and also has a range of activities except in the case of the Executive Directors holding directorships of subsidiary companies tailored to the specific area in which each individual works.
Further information on relationships with our people can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 32.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
During the EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of The Groups recruitment policy is to match the capabilities and talents of each applicant interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a register of those situational conflicts to the appropriate job.
Factors such as gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any transactional conflicts of interest age, disability or ethnic origin should be ignored and any decision which is made with concerning Directors that arose and were declared.
No Director took part in the discussion regard to candidates should be irrespective of these.
Discrimination in any form will not be or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict tolerated under any circumstances within the Group.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed in accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable possible changes in DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of the The Group has granted the Directors with Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity provisions current facility.
within the meaning given to the term by Sections 234 and 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
This is in respect of liabilities to which they may become liable in their capacity as Having thoroughly reviewed the Groups performance and having made suitable enquiries, Director of the Company and of any company within the Group.
Such indemnities were in the Directors are confident that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operational force throughout the financial year and will remain in force.
existence for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2015 Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 September 2015 at Unit D, Brook ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY.
The Meeting will commence at 11am.
The Board A statement by the Auditor can be found on page 56 detailing their reporting encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
The Directors fulfil their responsibilities and these are set out in the responsibility statement on page 53.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future AUDITOR development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 21 Grant Thornton UK LLP have expressed a willingness to continue in office.
In accordance to 24. with Section 489 4 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions to determine remuneration are to be agreed at the Annual General Meeting.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 25 to 27.
In addition, the Financial By Order of the Board Statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Cameron Olsen Company Secretary The Group is profitable, highly cash generative and has considerable financial resources.
The Group is able to operate comfortably within its banking facilities and covenants, which 16 July 2015 run until September 2018, and is well placed to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its 36 business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
