GOVERNANCE Our Board of Directors GARRY WATTS ROB ROGER SIMON GORDON JOHN GILDERSLEEVE PROFESSOR DAME JANET HUSBAND ROBERT LERWILL TONY BOURNE SIMON ROWLANDS DANIE MEINTJIES GARRY WATTS ROB ROGER SIMON GORDON C C N E E Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Garry Watts joined the Group as Executive Rob Roger was appointed Chief Executive Simon Gordon joined Spire Healthcare Chairman in 2011 before becoming Officer of the Group in May 2011 having as Chief Financial Officer in July 2011 Non-Executive Chairman between previously held the position of Chief Financial and became an Executive Director Admission and March 2016.
He resumed Officer since Spire Healthcares formation of the Company in June 2014. the role of Executive Chairman in March in 2007.
He became an Executive Director Skills and previous experience 2016.
The Company does not consider Garry of the Company in June 2014.
Rob will step Simon has a broad range of financial to be independent due to his executive role.
down from the Board and leave the experience and brings invaluable knowledge Company in June 2016.
Current external appointments of both audit and transaction advisory chairman of BTG plc Skills and previous experience projects for both listed and private chairman of Foxtons Group plc As a qualified chartered accountant, Rob companies to the role.
He qualified as a deputy chairman of Stagecoach Group plc combines a sound financial background with chartered accountant with KPMG before non-executive director of Coca-Cola broad operational experience to lead and spending eight years as group finance Enterprises, Inc deliver the Groups strategy.
Prior to joining director of Virgin Active.
During his time Spire Healthcare, he spent nine years with at Virgin Active, the business grew from Skills and previous experience The Tussauds Group as chief financial officer.
break-even to 150 million EBITDA, operating A chartered accountant by profession and During this time, Rob also had responsibility in five countries.
This growth was achieved former partner at KPMG, Garrys extensive for business development, was acting by a successful combination of organic business knowledge and leadership of chief executive officer and oversaw the development and acquisition.
other listed company boards, including SSL international development of the brand.
International plc and Celltech Group plc, has He led the sale of the Tussauds Group to ensured a seamless transition from private Merlin Entertainment in April 2007.
Rob has to public for the Company.
He has a deep previously been chief financial officer of both understanding of the healthcare sector, First Choice Holidays and Flights, and Pizza having served as a member of the UK Hut in France.
Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Supervisory Board for 17 years.
Garry was also previously an executive director of Medeva plc and a Garry Watts will step down from the board of Stagecoach non-executive director of Protherics plc.
58 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board committee membership: Management committee membership: A Audit and Risk Committee E Executive Committee C Clinical Governance and Safety Committee Committee Chair N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Committee Chair JOHN GILDERSLEEVE PROFESSOR DAME JANET HUSBAND ROBERT LERWILL Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Director N R A C N A N R John Gildersleeve was appointed the Deputy Dame Janet Husband was appointed Robert Lerwill was appointed an Chairman and Senior Independent Director an independent Non-Executive Director independent Non-Executive Director in in June 2014. in June 2014.
As a chartered accountant by profession, he is deemed by the Board Current external appointments Current external appointments to have recent and relevant financial chairman of The British Land Company plc Emeritus Professor of Radiology at the experience.
deputy chairman of TalkTalk Telecom Institute of Cancer Research Group plc non-executive director of Royal Marsden Current external appointments NHS Foundation Trust non-executive director of Reynolds Skills and previous experience American Inc USA John is an experienced executive with strong Skills and experience non-executive director of DJI Holdings plc operational expertise from a number of Having trained in medicine at Guys Hospital non-executive director of Impello plc listed companies and is a skilled nomination Medical School, Dame Janets extensive non-executive director of ITC Limited India committee chair.
He served as an executive career in healthcare allows her to bring director of Tesco PLC and was formerly invaluable insight and knowledge of the Skills and experience chairman of Carphone Warehouse Group plc, healthcare industry.
She has previously Robert is a skilled board director and audit EMI Group plc and Gallaher Group plc.
John served as a specially appointed commissioner committee member with relevant industry was also a non-executive director of Dixons to the Royal Hospital Chelsea, was president knowledge who has held senior financial Carphone plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Pick N Pay of the Royal College of Radiologists, chaired and management positions with both Stores Limited South Africa and Vodafone the National Cancer Research Institute in the WPP plc and Cable & Wireless plc.
UK and was a non-executive director of served as chief executive officer of Aegis plc, Nuada Medical Group.
Dame Janet was chairman of Synergy Health plc and as a appointed as Professor of Diagnostic non-executive director of both British Radiology at the University of London, American Tobacco plc and the Payments Institute of Cancer Research, in addition to Council Limited.
Robert has also attended more than 30 years as a practising consultant the Advanced Management Program at radiologist at the Royal Marsden Hospital.
TONY BOURNE SIMON ROWLANDS DANIE MEINTJES Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A C R Simon Rowlands was appointed a NonDanie Meintjes was appointed as a NonTony Bourne was appointed an independent Executive Director in June 2014, although Executive Director in August 2015.
The Non-Executive Director in June 2014. he served in a similar capacity prior to Company does not consider Danie to be Admission having been an appointment independent as he has been appointed Current external appointments of Cinven, the Companys former principal to the Board by the Companys principal non-executive director of Barchester shareholder.
The Company does not consider shareholder, Mediclinic International, under Healthcare Limited Simon to be independent due to the the terms of the relationship agreement non-executive director of Bioquell Plc senior position he continues to hold with with them.
non-executive director of Totally plc Cinven Partners.
Current external appointments Skills and previous experience Current external appointments chief executive officer of Mediclinic Tony brings considerable knowledge of the senior adviser of Cinven Partners International PLC healthcare industry to his role, having been non-executive director of Avio S. P. A. Italy chief executive of the British Medical Career and other appointments non-executive director of MD Medical Association for nine years until 2013.
Prior to Danie joined the Mediclinic International Group Investment plc this, he was in investment banking for over group in 1985, were he has held a number 25 years, including as a partner at Hawkpoint Skills and experience of senior positions.
He was appointed as a and as global head of the equities division Simons extensive knowledge of the Company director of Mediclinic International Limited and a member of the managing board of and its markets, combined with his wise South Africa in 1996 and then became Paribas.
Tony has also previously served as a counsel over a number of years, were among its chief executive officer in April 2010. non-executive director of Southern Housing the reasons he was asked to continue to serve Danie holds a Bachelor of Personnel Group, and the charity, Scope.
as a member of the Board following Cinvens Leadership from the University of the Free sale of their shareholding.
He was a founding State South Africa and has also attended partner of the private equity firm Cinven the Advanced Management Program at Partners until 2012, and established and led Harvard Business School.
Prior to joining Cinven, Simon worked with an international consulting firm on multidisciplinary engineering projects in the UK and southern Africa.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 59
