4 Strategic report Our marketplace Our operations are managed on a regional basis, and are primarily focused on the airport and railway station markets.
During 2015, 54.0% of our revenues were generated in the air sector and 39.5% in the rail sector.
We estimate that our core market comprising food and beverage sales in airports and railway stations was valued at approximately 13.8bn in 2013.
The travel food and beverage market is highly fragmented with the top three players of which we are one accounting for approximately 29% of the global market on the basis of this valuation.
The air and rail food and beverage markets benefit from a number of long-term structural growth drivers: the increasing propensity to travel, driven by increasing GDP and disposable incomes: ongoing trends towards eating out of home and eating on the move: and investment in travel infrastructure, with increasing focus on the provision of food and beverage oerings in travel hubs to drive additional commercial revenue streams.
SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 5 Air Global air passenger numbers have more than doubled over a 20-year period, reaching 5.5bn by 2012, with an average annual growth rate of 4.7%.
Historically, this long-run growth in passenger numbers has been resilient, even in the face of major events that have impacted air travel, such as 9 11 or the SARS virus.
Airport Council International ACI expects air passenger volumes to double again in the next two decades, with an average annual growth rate of 4.1% expected for the period 2012 to 2031.
This growth is underpinned by a number of factors, including: rising disposable incomes particularly in the developing markets, driven by the emergence of a more auent middle class : the increasing globalisation of business: investment in airline capacity, in particular by low-cost carriers which have driven prices down and stimulated demand: and investment in airport infrastructure, most notably in developing markets.
As a consequence, growth in passenger numbers is forecast over the medium term in all our geographic markets, with annual increases expected to be strongest in the Asia Pacic region 6.7% and Middle East and Africa 5.5%.
However, passenger growth is also anticipated in our major geographies of Europe 3.4% and North America 2.3%.
Furthermore, spend per passenger has been boosted by a number of specic factors, including the rapid development of the low-cost airlines, which have limited provision of food and beverage for passengers, and the scaling back of on-board catering services by the major agship carriers.
Rail Rail passenger numbers in the European market were estimated to be approximately 10.7bn in 2013 and have increased at an average annual rate ranging from 1.7% to 3.6% in the decade to 2013 in our key European rail markets i. e. UK, France, Germany and Sweden.
Growth in passenger numbers is forecast to continue in the medium term, rising at between 1.6% and 1.8% in these markets.
The key driver of this growth is expected to be further investment in rail infrastructure by European governments, alongside various policies to encourage passengers to switch from road transport to rail in order to reduce road congestion and to address environmental concerns.
As a consequence, significant expansion of rail track is planned across Europe, including the completion of major high speed rail lines which are expected to increase capacity to 16,000km by 2020 an additional 5,000km compared with 2011.
In addition, investment in new train capacity and the replacement of existing train eets is planned, which is expected to drive an increase in passenger numbers.
Source air: World Bank Development Indicators WDI, ACI Global Trac Forecast.
Source rail: Euromonitor, 2010-2020 CAGR based on EU Energy Trends Report.
Company estimate based on third-party market research commissioned for the SSP IPO March 2014.
The core market includes airports and railway stations around the world but excludes rail in North America.
