Strategic Report Our business explained Energy businesses in three segments Providing energy SSE is involved in the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity: in the production, storage, distribution and supply of gas: and in other energy-related services.
SSE is the only company listed on the London Stock Exchange involved in such a broad range of energy businesses.
Gas production Energy portfolio Gas storage Gas distribution Using platforms to extract management and Using caverns to store large Using pipes to distribute natural gas, from fields in the volumes of natural gas under gas from the transmission electricity generation North Sea, for use onshore.
ground for use at a future date.
network to homes, work Using turbines to convert energy places and other premises.
from gas, oil, coal, water and wind to generate electricity and managing energy contracts.
Wholesale Networks Market-based  04 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Wholesale 1-3 Networks 4-6 Retail 7-9 Energy production, Transmission and Supply of energy and related generation and storage distribution of energy services to consumers SSE provides energy and related services SSE has an ownership interest in the energy SSE supplies electricity, gas and related for customers in wholesale energy markets networks businesses in electricity transmission services such as telecoms in markets in Great in Great Britain and Ireland.
It delivers this in the north of Scotland, electricity distribution Britain and Ireland.
It is focused on attracting through Energy Portfolio Management in the north of Scotland and southern central and retaining customers through excellent and Electricity Generation, Gas Production England and in gas distribution in Scotland service and a brand people trust.
Amongst other things, and southern England.
These  SSE Enterprise, which brings it is the leading generator of electricity from defined businesses are subject to economic together key SSE services for industrial, renewable sources across the UK and Ireland.
commercial and public sector customers.
X For more information see pages 28 to 37.
X For more information see pages 38 to 45.
X For more information see pages 46 to 55.
Electricity Electricity Energy supply Energy-related Enterprise transmission distribution Retailing gas and electricity services Bringing together key to household, small business SSE services for industrial, Using higher voltage lines and Using lower voltage lines and Providing energy-related and industrial and commercial and public cables to transmit electricity cables to distribute electricity products and services commercial customers.
from generating plant to the to homes, work places and to households and distribution network.
