10 Strategic report Our strategy Our strategy is focused on creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders, delivered through five key levers.
We made further progress on each of these levers in the year: unnecessary duplication of products and ingredients in our supply 1.
Driving our like-for-like sales growth chain.
Waste and loss management has been an area of focus this We are focused on the food and beverage market in travel year, and we are now seeing the benets of our investments in locations, which benets from long term structural growth.
We systems and resources to manage these areas more eectively, aim to use our retail skills and broad portfolio of brands to drive particularly in the larger countries.
profitable like-for-like sales, ensuring that we benefit from the positive trends in these markets.
In all of these areas we have invested in both central and local resources to drive gross margin more directly.
This includes a We continue to make good progress on rolling out our retailing stronger purchasing team, more recipe development basics programme, which is increasingly gaining traction and chefs and a new central waste and loss prevention team with supporting growth in like-for-like sales.
Our focus in the year regional specialists supporting them.
has been on category management disciplines, and in particular on range management and menu composition.
Running an ecient and eective organisation programme we have introduced new ranges into a number of our We have made good progress in our multi-year programme to core brands, such as Upper Crust.
We continue to carry out work improve operating margin.
Labour costs including central labour to improve our product merchandising and promotional oer, contributed 10 basis points, or 40 basis points on an underlying and have made further progress in testing price elasticity in key basis when adjusted for additional costs in 2015 of being a publiclycategories and sectors.
We continue to develop systems to beer align labour to sales demand and hence optimise service levels and 2.
Growing profitable new space labour costs.
We have begun to develop a more standardised, systematised process to ensure that labour forecasting and In the year, net contract gains were 0.6%, with stronger growth in scheduling becomes a core competence.
In addition to labour the second half of the year at 1.6%, as we passed the anniversary scheduling and forecasting we continue to explore other areas of a lost on-board rail contract in the UK.
This good performance where technology can drive greater eciency.
For example, we was driven by new unit openings, including those at Houston and have made good progress installing cash-counting machines Orlando airports in North America, at Nice and Stavanger airports and digital point of sale systems.
We continue to see many good in Continental Europe, at Stansted Airport in the UK, and in the opportunities for further improvement in this area.
Rest of the World at Sydney and Hobart airports in Australia.
We continue to focus on retaining profitable contracts and our We also delivered eciencies in our management of overheads, contract renewal rate in 2015 was in line with our plan.
which contributed a further 20 basis points improvement to operating margin.
We had a strong year in terms of business development, winning important new contracts across the globe, including those at Shenyang Taoxian International Airport in China, Tampa and 5.
Optimising investment Montreal airports in North America, and Luxembourg Findel We continue to invest in further resources and improved capability Airport in Continental Europe.
to support business development and the implementation of best practice across the Group.
We have strengthened the business We have further strengthened our portfolio of brands and concepts development teams in North America and the Rest of the World adding new names such as Pret A Manger, James Martin Kitchen, and invested in dedicated teams to oversee capital projects and Maison Pradier and Maan Coee.
We have also strengthened our teams dedicated to category management, labour scheduling and the management 3.
Optimising gross margins of waste and loss.
We have also recruited new central resource for We increased gross margin by 50 basis points year-on-year, capital procurement, as well as construction and property directors although this included the benefit of the loss of a major on-board in our key countries.
rail contract and the strong air sales in the final quarter.
Adjusting for these eects, the comparable improvement in gross margin was around 30 basis points.
We continue to make progress with our initiatives to maximise the purchasing benets of our international scale, and we have entered into a number of international supplier deals during the year, for example in crockery, glassware, bakery packaging and sugar sachets.
Our programme of range and recipe rationalisation and simplication is also progressing well and we continue to eliminate
