Strategic Report Weather Wind Generating electricity: Onshore and offshore Why weather wind farms account for the largest proportion of SSEs renewable generation output.
Wind patterns therefore influence the absolute amount of renewable energy SSE is able to matters to SSE generate and influences the mix of generation it deploys at any given point in time.
Keeping the lights on: As a network operator The weather in the UK and Ireland has a direct and significant in the north of Scotland and in central southern England, extreme wind in these areas can have influence on SSEs core business of producing delivering and a significant impact on SSEs transmission supplying energy.
Monitoring the weather is therefore integral and distribution assets.
Analysing the weather in advance allows the company to mobilise to SSEs business operations.
people and resources to areas which might be affected by the high winds, to ensure customers remain on supply or are reconnected quickly.
It is the role of SSEs dedicated meteorologist to forecasts for electricity generation output analyse global weather models, the jet stream, from its renewable generation assets: Rainfall sea surface temperatures and microclimates in - Prepare to keep the lights on in times Generating electricity: SSE has a proud order to predict future weather patterns and of extreme weather: and 70 year history of hydroelectric generation in their potential business impact.
- Ensure it can continue to provide energy the north and west of Scotland.
The operation to its customers in a sustainable, reliable and productivity of SSES hydroelectric power Monitoring and understanding weather patterns and safe way.
stations is therefore entirely dependant on the allows SSE to: volume and frequency of rainfall in this area.
- Predict the demand for energy from The three main forecast models SSEs Through the use of dams in many cases SSE its customers: meteorologist monitors are wind, is able to store this renewable resource for - Establish short, medium and long term rainfall and temperature.
use at peak times during the year.
Keeping the lights on: Excessive rainfall has the potential to cause disruption to SSEs network through flooding and damage to underground cables.
Forecasting when heavy rain is due is important for SSE so it can assemble its engineers in response.
Temperature Supplying energy: Prolonged periods of lower temperatures or above average temperatures can significantly impact total demand for energy.
Changes in demand require an equivalent increase in the supply of electricity and gas in order to maintain a balanced energy system.
Seasonal demand changes have a direct impact on SSEs generation output but unexpected significant fluctuations in daily temperatures require generation assets that have a flexible and fast response.
Energy forecasting: As is standard practice in the energy sector, SSEs energy portfolio managers buy gas and fuel up to two years in advance.
Effective forecasting of long term temperatures, via modelling analysis, helps improve the accuracy of long term energy forecasts and the effectiveness of SSEs energy procurement.
Keeping the lights on: Understanding future temperature variations helps SSE predict snow, ice or lightning.
These weather events can have a major impact on SSEs networks and being prepared plays a significant role in helping to keep customers lights on.
Wind Rainfall Temperature What happened in 2014 15?
- In August 2014, wind battered most of - Scotland provisionally had its sixth - The mean temperature in the UK was the UK and Ireland, with wind speeds wettest winter in a series from 1910.
at 119% of the average for that month.
- October was the wettest in Scotland - Of the 12 months between 1 April 2014 - December 2014 and January 2015 were since 1954.
December 2014 and January and 31 March 2015, six had temperatures above average too.
more than one degree Celsius above - The north of the UK bore the brunt - Annual rainfall in the north of Scotland average, and only two months were of some significant storms in midwas 113% of the 1981-2010 average.
below average August and March.
December, mid-January and late - The north of Scotland had its wettest - November was the fifth warmest in the February.
- Other months in 2014 15 were near - December 2014 to March 2015 values or below average for wind.
- Hydro generation, mostly situated in the - Sunshine: The UK enjoyed the sunniest What was the impact?
north of Scotland, performed very well winter in records dating back to 1929.
- Onshore and offshore wind generation throughout 2014 15. performed reasonably well throughout - Overall, conventional hydro generation What was the impact?
- The prolonged warmer weather delayed - Overall, wind generation output was - Heavy rainfall, accompanied by wind people turning their heating on.
and lightning, associated with the - Demand for gas was less throughout - Scottish and Southern Energy Power weather bomb in October 2014, November, but returned to normal Distribution tackled a number of storms caused a significant number of faults levels during December and beyond.
throughout the course of the winter, across SSEs electricity network, - Overall SSE estimates that weather restoring power to over 100,000 homes.
particularly in the north and west impacts resulted in a 3% reduction in Despite the high winds, its customers of Scotland.
the amount of gas domestic customers only lost 69 minutes this year in the consumed in 2014 15. north of Scotland, and 57 minutes this year in its network area in central southern England.
Output of wind energy GWh Output of hydro energy GWh 2014 15 UK average temperature C 4,677 3,726 9.5C -10% -0.7% 0.1% Average wind speeds Average hydro output UK average temperature Wind speeds in Scotland and Northern Ireland were around average, but lower than the previous year, contributing to lower output of electricity from 3,448GWh 8.75C SSEs wind farms.
The 30 year average output from its SSEs hydro The annual UK average temperature, based assets inc average output from Glendoe since 2012 on the 1981-2010 climatology, is 8.75C.
