STRATEGIC REPORT Clinical review Clinical quality and performance are at the heart of everything we do 2015 has been a year of considerable to report that the Group as whole achieved DR JEAN-JACQUES fide GORTER adaptation and transformation for Spire all five clinical KPIs in 2015.
At the beginning of the year we In addition, and for the third year running, prepared for changes introduced by the Care there was not a single case of MRSA Our Group Medical Director, Quality Commission CQC regarding how bacteraemia reported by our hospitals, they inspect hospitals in England by adapting Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter, nor indeed any cases of MSSA bacteraemia.
our systems for monitoring and reporting Despite a slight increase in the number is responsible for defining our performance.
We also strengthened our of C. difficile cases, our rates nevertheless programme of on-site clinical reviews led by clinical governance and quality compare very favourably with national the Chief Nursing Officer and these are now averages published by the Health strategy, and his team audit, undertaken regularly and rigorously in line Protection Agency.
with the CQCs own methodology.
monitor and report on our Surgical site infection following hip and knee In 2015, seven hospitals underwent formal quality performance.
In surgery 0.20% in 2015 was the lowest inspection by the CQC according to the reported on record, as was post-operative addition, the Clinical Services new inspection methodology.
six hospitals have been published: four team supports our hospitals were rated Good by the CQC inspection In terms of treatment effectiveness, we to comply with relevant team though we await the outcome of our are very pleased to report the lowest-ever challenge to improve one hospitals rating to rate of unplanned returns to theatre healthcare regulations across Outstanding and two were rated Requires 0.13%, unplanned readmissions 0.18% England, Scotland and Wales.
We have taken immediate and unplanned patient transfers 0.04%.
steps to address the issues identified on the Inpatient mortality and mortality within day of inspection and look forward to these 31 days of surgery both fell slightly in 2015 hospitals being reinspected.
This is a testament to the care and attention to detail shown by our Our hospitals in Wales are regulated by clinical teams.
Good teamwork, robust and Healthcare Inspectorate Wales HIW up-to-date care pathways, and a willingness and those in Scotland by Healthcare to challenge have together created a basis Improvement Scotland HIS.
There were for reliable and high-quality care.
Both Scottish hospitals were inspected by HIS in 2015, Over the past five years, our hospitals have with Spire Murrayfield Edinburgh Hospital worked hard to improve our processes for rated Very good for all five standards patient discharge and the planning necessary inspected, and Spire Shawfair Park Hospital to ensure this is undertaken in a calm and rated Very good for four standards and efficient manner.
Patient satisfaction with Good for one standard.
discharge processes increased for the fifth year in a row, making this the greatest In 2016, we will introduce a new clinical improving satisfaction measure over this assurance framework designed in line period.
In addition, compared with last year, with the five domains inspected by the patients responding Excellent to quality of CQC.
This will bring together the many care improved by 3% we do not believe that sources of hard and soft intelligence we achieving Very Good is sufficient for our already monitor in order to help guide our patients and responses to our other key frontline management teams as well as questions all improved year-on-year.
provide assurance to the executive and Board committees ahead of future Despite these results, in 2015 I commissioned regulatory inspections.
We are pleased an independent review into the way that we 34 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In 2015, our hospitals delivered care to patients that was safer and more effective than in previous years.
DR JEAN-JACQUES fide GORTER, GROUP MEDICAL DIRECTOR CLINICAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MRSA BACTERAEMIA Hospital target 2015 Efficient discharge before 11.00am Red 45% 0.00 56% % in-patients discharged by 11.00am quarterly average Amber 4654% 2014: 0.00 Green 55% 2013: 0.00 Compliance with VTE risk assessment Red 89% 97% Fully completed national VTE risk assessments Amber 9094% Green 95% MSSA BACTERAEMIA NEWS record keeping Red 89% 96% % compliance Amber 9094% Green 95% 0.00 Temperature control Red 70% 83% 2014: 0.30 % temperature recording theatre and recovery Amber 7179% 2013: 0.38 Green 80% Compliance with cancer standards Red 55% 75% % cancer patients with evidence of MDT discussion C. DIFFICILE Amber 5664% Green 65% manage any complaints we might In parallel, we began our implementation 0.60 receive.
In 2016, we will be enacting the of iQemo, an electronic prescription system 2014: 0.30 recommendations that relate to process, for chemotherapy.
This will make the process 2013: 0.51 leadership, development and assurance of treating patients with chemotherapy both in a bid to better address any concerns that simpler for consultants and staff, and safer are raised by patients when their care did for our patients.
INPATIENT SURGICAL not meet their expectations.
I expect these MORTALITY PER 10,000 In conclusion, in 2015 our hospitals delivered improvements to further enhance our ANAESTHETIC EPISODES care to patients that was safer and more customer service.
effective than in previous years.
At the same Finally, we began two important projects time, patients have responded by telling us 0.33 in 2015 to transform the way we not only that their experience of receiving care was care for our cancer patients, but also comply better than ever.
I salute our clinical teams 2014: 0.34 with national guidelines and regulations.
for having delivered on our clinical quality 2013: 0.33 We launched the electronic Ardeo Cancer goals last year.
Working alongside our Registry that will record the recommended dedicated consultants and specialists, I firmly RETURNS TO THEATRE treatment plans for every patient treated for believe that we are united in our ambition to cancer with surgery, chemotherapy or improve the quality of our care even further radiotherapy at a Spire Healthcare hospital.
0.13% This platform also enables multidisciplinary 2014: 0.14% teams, either at the hospital or remotely, 2013: 0.15% to discuss the treatment plan for a patient Dr Jean-Jacques fide Gorter whilst also viewing their diagnostic images Group Medical Director and pathology findings.
Beginning with 16 March 2016 patients being treated for breast cancer or with chemotherapy, in time this will extend to every tumour site.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 35 STRATEGIC REPORT PATIENTS: AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO CONSTANT IMPROVEMENT AND SHARING BEST PRACTICE Providing patients with the highest standards of healthcare Rebecca Marchant at Spire Liverpool Hospital STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE FIVE KEY QUESTIONS THE CQC ASKS 2015 was the first year of the Care Quality To give a hospital an overall rating, the CQC concentrates on five questions when Commissions CQC new in-depth hospital inspecting.
Seven of our sites hosted effective?
teams of up to 22 inspectors over a number caring?
of days of intense examination of all well led?
You can see how our hospitals aspects of our care provision.
uk EMBRACING CARE QUALITY CQC NEW INSPECTION REGIME ACUTE HOSPITAL RATINGS ACROSS UK INCLUDING NHS Four of our hospitals that have had improvement.
Prompt and robust action their inspection results published were has been taken to correct the minor 6 Outstanding all rated Good with Spire Liverpool concerns which the CQC identified.
167 Good and Spire Washington hospitals having We are looking forward to all our individual domains rated Outstanding remaining hospitals being CQC rated 227 Requires the only two independent hospitals improvement as soon as possible working with our in the country to achieve this so far.
30 Inadequate regulator and sharing best practice to Like the majority of hospitals in the country, improve our already excellent care quality.
Source: CQC at 09 03 2016. two of our hospitals were found to require SHARING BEST PRACTICE REBECCA MARCHANT Clinical inspection team, CQC A small central clinical inspection team, led by Chief Nursing Officer, Susan Holliday, supports our hospitals before and during CQC inspections.
Rebecca Marchant conducts many clinical reviews which are now effectively mini-CQC inspections preparing staff for the sorts of questions and information required in the new inspection regime.
We hold forums for matrons and clinicians and we have a range of pre-inspection checklists, action plans and newsletters all aimed at sharing inspection experiences and tips across all our hospitals.
Next year we are looking to introduce an inspection toolkit, for all staff including selfassessments to help them prepare.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 37
