6 Strategic report Our business model Our business model is focused on meeting the food and beverage needs of our clients and customers in the complex and challenging travel environment.
We are able to achieve this through a combination of international scale and local expertise.
Our proposition to clients is The Food Travel Experts which has helped us achieve our leading market position and retain our clients over the long term.
It will also provide a strong platform for profitable growth in the future.
This business model is founded on five key elements: Leading market positions 1 5 Local Experienced insight and management international team scale 2 4 Long-term Food client travel relationships expertise 3 SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 7 SSP presence Leading market positions 1 We have leading positions in some of the most aractive sectors and regions of the travel food and drink market.
These sectors have a number of long-term structural growth drivers, such as increasing passenger volumes and rising spend per passenger and are supported by clients increasingly seeking to develop and commercialise their sites.
We have outlets in 29 countries around the world: from the UK to Australia.
We have experienced and established teams in all of these countries.
Local insight and international scale 2 We combine local insight into markets and customers with international scale and expertise.
A strong local presence enables us to understand local customers tastes and needs, as well as allowing us to maintain close relationships with clients and brand partners.
Our international reach enables us to benefit from economies of scale, such as in procurement and corporate functions and systems, as well as being able to share best practice across regions, countries and sites.
8 Strategic report Our business model continued Food travel expertise 3 We provide a compelling proposition for both clients and customers based on our food travel expertise, which includes a deep understanding of customers food and beverage needs, an extensive range of brands and concepts, a track record of innovation, and operational expertise in logistically demanding travel environments.
Our reputation for understanding the changing needs of the customer is strong.
Long-term client relationships 4 Our principal clients are the owners and operators of airports and railway stations, with airport and railway station locations generating over 90 per cent of our revenues in 2015.
Other clients include hospitals, leisure centres and shopping centres.
We can demonstrate an ability to win, build and maintain strong, profitable long-term client relationships.
We have longstanding relationships with many of our clients, and have maintained high success rates in retaining our contracts.
Experienced management team 5 Our senior management team has deep experience, and is supported by high-quality local management.
They have substantial expertise within the travel food and beverage market and broader retail industry.
SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 9
