GOVERNANCE Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report shareholders as a whole.
Further items POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS together with the audited financial of business to be proposed at the annual The business of the Company is managed statements of Spire Healthcare Group general meeting are described throughout by the Directors who may exercise all the plc the Company together with its this Directors Report.
powers of the Company, subject to any subsidiaries the Group for the year relevant legislation, any directions given by DIVIDENDS ended 31 December 2015. the Company by passing a special resolution The Directors recommend the payment and to the Companys Articles of Association.
Certain disclosure requirements for of a final dividend in respect of the year The Articles, for example, contain specific inclusion in this Directors Report have been ended 31 December 2015 of 2.4 pence provisions concerning the Companys power incorporated by way of cross reference to 2014: 1.8 pence per ordinary share making to borrow money and issue shares.
the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 57 and a proposed total dividend for the year of the Directors Remuneration Report on 3.7 pence per share 2014: 1.8 pence.
APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL pages 76 to 93, and should be read in Subject to shareholders approving the OF DIRECTORS conjunction with this report.
The following, recommendation at the annual general Rules relating to the appointment and included in the Strategic Report, also form meeting, the final dividend will be paid on removal of the Directors are contained part of this report: 28 June 2016 to shareholders on the register within the Companys Articles of Association.
as at 3 June 2016. greenhouse gas emissions, which can be DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES found under Corporate social responsibility The Company paid an interim dividend in See page 67 in the Corporate governance on pages 46 and 47: respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 section.
of 1.3 pence per share on 15 December 2015. employees, which can be found under Our people on pages 42 to 45: AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS ASSOCIATION the Corporate governance statement, Following the announcement in June 2015 The Company may only make amendments set out on pages 62 to 67: and of the sale of Cinven Funds shareholding in to the Articles of Association of the the Company to Mediclinic International, Our strategy set out on pages 18 to 19.
Company by way of special resolution Dr Supraj Rajagopalan stepped down of the shareholders, in accordance with A description of the Groups exposure and from the Board on 29 June 2015.
Danie the Companies Act 2006. management of risks is provided in the Meintjes was appointed as a Non-Executive Strategic Report on pages 48 to 55.
Director on 20 August 2015 under the EMPLOYEES terms of the relationship agreement Information regarding the Companys The Group is an equal opportunities entered into between the Company and charitable donations can be found under employer and is committed to creating an Remgro Jersey Limited, a subsidiary of Our people on pages 42 to 45. environment which will attract, retain and Mediclinic International.
motivate its people, by creating a working REGISTERED OFFICE environment in which individuals are able In March 2016, we announced that Rob The Companys registered office and to make best use of their skills, free from Roger will be stepping down as Chief principal place of business is 3 Dorset Rise, discrimination or harassment, and in which Executive Officer and leaving the Company London EC4Y 8EN.
all decisions are based on merit.
We will also appoint Healthcare employs people who consider Andrew White, our Chief Operating Officer, ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING themselves to have a disability a physical or to the Board on 1 July 2016.
The annual general meeting of Spire mental impairment which has a substantial Healthcare Group plc will be held at The UK Corporate Governance Code provides and long-term adverse effect on their ability the offices of J. P. Morgan at 60 Victoria for all Directors of FTSE companies to stand to carry out normal day-to-day activities.
Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on for election or re-election by shareholders Employees who consider themselves to have Thursday, 19 May 2016 at 11.00am.
Accordingly, all members of the a disability are under no obligation to inform Board, with the exception of Danie Meintjes, their employer of this, however, we are fully At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed who will stand for election for the first time, aware of, and comply with, our obligations to declare a final dividend, to receive the will retire and seek re-election at this years in accordance with the relevant provisions Annual Report and Financial Statements, annual general meeting.
Full biographical of the Equality Act 2010. approve the Directors Remuneration Report, details of all of the Directors can be found elect or re-elect all of the Directors and to on pages 58 and 59. reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor.
Shareholders will also be asked to authorise Further information on the contractual the Directors to hold general meetings at arrangements of the Executive Directors 14 clear days notice where this flexibility is given on page 81.
The Non-Executive is merited by the business of the meeting Directors do not have service agreements.
and is thought to be in the interests of 94 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Group gives full and fair consideration The rights attaching to the shares are set out RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING to applications for employment from in the Articles of Association.
There are no Unless the Directors otherwise determine, disabled persons.
Should an employee restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares a shareholder shall not be entitled to vote become disabled during their employment in the capital of the Company other than either personally or by proxy: with Spire Healthcare, every effort is made those which may be imposed by law from if any call or other sum presently payable to enable them to continue their service time to time.
There are no special control to the Company in respect of that share with the Group.
rights in relation to the Companys shares remains unpaid: or and the Company is not aware of any Further information on our employees agreements between holders of securities having been duly served with a notice to can be found under Our people on pages that may result in restrictions on the transfer provide the Company with information 42 to 45. of securities or on voting rights.
In accordance under Section 793 of the Companies Act with the Disclosure and Transparency 2006, and has failed to do so within 14 POLITICAL DONATIONS AND Rules, certain employees are required to days, for so long as the default continues.
EXPENDITURE seek approval prior to dealing in the The Group made no political donations DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES Companys shares.
Although the Company The beneficial interests of the Directors and does not make, and does not intend to The Companys entire issued ordinary share their families in the shares of the Company make, donations to political parties, within capital is listed on the premium segment are detailed on page 91. the normal meaning of that expression, of the Official List of the Financial Conduct the definition of political donations under During the year, no Director had any material Authority and to unconditional trading on the Companies Act 2006 is very broad and interest in any contract of significance to the the London Stock Exchange plcs main includes expenses legitimately incurred as Groups business.
part of the process of talking to members of Further information relating to the Parliament and opinion formers to ensure MATERIAL INTERESTS IN SHARES Companys issued share capital can be found that the issues and concerns of the Group are As at 16 March 2016, the Company has been in note 27 to the Companys financial considered and addressed.
These activities notified by the following investors of their statements on page 128. interests in 3% or more of the Companys are not intended to support any political issued share capital.
These interests were party and the Groups policy is not to make The Company has made no purchases of its notified to the Company pursuant to any donations for political purposes in the own shares during the year and no shares Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: normally accepted sense.
were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
A resolution will therefore be proposed Shareholder Current % at the annual general meeting seeking ALLOT SHARES AND PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS Mediclinic International 29.90 shareholder approval for the directors to be Shareholders will be asked to renew both the given authority to make donations and incur Woodford Investment general authority of the Directors to issue expenditure which might otherwise be Management LLP 14.02 shares and to authorise the Directors to caught by the terms of the Companies Act BlackRock, Inc 6.38 issue shares without applying the statutory 2006.
The authority sought will be limited pre-emption rights.
In this regard, the Goldman Sachs Asset to a maximum amount of 100,000.
Company will continue to adhere to the Management International 5.25 provisions in the Pre-emption Groups SHARE CAPITAL The Capital Group Companies, Inc 4.80 Statement of Principles.
As at the date of this report, Spire Healthcare Group plc had an issued share capital of Further details on these matters can 401,081,391 ordinary shares of 1 pence be found in the 2016 Notice of annual each, being the total number of shares with general meeting.
VOTING RIGHTS Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of In a general meeting of the Company, on a the Companys Employee Benefit Trust, holds show of hands, every member who is present 1,692,242 ordinary shares of 1 pence each in person or by proxy and entitled to vote 2014: nil.
Further details can be found in shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member note 27 on page 128. who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 95 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS Information required Location in Annual Report 2015 The following agreements are considered Amount of interest capitalised Note 11 on page 118 to be significant in terms of their potential Long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report pages impact on the business of the Group as 76 to 93 a whole and could alter or terminate on a change of control of the Group: Equity securities allotted for cash Note 27 on page 128 Parent and subsidiary undertakings Note 18 on page 122 the Groups bank facility agreement contains provisions entitling the Subsisting significant agreements Page 95 counterparties to exercise termination Controlling shareholder relationships Pages 67 and 96 or other rights in the event of a change of control: COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION there are a number of contracts which There are no agreements between the TO AUDITOR allow the counterparties to alter or Group and its Directors or employees Having made enquiries of fellow Directors terminate those arrangements in the event providing for compensation for loss of office and of the Companys auditor, each of the of a change of control of the Company.
or employment that occurs as a result of Directors confirms that: These arrangements are commercially a change of control.
sensitive and confidential and their to the best of their knowledge and belief, disclosure could be seriously prejudicial there is no relevant audit information of DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER LISTING to the Group: and which the Companys auditor is unaware: RULE 9.8.
4R and The above table is included to meet the the Companys share incentive plans requirements of Listing Rule section 9.8.
contain provisions relating to a change of they have taken all the steps a director The information required to be disclosed control and full details of these plans are might reasonably be expected to have by that section, where applicable to the taken to be aware of relevant audit provided in the Directors Remuneration Company, can be located in the Annual information and to establish that the Report on pages 76 to 93.
Outstanding Report 2015 at the references set out above.
Companys auditor is aware of that options and awards would normally vest information.
and become exercisable on a change of EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD control, subject to the satisfaction of There have been no material events REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR performance conditions, if applicable, affecting the Group or Company since Resolutions for the reappointment of Ernst & at that time.
Young LLP as the auditor of the Company and The relationship agreement entered into by to authorise the Directors to determine its Cinven and Spire Healthcare Group plc in July GOING CONCERN remuneration will be proposed at the annual 2014 terminated on the sale of their The Group is financed by a bank loan facility general meeting.
Ernst & Young LLP has shareholding in June 2015. that matures in 2019.
The Directors have expressed its willingness to be reappointed.
considered the Groups forecasts and Following the purchase of shares by The Directors Report has been approved by projections, and the risks associated with Mediclinic International from Cinven, a the Board and is signed on its behalf by: their delivery, and are satisfied that the relationship agreement was entered into Group will be able to operate within the with Remgro Jersey Limited, a subsidiary covenants imposed by the bank loan facility of Mediclinic International, in June 2015 for the foreseeable future.
In relation to Daniel Toner and this is deemed a material agreement available cash resources, the Directors General Counsel and Group Company between the Company and its principal have had regard to both cash at bank and a Secretary shareholder.
The agreement does not include 100.0 million committed undrawn revolving 16 March 2016 a change of control provision but does credit facility.
Accordingly, they have adopted terminate upon the earlier of the Companys the going concern basis in preparing these ordinary shares ceasing to be listed and financial statements.
traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities and the principal shareholders ceasing to be entitled, in aggregate, to exercise or to control the exercise of 15% or more of the votes to be cast on all or substantially all matters of a general meeting of the Company.
96 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015
