Strategic Report Questions and answers with the SSE Executive Team How would you describe the performance of SSE in 2014 15?
Answering key Alistair: I always expected to describe this financial year as tough and of course it was.
A Competition and Markets Authority investigation, volatility in commodities markets, intense competition in retail questions markets, and heightened political uncertainty from the Scottish referendum and the UK general election combined to create a tricky operating environment.
But for SSE it was also an encouraging year too.
Work In the year to March 2015, SSE had two Executive on the key Caithness-Moray transmission link has begun, our newest generation plant, Great Island in Directors: Chief Executive Alistair Phillips-Davies and Ireland has been commissioned and weve begun to Finance Director Gregor Alexander.
Here they answer build a brand for the future: all of which create the opportunity for increased earnings for the future.
some of the key questions facing both SSE and the energy industry now and in the future: Gregor: Id say it was a reasonable performance given the circumstances.
Despite tough market conditions we have been able to deliver solid business results at the same time as being a responsible company that does the right thing by its employees and its customers.
Every year, SSE says it puts safety first.
Do you believe that was the case in 2014-15?
Alistair: The importance of safety to the culture and ethos of SSE as an organisation cannot be overstated and in terms of performance 2014 15 was one of our best-ever years for safety.
In statistical terms, SSE compares well amongst our peers but that becomes irrelevant to any individual who is hurt, has a life changing injury or to a family who must live with the consequences of a loved one being killed at work.
Everyone at SSE was greatly affected by the death of a colleague, whilst driving between our Inverness depot and his home.
I am determined that we will constantly learn and work to make sure safety is front of mind, all of the time.
Putting safety first means we get our perspective on life right and it puts our priorities in the right order.
You are in the middle of a CMA market investigation, never a comfortable place for any industry.
How is SSE managing the risk of different possible outcomes?
Alistair: Throughout the CMA process, SSE has continued to listen to our customers, considered the submissions of other parties and led the way in terms of engagement with the CMA.
This has allowed us to more fully understand the range of possible outcomes and prepare for change but more importantly to help ensure customers are at the heart of the debate.
I hope for an outcome that is clear and has the support of the whole market but most of all I hope for one that provides a long settlement.
That may mean more change to the industry than some will be comfortable with.
The greatest risk, I believe, is that the outcome does not draw a line under the public concern relating to the energy industry.
It is in everyones interests that an enduring industry Watch the video structure is found that commands the consent and Alistair talks about SSEs full-year results.
com sseplc 14 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
SSE argues that it took a bold step in freezing The Networks businesses have always been This disclosure is a direct result of the energy prices in March 2014.
With energy considered the reliable and predictable part standards that are required by our Fair Tax supply customer numbers falling since, of the SSE group.
They now appear subject to Mark accreditation, and we welcome the extra how can that decision be justified?
greater regulatory and political uncertainty.
rigour that process has given.
We wanted an Alistair: SSEs price freeze was hugely important.
How do you intend to manage the risks independent assessment that demonstrated At the time, we promised to freeze prices but, associated with that?
SSE is undertaking ethical and transparent if we could, to reduce them too.
Thats exactly Gregor: I am disappointed that the CMA has had practices and the Fair Trade Mark provides this.
to become involved in the eight-year electricity They wanted to know for sure that energy prices distribution price control, particularly given the Where will you find the opportunities would stop going up and the freeze gave them work we had done to contribute to a significant for growth in the medium term?
We can only begin to rebuild distribution cost reduction to customers across Alistair: I am optimistic for the future.
trust with customers by responding to the issues our distribution networks.
Nevertheless, we will The UK energy industry is still undergoing they are concerned about.
The fall in gas prices work constructively to achieve the best outcome radical transformation but the settling down of allowed us to cut prices by 4.1% coupled with a for customers and in the meantime the Electricity Market Reforms means there is the further promise to cap prices at the current level Networks business is focussed on delivering opportunity of a stable platform for investment.
Market conditions are cost reductions and improvements in service The UK economy is growing and a clear CMA highly competitive and steps like the price freeze that customers require right now.
outcome can boost the UK retail market.
help provide a platform for increased success in The potential in networks should not be those markets in the future.
The most effective way to manage political and underestimated.
The Caithness-Moray regulatory risk in the networks business is to focus transmission line represents the largest ever Given the continuing political risk SSE faces on delivery.
That means delivering high quality investment by SSE.
We also continue to grow and other expected challenges in the months service to customers, operating at the efficiency in Ireland, with the Great Island power station and years to come, how sure can you be that frontiers and, in the event of storms and faults, coming on line.
SSE has consistently taken a you will be able to fulfil your dividend promise to restore supplies as quickly as possible.
highly prudent and disciplined approach to to shareholders in the short and medium term?
We develop options for investment Alistair: Energy is an essential service so of Do you consider impacts other than simply and then, very carefully, agree to invest.
Weve course there is persistent and perennial political financial metrics when assessing the learned a lot from the past few years of major and regulatory risk for SSE.
SSE focuses solely performance of the Company?
project development, and now, I believe, we on the markets in the UK and Ireland, and we Gregor: This year, in what we understand is a can describe it as a core competence of SSE.
believe that means we are more closely attuned first for a FTSE100 company, SSE is reporting its to public opinion, which of course, affects economic contribution alongside its financial What part do you see the new Enterprise political opinion.
We work very hard to take results.
In 2014 15 SSE contributed 8.8bn to the business playing in SSEs future?
a positive, practical and reforming approach UK economy and 954m to the Irish economy, Alistair: I am confident about the growing to relations with government, regulators and and supported over 106,000 jobs and 6,400 jobs contribution Enterprise can make to the SSE politicians which, we believe, helps to mitigate respectively.
Of course, there is more to our group in the years to come.
The acquisition the business risks of unexpected political or impacts than simply the economic ones and of ESG Energy Solutions Group in July was regulatory intervention.
details of these are fully integrated into this an important step as it bolstered SSEs services report.
We want to broaden our reporting as in competitive markets for industrial and Gregor: SSEs dividend policy to deliver annual our understanding of our social, environmental commercial customers.
Managing energy costs increases in the dividend that at least keep pace and economic impact grows.
and environmental impact are as big a priority with RPI inflation over the long term is our for our large commercial customers as it is for most important financial target.
While it gives SSE has made a few headlines last year in our domestic customers with whom we already a reasonable and appropriate reward for the becoming the first FTSE100 Company to achieve have a strong track record.
As a responsible investment of our shareholders, it also guides the Fair Tax mark.
company focused on the long term, we believe the way in which we run our business.
We are Alistair: In the post-crash era, consumers are it is in SSEs interests to make the consumption long-termist in the best sense of the word and I am suspicious of the motivations of big business and of energy more sustainable for everyone.
just as concerned about those dividends in 2020 we all need to work harder to regain their trust.
and beyond, as I am for the financial year 2015 16.
Tax avoidance is a totemic issue the public cares With Lord Smith leaving the Board this year, about.
That is why SSE has worked so hard with after 13 years, it could be described as the end The first auction for electricity generation outside organisations to raise its own minimum of an era for SSE.
What impact do you think it capacity was a key milestone in electricity standards with regards tax disclosure.
How do you see this is a world of difference between aggressive Alistair: Roberts contribution to SSE has been impacting on your strategy in the period to tax avoidance and sensible tax planning.
He has steered the Board through 2020 and beyond?
avoidance means bending the rules but tax more than a decade of change, supporting Alistair: The new Capacity Market is the right planning is simply using tax rules in the way in company development and growth.
He has way to help ensure the country continues which they were intended to be used.
Given been Chairman as SSE has tackled a wide range to have stable, secure supplies of electricity.
public concern on the abuse of tax rules I hope of issues and evolved as a business and at all One of the changes it introduces is the way SSEs shareholders can take comfort that SSE, times has done that in good spirit and with wise that electricity generators receive income through the Fair Tax Mark criteria, is mitigating counsel.
Our Board is in good shape, driven generators will make some of their money the risk of being affected by tighter tax by his leadership, and I know both Gregor from the market, and some from providing regulations in the future.
and I are looking forward to working with capacity.
This provides more stable, predictable Richard Gillingwater as we lead SSE through revenues for investors, but means it will be Gregor: As you can see from the enhanced its next development phase.
On behalf of almost impossible to build a new gas-fired disclosure in this Annual Report we have much everyone associated with the Company, power station without securing a capacity greater transparency of the corporation tax I would like to thank Robert for everything agreement first.
This changes the way in we pay, the explanations for our tax rates and he has done for SSE and I wish him very well which we will look at new build opportunities.
greater clarity between the UK and Ireland.
