Strategic report 1.1 Introduction The Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year ended 30 April 2015.
This section contains the Strategic report, which includes the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a strategic report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Biographies of each director are contained in section 2 of this Annual Report and the Directors report is set out in section 3.
1.2 Cautionary statement The Strategic report has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Its purpose is to inform shareholders of the Company and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
This Strategic report contains forwardlooking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Strategic report will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation.
1.3 Overview of the year ended 30 April 2015 We are pleased to report a solid set of results for the year ended 30 April 2015.
Operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items was up 1.7% at 227.1m 2014: 223.3m.
Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items were 2.7% higher at 26.7p 2014: 26.0p, in line with expectations.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year of 7.3p per share 2014: 6.6p which, if approved, would give a total dividend for the year up 10.5% to 10.5p per share 2014: 9.5p.
The proposed final dividend would be payable on 30 September 2015 to shareholders on the register at 28 August 2015.
The operating profit of our wholly-owned bus operations fell a little short of the targets we set ourselves at the start of the year but this was offset by a strong performance in UK Rail and particularly from our Virgin Rail Group joint venture.
As a result, we achieved our overall earnings per share target for the year.
The sharp reduction in oil prices during the year resulted in a fall in car operating costs.
The increased competitive advantage this gave to cars affected the profitability of some of our businesses, most notably our megabus.
com inter-city coach operations in North America.
We are seeing strong growth in the UK Rail market and are pleased to have strengthened our participation in the rail sector.
This follows our Virgin Rail Group joint venture securing a new West Coast rail franchise to at least 2017 and the Group winning the new East Coast rail franchise due to run to at least 2023.
We are actively involved in seeking to secure several other UK rail franchises.
The strengthening of our rail business has helped to further diversify the Groups portfolio of activities, enabling our participation in the fast-growing rail market whilst building on and growing our historically robust bus businesses.
We are also expanding geographically through the growth of our megabus.
com inter-city coach operations in continental Europe.
The Groups ongoing investment in new vehicles, technology and other assets is a key part of sustaining our success.
In the year ended 30 April 2015, net capital expenditure was 140.9m 2014: 118.9m.
Across all of its divisions, the Group is investing in initiatives designed to improve our service to customers and deliver future growth.
Public transport is central to local communities and their aspirations for economic growth.
In the UK, we support the devolution of more powers to local level to allow for tailored local investment and solutions.
By working more effectively together, transport operators and regional authorities can achieve even stronger, more integrated transport systems at better value for taxpayers.
In an era of continued limited public spending, commercial operators' access to capital, operational expertise and customer understanding is critical to delivering affordable and accessible public transport.
We have led our sector in pursuing a low fares strategy to drive modal shift and give communities affordable access to work, education, health and leisure.
It is important that there is visibility of government spending plans for transport.
Policy commitments, such as concessionary fares schemes, must be properly funded for the long-term to avoid increasing the cost and undermining the reach of public transport.
Every day, our people are key to the delivery of our services.
The Board extends its thanks to all employees across the Group for their contribution throughout the year.
Stagecoach has made a satisfactory start to the new 2015 16 financial year and we are in good financial shape.
We face a number of challenges but believe that there are opportunities ahead as we continue to invest for growth.
Revenue by division is summarised below: REVENUE Year to 30 April 2015 2014 Functional 2015 2014 Growth m m currency Functional currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 1,045.5 1,012.8 1,045.5 1,012.8 3.2% UK Bus London 260.6 244.9 260.6 244.9 6.4% North America 425.4 428.2 US$ 680.1 685.7 0.8 % UK Rail 1,478.4 1,252.0 1,478.4 1,252.0 18.1% Intra-Group revenue 5.5 7.9 5.5 7.9 Group revenue 3,204.4 2,930.0 Stagecoach Group plc | page 1 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 2 Strategic report 1.3 Overview of the year ended 30 April 2015 continued Operating profit by division is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT Year to 30 April 2015 2014 Functional 2015 2014 m % margin m % margin currency Functional currency m Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 141.1 13.5% 147.4 14.6% 141.1 147.4 UK Bus London 26.3 10.1% 23.9 9.8% 26.3 23.9 North America 22.1 5.2% 23.7 5.5% US$ 35.3 38.0 UK Rail 26.9 1.8% 34.3 2.7% 26.9 34.3 Group overheads 13.9 13.9 Restructuring costs 0.8 0.9 201.7 214.5 Joint ventures share of profit after tax Virgin Rail Group 22.3 2.0 Citylink 1.1 1.3 Twin America 2.0 5.5 Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 227.1 223.3 Intangible asset expenses 11.9 14.0 Exceptional items 2.7 8.4 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit after taxation 217.9 200.9 More details on the financial results for the year are provided in sections 1.5 and 1.6 of this Annual Report.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with extensive operations in the UK, continental Europe, the United States and Canada.
The Group employs around 39,000 people, and operates bus, coach, train and tram services.
The Group has four main divisions UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our business objectives and strategy.
Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are publicly traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Company and the group headed by it is referred to as Stagecoach and or the Group.
In the remaining parts of this section 1.4, we: Section Summarise the Groups business objectives and long-term strategy 1.4.
2 Describe each of the Groups business segments, their regulatory environments, their strategy, the market opportunities, the competitive position and likely future market developments 1.4.
3 Summarise how we aim to create value, by providing an overview of the Groups business model 1.4.
4 Discuss the key resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin the Groups business and strategy 1.4.
5 Set out the principal risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives and strategy 1.4.
6 Describe how we measure and monitor progress against our objectives and strategy, and how we are performing 1.4.
2 What we look to achieve business objectives and long-term strategy Group strategy The key elements of Stagecoach Groups business strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value are: To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations by providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused transport services that deliver a positive customer experience at a reasonable price: To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital: In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected rail franchises and bus contracts to seek to secure new franchises and contracts where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment UK Bus regional operations Description The UK Bus regional operations Division connects communities in more than 100 towns and cities across the UK on bus networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to south west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Cambridge and Exeter.
The UK Bus regional operations Division operates a fleet of around 7,200 buses and coaches across a number of regional operating units.
Each regional operating unit is managed independently and is led by a managing director.
In addition to local bus services in towns and cities, Stagecoach operates interurban services linking major towns within its regional operating company areas.
The Group also runs the budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, and a small proportion of the Divisions services are megabus.
com links to and within continental Europe.
In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited with international transport group, ComfortDelGro, to operate the Scottish Citylink express network and megabus.
com branded services to, from and within Scotland.
Stagecoach owns 35% of the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading provider of express coach services in Scotland.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
Regulatory environment The current structure of the bus market in Great Britain outside London was established by the Transport Act 1985.
This is essentially a deregulated structure: any holder of a Public Service Vehicle operators licence may operate bus services, having first registered various details with the relevant traffic commissioner.
The traffic commissioners are responsible for enforcing compliance with these registered details, including standards of maintenance, reliability and punctuality.
The UK Bus regional operations bus and coach services are operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
The Division also operates tendered services, including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
Around 11% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is receivable from local authorities in respect of such tendered and school services.
Around 24% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is earned from statutory concessionary fare schemes, whereby the Group is reimbursed by public authorities for carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge.
Strategy The strategy of the UK Bus regional operations is to deliver value over time driven by organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes as a result of providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused bus services at a reasonable price to customers.
This may be supplemented by winning new tendered or contract work and or acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group has around 23% of the UK Bus market excluding London.
The UK Department for Transports National Travel Survey NTS is a household survey of personal travel in Great Britain.
The NTS found that in 2013, there was an average of 923 trips per person per year.
Trips by car or van accounted for 77% of distance travelled, bus trips accounted for 5%, rail trips accounted for 10% and walking, cycling and other modes accounted for 8%.
There therefore remains significant market opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus.
According to research by independent consultants, TAS, around 25% of UK bus journeys are for shopping, 21% for leisure, 21% for education and 19% for commuting and business.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus regional operations have performed well during more challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Although revenue is not immune to macroeconomic changes, it is less exposed than in many other types of business.
In addition, the Group can adjust the pricing and frequency of the majority of its services and is therefore well placed to respond to any changes in demand for particular services.
We estimate that around 70% of the costs vary with operating miles.
Competition The UK Bus regional operations face competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
The Group regards its primary competitor as the private car and aims to encourage modal shift from car to public transport.
The other major groups that operate buses in the UK outside of London are three other groups publically quoted on the London Stock Exchange FirstGroup, National Express Group, and Go-Ahead Group and Arriva, which is owned by Deutsche Bahn.
Future market The level of Government investment in the UK Bus Industry has come under pressure in recent years with reductions in Bus developments Service Operators Grant a rebate of fuel tax and constraints on the payments made by Government to bus operators for carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge to the passenger.
Funding of tendered services by local government has also reduced.
The Group is therefore gradually becoming less reliant on Government and a greater proportion of its revenue is coming directly from passengers.
The Division does continue to face risks related to regulatory changes and availability of public funding as noted in section 1.4.
Technological developments present both opportunities and threats to growing passenger volumes.
There are positive long-term conditions for further growth in demand for UK Bus services created by rising road congestion, supportive government policy and public concerns for the environment, which augur well for the future of the Division.
UK Bus London Description The Group is the fourth largest operator in the London bus market, with an estimated 15% share of that market.
The business operates from 9 depots and has a fleet of around 1,300 buses serving routes in and around east and south-east London.
Regulatory environment The UK Bus London business operates bus services under contract to Transport for London, receiving a fixed fee subject to adjustment for certain inflation indices and taking the cost and capital risk.
Bus operators tender to win contracts and each contract is typically for a five-year period with the potential for it to be extended by two years.
The UK Bus London Division currently has over 80 separate contracts to provide bus services on behalf of Transport for London this spreads the Divisions risk of financial performance being adversely affected when a contract expires and the business is unsuccessful in winning the replacement contract.
Strategy Our strategic focus in the London bus market is now on maintaining good operational performance and tight control of costs while seeking to bid competitively for new contracts.
Market opportunity The Group operates approximately 15% of the bus operating mileage contracted by Transport for London to bus operators.
The Group does not seek to gain market share for its own sake and remains disciplined in ensuring that its bids for new contracts offer an acceptable trade-off of risk and reward.
Transport for London has plans to increase the level of contracted bus services in coming years, which may present some growth opportunities for the business.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 3 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 4 Strategic report 1.4.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UK Bus London continued Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus London operations are not especially exposed to short-term changes in macroeconomic conditions because the business receives a fee from Transport for London for operating services irrespective of the passenger volumes on those services.
Its costs and in particular, labour costs, can vary due to macroeconomic changes and also, in the longer term, the level of services that Transport for London offers for tender might be affected by the macroeconomy.
Competition UK Bus London faces competition to win contracts from Transport for London from other bus operators, the largest of which are Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, Metroline, RATP, Transit Systems and Abellio.
Future market In the short-term, revenue growth could come from inflationary price increases, retaining work on tender but at higher rates developments and or winning contracts from other operators.
There are longer term opportunities to benefit from Transport for Londons plans to expand the network over the next five years.
Continuing population growth in London and positive government policy on public transport contribute to a positive long-term outlook for the business.
North America Description The North America Division provides bus and coach transport services in the United States and Canada.
Our businesses include commuter transit services, inter-city services, tour, charter and sightseeing operations.
The Division also operates megabus.
com, a low cost inter-city coach operator.
The North America business is headed by a chief operating officer.
Stagecoach excluding its joint ventures currently operates approximately 2,400 vehicles in the United States and Canada.
In addition to its wholly-owned operations in North America, Stagecoach has a joint venture, Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY.
The joint venture principally operates sightseeing bus services in New York.
The Group holds 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting rights in the joint venture.
Twin America LLC is headed by a chief executive and is overseen by a joint board.
Regulatory environment The North America business operates on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
It also operates some tendered services for local authorities and services contracted by corporations.
Strategy The strategy of the North America Division is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes as a result of providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused services at a reasonable price to customers.
This may be supplemented by winning new contract work and or acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group estimates it has less than 4% of the bus and coach market in North America and is growing this through innovative services such as megabus.
The US Department of Transportations Bureau of Transportation Statistics show that in 2012 some 86% of transportation to work was by car, compared with only 5% by public transport.
The opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus and coach is substantial and megabus.
com has been successful in doing this.
Macroeconomic factors The North American operations are more exposed to macroeconomic factors than the UK Bus operations as a greater proportion of their revenue is derived from customers using its services for leisure purposes, including its charter, tour and sightseeing services.
It nevertheless has similar flexibility to UK Bus over pricing and supply, enabling it to effectively respond to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
com faces competition from the car but also from other coach operators, airlines and train operators.
FirstGroup and National Express Group are also major operators of coach and bus services in North America.
Future market The Group has taken a leading role in the development of bus and coach travel in North America through its megabus.
The market for inter-city coach travel, such as that provided by megabus.
com, has grown rapidly and we expect that to continue to present significant opportunities to the Group.
UK Rail Description Stagecoach Group has major rail operations in the UK.
Our principal rail subsidiaries are South West Trains, East Midlands Trains and Virgin Trains East Coast.
South West Trains runs train services in south west England out of London Waterloo railway station, and operates Island Line services on the Isle of Wight.
The South West franchise is contracted to run until February 2017.
From 11 November 2007, we have operated the East Midlands Trains franchise.
The franchise comprises main line train services running to London St Pancras, regional rail services in the East Midlands area and inter-regional services between Norwich and Liverpool.
The East Midlands Trains franchise is contracted to run until October 2015.
Stagecoach has a 90% share in the Virgin Trains East Coast business with the Virgin Group of Companies holding the other 10%.
The Virgin Trains East Coast franchise began in March 2015 and is planned to run until 31 March 2023, with the option for a one-year extension at the discretion of the UK Department for Transport.
It provides inter-city train services between London and a number of locations including Edinburgh, Newcastle, Leeds and York.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in a joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Trains rail franchise.
The current West Coast Trains rail franchise runs until March 2017 and the Government has an option to extend it by a further year.
The other shareholder in Virgin Rail Group is the Virgin Group of Companies.
South West Trains, East Midlands Trains, Virgin Trains East Coast and the tram operations each have a managing director, who report to the Chief Executive.
Stagecoachs Chief Executive is Joint Chairman of Virgin Rail Group.
Virgin Rail Group has a managing director, who reports to the Virgin Rail Group board, which includes Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group representatives.
page 4 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 5 Strategic report 1.4.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UK Rail continued Regulatory environment The UK rail operating market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the Government for set time periods to a specification set by the Department for Transport on the basis of competitive bids.
Train operating companies operate passenger trains on the UK rail network.
The UK railway infrastructure is owned and operated by Network Rail, a not for dividend company that invests any profits into improving the railway.
Network Rail runs, maintains and develops tracks, signalling systems, bridges, tunnels, level crossings and key stations.
Strategy In rail, we seek to deliver organic growth across all of our existing operations and to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Market opportunity The market opportunity in rail arises from the potential to retain existing and or win new franchises, and also, from the potential to attract increased use of the Groups rail services.
With a number of franchises expected to be tendered within the next few years, there is scope to win new franchises.
Macroeconomic factors The Rail operations are exposed to macroeconomic factors with passenger revenue correlated to Gross Domestic Product and employment levels.
The exposure is further increased by the relatively fixed cost base of the business which restricts the scope to reduce costs in response to reduced demand.
The Groups existing South West Trains and East Midlands Trains franchises have significant protection against macroeconomic risks due to the receipt of revenue support from Government whereby Government pays the Group a proportion of the shortfall of actual revenue to the revenue expected when the Group bid for the franchise.
From June 2014, the West Coast Trains franchise operated by the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture, is not entitled to revenue support in the form received by South West Trains and East Midlands Trains.
It does, however, have a GDP sharing agreement that is intended to ensure that the Department for Transport bears most of the risk of variances in West Coast Trains revenue resulting from UK GDP differing from that expected at the time of the June 2014 franchise agreement.
The Virgin Trains East Coast franchises has a similar GDP sharing arrangement.
On bids for new franchises, the Groups evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a key component of the bid process.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other train operators but also from other modes of transport.
The main competitors that bid against the Group for UK rail franchises are FirstGroup, National Express Group, Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, MTR, Keolis, SNCF, Eurostar, Serco and Abellio.
Future market The UK Department for Transport has a clear schedule in place for re-tendering rail franchises.
The Group will assess each developments opportunity to bid for a new rail franchise on a case-by-case basis.
The UK continues to see strong growth in demand for rail services presenting opportunities for the Groups existing rail interests and also in its bids for new franchises.
4 How we create value the business model The Groups overall business model is illustrated below.
Stagecoach factors driving demand for public transport Other drivers of Safe and Advertising Value for Cost factors Investment Customer-focused reliable and money growth in services services transport marketing pricing Flexible cost Contract base franchise in bus bids Economic returns Strong Group-wide Acquisitions cost control External factors driving demand for public transport Increasing Rising Supportive Long-term Rising car Lower cost Contract road environmental government economic running rail business management congestion awareness policy growth costs model The right environment Decentralised Emphasis on Sustainable, efficient Short chains of Environment to to underpin the management operational long-term capital command support innovation business model structure performance structure The business model varies to some extent by division.
The business model is intended to deliver the business objectives and long-term strategy explained above in that it is designed to preserve and add value through organic growth, targeted acquisitions and rail franchise wins.
The overall model of the Group is based on a relatively decentralised management structure with short chains of command and close monitoring and direction from the centre.
Across the Group, there is an emphasis on achieving strong operational performance as an underpin of strong financial performance.
The business model for the Groups UK Bus regional operations and North America Divisions is designed to be sufficiently flexible to respond to developments in the markets in which they operate and to changes in demand.
The key features of this business model are: A decentralised management structure enabling local management to quickly identify and respond to developments in each local market: An emphasis on lightly regulated bus operations enabling management to vary prices, operating schedules and timetables in response to developments in each local market without significant hindrance from regulation: A flexible cost base whereby operating mileage and operating costs can be flexed in response to changes in demand.
The business model of the UK Bus London and UK Rail Divisions is different.
The businesses are more highly regulated and their cost base is less flexible so there is greater management focus on agreeing the right contractual arrangements, including appropriate risk-sharing arrangements, and ensuring these are appropriately managed for the duration of each contract.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 6 Strategic report 1.4.
5 What we need, to do what we do resources and relationships Stagecoach Group has a range of resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin its business and support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage in the markets in which it operates.
Customers Millions of people use our services and our relationship with our customers is important to us.
To deliver organic growth in revenue, a key element of our strategy, we need to provide services that people want to use.
We conduct customer research to monitor our performance and to determine how we can improve the quality, delivery and accessibility of our services.
We are passionate about providing good customer service and our businesses have regular and ongoing discussions with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from managers on aspects of our service as well as consultation and information sharing on particular issues.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base lies in its record of product innovation and new ideas on developing effective public transport systems.
Employees Human resources are key to the Groups business and the Groups relationship with its employees is therefore fundamental to achieving its objectives.
We aim to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service to our passengers.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the training and development of our people and we operate a successful graduate training scheme which provides one source of training for the managers of the future.
We have established strong working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and through a number of internal publications.
The financial community Our shareholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial community on our performance.
We have contractual arrangements with banks and other finance providers for the provision of funds and financial products to the Group.
Government and regulatory bodies Our managers have ongoing relationships with national and local government in our main countries of operation to ensure the effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider objectives.
We work with local authorities, including passenger transport executives, regional transport committees and transit authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of public transport in their areas.
In the UK, we work closely with the Department for Transport, the Scottish Government, Transport Scotland, the Welsh Government, and Transport for London.
We contract with local authorities, government bodies and other parties for the supply of bus services on a contracted or tendered basis.
We have franchise agreements with the Department for Transport governing the supply of franchised rail services in the UK.
We have constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and lobbying groups such as the Campaign for Better Transport.
Suppliers We rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services linked to our bus and rail operations.
All of our businesses have various contractual relationships with suppliers, including purchase contracts with fuel suppliers, vehicle suppliers, IT companies and spare part suppliers.
The operation of our rail franchises depends upon a number of contractual relationships with suppliers, including contracts with Network Rail governing station and track access arrangements, leases with rolling stock companies for the lease of trains and maintenance contracts for the maintenance of trains.
Information technology is increasingly important to effectively operate our services and to meet our customers expectations.
Significant investment, internal management resource and external supplier input is made in developing and operating IT systems.
Corporate reputation, brand strength, and market position Stagecoach is one of the best-known public transport operators in the UK and is consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by independent organisations.
We value our reputation, both as a public transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
Stagecoach has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
Natural resources and manufacturing technology Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place to ensure that these resources are sourced efficiently and that our supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our business.
A number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and trams, which are produced to detailed specifications relevant to the individual markets in which they are required.
Licences Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
Transport and industry representation groups We are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail, the Rail Delivery Group and the American Bus Association.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties Like most businesses, there are a range of risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its businesses.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions funding, environmental risks, industrial action, litigation and the risk of terrorism.
Internal risks include risks related to capital expenditure, acquisitions, regulatory compliance and failure of internal controls.
The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors believe are the most significant to the Group, taking account of the likelihood of occurrence of each risk and the potential effect on the Group.
Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2015 Annual Report Catastrophic events There is a risk that the Group is While it is not possible to fully eliminate No significant matters to report.
involved directly or indirectly in a these risks, the Group has a proactive major operational incident resulting in culture that puts health and safety at the significant human injuries or damage top of its agenda in order to mitigate the to property.
This could have a potential for major incidents.
In the significant impact on claims against unlikely event that a major incident did the Group, the reputation of the Group occur, the Group has procedures in place to and its chances of winning and respond.
The Group periodically rehearses retaining contracts or franchises.
In its response to a hypothetical major extreme cases, services could be incident.
The Group has insurance suspended or structural changes arrangements in place to reduce the imposed on the Group as a result of financial effect on the Group of certain regulatory or other action.
A series of less severe incidents could have similar consequences.
Terrorism There have been multiple acts of terrorism The Group has plans in place designed No significant matters to report.
on public transport systems and other to reduce the operational and financial terrorist attacks that whilst not directly impact of a terrorist incident.
It also targeting public transport have has checks in place such as vehicle discouraged travel.
There is a risk that the inspections to reduce the risk.
demand for the Groups services could be adversely affected by a significant terrorist incident.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative effect on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Economy The economic environment in the Management monitors actual and During the year ended 30 April 2015, geographic areas in which the Group projected economic trends in order to the Groups wholly owned rail operates affects the demand for the match capacity to demand and where franchises had significant protection Groups bus and rail services.
In possible, minimise the impact of from macroeconomic changes, with particular, the revenue of the Groups adverse economic trends on the both South West Trains and East UK rail operations is historically Group.
External forecasts of economic Midlands Trains having received correlated with factors such as UK trends form part of the Groups revenue support from the Department Gross Domestic Product and Central assessment and management of for Transport, such that the London Employment.
Department was and is at risk for the America, a greater proportion of the majority of any difference between In bidding for new rail franchises, the revenue from bus operations is derived actual and expected revenue.
evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a from tour, charter and sightseeing key element of the bid process.
From June 2014, the West Coast Trains services than in the UK and these franchise, operated by the Groups Further information on the relevance services tend to be more susceptible to Virgin Rail Group joint venture, has a of macroeconomic factors to each economic changes.
Other factors, such GDP sharing agreement that is business segment is provided in as movements in fuel prices, can also intended to ensure that the section 1.4.
3. affect revenue, costs and profit.
The Department for Transport bears most revenue and profit of the Group could of the risk of variances in West Coast therefore be positively or negatively Trains revenue resulting from UK GDP affected by changes in the economy.
differing from that expected at the time of the June 2014 franchise agreement.
Up to June 2014, the franchise operated under a management contract meaning that the Department for Transport bore virtually all of the risk of revenue and costs being significantly different from those expected.
The Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, which commenced in March 2015, also operates with a GDP sharing agreement similar to the West Coast Trains franchise.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 14:45 Page 8 Strategic report 1.4.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Sec ion in t 30 April 2015 Annual Report Rail cost base A substantial element of the cost base in The Group looks to achieve sensible No significant matters to report.
4 the Groups UK Rail Division is essentially risk sharing arrangements in its rail fixed because under its UK rail franchise franchise agreements.
The Groups agreements, the Group is obliged to franchise bids are designed to deliver provide a minimum level of train services an acceptable risk-reward trade-off.
As and is therefore unable to flex supply in described above, economic and response to short-term changes in terrorism risks are closely managed.
In addition, a significant part of addition, the Group remains focused the cost base is comprised of payments to on controlling costs in the UK Rail the infrastructure provider, Network Rail, Division.
4 and payments under train operating leases which are committed and do not vary with revenue.
Accordingly, a significant proportion of any change in revenue for example, arising as a result of the risks described above in respect of terrorism and the economy will impact profit from the UK Rail Division.
Sustainability of rail profit A significant element of the Groups In order to manage the risks, the The Group commenced operating the Virgin 1.5.
4 revenue and profit is generated by UK Group has devoted significant Trains East Coast franchise in March 2015. rail franchises, which have a finite management resource and financial The franchise is planned to run until at least duration.
There is a risk that the investment to bidding for new rail March 2023, with the option for a one-year Groups revenue and profit could be franchises.
extension at the Department for Transports significantly affected either positively discretion.
Appropriately experienced personnel or negatively as a result of the Group are retained to work on rail bids and The Group is discussing with the Department 1.5.
4 winning new franchises or failing to third party consultants are engaged to for Transport planned, new Direct Award retain its existing franchises.
The franchises at both East Midlands Trains and Board approves the overall rail bidding South West Trains.
strategy and the key parameters for New commercial terms were agreed and 1.5.
applied from June 2014 to Virgin Rail Groups West Coast Trains franchise, which is now expected to run until at least March 2017.
The Group is shortlisted as one of three 1.5.
4 bidders for the TransPennine Express rail franchise.
The Group submitted its bid in May 2015.
The Groups joint venture with Abellio was 1.5.
4 shortlisted in June 2015 as one of three bidders for a new East Anglia rail franchise.
4 Further rail franchises are expected to be tendered over the next few years.
Breach of franchise The Group is required to comply with Our UK Rail businesses are subject to No significant matters to report.
certain conditions as part of its rail complex contractual arrangements.
If it fails to Contractual management is an comply with these conditions, it may be important part of our rail activities liable to penalties including the because the way in which contracts are potential termination of one or more of managed can be a significant the rail franchise agreements.
This determinant of financial performance.
would result in the Group losing the Compliance with franchise conditions is right to continue operating the affected closely managed and monitored and operations and consequently, the procedures are in place to minimise the related revenues and cash flows.
The Group may also lose some or all of The Group maintains an overview of the amounts set aside as security for the Virgin Rail Groups business risk shareholder loan facilities, the management process through performance bonds and the season representation on its board and audit ticket bonds.
The Group can do more to committee.
prevent breaches of franchise where it has control than where it has joint control.
As the holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group franchise agreement.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2015 Annual Report Pension scheme funding The Group participates in a number of Decisions on pension scheme funding, Pension scheme liabilities have 1.6.
There is asset allocation and benefit promises moved during the year due to a risk that the reported net pension are taken by management and or market changes.
asset liability and or the cash contributions pension scheme trustees in The Pensions Regulator has an required to these schemes increases or consultation with trade unions and ongoing review of the valuation decreases due to changes in factors such as suitably qualified advisors.
A Pensions basis applied by the Groups main investment performance, the rates used to Oversight Committee has been defined benefits pension scheme.
discount liabilities and life expectancies.
established comprising the Finance This is consistent with reviews the Intervention by regulators could also affect Director, a Non-Executive Director and Regulator has undertaken of other the contributions required.
Any increase in other senior executives, to oversee the pension schemes as part of its contributions will reduce the Groups cash Groups overall pensions strategy.
Any significant increase in pension Board participates in major decisions liabilities could affect the Groups credit on the funding and design of pension ratings.
Insurance and claims environment The Group receives claims in respect of The Group has a proactive culture that Adjustments were required as at 1.5.
2 and traffic incidents and employee claims.
puts health and safety at the top of its 30 April 2015 to the provisions 1.5.
3 The Group protects itself against the agenda and this helps mitigate the held in respect of historic claims cost of such claims through third party potential for claims arising.
Where relating to the UK Bus London and insurance policies.
An element of the claims do arise, they are managed by Division and the North America 2.5.
3 claims is not insured as a result of the dedicated insurance and claims Division.
The net effect of these excess on insurance policies.
specialists in order to minimise the adjustments on the Groups cost to the Group.
Where appropriate, overall profit for the year ended There is a risk that the number or legal advice is obtained from 30 April 2015 was not material magnitude of claims are not as appropriately qualified advisors.
The and the effect on each division is expected and that the cost to the balance between insured and retained explained in section 1.5 of this Group of settling these claims is risks is re-evaluated at least once a report.
significantly higher or lower than year and insurance and claims activity expected.
In the US, in particular, there is monitored closely.
is a risk that given the size of the excess, that a small number of largevalue claims could have a material impact on the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
Regulatory changes and availability of public funding Public transport is subject to varying Management closely monitors Growth in concessionary revenue 1.5.
1 degrees of regulation across the relevant proposals for changes in the in the UK Bus regional locations in which the Group operates.
regulatory environment and operations is expected to be low There is a risk that changes to the communicates the Groups views to in the short-term.
regulatory environment could impact key decision makers and bodies.
The The local government in the 1.5.
Group actively participates in various North East of England continues industry and national trade bodies Similarly, many of the Groups to promote proposals to replace along with domestic and international businesses benefit from government the current commercialised government forums.
The Group seeks investment in bus and train services, market for bus services with a to maintain good, co-operative including tax rebates, the provision of contracting system.
relationships with all levels of equipment, contracted services and The current UK Governments 1.5.
1 government, by developing and concessionary travel schemes for plans for greater devolution of promoting ideas that offer cost passengers.
There is a risk that the powers within the UK could see effective ways of improving public availability of government finances the introduction of franchised bus transport.
changes due to regulatory or other networks in areas which vote to reasons.
Where changes are known or introduce metro mayors, which reasonably likely, the Group develops could affect our commercialised plans to seek to mitigate any adverse bus operations.
Management and Board succession The Group values the continued Succession planning for the Directors During the year ended 30 April services of its senior employees, and senior management is an 2015, we have initiated a North including its directors and important issue and as such is American graduate recruitment management who have skills that are considered by the Nomination programme, based on our important to the operation of the Committee as described in section successful UK graduate Groups business.
The success of the 6.5 and the Board.
Group could be adversely affected if level of management deals with effective succession planning is not in recruitment and retention of other place.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 10 Strategic report 1.4.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2015 Annual Report Disease There have been concerns in recent The Group has plans in place to No significant matters to report.
years about the risk of a swine flu respond to any significant outbreak of pandemic, which follows previous disease.
concerns over bird flu and SARS.
More recently, there has been a heightened risk of an outbreak of Ebola.
There is a risk that demand for the Groups services could be adversely affected by a significant outbreak of disease.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative impact on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Information technology The Group is reliant on information The Group is continually investing in its No significant matters to report.
technology for sales, operations and information technology systems, people back office functions.
Information and suppliers to ensure the robustness technology failures or interruptions of its information technology.
It is could adversely affect the Group.
developing new digital platforms and continues to look to ensure that it An increasing proportion of the Groups secures reliable service provision.
There is a risk that the Groups capability to make sales An Information Security Board oversees digitally either fails or cannot meet the management of cyber risks, and levels of demand and the time taken to takes appropriate advice from suitably implement restorative actions is experienced third party consultants.
unacceptably long due to insufficient resource being available and or over reliance on a small number of service providers.
This risk could result in significant levels of lost revenue at a time when the Group is investing in megabus.
com coach operations, of which Internet sales is a fundamental part.
com website failure could severely affect the megabus.
com brand and also give a competitor an advantage during the time of the failure.
There are cyber risks relating to 5.1 unauthorised access to or disclosure of data, disruption to IT systems and disruption to business operations as a result of a malicious attack.
Litigation The Group is exposed to the risk of The Group has compliance programmes A settlement has been agreed in 1.5.
5.2 commercial and consumer litigation in order to reduce the risk of material principle with the US Department of arising from the legal environment in litigation against the Group.
Justice and the New York Attorney and some markets, particularly the United Generals office in respect of the States.
3 previously reported Twin America joint venture anti-trust litigation.
Competition Loss of business to existing competitors We work with local authorities, including Revenue growth has slowed in our or new entrants to the markets in which passenger transport executives, regional North America Division, reflecting the we operate could have a significant transport committees and transit effect of the significant fall in fuel impact on our business.
We face authorities, in the delivery and planning prices on demand for our services, competition for customers not only of bus and rail services.
particularly inter-city coach services on from other operators of trains, trams, our megabus.
Our bus businesses are built on a coaches and buses but also from other successful commercial formula of low We have experienced continued strong modes of transport.
The Group regards fares, investment and high customer competition in a number of markets.
its primary competitor as the private car service which, in the UK Bus regional and aims to encourage modal shift from operations Division, has delivered car to public transport.
Developments in continued passenger volume growth 1.5.
3 new technology and or new business nearly every year for more than ten years.
models could affect the competitive environment in which the Group 1.5.
5.2 Report includes comments on competition in the context of each of the Groups key divisions.
Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, and include the risks arising from movements in fuel prices.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level to measure the Groups progress in achieving its objectives.
The most important of these KPIs at a Group level focus on four key areas: Profitability Organic growth Safety Service delivery KPI 1 profitability The overall strategy of the Group is intended to promote the success of the Group and create long-term value to shareholders.
In the shorter term, we measure progress towards this overall aspiration by monitoring growth in adjusted earnings per share.
KPI 2 organic growth To create long-term value, we aim to deliver organic growth in revenue.
We measure progress on this by division, looking at like-for-like growth in passenger volumes and or revenue as we consider most appropriate for the particular division.
KPIs 3 and 4 safety and service delivery To deliver organic growth in revenue, we aim to provide safe and reliable transport services that people want to use.
We measure safety and service delivery by division using a range of measures appropriate for each business.
Further details on how we calculate these key performance indicators, our targets and our recent performance is summarised below.
Profitability Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before exceptional items and intangible asset expenses Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangible asset expenses divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Year ended 30 April 2015 2014 2013 pence pence pence Target Adjusted EPS To increase in excess of inflation 26.7p 26.0p 24.6p Organic growth The following measures of organic growth are monitored: UK Bus regional operations growth in passenger journeys measured as the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
UK Bus London and North America growth in constant currency revenue from continuing operations measured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying businesses for example, a significant proportion of the revenue in North America and all of the revenue in UK Bus London is not determined on a per passenger basis.
Throughout this Annual Report, references to passenger volume growth for UK Bus or Rail businesses mean growth determined on the basis set out here.
Certain of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of passenger volumes.
All of the organic growth KPIs are normalised to exclude businesses that have not been held by the Group for the whole of the relevant year and the preceding year.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2015 30 April 2014 30 April 2013 Target Growth % Growth % Growth % UK Bus regional operations passenger journeys 0.1% 1.3% 0.4 % UK Bus London revenue 6.4% 5.2% 1.0% UK Rail passenger miles Positive growth South West Trains ultimate target is zero 3.9% 3.4% 1.8% each year East Midlands Trains 6.3% 0.8 % 2.7% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 10.2% 4.5% 0.9% North America revenue 0.9% 3.9% 8.9% The increase in passenger journeys at UK Bus regional operations in the year ended 30 April 2014 is partly due to more journeys by concessionary passengers that we believe is largely attributable to better weather in contrast to the more severe winter weather affecting South West Trains and North America that year, reversing the weather-related decline in passenger journeys reported for the year ended 30 April 2013.
Journeys by fare-paying passengers increased during both years.
The increase in passenger miles at South West Trains during the year ended 30 April 2014 is artificially inflated by changes in travelcard factors used to determine cross-industry passenger volumes in the London area.
The decline in passenger miles at East Midlands Trains during the year ended 30 April 2014 includes the disruptive effect of engineering works on the rail network, which reversed in the year ended 30 April 2015.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 14:47 Page 12 Strategic report 1.4.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Safety Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Six of the more important safety KPIs are reported below: Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2015 30 April 2014 30 April 2013 Target UK Bus regional operations number of blameworthy 19.7 19.1 19.3 accidents per 1 million miles travelled UK Bus London number of blameworthy 28.5 26.2 27.9 accidents per 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero US number of blameworthy accidents per To decrease each year To decrease each year 4.4 4.9 4.8 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero ultimate target is zero South West Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.5 1.4 1.5 per 1,000 staff East Midlands Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.1 1.3 1.4 per 1,000 staff Virgin Rail Group West Coast workforce lost time 1.8 1.3 1.4 injuries per 1,000 staff An increased proportion of newer, less experienced bus drivers has contributed to the increased rate of blameworthy accidents in the two UK Bus Divisions during the year ended 30 April 2015.
While the increase tends to be mostly low speed manoeuvring incidents, each incident is investigated and health and safety remains our top priority.
We continue to review our accident prevention and management processes including our training, mentoring and management of new drivers in order to minimise accident rates.
Service delivery Our measures of service delivery include: UK Bus regional operations and UK Bus London reliability measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were operated.
Rail punctuality measured on the basis of the Department for Transports Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
References to rail punctuality throughout this Annual Report refer to punctuality calculated on this basis.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure of service delivery for the North American Division as a whole.
Service delivery KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2015 2014 2013 % % % Target UK Bus regional operations reliability 99.0% 99.5% 99.5% 99.3% UK Bus London reliability 99.0% 97.2% 98.0% 97.8% UK Rail punctuality South West Trains 90.0% 90.1% 89.5% 91.5% East Midlands Trains 85.0% 92.3% 91.2% 92.3% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 85.0% 84.4% 86.1% 83.5% The deterioration in UK Bus London reliability in the year ended 30 April 2015 reflects services not being operated during two days of strike action by bus drivers and to a lesser extent, increased traffic disruption in London.
page 12 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 13 compensate us for fulfilling our legal obligation to provide free travel to 1.5 Divisional Performance pensioners and people with disabilities.
The rate of concessionary revenue we 1.5.
1 UK Bus regional operations receive per passenger journey across the UK has grown by proportionately less Financial performance than the increase in our cost base.
We continue to press the relevant The financial performance of the UK Bus regional operations Division for the authorities to ensure we are properly reimbursed for the bus services we year ended 30 April 2015 is summarised below: provide.
Revenue from tendered and school services, provided under contract to local Year to 30 April 2015 2014 authorities, increased for the year as a whole but fell in the second half of the m m Change year.
This was a result of local authorities reducing spending on supported Revenue 1,045.5 1,012.8 3.2% services due to budget constraints.
Like-for-like revenue 1,034.4 1,010.0 2.4% As expected, there was a decrease in revenue from contracts to provide bus Operating profit 141.1 147.4 4.3 % services because the previous years figure included revenue from specific Operating margin 13.5% 14.6% 110 bp contract work undertaken to provide buses to replace rail services that were affected by major engineering work.
Our regional UK Bus operations have grown both like-for-like passenger The decrease in operating margin was built up as follows: volumes and revenue year-on-year.
This has been achieved against a Operating margin 2013 14 14.6% background of tight government spending, a variable economy across the Effect of megabus.
com 0.7 % country, and increased competition to public transport from the private car as a consequence of lower fuel prices.
Change in: The slight decline in the Divisions operating profit includes the effects of our Staff costs 1.1 % expanding megabus.
com inter-city coach services in continental Europe.
The Other operating income 0.4% operating loss from the European business increased by around 4m year-onOther 0.3% year reflecting the investment in developing this exciting growth opportunity.
Operating margin 2014 15 13.5% The profit for the year is also after taking account of a significant reduction in the operating profit of our Manchester bus business principally as a result of The main changes in the operating margin shown above are: increased competition, and the ongoing legal and other costs related to the As already explained, the profit for the year reflects the investment in proposals to implement a bus contracting system in Tyne and Wear, described expanding our megabus.
com inter-city coach services in continental further below.
We offer the lowest fares of any major bus operator in Britain.
Our fuel costs Staff costs, including pension costs, rose at a faster rate than revenue.
are forecast to fall in the year ending 30 April 2016 and this has enabled us to Even excluding megabus.
com, vehicle miles operated increased year-onkeep fare increases for the year ahead to a minimum, consistent with our longyear, partly due to new development mileage.
This resulted in staff costs term organic growth strategy.
increasing by more than inflation but revenue per mile increased by a lower rate.
Pensions costs increased by over 5m year-on-year.
We will continue We have continued to invest in improving the quality of our services, resulting to review the services and mileage we operate and make appropriate in high levels of customer satisfaction.
Our focus remains on building and adjustments to reflect customer demand and the long-term interests of the maintaining sustainable bus networks through constructive partnerships with Group.
At the same time, we believe action is needed to address the worsening effects of traffic congestion in our towns and cities to deliver more Other operating income increased in the year due to a reassessment and reliable public transport and ensure buses can fully support the growth strategy reduction of the provision held for token redemptions.
Customer experience Like-for-like revenue, which excludes the revenue earned from contracts to We announced in March 2015 that our passengers are to benefit from an provide transport for the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, was built up as investment of more than 80m in around 470 new buses and coaches for follows: services in the UK and mainland Europe during 2015 16.
Many of these vehicles will be equipped with free wi-fi as we recognise the added value this Year to 30 April 2015 2014 provides to customers over travelling by car.
m m Change Independent research published by Transport Focus in March 2015 found that Commercial on and off bus revenue 628.9 605.9 3.8% bus passengers rated Stagecoach the best value major bus operator in Britain.
Concessionary revenue 246.6 243.1 1.4% The Groups overall satisfaction rating of 88% was amongst the highest in the Tendered and school revenue 113.5 112.0 1.3% industry.
Our own research has confirmed that catching the bus remains Contract revenue 41.4 45.5 9.0 % significantly cheaper than commuting to work by car despite the fall in fuel Hires and excursions 4.0 3.5 14.3% prices.
At the pump fuel prices fell to their lowest level for four years, but a Like-for-like revenue 1,034.4 1,010.0 2.4% Stagecoach survey of around 40 key commuter corridors in England, Scotland and Wales found that the bus was still cheaper than the combined cost of fuel The Divisions good like-for-like revenue growth continues to come principally and car parking.
from commercial on and off bus revenue, which is revenue that we receive This summer we are planning to launch a package of new digital tools for our directly from passengers for travel on our bus services.
While we have seen a customers, which we believe will provide a strong platform for future growth in slightly lower rate of growth in commercial revenue in the second half of the bus use.
This investment is part of our 11m three-year digital project to financial year, reflecting a slowing in the rate of growth in the number of transform how we engage with our customers.
Passengers will benefit from a passenger journeys, commercial revenue is still the main driver of revenue range of easy-to-use digital tools to find and buy tickets, search for journeys growth for the Division.
and stops, access comprehensive real-time information about journeys and Growth in concessionary revenue continues to be modest.
A unified experience will be provided across all types revenue is received from local authorities and devolved governments to of devices offering a more personalised service for customers.
See definitions in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 14 Strategic report The commitment by Stagecoach and the UKs other biggest bus operators to service in France in March 2015, with a link between Paris and Toulouse, and are introduce multi-operator smart ticketing in key city regions in England during pleased at plans by the French government to fully deregulate inter-city coach 2015 is progressing well.
Initial schemes are already live in Tyne and Wear and journeys over 200km.
Most recently, earlier in June 2015, we launched a Merseyside, with planning also well advanced in Greater Manchester and South domestic megabus.
In the short-term, as we continue the expansion of our promising megabus.
com business, we would expect operating Yorkshire.
This transformational initiative will also benefit West Yorkshire along with the city regions of Birmingham, Nottingham, Leicester and Bristol.
We are losses to increase from around 4m in 2014 15 to around 10m in 2015 16. investigating similar opportunities in city areas across the UK.
This is based on our previous experience of megabus.
com start-up operations, where we invested in expanding the business in the early years of megabus.
com in each of the UK and North America, which are now strong, profitable Political developments businesses.
Buses provide important transport services to many people across the UK.
As part of a wider network of public transport, bus services help address challenges such as road congestion and threats to the natural environment.
Outlook There has always been a range of views on what the balance of public sector The long-term outlook for our commercialised regional bus operations in the UK and private sector involvement in providing bus services should be and remains positive.
We operate in a competitive market and so we look to debates on that will undoubtedly continue.
We firmly believe that the key to continue to differentiate ourselves through low fares and a positive customer securing the future of Britain's buses is for operators, government and local experience.
By working in partnership with government and others, and authorities to work together to deliver properly planned and sustainable supported by our ongoing investment, we believe we are well placed to grow the networks.
business in the context of rising population, concern for the natural In recent times, there have been renewed calls for the commercialised bus environment and increased road congestion.
In addition to this positive outlook market in parts of the UK other than London to be replaced by a system of bus in the UK, we are excited by the opportunities we see to develop a substantial contracts, whereby bus operators bid to operate contracts for the provision of inter-city coach business in continental Europe and we are continuing to invest bus services let by a local authority.
We strongly believe that a stronger, more in growing that business.
integrated transport system can be achieved best and at lower cost to Growth in concessionary and tendered revenue is likely to be minimal in the taxpayers within the current regulatory framework than would result from short-term as government bodies seek to manage budget constraints, including franchising of bus services.
We would tend to agree that the devolution of minimising the amounts paid to bus operators under concessionary fare powers within the UK can enhance local decision-making on transport matters schemes for the free travel we provide.
We are pleased that the forecast but in doing so, it is unnecessary to introduce bus contracting or franchising to reduction in our fuel costs in the year ending 30 April 2016 has enabled us to meet local objectives for bus services.
We are already developing new keep fare increases for the year ahead to a minimum, consistent with our longproposals that will meet the aspirations of city regions such as Greater term objective to grow passenger volumes through our value fares strategy and Manchester for stronger bus networks, while retaining the clear benefits of the notwithstanding increases to staff and other costs.
commercial approach to delivering services.
We understand that the recently elected UK Government is generally 1.5.
2 UK Bus London supportive of the current regulatory framework for UK bus services outside of Financial performance London.
However, local authorities might still seek to introduce bus The financial performance of the UK Bus London Division for the year ended contracting using existing legislation or by securing greater power over bus 30 April 2015 is summarised below: services through devolution of powers from central government.
The devolved governments in Scotland and Wales already have devolved powers over bus Year to 30 April 2015 2014 services.
We continue to make the case at both national and local level for m m Change partnership working within the existing commercialised markets.
Revenue and like-for-like revenue 260.6 244.9 6.4% Proposals to implement a bus contracting system in Tyne and Wear using Operating profit 26.3 23.9 10.0% existing legislation were referred to a Quality Contracts Review Board by the Operating margin 10.1% 9.8% 30bp North East Combined Authority in October 2014.
The Review Board will shortly hold hearings as part of its duty to determine whether the proposals meet the The Division continues to perform well and we are satisfied with the rates of five statutory public interest criteria required to support the introduction of the return that we achieve in London.
Our focus is on keeping costs under control contracting scheme.
The Review Board expects to issue its opinion in October and aiming to retain and win contracts on acceptable terms.
We do not believe the statutory tests have been met and we continue to present robust evidence to the Review Board to demonstrate this.
We are clear The operating profit of 26.3m is higher than our recent expectations.
That that a system where bus operators provide the capital and retain the reflects the outcome of our normal year-end review of our insurance commercial risks would be far more effective at delivering further customer provisions.
Although the review did not result in a material change to the service improvements at lower cost for the public sector while leaving the overall insurance provision for the Group, a re-assessment of the level of regions taxpayers free from the huge financial uncertainty of the proposed provision held in respect of historic claims for the UK Bus London Division contracting scheme.
resulted in a release from the provision of 3.0m.
This was offset by adjustments to the insurance provisions of other divisions, notably North America.
These adjustments are not forecast to recur.
Inter-city coach services The Group has been pleased with the progress of the megabus.
com inter-city Revenue growth has generally been good during the year.
As previously coach operations in mainland Europe.
com now has a fleet of more reported, from 1 October 2013 the Division has no longer received BSOG.
This than 130 coaches covering over 100 destinations in the UK, France, Belgium, the is offset by a corresponding uplift in the contract prices paid to the business by Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany, Italy and Spain.
We believe we have a Transport for London.
Excluding the contract prices uplift, revenue increased strong brand in a European market with significant opportunities.
Also as previously reported, traffic disruption from The Group has ordered more than 20m of new coaches to support the road works has adversely affected our quality incentive income, which has development of megabus.
com services in mainland Europe.
We have recently moderated overall revenue growth.
In light of this, we have implemented commenced domestic megabus.
com coach services within Germany, service performance measures in conjunction with Transport for London and establishing a network, which now covers 16 destinations.
In May 2015, we also we are continuing to discuss with Transport for London how service started a new  service.
We launched our first domestic performance can be further improved.
page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 15 The improvement in operating margin was built up as follows: The operating profit of US$35.3m 22.1m is lower than our recent expectations.
That reflects the outcome of our normal year-end review of our Operating margin 2013 14 9.8% insurance provisions.
Although the review did not result in a material change Effect of change in Bus Service Operators Grant 0.2 % to the overall insurance provision for the Group, a re-assessment of the level of Change in: provision held in respect of historic claims for the North America Division Staff costs 1.5 % resulted in an adjustment to increase the provision by 3.1m.
This was offset Fuel costs 1.3% by adjustments to the insurance provisions of other divisions, notably UK Bus Lease costs 0.8 % London.
Insurance and claims costs 1.1% Even excluding the year-end insurance provision adjustment, revenue growth Gain on sale of property 0.6% and operating profit fell short of the target we had at the start of the financial Other 0.2 % year.
The sharp fall in fuel prices adversely affected demand for our Operating margin 2014 15 10.1% megabus.
com competes with private cars, as well as other public transport operators, for inter-city journeys and the The reduction in quality incentive income referred to earlier has affected fall in fuel prices made cars more cost-competitive.
Certain costs, such as staff costs, that increase with the megabus.
com remains profitable and over the longer term, we see vehicle miles operated have increased at a faster rate than revenue as a result of opportunities to further grow that business.
the reduced quality incentive income.
Like-for-like revenue was built up as follows: The BSOG change explained above reduced operating margin by 20 basis points year-on-year because although it did not significantly affect reported profit, Year to 30 April 2015 2014 Change both revenue and operating costs increased by similar amounts as a result of the US$m US$m % change, meaning profit fell as a percentage of revenue.
Megabus 191.4 177.9 7.6% Fuel costs reduced relative to last year, reflecting market fuel prices and our fuel Scheduled service and commuter 246.6 253.1 2.6 % hedging programme.
Charter 129.2 128.8 0.3% Lease costs further increased as a percentage of revenue as we continued our Sightseeing and tour 31.8 33.3 4.5 % policy in London of obtaining most new vehicles on operating lease rather than School bus and contract 86.6 86.6 purchasing them outright.
Like-for-like revenue 685.6 679.7 0.9% The change in insurance and claims costs reflects the re-assessment of the insurance provisions referred to earlier.
Like-for-like revenue growth for the Division was 0.9%, which includes 7.6% Following the restructuring of the London bus business we acquired in 2010, for megabus.
In April 2015, we completed the successful introduction of one of the acquired depots was mothballed.
This depot was later made available our megabus.
com seat reservation system, which has delivered an additional to our UK Bus regional operations Division to support the delivery of its revenue stream for the business and offers increased flexibility for passengers, contract work for the London 2012 Olympics.
In November 2014, we and we will look for other opportunities which will deliver additional value to completed the sale of the depot for 5m.
our customers and the business.
Bus drivers across London took strike action in February 2015 as part of seeking Overall, the financial performance of the non-megabus businesses was harmonisation of pay rates across London bus operators.
We continue to focus on good cost control and in April 2015 we strike action has taken place, the dispute has not been formally resolved, and started the roll-out of GreenRoad eco-driving technology across our vehicle any further industrial action could affect the financial performance of the UK Bus fleet in North America, following the success of the system in reducing fuel London Division, as well as that of other London bus operators.
consumption in our UK operations.
The decrease in operating margin was built up as follows: Outlook Operating margin 2013 14 5.5% The outlook for the London Bus operations is positive with continuing good Change in: profitability expected from our portfolio of contracts with Transport for London.
Fuel costs 0.6% We continue to expect some decline in operating margins following the Insurance and claim costs 1.2 % particularly strong margins of the last few years but still aim to deliver long-term Other 0.3% operating margins in excess of 7%.
The decline in fuel prices is not forecast to significantly affect the Divisions Operating margin 2014 15 5.2% profit in the year to 30 April 2016 due to the broadly offsetting effects on fuel The Division has benefited from reduced fuel costs in the year, reflecting costs and contract revenue, with changes in revenue being partly linked market prices and the Groups fuel hedging programme.
contractually to changes in fuel prices.
That also means that revenue growth for year to 30 April 2016 is likely to be modest.
The change in insurance and claims costs reflects the re-assessment of the insurance provisions referred to earlier.
Looking further ahead, we believe there may be opportunities from Transport for London's plans to increase London bus mileage by around 5% between now Outlook and 2020 21 and we welcome this planned, further development of London Revenue growth in North America has slowed in recent months and we remain bus services.
cautious on the short-term prospects for megabus.
com revenue growth as the year-on-year fuel price drop persists.
We will, however, also see cost savings in 1.5.
3 North America each of the years ending 30 April 2016 and 30 April 2017 from lower fuel Financial performance prices.
We are not planning any significant expansion of our North America The financial performance of the North America Division for the year ended megabus.
com operations in the coming months but will re-assess the further 30 April 2015 is summarised below: growth opportunities for the business in the second half of the year ending 30 April 2016.
Year to 30 April 2015 2014 Change US$m US$m % The performance of the non-megabus business across its various service types remains steady.
The non-megabus business does face a number of trading Revenue 680.1 685.7 0.8 % challenges including the impact of the lower fuel prices referred to above on the Like-for-like revenue 685.6 679.7 0.9% demand for some services, strong competition in US sightseeing markets, and Operating profit 35.3 38.0 7.1 % the effect of the strong US dollar on the number of European visitors to the US Operating margin 5.2% 5.5% 30 bp and spending by those visitors.
However, overall North America operating Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 16 Strategic report profit for May 2015 was satisfactory and so, at this early stage in the financial CMA Review of Virgin Trains East Coast year, trading is as expected.
A continued focus on a positive experience and The Competition and Markets Authority CMA is required to review all value for money for customers will be crucial as we seek to mitigate trading awards of new rail franchises in the UK and so, undertook a review of the award challenges over the coming months.
of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
The CMA has now accepted the undertakings that we offered on the pricing of certain bus and train services to address the limited issues identified by the CMA in respect of the franchise.
4 UK Rail brings the review to a close.
Financial performance The financial performance of the UK Rail Division for the year ended 30 April East Coast open access applications 2015 is summarised below: Other train operators have applied to the Office of Rail and Road to operate Year to 30 April 2015 2014 train services on parts of the railway network where the Virgin Trains East Coast m m Change franchise operates.
If permission for some or all of these services is granted, then Virgin Trains East Coast might not be able to operate all of its planned Revenue 1,478.4 1,252.0 18.1% train services and or its financial performance could be adversely affected.
To Like-for-like revenue 1,360.4 1,252.0 8.7% the extent that from May 2020 Virgin Trains East Coast is unable to operate the Operating profit 26.9 34.3 21.6 % services that the Department for Transport specified as part of the franchise Operating margin 1.8% 2.7% 90 bp bidding process, then the business would be financially compensated under the terms of its contractual arrangements with the Department.
The business We were delighted to begin operating the new Virgin Trains East Coast rail would not necessarily be compensated for being unable to operate services franchise from 1 March 2015 and we are pleased with its progress so far.
The prior to May 2020, for being unable to operate services that it planned to reported revenue and operating profit above includes 100% of the new Virgin provide over and above the minimum specified by the Department and or for Trains East Coast franchise from 1 March.
Virgins 10% minority interest in the the effects of any increased competition on the services it is able to operate.
profit after tax of the franchise is separately reported in the consolidated We do not consider that the proposed open access services meet the criteria for income statement.
approval and at this stage, while acknowledging the risk, we have not materially The Groups other two major rail franchises, South West Trains and East changed our forecasts for the business as a result of the progress of the open Midlands Trains, have performed in line with our expectations.
This reflects our access applications.
focus on growing revenue and controlling costs to mitigate the substantial increases in premia payments we have committed to deliver to the Department Franchising programme for Transport.
There is encouraging momentum in the UK rail sector, with a number of UK franchises having been awarded over the last two years and several due to be Revenue growth in UK Rail has been strong with like-for-like revenue up 8.7%.
open for competition over the next few years.
This partly reflects the recovery of revenue foregone at East Midlands Trains in the prior year as a result of major engineering work in the Nottingham area but We recently submitted our bid for the new TransPennine Express franchise also reflects good growth in underlying passenger volumes.
where we are one of three bidders shortlisted for the contract.
An announcement of the successful bidder is expected later in 2015, with the As expected, the operating margin fell in the year.
This is consistent with contract expected to start in February 2016. comments we have made in previous years that as we approach the end of the existing period of our two wholly-owned franchises, the financial performance Earlier this month, June 2015, the Groups joint venture with Abellio was of the businesses becomes more challenging compared to that forecast in the shortlisted by the Department for Transport to bid for the new East Anglia original bids for the franchises.
This reflects substantial increases in the like-forfranchise.
The current Greater Anglia franchise has been operated by Abellio like amounts payable to the Department for Transport.
Abellio East Anglia Limited AEAL is one of three bidders shortlisted for the franchise.
Stagecoach holds a 40% share of Anglia Customer experience Rail Holdings Limited ARHL, the 100% parent company of AEAL, with In March 2015, the Groups South West Trains business agreed a Deed of Abellio holding 60% of ARHL.
Shortlisted bidders are expected to be invited to Amendment to its franchise with the Department for Transport.
The Deed of submit detailed proposals later this year and the new operator is expected to Amendment provides for accelerated investment of around 50m to deliver take over managing the franchise in October 2016. passenger improvement initiatives between now and February 2017.
It means The Group has also submitted proposals to the Department for Transport as part customers do not have to wait for a new franchise to benefit from these of previously announced government plans for direct awards at East Midlands initiatives, while taxpayers will gain better value from public investment.
Trains and South West Trains.
Our proposals for both franchises seek to build on Further details of the benefits for customers were set out in our announcement the improvements delivered to date, providing more benefits for customers, of 25 March 2015. good value for taxpayers and an appropriate return for investors.
The East Our East Midlands Trains business launched a new improved timetable between Midlands Trains franchise is due to end in October 2015 and negotiations are Lincoln and Nottingham in May 2015 in partnership with the Department for continuing in respect of a direct award of a new franchise to at least October Transport, local authorities, business clubs and two local enterprise 2017.
The current South West Trains franchise is due to end in February 2017 partnerships.
The new timetable provides faster journey times and more and as long ago as March 2013, the Department for Transport announced its services.
We have launched a new complimentary breakfast offer at our five plans for the direct award of a new franchise to April 2019.
Progress in agreeing main First Class Lounges at stations and also introduced a new passenger that direct award has been disappointingly slow.
We are still not close to shuttle service linking East Midlands Parkway railway station with East Midlands concluding an agreement and indeed, there is no certainty that an agreement Airport.
A new 60m transport hub has been opened at Nottingham Station, will be reached.
providing an interchange with different forms of transport, connecting trains, a We will continue to evaluate opportunities to bid for UK rail franchises on a 950-space multi-storey car park and Nottinghams tram network.
We seek new opportunities that offer the right balance of Work has started to deliver a transformation of the customer experience at risk and reward, provide scope for us to improve services to customers, and Virgin Trains East Coast as part of a 140m investment programme for the which are compatible with maintaining an acceptable balance of the Groups franchise.
We have already implemented a 10% cut in Standard Anytime fares portfolio between bus and rail businesses.
on long-distance journeys to and from London and work is underway on a Alliance with Network Rail 21m refresh of the existing train fleet.
Recently we launched a pilot of paperless mobile ticketing, allowing passengers to travel using a barcode held South West Trains and Network Rail have pioneered over the past three years on a smartphone or tablet, and we have plans to expand the system to more the first deep alliance on the UK rail network, which has sought to deliver routes if successful.
We look forward to delivering further benefits as the greater integration between train operations and infrastructure management.
franchise develops, including more seats, new connections, new trains and The close working relationship between the two parties has enabled an faster journey times.
improved, more customer-focused railway as well as some efficiency savings.
page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 17 Based on what both parties have learned over this period, South West Trains revenue and cost risk.
The business has achieved good passenger revenue and Network Rail are now re-shaping their relationship.
The objective is to growth and taxpayers benefit through profit share payments to the continue to work closely and collaboratively in the areas that most benefit the Department for Transport.
Under the temporary management contract railway and its customers, while discontinuing aspects of the current Alliance arrangement, Virgin Rail Group contractually earned a management fee where the benefits are less clear.
The existing formal Alliance governance equivalent to 1% of revenue from the West Coast rail franchise.
As a result, structures, including the Alliance Governance Board and the single joint prior year profitability was unusually low.
Profit in the current year is more management team, will shortly be replaced with new arrangements in the consistent with other commercial rail franchises.
specific areas which we and Network Rail believe will continue to deliver the The Groups share of the results of Virgin Rail Group is based on the most benefits.
Under the previous financial arrangements, variances relative to management accounts of Virgin Rail Group to the period end that falls closest agreed financial baselines were shared between the parties.
Moving forward, to the Groups balance sheet date of 30 April.
The Groups results for the year new appropriate commercial arrangements will be put in place to reflect the reended 30 April 2015 incorporate its share of Virgin Rail Groups results for the shaped relationship.
The new arrangements reflect the current regulatory period from 27 April 2014 to 2 May 2015.
The impact on the Groups share framework that applies to UK railways and the different operating models of the of Virgin Rail Groups profit and net assets of using this period rather than the two parties.
We are confident that these changes will prioritise the right areas, year ended 30 April 2015 is not material.
However, the revenue figure reduce unnecessary bureaucracy and allow South West Trains and Network Rail reported above includes the benefit of an extra week in Virgin Rail Groups to focus on working together on the matters that are most likely to offer the results for 2014 15 versus 2013 14.
Excluding this, the estimated revenue greatest benefits to customers.
Outlook Business developments We have participated in the UK Rail market and reported a profit every year During the year, Virgin Rail Group has delivered further improvements for since the market was privatised in the 1990s.
We expect to continue to play a passengers.
This has included the launch of two new direct Virgin Trains major part in UK rail over the long-term notwithstanding the potential for services between London and Blackpool, and London and Shrewsbury.
Work individual rail franchises to be won and lost.
Following the agreement of the is also well underway on a programme to convert one first class carriage in new Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, we now have a substantial rail business each of 21 nine-carriage Pendolino trains to Standard Class.
The project, in place for at least the next eight years.
The new franchise is expected to make which is expected to be completed in September 2015 and includes a major a significant operating profit contribution in the year ending 30 April 2016, interior refresh and deep clean of the trains, will create significant additional reflecting our programme of investment to grow the business by transforming standard class seating capacity for customers.
As explained earlier, we are negotiating with the Department for Transport to The upgrade to onboard wi-fi is almost complete and is already providing a finalise a new East Midlands Trains franchise for the period through to at least significantly improved service to passengers.
In addition, Virgin Rail Group October 2017. continues to pursue the possibility of trackside wi-fi infrastructure which would provide free and fast wi-fi to all customers.
We have previously reported that as we approach the end of the existing period of our South West Trains franchise, the financial performance of the business Passengers booking via the Virgin Trains website or mobile app now earn becomes more challenging.
We remain focused on growing revenue and Nectar points on their purchases, and more than 20m is being spent on controlling costs to offset increased premia payments, to the extent possible.
station improvements such as refreshed waiting rooms, more passenger The new Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, as well as the potential direct award information help points and an improved website.
of new East Midlands Trains and South West Trains franchises, present Outlook profitable opportunities to further enhance the customer experience and deliver We expect Virgin Rail Group to continue to perform strongly and we will see the value for money to Government.
We will, in addition, assess the opportunity to full-year effect of the new franchise in the year ending 30 April 2016. bid for other franchises as these are tendered over the coming years.
5 Joint Ventures Financial performance The financial performance of the Groups Twin America joint venture 1.5.
5.1 Virgin Rail Group excluding exceptional items for the year ended 30 April 2015 is summarised Financial performance below: The financial performance of the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture Year to 30 April 2015 2014 excluding exceptional items for the year ended 30 April 2015 is summarised 60% share US$m US$m Change below: Revenue 74.7 81.6 8.5 % Year to 30 April 2015 2014 49% share m m Change Operating profit 3.4 9.1 62.6 % Revenue 510.3 465.6 9.6% Finance costs net 0.2 % Taxation 0.3 100.0 % Operating profit 28.0 2.6 976.9% Net finance income 0.3 100.0 % Profit after tax 3.2 8.8 63.6 % Taxation 5.7 0.9 533.3% Operating margin 4.6% 11.2% 660 bp Profit after tax 22.3 2.0 1,015.0% Twin America has faced tough trading conditions as a result of a competitive Operating margin 5.5% 0.6% 490bp New York sightseeing market, among other factors, and that is reflected in the decline in profit reported above.
Virgin Rail Group is seeing a continuing strong performance from its West Coast rail franchise.
The new commercial franchise commenced in June 2014 Litigation and is planned to run until at least 31 March 2017.
Furthermore, we continue to believe there is a compelling case for the Department for Transport to In December 2012, the United States Department of Justice and the Attorney exercise the discretion that it has to extend the contract, on pre-agreed terms, General of the State of New York initiated legal proceedings against Twin by an additional year to 31 March 2018.
The commercial franchise replaced a America and others alleging that the formation of Twin in 2009 was management contract, which was in place from December 2012 to June anticompetitive.
Several private actions were also filed in relation to this 2014.
Under the commercial franchise, Virgin Rail Group takes the majority of matter.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 18 Strategic report In March 2014, Twin America and lawyers for the private plaintiffs reached 1.6.
3 Net finance costs agreement on a settlement of US$19m without any admission of liability by Net finance costs for the year ended 30 April 2015 were 42.1m 2014: Twin America.
The court has approved this settlement.
The settlement binds 42.6m and can be further analysed as follows: all claimants except those that expressly opted out of the class of plaintiffs.
The deadline for opt-outs and for objections to the settlement has passed.
Year to 30 April 2015 2014 Four individuals opted out, and there were no objections.
m m We are pleased that a settlement has now also been agreed in principle with Finance costs the US Department of Justice and the New York Attorney General's office.
That Interest payable and other facility costs on bank loans, settlement is subject to court approval.
The settlement envisages cash loan notes, overdrafts and trade finance 7.9 7.2 payments by the defendants of US$7.5m and the relinquishment of certain Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 2.5 3.5 bus stop rights.
We have previously recognised costs associated with the Interest payable and other finance costs on bonds 27.3 28.0 litigation as exceptional items.
We have recognised an exceptional pre-tax Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.8 3.9 charge of 2.5m in the second half of the year ended 30 April 2015 in respect Interest charge on defined benefit pension schemes 3.3 4.6 of the Group's share of the additional costs associated with this litigation.
For 44.8 47.2 the year as a whole, the Group has recorded exceptional pre-tax charges of Finance income 5.8m in respect of litigation related to Twin America.
Related to the Twin Interest receivable on cash 1.5 3.2 America litigation involving the Groups North America Division, the Effect of interest rate swaps 1.2 1.4 Department of Justice is continuing to investigate the conduct of company personnel in responding to discovery obligations in the investigation and 2.7 4.6 litigation.
The Department of Justice has not taken any enforcement action Net finance costs 42.1 42.6 related to these issues, and the Group is co-operating with the investigation.
Trading remains challenging in the highly competitive New York tourism and sightseeing market and Twin Americas management will now focus on 1.6.
4 Taxation seeking to re-build the business.
The effective tax rate for the year ended 30 April 2015, excluding exceptional items, was 19.0% 2014: 16.8%.
1.6 Other financial matters The prior year effective tax rate was depressed by adjustments in respect of 1.6.
1 EBITDA, depreciation and intangible asset expenses the utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and the impact of the Earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxation, depreciation, reduction in the rate at which deferred tax is calculated.
As a result, the intangible asset expenses and exceptional items pre-exceptional EBITDA effective tax rate increases in the year to closer to the new standard rate of UK amounted to 353.3m 2014: 340.2m.
Pre-exceptional EBITDA can be corporation tax of 20.0%.
reconciled to the consolidated financial statements as follows: The tax charge can be analysed as follows: Year to 30 April 2015 2014 Year to 30 April 2015 Pre-tax profit Tax Rate m m m m % Total operating profit before Excluding intangible asset expenses 191.0 37.1 19.4% intangible asset expenses and and exceptional items exceptional items 227.1 223.3 Intangible asset expenses 11.9 3.1 26.1% Depreciation 120.1 115.7 179.1 34.0 19.0% Add back joint venture Exceptional items 7.9 2.3 29.1% finance income & tax 6.1 1.2 171.2 31.7 18.5% Pre-exceptional EBITDA 353.3 340.2 Reclassify joint venture taxation for The income statement charge for intangible assets decreased from 14.0m to reporting purposes 6.0 6.0 11.9m, principally due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortised Reported in income statement 165.2 25.7 15.6% during the year, partly offset by the amortisation of intangible assets in respect of the new Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
2 Exceptional items The Groups operations as at 30 April 2015 consume approximately 406.0m The following exceptional items were recognised in the year ended 30 April litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is exposed to 2015: movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups fuel costs include the costs of delivery and duty as well as the costs of the underlying product.
One of our US businesses failed to retain certain contracts to operate bus Accordingly, not all of the cost varies with movements in oil prices.
services on behalf of a local authority when those contracts were retendered.
As a result, it ceased operations at one of its depots, which is Following the sharp fall in fuel prices, the Group has hedged a greater leased.
A provision of 2.1m has been recorded in respect of the leased proportion of its projected fuel usage beyond the next twelve months than it depot as, following the cessation of operations at the depot, the lease was would ordinarily do.
The proportion of the Groups projected fuel usage that determined to be onerous because the forecast, unavoidable costs of is now hedged using fuel swaps is as follows: meeting the Groups obligations under the lease exceeded the forecast Year ending 30 April 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 economic benefits forecast to be received as a result of the lease.
Total Group 88% 82% 43% 2% 1% We expensed amounts in previous years as exceptional items in respect of the anticipated legal costs and settlement amounts related to the Twin The Group has no fuel hedges in place for periods beyond 30 April 2020.
America litigation explained in section 1.5.
As a result of the prolonged nature of the litigation process, we incurred or expect to incur further legal 1.6.
6 Cash flows and net debt costs in excess of those previously expensed.
In addition, as explained in Net debt as analysed in note 30 c to the consolidated financial statements section 1.5.
5.2, we have now reached a settlement agreement in principle decreased from 461.6m at 30 April 2014 to 381.3m at 30 April 2015, due to with the US Department of Justice and the New York Attorney General's the Groups continued strong cash generation and the timing of rail cash flows.
Additional pre-tax expenses of 5.8m have therefore been recognised in the Groups consolidated income statement for the year The cash held by the train operating companies at any point in time is ended 30 April 2015. affected by the timing of rail industry cash flows, which can be individually page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 19 substantial.
As a result of that, the consolidated net debt as at 30 April 2015 The Groups net debt at 30 April 2015 is further analysed below: is lower than a normalised level of net debt.
In the first few days of May Fixed Floating Total 2015, the train operating companies made cash payments of approximately rate rate 100m.
m m m Net cash from operating activities before tax for the year ended 30 April 2015 Unrestricted cash 95.8 95.8 was 346.4m 2014: 268.5m and can be further analysed as follows: Cash held within train operating companies 281.0 281.0 Year to 30 April 2015 2014 m m Restricted cash 18.8 18.8 EBITDA of Group companies before Total cash and cash equivalents 395.6 395.6 exceptional items 321.8 330.2 US Notes 97.3 97.3 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.3 2.1 Sterling bond 400.0 400.0 Equity-settled share based payment expense 2.2 2.2 Sterling hire purchase Working capital movements 46.0 40.7 and finance leases 3.6 50.4 54.0 Net interest paid 35.8 33.5 US dollar hire purchase and Dividends from joint ventures 14.5 8.2 finance leases 34.0 34.0 Loan notes 19.5 19.5 Net cash flows from operating activities before taxation 346.4 268.5 Bank loans 172.1 172.1 Net cash from operating activities before tax was 346.4m 2014: 268.5m Net debt 437.6 56.3 381.3 and after tax was 315.5m 2014: 248.3m.
Net cash outflows from investing activities were 151.5m 2014: 121.8m, which included Nil The split between fixed and floating rate debt shown above takes account of 2014: 5.5m in relation to the acquisition of businesses.
Net cash used in the effect of interest rate swaps in place as at 30 April 2015. financing activities was 11.5m 2014: 146.3m.
7 Liquidity The net impact of purchases of property, plant and equipment for the year on The Groups financial position remains strong and is evidenced by: net debt was 188.8m 2014: 160.9m.
This primarily related to The ratio of net debt at 30 April 2015 to pre-exceptional EBITDA for the expenditure on passenger service vehicles, and comprised cash outflows of year ended 30 April 2015 was 1.1 times 2014: 1.4 times.
182.4m 2014: 154.2m and new hire purchase and finance lease debt of Pre-exceptional EBITDA for the year ended 30 April 2015 was 8.4 times 6.4m 2014: 6.7m.
In addition, 47.9m 2014: 42.0m cash was received from disposals of property, plant and equipment.
2014: 8.0 times net finance charges including joint venture finance income and finance costs.
The net impact of purchases and disposals of property, plant and equipment Undrawn, committed bank facilities of 298.8m at 30 April 2015 2014: on net debt, split by division, was: 342.1m were available to be drawn as bank loans with further amounts Year to 30 April 2015 2014 available only for non-cash utilisation.
In addition, the Group continues to m m have available asset finance lines.
UK Bus regional operations 119.1 85.5 The three main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment grade UK Bus London 2.1 3.0 credit ratings to the Group.
8 Major financing transactions 140.9 118.9 During the year, the Group entered into various hire purchase and finance lease arrangements for new assets as described in note 30 d to the The purchases in the UK Bus regional operations Division includes 14.4m consolidated financial statements.
spent on vehicles for the expanding megabus.
com inter-city operations in continental Europe.
The Group entered into 535m of new bank facilities in October 2014.
The new facilities have been committed for a period of five years to October 2019 The movement in net debt, showing train operating companies separately, was: with the potential for them to be extended by up to a further two years.
Year to 30 April 2015 Train operating These facilities replace previous bank facilities that were due to expire in companies Other Total February 2016. m m m The Groups is already progressing plans to re-finance its 400m bonds due EBITDA of Group companies to mature in December 2016. before exceptional items 49.4 272.4 321.8 The following other new financing arrangements were put in place during the Gain loss on disposal of property, plant year ended 30 April 2015 and subsequently: and equipment 2.3 2.3 Equity-settled share based payment In November 2014, a new c. 20m three-year rail performance bond expense 0.4 1.8 2.2 arrangement and a new c. 83m bank guarantee of a parent company Working capital movements 68.8 22.8 46.0 support inter-company loan commitment were entered into in Net interest paid 0.6 36.4 35.8 connection with the new Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
Dividends from joint ventures 14.5 14.5 In February 2015, two new one-year rail bonding arrangements of c. 74m Net cash flows from operating and c. 6m were entered into to replace two arrangements that were due activities before taxation 119.2 227.2 346.4 to expire in March 2015.
Inter-company movements 1.1 1.1 In May 2015, a US$85m bank facility, used for issuing US$ letters of credit, Tax paid 10.8 20.1 30.9 was increased in size to US$90m.
Investing activities 0.7 158.6 157.9 The Group entered into new operating lease commitments totalling Financing activities 63.0 63.0 382.9m in the year ended 30 April 2015 in respect of rolling stock and Foreign exchange other 14.3 14.3 new vehicles.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 19 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 20 Strategic report See note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, for details of 1.6.
10 Retirement benefits the Groups exposure to financial risks: The reported net assets of 95.0m 2014: 79.3m that are shown on the the Groups treasury risk management: consolidated balance sheet are after taking account of net pre-tax retirement benefit liabilities of 160.5m 2014: 115.8m, and associated deferred tax the Groups management of interest rate risk: assets of 35.3m 2014: 23.1m.
the Groups fuel hedging: the Groups management of foreign currency risk: and The Group recognised net pre-tax actuarial losses of 65.5m in the year ended 30 April 2015 2014: Nil on Group defined benefit schemes.
the Groups management of credit risk.
The actuarial losses and the increase in net pre-tax retirement benefit 1.6.
13 Critical accounting policies and estimates liabilities principally reflects the fall in corporate bond yields in the year, which in turn affect the discount rate used to discount pension scheme liabilities.
The Groups material accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the The return on pension scheme assets for the year was good but not sufficient consolidated financial statements.
to fully offset the impact of the reduced discount rate.
Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union requires directors to make estimates and assumptions that 1.6.
11 Capital affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, gross debt and accompanying notes.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.
As at 30 April 2015, the Groups capital comprised: The Directors believe that the accounting policies and estimation techniques As at 30 April 2015 2014 discussed below represent those that require the greatest exercise of m m judgement.
The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of Market value of ordinary shares in issue judgements could result in material changes to the Group's reported financial excluding shares held in treasury 2,086.8 2,134.6 performance and or financial position.
The discussion below should be read Cash 395.6 240.3 in conjunction with the full statement of accounting policies.
Gross debt 776.9 701.9 Pensions Net debt see section 1.6.
6 381.3 461.6 The determination of the Groups pension benefit obligation and expense for defined benefit pension schemes is dependent on the selection by the The Group manages its capital centrally.
Its objective in managing capital is to Directors of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the Groups amounts.
Those assumptions include the discount rate, the annual rate of ability to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to continue to increase in future salary levels and mortality rates.
The Directors assumptions generate returns for its shareholders.
The Group also takes account of the are based on actual historical experience and external data.
While we believe interests of other stakeholders when making decisions on its capital structure.
that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will be experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or structure pension obligation and future expense.
of the Group, economic developments and other changes in the Groups risk Insurance profile.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from time to time by any of The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee the following: issue of new shares, dividends, return of value to shareholders and borrowing repayment of debt.
There are a number of factors that the incidents.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of Group considers in evaluating capital structure.
The Directors principal focus the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made for the is on maintaining an investment grade credit rating.
As well as considering estimated cost to the Group net of insurance recoveries to settle claims for the measures applied by credit rating agencies, the other principal ratios that incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimation of the the Directors consider are 1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to interest and balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected 3 Net Debt to market capitalisation.
It is a matter of judgement as to what settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that the optimal levels are for these ratios.
will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date It is the Groups objective to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
The but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The eventual Group is currently rated investment grade by three major, independent credit settlements on such claims may differ from the amounts provided for at the rating agencies.
That enhances our ability to access cost-effective funding on balance sheet date.
This is generally of greater risk in a younger operations a timely basis and enables us to demonstrate financial strength when bidding with a shorter claims history from which to make informed estimates of for UK rail franchises and other contracts.
The financial standing of interested provisions and b operations, notably the United States, where the parties is considered by government in determining the short list of bidders deductible levels are generally higher than for the UK operations.
Taxation The Group has no current plan to return additional funds to shareholders.
It The Groups tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the year and tax rates keeps its capital structure under review and has increased the proposed in force.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made of dividend for the year by over 10%.
the potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
12 Treasury policies and objectives outcome is based on historical experience, professional advice from external Risk management is carried out by a treasury committee and a central advisors, and the current status of any judgmental issues.
However, the final treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the tax cost to the Group may differ from the estimates.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written Litigation principles for overall treasury risk management, as well as written policies The Group is from time to time party to litigation.
The nature of litigation is covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit such that there can be uncertainty in estimating the amounts that the Group risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity.
will ultimately receive or pay.
Assessment of the likely outcomes is based on The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease legal advice and past experience.
However, the final outcomes may differ from and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the those reflected in the financial statements.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed business.
in the financial statements to the extent required by accounting standards.
page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 21 Acquired customer contracts and onerous contracts 1.7 Current trading and outlook The Group has a number of contractual commitments most significantly in The Group has had a satisfactory good start to its financial year ending 30 April respect of its rail franchises and its London bus business.
In certain 2016, and while it is still early in the financial year, overall trading for the circumstances, IFRS requires a provision to be recorded for a contract that is financial year to date is consistent with our expectations.
We have commented onerous or when acquired as part of a business combination, that is on the outlook for each of our key divisions in sections 1.5.
A contract is considered onerous where it is The long-term outlook for public transport remains positive.
Increasing public probable that the future economic benefits to be derived from the contract are transport use can help address challenges such as rising road congestion and less than the unavoidable costs under the contract.
Determining the amount the impact of transport on the natural environment.
That is all consistent of any contract provision necessitates forecasting future cash flows and with our strategy of seeking to deliver further organic growth in our applying an appropriate discount rate to determine a net present value.
There passenger volumes, including through offering high quality, value for money, is uncertainty over future cash flows.
Forecasts of cash flows for this purpose bus and rail services as alternatives to travelling by car.
are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
The forecast of future cash flows and the estimation of the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgment.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no 1.8 Corporate Social Responsibility absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
Our business and our people make a significant contribution to society.
On average, more than three million journeys a day are made on our transport Goodwill and impairment services and in enabling those journeys, we: In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant, equipment and Connect people, families and communities intangible assets to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for Help individuals access health, education, employment and leisure impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to Support jobs, the skills base and economic growth the net present value of the expected future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit CGU or net realisable value, if higher.
The discount rate Play our part in tackling climate change applied in determining the present value of future cash flows is based on the Like all businesses, we want to generate value for our employees and our Groups estimated weighted average cost of capital with appropriate shareholders, but we want to do that responsibly and in partnership with all adjustments made to reflect the specific risks associated with the CGU.
Our responsible approach to business includes taking an Forecasts of cash flows for this purpose are consistent with managements appropriate approach to our people and our customers: safety and security: plans and forecasts.
The forecast of future cash flows and the estimation of the the accessibility and affordability of our transport services: environmental discount rate involves a significant degree of judgement.
Actual results can stewardship and performance: good governance: and building community differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the relationships.
Our strong customer focus, commitment to sustainability, and assumptions used will hold true.
sector-leading reputation has been independently recognised by a range of organisations.
Right across our global operations, we will continue to work Property, plant and equipment with our stakeholders to become a better employer, a stronger business and a Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a straightmore effective community partner.
line basis to write off the cost or valuation less estimated residual value of We have published separate documents setting out our approach to each asset over their estimated useful lives.
Useful lives are estimated based corporate social responsibility.
These documents and comprehensive on a number of factors, including the expected usage of the asset, expected information on our initiatives can be found on our website at the following deterioration and technological obsolescence.
If another depreciation link: http: www.
method for example, reducing balance was used or different useful lives or This section includes just a small number of examples of our work to residual values were applied, this could have a material effect on the Groups demonstrate the steps we are taking to meet our responsibilities.
depreciation charge and net profit.
The estimates currently applied in respect of the useful lives and residual 1.8.
1 Living our values values of property, plant and equipment at the Groups two wholly-owned Stagecoach Group has a set of core values and policies, which are detailed in train operating companies would result in a residual net book value of the our Group Code of Conduct.
Stagecoach promotes a culture of openness assets at the end of the applicable, current rail franchises.
To the extent that across all its businesses and our objective is to ensure the highest standards of the planned awards of further two-year franchises to each of the train probity and accountability.
The Code, which was updated in 2015, sets out operating companies occur then the assets will be further depreciated during key principles and provides practical examples and guidance to help shape the period of those new franchises.
The net book values of the assets might employees corporate behaviour across all levels of the business.
The Board of be recovered through a sale of the assets to a new train operator appointed Directors remains committed to ensuring appropriate processes, controls, by the Department for Transport to operate the train services covered by the governance and culture exists to support the maintenance of these values relevant franchise.
Such a sale of assets could occur either at the end of the and behaviours.
The Code of Conduct is subject to periodic review by the current franchises or at the end of the planned additional two-year franchises.
Group Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee.
A copy of our Code The estimates regarding useful lives and residual values involve making of Conduct can be found at the following link: assumptions on the likelihood of the new franchises and on the likely sales http: www.
values negotiated for assets with successor train operators and so involve an In addition, we have a Speaking Up policy, also updated in 2015, which is increased level of judgement.
designed to ensure that employees can raise serious concerns without fear of Rail contractual positions victimisation, discrimination or disadvantage.
A copy of the document is The UK Rail industry is subject to a complex matrix of contractual available at http: www.
The Groups train operating companies are party to contractual relationships with, amongst others, the UK Department for Transport, Network Rail and rolling stock lessors.
The nature of these contracts is such that there can be uncertainty and or disagreement as to amounts receivable or payable by the Group in accordance with the contracts.
The Group makes estimates of the amounts receivable or payable taking account of the available, relevant information.
Actual outcomes can differ from the estimates made by the Group and there can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions made by the Group will hold true.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 21 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 22 Strategic report The equivalent figures as at 30 April 2014 were: 1.8.
2 Supporting and recognising our people Our employees are fundamental to the success of the Group and we Population Male Female Total % % encourage diversity across our business.
We believe in empowering and Male Female engaging with our people, promoting a positive culture where employees Board 8 2 10 80.0% 20.0% are treated with respect and given equal opportunity to develop.
This means that we are able to provide a better service to our customers.
Senior management 91 17 108 84.3% 15.7% Whole workforce 30,413 5,057 35,470 85.7% 14.3% We have initiatives in place designed to nurture the next generation of talent to support the business and help our people achieve their potential.
We have strong vocational training programmes in our bus and rail 1.8.
5 Promoting safety businesses and we continue to invest in developing our people.
This year, Safety is at the heart of our business and our overall approach is given our UK Bus business was named Large Employer of the Year at the People 1st direction through the Groups Strategic Safety Framework.
At our bus and Apprenticeship Awards.
Our Group-wide graduate development initiative rail operations we have a strong focus on employee training, accident continues to produce directors, senior managers and experts in operations reduction, regulatory compliance and security preparedness.
We also have programmes in place to promote the health safety processes and performance are monitored and reported on across the and well-being of our people.
Our annual Stagecoach Champions Awards, Group with action taken should there be a need to address issues within our which are open to all employees, recognise excellence in the areas of safety, procedures.
Our Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by a community, health, customer service, environment and innovation.
Further non-executive director, considers this area of the business and monitors a information is available here: http: www.
com sustainability ourrange of performance indicators, reporting to the Board on these matters.
We expect our suppliers and contractors to have the same commitment as our employees to complying with appropriate health and safety regulations and policies.
3 Employment policies We aim to have a motivated team of people that will meet the expectations Each of our divisions and operating companies has policies which are of our customers, improve our business and be rewarded for their appropriate to the transport modes they deliver.
We are focused on meeting commitment.
Equality of opportunity is one of our key values, regardless of and in many cases exceeding regulatory requirements and performance disability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief, age, nationality, race or standards.
Detailed policies, risk assessments and safe working procedures ethnic origin.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for are in place covering various aspects of our activities including noise, employment from people with disabilities.
vibration, display screen equipment and the Working Time Directive.
Performance is measured and reviewed at operating company and Group Where existing employees become affected by a disability and where level.
This is supported by analysis of audit results and review of civil practicable, our Group policy is, to provide continuing employment under liabilities claims to address any issues around policies and working normal terms and conditions.
We also provide training, career development procedures.
A core part of our approach is encouraging employees to report and equal consideration for promotion.
The Group is committed to any concerns.
employee participation and we use a variety of methods to inform, consult We work with local communities to encourage a safe environment around and involve its employees.
Employees participate directly in the success of our transport networks and use of our services, particularly with young the business through the Groups bonus and other remuneration schemes people.
Across the Group, we invest in technologies which can make our and are encouraged to invest through participation in share schemes.
We are services safer for customers, our employees and other people.
Further also committed to a continuing dialogue with trade unions, who represent information and examples of our initiatives are available at: the vast majority of the Groups employees, on a wide range of issues.
wide range of communications channels are used to keep our people informed and engaged.
6 Accessible and affordable travel We believe that providing accessible and affordable travel is central to 1.8.
4 Diversity encouraging modal shift from the private car to greener, smarter public The Group recognises and values the individuality and diversity that each transport.
Stagecoach has regularly been independently assessed as having employee brings to the business.
We value diversity in its wider sense.
This the lowest bus fares of any major operator in the UK.
Recent research by year, for example, we partnered with Transport for London to introduce the Transport Focus formerly, Passenger Focus found that bus passengers Rainbow Bus to support and promote diversity in the city.
We are particularly rated Stagecoach as the best national UK bus operator for value for money.
focused on promoting gender diversity.
The table below shows the gender split at different levels within the organisation, as at 30 April 2015.
The Stagecoach is the only UK bus operator to operate a long-term nationwide Groups workforce is around 83.5% male and that high proportion is discounted travel scheme for jobseekers and we have a range of discounted common in the ground transportation industry.
However, the composition ticketing options for young people.
Our inter-city coach business, of our teams is becoming more diverse.
The figures as at 30 April 2015 megabus.
com, has improved social inclusion and connectivity in the UK, include the employees of the Virgin Trains East Coast rail franchise the mainland Europe and North America by offering low fares and good quality Group began operating the franchise on 1 March 2015 and so its employees services.
were not included in the prior year figures as at 30 April 2014.
We are committed to improving accessibility of our buses, trains and stations.
In the past eight years, we have invested 630m in new accessible Population Male Female Total % % buses and coaches for the UK and Europe.
We are also investing in Male Female automated vehicle location systems to provide a technology platform to Board 8 2 10 80.0% 20.0% deliver audio visual next stop information via smartphones.
On our rail Senior management 95 19 114 83.3% 16.7% networks, we are working with government to introduce easier disabled Whole workforce 32,860 6,501 39,361 83.5% 16.5% access at stations.
For further information, please go to http: www.
Senior management is defined as those employees who receive awards under the Groups Executive Participation Plan and individuals who are statutory directors of the corporate entities whose financial information is included in the Groups 2015 consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report.
This satisfies the definition set out in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. page 22 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Front PRINT 117804 STC Front V12 01 07 2015 13:54 Page 23 All of these sources fall within businesses that are included in our consolidated 1.8.
The Group is the majority shareholder of the Virgin Trains Stagecoach Group has launched a new sustainability strategy covering the East Coast franchise, which it has operated since 1 March 2015.
Since this five years to 30 April 2019.
It follows a 30% reduction in Stagecoach Groups franchise has not been operated for the full financial year, it has not been carbon intensity since 2007 08 and the achievement of previous targets 12 included in the Groups greenhouse gas emissions shown above for the year months ahead of schedule.
By April 2019, the Group is aiming to reduce ended 30 April 2015. buildings carbon emissions by 7%: cut like-for-like fleet transport carbon emissions by 2%: lower water consumption by 9% and achieve a waste Group Metrics 2014 15 2013 14 recycling rate of 83%.
The Group has already been awarded the Carbon Trust Standard for measuring, managing and reducing its global carbon footprint, Revenue m 3,086.4 2,930.0 becoming the first public transport operator to have its boundaries certified Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions outside of Europe.
A copy of the Groups sustainability strategy and further tonnes tCO e 1,266,526 1,264,913 2 information about our initiatives and performance is available at http: www.
aspx Intensity ratio Part of the Groups approach to sustainability is the ongoing review of its Scope 1 & 2 emissions per of plans, performance and targets.
Policy information and annual performance revenue Kg CO e 0.41 0.43 2 data is provided on the Groups website.
Stagecoach also makes an annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, an organisation focused on carbon disclosure which collates environmental information and 1.8.
8 Supporting our communities and the economy works with thousands of companies and investors to tackle climate change.
Stagecoach Group is a major employer, supporting direct employment for The data below shows our greenhouse gas emissions for the year ended around 39,000 people.
Our investment in improving our transport services also supports thousands of other jobs through the supply chain.
Further 30 April 2015 excluding Virgin Trains East Coast with comparative data for information is available at: the year ended 30 April 2014. http: www.
aspx 2014 15 We also share our success with local people and communities by investing Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e 2 2 part of our profits in good causes.
During the year ended 30 April 2015, of revenue 0.9m 2014: 0.7m was donated by Stagecoach Group to help a number of charities and to support fundraising events and vital services.
Significant Scope 1 additional in-kind support, such as complimentary bus and rail travel, is Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, provided by the Group to good causes.
We have a number of initiatives in petrol and heating oil 962,997 0.31 place to help young people, including mentoring and internship programmes to help students gain a better understanding of the skills and Operation of facilities refrigerants 32,704 0.01 routes to enter work, further and higher education and training.
More Total Scope 1 995,701 0.32 information on our community support and programmes is available at: Scope 2 http: www.
9 Human rights The Group does not see human rights matters as presenting material issues 2013 14 or risks for the Group and therefore the Group does not have specific, Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e detailed policies in respect of human rights.
However, in the Groups code of 2 2 conduct see section 1.8.
1, the Group recognises the fundamental civil, of revenue political, economic and social human rights and freedoms of every individual Scope 1 and strives to reflect this in its business.
A respect for human rights is Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, reflected in our wider policies and in how we do business with customers, petrol and heating oil 1,030,488 0.35 suppliers, employees and other stakeholders.
Operation of facilities refrigerants 16,798 0.01 Total Scope 1 1,047,286 0.36 1.8.
10 Conclusion Scope 2 Our responsible approach to business is reflected in the policies and examples set out in this section 1.8.
We continue to believe that corporate Purchased electricity 217,627 0.07 social responsibility and good financial returns go hand in hand, reflecting Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,264,913 0.43 consideration of all stakeholders.
Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The Group has used the UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidance methodology in reporting its greenhouse gas emissions, together with emissions factors from the DEFRA DECC Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
We define our organisational boundary using the financial control approach and Mike Vaux use a materiality threshold for the Group of 5% of estimated Greenhouse Gas Company Secretary Emissions.
We have reported on all the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
24 June 2015 Stagecoach Group plc | page 23
