St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 94 Corporate Governance Directors Report The directors present their report for the year ended This standard authority will expire at the 2016 AGM and a th 30 November 2015. resolution to renew it will be proposed.
As permitted by legislation, some of the matters historically Employee Share Trust Trust th included in this report have instead been included in the As at 30 November 2015, the Trust held 690,274 shares Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45 as the Board considers 2014: 460,427 shares, representing 0.31% 2014: 0.21% of them to be of strategic importance.
Specifically these relate the Companys issued share capital.
The Trust deed contains to the Companys business model and strategy, future a dividend waiver provision in respect of shares held by the business developments and risk management.
The corporate Trust, such that dividends are waived with the exception of a governance statement as required by the Disclosure and hundredth of a penny per share.
Any voting or other similar Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA is decisions relating to shares held by the Trust would be taken by set out on pages 46 to 93 and is incorporated into this report the Trustee, who may take account of any recommendations of by reference.
There were no purchases of shares by the Trust during the financial year.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at 12.00 noon Further details regarding the  rd on Wednesday, 23 March 2016 at the Evolution Suite, pursuant to the Companys share-based incentive Innovation Centre, 1Devon Way, Longbridge Technology Park, arrangements are set out in note K to the Company Financial Birmingham B31 2TS.
The notice of meeting, which includes Statements.
the special business to betransacted and an explanation of all Rights and obligations attaching to shares the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is set out on The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled pages 167 to 174. to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys Dividend annual report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the An interim dividend of 1.9p per ordinary share 2014: 1.463p Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the 2016 AGM The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.85p per ordinary are set out in the notice of meeting on pages 167 to 174. th share in respect of the year ended 30 November 2015 2014: 3.137p, making a total dividend for the year of 5.75p per Restrictions on the transfer of shares st th share 2014: 4.6p, payable on 1 April 2016 to shareholders As at 30 November 2015 and the date of this report, except th onthe register on 4 March 2016. as referred to below: Other than as referred to under the heading Share capital there were no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company: below, during the year there were no arrangements under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any there were no limitations on the holding of ordinary shares: dividends nor any agreement by a shareholder to waive there were no requirements to obtain the approval of the future dividends.
Company, or of other holders of ordinary shares in the Share capital Company, fora transfer of shares: and Capital structure no person held shares in the Company carrying any special The Company has a single class of share capital which is rights with regard to control of the Company.
divided into ordinary shares of 10p each, all ranking pari passu.
The directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of in certificated form which is not fully paid or on which the the Company.
Company has a lien, where the instrument of transfer does th At 30 November 2015 there were 221,876,988 ordinary not comply with the requirements of the Companys Articles shares in issue and fully paid.
Further details relating to share of Association Articles, or if the transfer is in respect of more capital, including movements during the year, are set out in than one class of share or is in favour of more than four joint note K to the Company Financial Statements.
The directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share, which represents an interest of at least Share allotments 0.25% in a class of shares, following the failure by the member During the year, and in accordance with the authority granted or any other person appearing to be interested in the shares by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, 500,000 ordinary shares to provide the Company with information requested under were allotted at par value to the Companys Employee Share section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Act.
Trust to enable it to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Companys share-based Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using incentive arrangements.
CREST and the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations Purchase by the Company of its own shares governing the operation of CREST.
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders renewed the Companys The Company is not aware of any agreements between authority to make market purchases of up to 22,137,698 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital shares or on voting rights.
No shares were repurchased during the year and the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 95 245 4699 100164 165176 Interests in voting rights Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FCAs The information provided below was correct at the date of Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 is published on a notification: however the date the notification received may Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
not have been within the current financial year.
It should be th As at 30 November 2015, the following information had been noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since received in accordance with DTR 5 from holders of notifiable the Company was notified.
Notification of any change is not interests in the Companys issued share capital.
required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
% of total voting Shareholder Nature of holding Total voting rights rights The late Lady Clarke and connected parties including Simon Clarke Direct interest 18,575,196 8.43% J. D. Leavesley and connected parties Direct interest 13,447,099 6.07% Aviva plc Direct interest 8,889,142 4.02% Indirect interest 5,582,987 2.52% Total 14,472,129 6.54% BlackRock, Inc.
Indirect interest 11,075,661 5.03% Royal London Asset Management Ltd Direct interest 11,186,531 5.04% TR Property Investment Trust plc Direct interest 6,802,638 3.40% No changes in interests in the voting rights of the Companys issued share capital have been notified to the Company in th st accordance with DTR 5 between 30 November 2015 and 1 February 2016.
Directors The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes details of directors service contracts and their interests in the The Board Companys shares, is set out on pages 70 to 93.
Copies of the The following served as directors during the year ended th service contracts of the executive directors and the letters of 30 November 2015: appointment for the non-executive directors are available for Ian Bull inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Steve Burke Companys AGM.
Kay Chaldecott Appointment and replacement of directors Simon Clarke The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board on the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, the Act st 31 May 2015 and related legislation.
Under the Articles: th Rob Hudson appointed on 28 September 2015 the number of directors is not subject to any maximum but must not be less than three, unless otherwise determined by Lesley James the Company in general meeting: Richard Mully directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of Bill Oliver the Company or by resolution of the directors, either to fill a th casual vacancy or as an additional director: and John Salmon retired on 27 March 2015 a director appointed by the directors must retire at the Bill Shannon next AGM and is not taken into account in determining the The biographical details of all the directors serving at directors who are to retire by rotation at the meeting.
th 30 November 2015, including details of their relevant The Articles require that at least one third of the Board experience and other significant commitments, are shown must retire by rotation at each AGM.
Notwithstanding these onpages 48 and 49. provisions, the Board has agreed that all directors will seek re-election at each AGM in accordance with the Code.
At the 2016 AGM Robert Hudson, who was appointed by the directors in September 2015, will retire and be offering himself for election: all other directors will be offering themselves for re-election.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 96 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Directors continued Articles of Association A director may be removed by a special resolution of the The Articles can only be amended, or new Articles adopted, by Company.
In addition, a director must automatically cease a special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
tobea director if he or she: A resolution to adopt new Articles will be put to shareholders at resigns from his or her office by notice in writing to the the 2016 AGM: further information can be found in the notice Company or, in the case of an executive director, the of meeting on pages 167 to 174. appointment is terminated or expires and the directors Change of control resolve that his or her office be vacated: There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following composition with his or her creditors generally: a takeover bid.
These include committed bank facilities, is suffering from a mental disorder: which would be terminable at the banks discretion, and the Companys retail and convertible bonds, holders of which is absent from meetings of the directors for more than six would have an option to require the Company to redeem consecutive months without permission of the directors and the directors resolve that his or her office be vacated: or the bonds.
becomes prohibited by law from acting as a director.
The Companys share-based incentive arrangements contain provisions that take effect in the event of a change of control Powers of the directors but do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the of the Company than created by the initial grant or award Company, subject to the Articles, UK legislation including under the relevant scheme.
the Act and any directions given by the Company in There are no agreements between the Company and its general meeting.
directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of The directors have been authorised by the Articles to issue office or employment that occurs specifically as a result of a and allot ordinary shares and to make market purchases of takeover bid.
These powers are referred to Financial instruments shareholders for renewal at each AGM.
Further information is set out under the heading Share capital on page 94.
The Groups exposure to and management of capital risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk is set out in note 16 to Conflicts of interest the Group Financial Statements.
With the exception of service contracts or those contracts Employee involvement detailed in note 22 to the Group Financial Statements, no director had a material interest in any significant contract with St. Modwen is committed to regular communication and the Company or any of its operating companies at any time consultation with its employees and encourages employee during the year.
News concerning St. Modwen, its activities and performance is published on the Companys Under the Act, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts intranet.
Regular management meetings are held to inform of interest with the Company.
As permitted by the Act, the senior staff about matters affecting them as employees, at Articles enable non-conflicted directors to authorise actual which their feedback is sought on decisions likely to affect their or potential conflicts of interest, either with or without limits interest, and where a common awareness of the financial and or conditions.
Formal procedures for the notification and economic factors affecting the Companys performance is authorisation of such conflicts are in place.
Any potential developed: this information is then cascaded to all employees.
conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed directors are A performance-related annual bonus scheme and share considered by the Board prior to appointment.
All directors option arrangements are designed to encourage and support have a continuing duty to update any changes to conflicts.
Indemnities and insurance Employment of disabled persons The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors It is the policy of the Company to give full and fair consideration and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law in to applications for employment received from disabled respect of costs of defending claims against them and third persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and party liabilities.
These provisions, deemed to be qualifying thirdabilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the continued party indemnity provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Act, employment of those who may become disabled during th were in force during the year ended 30 November 2015 and their employment with the Company and the provision remain in force as at the date of this report.
St. Modwen provides the same A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection at the opportunities for training, career development and promotion Companys registered office during normal business hours and for disabled as for other employees.
will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action taken against its directors.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 97 245 4699 100164 165176 Greenhouse gas emissions The review included an assessment of future funding requirements based on cash flow forecasts extending for The disclosures required by law relating to the Groups 18 months from the date of signing the Financial Statements, greenhouse gas emissions GHG are set out in the table below.
valuation projections and the ability of the Group to meet GHG from those sources for which the Company is deemed to covenants on existing borrowing facilities.
The directors were be directly responsible are monitored for reporting purposes, satisfied that the forecasts and projections were based on namely gas and electricity purchased for consumption at realistic assumptions and that the sensitivities applied in properties under the Companys operational control such reviewing downside scenarios were appropriate.
as Head Office, certain regional offices, St. Modwen Homes sales offices and vacant space, and petrol and diesel used in As described in the Financial Review on pages 30 to 35, there Company cars.
are no corporate or joint venture facilities that require renewal before 2018.
As a result the directors are satisfied that the Political donations Group will have sufficient ongoing facilities available to meet its In accordance with the Companys policy, no political donations financing requirements.
were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
Based on their assessment, the directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate available resources to fund its Going concern operations for the foreseeable future and so determine that The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely it remains appropriate for the Financial Statements to be to affect its future development, performance and position, are prepared on a going concern basis.
set out in the Strategic Report.
The directors have considered these factors and reviewed the financial position of the Group, including its joint ventures and associates.
3 2015 intensity ratio 2014 intensity ratio tCO2 tCO2 emissions emissions m tCO2 emissions tCO2 emissions CO2 emissions full-time property CO2 emissions full-time m property 1 2 1 2 GHG tonnes employees portfolio tonnes employees portfolio Scope 1: Total purchased gas 433 222 Petrol and diesel 586 542 Total Scope 1 1,019 3.3 0.5 764 2.7 0.6 Scope 2: Total purchased electricity 1,529 937 Total Scope 2 1,529 4.9 0.7 937 3.3 0.7 Total Scope 1 & 2 2,548 8.2 1.2 1,701 6.0 1.3 1 Equivalent CO2 emissions per full-time employee.
2 Equivalent CO2 per m of property portfolio held by the Company.
3 Due to the negligible impact, information has not been restated to reflect the revised accounting treatment of VSM Estates Holdings Ltd under IFRS 10.
See the Accounting Policies note on pages 116 and 117 of the Group Financial Statements for further information.
Methodology Emissions from gas and electricity consumption have been calculated using the main requirements of the GHG Protocol Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The measurement of emissions from Company cars is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013 issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
DEFRAs 2013 conversion factors have also been used within the reporting methodology.
Organisation boundary and responsibility The Company does not have responsibility for GHG that are beyond the boundary of the Companys operational control.
As such, gas and electricity purchased and consumed by tenants is not included within the Scope 1 and 2 data above.
Data also excludes the purchase for and consumption by those sites which fall within the Persimmon joint venture as Persimmon controls the procurement of utilities to these sites.
GHG for all other joint ventures has been included as the Company is deemed to be wholly responsible for such GHG.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 98 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Disclosure required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R of the FCAs Listing Rules can be found on the following pages of this Annual Report: Section Topic Page reference 1 Interest capitalised N A 2 Publication of unaudited information N A Details of long-term incentive schemes established specifically to recruit 4 orretainadirector N A 5 & 6 Waiver of emoluments by a director N A 7 & 8 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash 144 9 Parent company participation in placing by a listed subsidiary N A 10 Contracts of significance N A 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N A 12 & 13 Shareholder waiver of dividends 94 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders N A th Important events since 30 November 2015 In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: There have been no important events affecting the Company th or any subsidiary since 30 November 2015. properly select and apply accounting policies: Auditor present information, including accounting policies, in a Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users Management report to understand the impact of particular transactions, other The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together events and conditions on the entitys financial position and comprise the management report for the purposes of the financial performance: and FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a Statement of directors responsibilities going concern.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report In preparing the Company Financial Statements, the directors and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law are required to: and regulations.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial them consistently: Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors make judgements and accounting estimates that are are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in reasonable and prudent: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Company Standards have been followed, subject to any material Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs continue in business.
of the Company and of the Group and of their profit or loss for that period.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 99 245 4699 100164 165176 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report, whose names and functions are set out on pages 48 and 49, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the management report which comprises the Strategic Report and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report also confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
The Directors Report, prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Act and the FCAs Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules and comprising pages 94 to 99, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Tanya Stote Company Secretary st 1 February 2016
