St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 12 Strategic Report Our business model WE SEE OURSELVES DIFFERENTLY Our business model generates recurring revenue and drives portfolio value.
It is successful because it enables us to reinvest continually into the business, ensuring a steady stream of development opportunities and income.
INPUTS INVESTMENT RETURNS OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES Resources Investment Land bank Asset Sales rental Outputs Shareholder Employees cleaning development income New and returns Financial capital regenerated Land bank Acquiring Remediating Managed Income secured Proven valuecommercial Buildings new assets and reclaiming through through added approach spacesand that present brownfield land regional teams disposals of promotes newhomes Relationships opportunities for in advance of its of planning mature assets NAVgrowth Local communities Outcomes value creation redevelopment experts with local and retained and tenants Regenerated knowledge and rental income Partners and community in touch with jointventures spaces, local communities Creation of new Supply chain employment, income streams improved local See Pages 16 and 17 and national economies Cash flow Underpins running costs and reinvested into new property OUR VALUES We think long-term We are innovative We do what we say Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 13 245 4699 100164 165176 Purpose and values How we create income Sales income We retain acquired commercial properties or existing retail centres for income as they await redevelopment.
Once a development is completed, we either retain it, run it for income and then sell on once we can add no further material value, Our business model generates recurring revenue and drives or we release it immediately to satisfy investor demand within portfolio value.
It is successful because it enables us to reinvest the market.
continually into the business, ensuring a steady stream of development opportunities and income.
At its core sits our Similarly, we sell remediated brownfield land with planning corporate values: permission to housebuilders at a significantly higher value than initially acquired.
We think long-term Rental income We are innovative Whether awaiting redevelopment or newly completed, our We do what we say individual properties are worked hard by our teams of highly skilled asset managers via regular rent reviews, lease renewals These values drive the business model, defining employee and careful property maintenance which delivers a strong behaviour and our approaches to development and revenue stream for the business.
regeneration, ultimately resulting in value creation.
Furthermore, our innovative approach to development Land bank cleaning enables us to assess our existing land bank for other sources We have a land bank of 6,000 acres, of which 90% is previously of revenue.
This year we added a new income stream to used or brownfield land.
our portfolio by way of Income Producing Residential which As the UKs leading expert in regeneration, cleaning up or includes revenue received from our properties held in the remediating brownfield land is fundamental to everything we Private Rented Sector PRS and through the newly created do.
In doing so, we have a positive impact on the environment St. Modwen Student Living business to manage retained and we add value to this low-cost development resource which income from student accommodation at Bay Campus, Swansea in turn enables us to breathe new life into previously neglected University.
Both streams will increase as we grow into these areas of the country through redevelopment and without the new areas of the business.
How value is returned to shareholders reinvested New and existing industrial partners choose us as their The revenue raised from rental income and property sales developer of choice as they trust our proven capability to either helps to underpin the running costs of the business or is remove risk from any site through our expertise and innovation reinvested into new land or properties that are run for income in remediation, leaving them a legacy to be proud of.
initially, before their ultimate redevelopment which in turn triggers the cycle of the business model once more.
Asset development Once a site has been cleaned we start to realise our vision for This underlying and recurring source of income reduces its redevelopment through our regional teams.
dramatically our reliance on bank finance and third party funding and provides us with a firm financial footing from Our strong track record in securing consents to develop our which to fund our own development opportunities and deliver proposed schemes is testament to the skill of these regional shareholder value.
teams who, throughout the planning process, will actively consult with the local community, the relevant local authorities Similarly, our regeneration activities in terms of brownfield and associated agencies to ensure our proposals remain renewal, the creation of new communities and business sensitive to local need.
In addition, our close contact with these destinations as well as our investment in new opportunities key stakeholders ensures our plans include the right balance help to promote NAV growth and deliver strong of housing, commercial space, supporting infrastructure and shareholder returns.
Outputs and outcomes Our skills in this area can be applied to small developments or The business model enables us to invigorate once neglected long-term and complex regeneration projects.
spaces, former industrial estates and disused brownfield land and create thriving new communities, business parks and new Town Centres that help to satisfy housing demand, create new jobs and provide a boost to the immediate, regional and national economy.
It also helps to ensure that we put into place the right mix of uses and supporting infrastructure and create new places that can be enjoyed for generations to come.
