St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 14 Strategic Report Regeneration and remediation WE SEE POTENTIAL The clean up and renewal of previously used brownfield land is central to the progress of development in the UK and is fundamental to St. Modwens business model.
We are experts in this field, having reclaimed thousands of acres of brownfield land over the last 30 years.
Photo: Reclamation at Glan Llyn, site of the former Llanwern steelworks, Newport, South Wales where we are now delivering a 1bn new community.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 15 245 4699 100164 165176 Cleaning up, recycling and reusing this previously developed Particular remediation challenges at Longbridge included: land goes hand in hand with safeguarding the countryside and East Works preparation of development plateau at the preserving natural habitats.
It also helps to tackle the blight of East Works site which required the transfer and placement of dereliction by transforming poor quality sites into flourishing approximately 120,000 tonnes of soil: new communities and successful business destinations that Flight Shed this site has been subject to a six-year long trigger future economic growth.
hydrocarbon extraction, recovery and recycling exercise to Our expertise in this area rests with our team of highly remove a plume within former tunnels and the surrounding skilled construction experts who work closely with the soils: and Environment Agency and other associated Government East Works northern area this site was prepared to regulators to ensure that we employ the latest and most include a cut off wall to protect the site from surrounding sustainable, environmentally responsible techniques across impacted areas and has since been redeveloped into a our remediation and construction projects.
In doing so, we housing scheme under our joint venture with Persimmon.
pay close attention to energy consumption, use of sustainable resources, minimising waste and reducing our consumption of This meticulous approach to remediation has been raw materials.
instrumental in the transformation of this brownfield site from a former car plant to a thriving new community for this Across our developable land bank there are currently hundreds part of Birmingham which now comprises a Town Centre, of acres of land in the process of being remediated, reclaimed, 66mBournville College, Technology Park, employment centre, remodelled and redeveloped.
The following case study brings residential development and two new parks.
our rare skill in this fundamental area of regeneration to life.
Longbridge, Birmingham Remediation works commenced on the 468 acre Longbridge site in 2001.
At the time, it comprised four main sub-sites namely North Works, South Works, East Works and West Works, with two smaller sites known as Flight Shed formerly an engine test and fuel storage facility and Cofton Works.
All were located around the still operational Shanghai Automotive works.
Phased remediation works were agreed with the Environmental Authorities in line with an evolving masterplan and programme.
The main elements of the remediation strategy included: removal of any hydrocarbon impacted material, including soil and ground water: use of biophysical techniques to clean up soil in compliance with risk-based remediation targets agreed with the Environmental Authorities: monitoring and validation of shallow and deep groundwater quality: careful monitoring of dust, noise, odour and surface water levels: placement of remediated soil to an engineering specification: regular samples taken of remediated materials to demonstrate targets have been achieved: Photo: Remediation at the Longbridge site.
installation of gas monitoring boreholes and subsequent monitoring to confirm any preventative measures required Corporate Social ResponsibilityPages 4245 for future development: and For more information on our CSR activities production of reports for approval by the Environmental please see our February 2016 CSR booklet or Authorities to support planning.
