St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 10 Strategic Report Our marketplace WE SEE OPPORTUNITY As a regeneration specialist, our activities touch many sectors of theproperty market.
Our regional presence has defined the business forthe last 30 years.
Our commitment to this marketplace has continuedto produce results during the year with our commercial development pipeline now at 1.6m sq ft. Market trends and focus COMMERCIAL Market trends The commercial marketplace is performing well, and investors to broaden their search criteria and particularly the industrial sector where there is good target good quality stock in well-located second tier demand across most UK occupational and investment andsecondary markets.
Demand for prime office space in key regional business Despite a steady pick up in speculative development, the hubs is strengthening, driven by the services sector, supply constraints in the big box and multi-let sectors although overall take up is constrained by the lack of show little signs of easing, which is forcing occupiers prime stock.
RETAIL Market trends Outside of Central London, the retail market remains is growing in importance to satisfy customers competitive as retailers are trading in an increasingly continually evolving tastes.
crowded space, with the added challenge of having This considered, there is steady improvement in to continually diversify their offering to meet the ever specific areas of the country.
Secondary High Street changing demands of the consumer.
markets have yet to build notable momentum with Technology, accessibility and the combination of moderate demand.
demand for a leisure offering and night time economy RESIDENTIAL Market trends The planning process continues to prove challenging The Private Rented Sector PRS is now the second nationwide.
largest rental provider in England.
19% of all households are renting privately whilst home-ownership has fallen Demand for new homes remains high with regional to 64%.
house price inflation surpassing build cost inflation.
The Help to Buy initiative is making a positive contribution to sales rates and underlining the need for affordable properties to meet demand from first time buyers.
INVESTMENT Market trends The low interest rate environment, coupled with Investment activity has been aided by greater depth relatively high and stable income yields of UK and liquidity in the financing market, particularly in commercial property, is still proving attractive to the regions, targeting opportunities across prime and newinvestors.
As we enter 2016, yield compression is anticipated to continue and strong demand and high pricing expected to persist.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 11 245 4699 100164 165176 What does this mean for St. Modwen?
We will continue to add to our 1.6m sq ft We will continue to maximise revenue commercial property pipeline as we reach streams through our asset management completion of those projects in build.
capabilities and remain acquisitive for new opportunities that enable value creation Our programme of speculative through recurring income and ultimately development will be progressed across development.
the UK to meet ongoing demand.
The mixed-use, well-located nature We will continue to remain abreast of ofourpredominantly secondary retail consumer tastes and adapt our offering portfolio, combining a Town Centre accordingly to ensure maximum return offering with leisure, work space and oninvestment across this marketplace.
housing, has enabled us to remain successful in this market and attract retailers to our schemes.
Through our strong regional presence St. Modwen Homes will become more we will continue to realise residential dominant and take over from the development opportunities from Persimmon joint venture as it draws to its our ownland bank as well as making natural close by 2018. appropriate acquisitions that suit our Having already experienced good returns portfolio and expertise.
from our two initial PRS schemes, we expect to grow in this marketplace in 2016.
We will continue to capture this strong The disposal of retained property is not investor interest through the disposal confined to our mature assets.
We also of those properties within our portfolio release assets for sale to satisfy specific to which we can no longer add material investor demand in the marketplace.
value, reinvesting the revenue raised back into the business.
