SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Performance.
Our focus remains on the growth of a global lifestyle brand through the extension of the Superdry brand and execution of clear Retail growth opportunities, underpinned by continued investment to strengthen our business.
Nick Wharton Chief Financial Officer 8 July 2015 www.
co. uk 36 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Report.
Introduction Our These financial We made good progress this year with total retail space Financial Financial increasing by 13% 21% inclusive of the USA and e-commerce 21% Statements.
Total sales grew by results reflect our 12.9% over the year with, encouragingly, each channel also Increase delivering positive like-for-like growth.
strategy to establish We continue to invest in our business to support future growth.
in retail space Capital investment, totalled 41.2m 2014: 36.0m including Performance.
Superdry as a global investment in new Retail space of 22.1m 2014: 26.9m which required additional central resources to manage this increased lifestyle brand by scale.
The development of our Group infrastructure remains a clear priority through the enhancement of our team capability c. 40% and improved systems.
At the end of the year, we terminated expanding the the US licence and purchased the assets of SDUSA LLC for Increase in total consideration of 22.5m.
business globally The shape of our financial performance was very different e-commerce sales in each half year.
The first half of the year was impacted by through each of unseasonably warm autumn weather conditions which resulted in Group Retail like-for-like sales including e-commerce our three routes decreasing by 4.1% and year on year profit before tax decreasing by 30.2%.
The second half of the year saw a 41.2 million marked improvement in performance with significant increases to market: Retail, in revenue and underlying operating profit.
Capital investment The Groups key performance indicators that are to be adopted e-commerce and for future reporting are shown on pages 38 to 39.
