SUPERGROUPPLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Peter Bamford Euan Sutherland Chairman Chief Executive Officer Financial Financial Financial Peter is Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Euan was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the Statements.
Company on 22 October 2014, having previously been an independent non-executive director and a Peter is also a non-executive director of Rentokil Initial member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Plc.
Peter was a director of Vodafone Group Plc from Committees.
1998 to 2006 where he held senior executive roles, including Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Executive of Euan has served as Group Chief Executive Officer Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa and Chief for the Co-op group of companies, Group Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
Prior to this he was a Operating Officer at Kingfisher Plc and as a nondirector of WH Smith Plc, and held senior positions at executive director with the Co-op Food Board.
Prior Tesco Plc and Kingfisher Plc.
Peter has served on the to this he was Chief Executive of AS Watson UK, boards of public companies for the last 20 years and the owner of Superdrug.
Euan has over 22 years has extensive experience in developing and growing experience within the retail sector having held roles Peter Bamford Euan Sutherland businesses and brands internationally.
with Boots, Dixons, Coca-Cola, Matalan and Mars.
Julian Dunkerton Nick Wharton Founder, Product & Brand Director Chief Financial Officer Nick was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Julian has worked exclusively in the retail sector for Company on 24 June 2015. over 28 years, co-founding the Cult retail chain from a market stall in Cheltenham and turning it into a Nick was previously Chief Executive Officer of Dunelm successful retail chain.
Together with James Holder, Group plc between 2010 and 2014, and before Julian established the Superdry clothing brand 12 that was Chief Financial Officer of Halfords Group years ago.
Julian has a deep understanding of the Plc.
In his eight year career at Halfords, he held Superdry brand, strong commercial instincts and a both finance and strategy roles.
Prior to this, Nick feel for its target customers, developed through his worked in senior finance positions at Boots Opticians, hands-on experience of building SuperGroup from Boots Healthcare International, Do-it-All Limited and the ground up.
Nick is a chartered accountant and has been a non-executive director of Mothercare Julian Dunkerton Nick Wharton James Holder plc since November 2013.
Founder, Brand and Design Director James is responsible for brand and product development and heads up SuperGroups team of in-house designers.
James created the Bench clothing brand in 1992, which became the premier English skate-wear brand in the niche skate BMX market.
In 2003 he teamed up with Julian Dunkerton and developed the Superdry brand.
James brings exceptional clothing design skills to the Group and has been central to the success of the Superdry brand in appealing to its target market.
co. uk 51 51 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Board of Directors.
Keith Edelman Penny Hughes Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Penny was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2015 Keith is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and became a member of the Audit Committee a member of the Nomination Committee and, from and the Nomination Committee.
She is also a 30 October 2014 until 16 April 2015, was a member non-executive director of WM Morrison Supermarkets of the Audit Committee.
He is also non-executive Plc where she is Chairman of the Corporate Chairman of Goals Soccer Centres Plc and Revolution Compliance and Responsibility Committee, and Bars Group Plc which was listed on the London Stock The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc where she is Exchange on 13 March 2015, and a non-executive Chairman of the Sustainable Banking Committee.
director at Safestore Holdings Plc and the London Pennys previous non-executive directorships include Legacy Development Corporation.
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Home Retail Group Keith was Managing Director of Arsenal Holdings Plc Plc, The Gap Inc, Next Group Plc, The Body Shop from 2000 to 2008 and Chief Executive of Storehouse International Plc, Thomson Reuters Group Limited, Keith Edelman Penny Hughes Plc encompassing BHS and Mothercare from 1993 Vodafone Group Plc and Trinity Mirror Plc.
Keith has extensive retail and international executive career Penny spent ten years at The Cocaexperience and has served on the boards of public Cola Company, initially as Marketing and Commercial companies for 30 years across a wide range of Director, before being made President of Coca-Cola businesses and markets.
Great Britain and Ireland at the age of 33.
Minnow Powell Ken McCall Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Minnow is Chairman of the Audit Committee, a Ken is a member of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee and, from Remuneration Committee.
He is also a member of 21 October 2014 until 1 April 2015, was a member the Europcar Group Executive Board and Managing of the Nomination Committee.
He is also a Director of Europcar Group UK Limited.
non-executive director at Computacenter Plc where Ken was previously Chief Executive Officer of DHL he is Chairman of the Audit Committee, and is on the Express UK & Ireland, Chief Executive Officer of TNT Supervisory Board and Audit Committee of TUI AG Middle East, Africa and Asia and Chief Executive following the merger of Tui Travel Plc and TUI AG.
Minnow Powell Ken McCall Officer of TNT China.
He brings over 30 years During his 35 years with Deloitte, Minnow became experience in the logistics sector and of running a senior partner and concentrated on looking after international businesses in Europe and Asia.
Deloittes major clients including Hammerson, Reed Elsevier, Anglo American and BSkyB.
He is Lindsay Beardsell a chartered accountant and was a member of the Company Secretary UKs Audit Practices Board for six years.
Minnow has Lindsay is Group General Counsel and Company extensive experience in external and internal audit, Secretary.
She practiced with Freshfields Bruckhaus risk management, financial controls and corporate Deringer, held positions with Centrica plc and financial reporting in a wide range of sectors.
United Utilities plc, and headed up the Legal and Company Secretarial functions at both Renold plc and Gazprom Energy, before joining SuperGroup Plc in August 2013.
