SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Evolving Business Model.
We design, produce and sell premium yet affordable clothing and accessories exclusively under the Superdry brand in 573 Superdry branded locations as well as online.
Our broad product range, for men and women, holds wide appeal across a broad age spectrum.
Our brand management, and product design and innovation, is centralised at our head office in Cheltenham in the United Kingdom, along with all the main support functions including human resources, merchandising, finance, legal, marketing, IT and e-commerce.
Whilst design, category management and merchandising of our products is done by Own Retail our colleagues, our products are manufactured by partners Franchise third party suppliers predominantly located in Turkey, China Wholesale and India.
We have two main distribution centres one in Wholesale JV Own Retail the UK and one in Belgium which receive and dispatch our Franchise products across our multi-channel business wholesale, retail and e-commerce our three routes to customer.
We plan to open another distribution centre in the US to Franchise better serve that market and to bring further efficiencies.
Franchise Franchise Licencee e-commerce www.
co. uk 08 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Report.
Enabling growth We have a multi-channel business with three routes to customer: Wholesale Retail e-commerce 1 2 3 Revenue Revenue 25 international websites delivering % % to over 169 countries UK & ROI 73% UK & ROI 25% EU 21% EU 58% Rest of Rest of World 6% World 17% The Wholesale channel consists of: Our Retail channel which includes e-commerce comprises the E-commerce consists of 25 international websites across 18 entire owned store portfolio in the UK, mainland Europe countries covering 12 different languages and delivering to over international franchise partners and individual franchise stores: and North America together with our websites.
E-commerce connects our Wholesale and Retail 178 owned stores, with total space of 764,000 square feet, channels and includes our partner programme with Zalando, La international distribution partners, supplying the independent consisting of smaller boutique stores usually found in mainland Redoute, The Iconic and TMall.
We use eBay as another Retail markets in their territories: Europe, medium-sized stores of around 5,000 to 6,000 square sales channel to sell our end of line or discounted products key wholesale accounts: and feet principally in the UK and increasingly so in mainland whilst maintaining our brand integrity and retaining gross margin.
Europe, and larger stores, such as our flagship stores in An innovative way in which we have brought e-commerce licensed markets.
Regent Street, London and Munich, Germany.
Superdry outlet and Retail closer together is through our iKiosks which give We have accelerated our franchise and licence roll-out over the stores offer another opportunity for us to sell our product, customers access to our full collection through the Superdry past couple of years to 221 stores.
protecting the brand integrity of our non-outlet stores whilst website, and the opportunity for in-store ordering and free next retaining gross margin.
co. uk 09 k c a b SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Evolving Our Evolving Business Model.
We are currently transforming our buying model and stock Previous stock buying model New stock buying model management process to improve speed to market, improve efficiency and lower the cost from design to customer.
Over the next five years, with continued investment in our systems and processes, we expect our business model to deliver UK Retail greater efficiencies.
Key to this is: one single integrated range construction so that the Wholesale offering is a subset of the Retail range, which Global in turn is a subset of our largest range offered through Wholesale EU Retail e-commerce.
This allows us to optimise our buying Franchise model across the routes to customer and, in turn, drives purchasing economies and enhances sell through: increasing our direct sourcing and better phasing product buys to ensure newness for our customer and improve stock management, product availability, and stock levels: and Future business model bringing our distribution centres closer to market, with a single pool of stock to maximise availability and achieve zonal fulfilment across all routes to customer.
Our future business model Customer Customer Design Colleague Read more about our Customers on pages 20 to 21 Shareholder Read more about our Colleagues on page 23 Read more about our Governance on pages 50 to 87 www.
