SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
We present the Directors Report together with our audited companies are conducted on an arms length basis and in line Details of related party transactions are set out in note 5 to the Financial Statements and those of our subsidiaries together with our transfer pricing agreements.
the Group for the financial year ended 25 April 2015.
The Financial Financial Where a tax rule, regulation or incentive exists that may convey Share capital Statements.
Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 53 to 57 forms a tax advantage to us, for example, using losses incurred in prior Details of our issued share capital, together with details of part of this Directors Report.
We are UK domiciled but have a years, we will use that rule, regulation or incentive to support the movements in our issued share capital during the year, are number of overseas subsidiaries and branches in Austria, Italy businesses as permitted by local law.
shown in note 32 which is deemed to be part of this Directors and Portugal.
We have one class of ordinary shares, which carries no We use the services of external, expert tax advisers to The Directors Report and Strategic Report comprise the right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote provide input into our tax affairs, such as the management management report for the purposes of the Financial Conduct at our general meetings.
The ordinary shares are listed on the of compliance in the UK and overseas jurisdictions and the Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
R. Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As at impact of changes in tax legislation on us.
During the year we 25 April 2015, we had 80,984,973 ordinary shares in issue.
Please refer to pages 51 to 52 for a full list of the directors.
undertook a tax tender and appointed Grant Thornton as our primary tax adviser.
Share capital, control and restriction on Results voting rights Our Financial Statements for the year are set out on pages 98 to Tax governance As at 25 April 2015, our issued share capital was 80,984,973 146, which should be read in conjunction with the Finance Review.
Our tax strategy is determined by the Board of Directors as a ordinary shares of five pence each in nominal value the issued sub-set of our overall business strategy and is overseen by the Post balance sheet events share capital.
Details of our share capital are shown in note Audit Committee.
Operational responsibility for the execution of There have been no balance sheet events that either require 32 to the Financial Statements on page 143. the Groups tax strategy rests with the Chief Financial Officer, adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important in the who reports the Groups tax position to the Audit Committee on The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors understanding of our current position other than those detailed a regular basis.
are contained in our Articles of Association.
Specific rules in note 35 on page 146. regarding the re-election of directors are referred to in the The Audit Committee considers tax risks that may arise as Corporate Governance Report on pages 53 to 57.
Changes Approach to tax a result of business operations through the Groups risk to the Articles of Association must be approved by our Our approach to tax matters is to comply with all relevant tax management framework.
The consideration of such tax shareholders.
laws and regulations, whichever country we operate in, whilst risks includes actions to mitigate the risks or to prevent their effectively managing the overall tax burden.
We will pay the occurrence or recurrence.
Powers relating to the issue and buy back of shares are right and fair amount of tax in each territory we trade from in included in our Articles of Association and such authorities are As a clothing brand with international Retail and Wholesale accordance with the letter and spirit of local laws and regimes.
renewed by shareholders each year at the AGM.
operations, we naturally have a presence in some countries with We understand that taxes we pay to governments are an lower tax rates than the UK.
We also operate in a number of important source of revenue for them in providing a stable Pursuant to the terms of an agreement entered into between us countries with much higher rates and all territories are chosen infrastructure and environment in which we operate.
and Julian Dunkerton dated 12 March 2010 as amended on for their strategic importance to the growth of the business 9 July 2014, Julian Dunkerton has undertaken to ensure that Our businesses operate in a growing number of countries, rather than their tax regimes.
Importantly, we have full Retail and we are able to operate independently of him as a shareholder which leads to increasing complexity in our tax affairs, and it Wholesale trading businesses and we aim to pay appropriate for as long as he and persons with whom he is acting in concert is well documented that tax authorities around the world are taxes in all of the countries where we have a presence.
together hold not less than 30% of the voting rights attached to subjecting the tax affairs of large companies to ever-greater the ordinary shares.
He is restricted from exercising his voting Related party transactions scrutiny.
We look to manage our tax affairs in a manner to rights in certain circumstances, including the requisition of a Other than in respect of arrangements set out in note 5 to support business operations with the aim of ensuring that general meeting to appoint or remove a director.
the Financial Statements and in relation to the employment the tax consequences match the economic and commercial of directors, details of which are provided in the Directors consequences of those operations.
Naturally, we seek to ensure Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 84, there is no material that the same profits are not taxed twice by different jurisdictions indebtedness owed to or by us to any employee or any other and that transactions between subsidiary and associate person or entity considered to be a related party.
co. uk 85 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Directors Report.
approximately 5% of our issued share capital at that date.
This Whistleblowing hotlines are in place internationally and are Share buy-backs disapplication will be renewed at the AGM in September 2015 managed through a third party provider.
These cover all At the AGM in 2014, shareholders approved a resolution to in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 202,572 countries in which we operate.
All matters arising from the grant the directors authority to repurchase a maximum number again representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital use of the whistleblowing hotline are referred to the Company of 8,096,137 ordinary shares representing 10% of our issued as at 21 July 2015.
The Audit Committee receives share capital as at 1 August 2014 as shares become available.
a summary of all matters arising through the whistleblowing During the reporting year to 25 April 2015, we did not purchase Other relevant disclosure requirements from the Takeover hotline on a regular basis.
We intend to renew this authority at Directive are included elsewhere in the Directors Report, the AGM in September 2015 in respect of 8,102,872 ordinary the Corporate Governance Report, the Directors Health and safety shares again, representing 10% of our issued share capital Remuneration Report and the Notes to the Group and We are committed to providing a safe place for employees as at 21 July 2015.
Further details are set out in the notice of Company Financial Statements.
to work and customers to shop.
Our policies are reviewed the AGM.
on an ongoing basis to ensure that the approach to training, There are no agreements in place between us and our risk assessments, safe systems of working and accident Share schemes employees or directors for compensation for loss of office or management are appropriate.
As part of this process, a rolling We have two types of share scheme: i a long-term incentive employment that trigger as a result of a takeover bid.
audit programme is in place to ensure that health, safety, plan or performance share plan LTIP or PSP : and ii a environmental and security risks are stringently assessed and Financial risk management save as you earn scheme SAYE or Sharesave scheme.
that robust control measures are in place to limit these risks.
Please refer to note 31 of the accounts.
All shares allotted under the PSP and SAYE schemes have the For further information, please refer to the Strategic Report on same rights as those already issued.
Legal and regulatory compliance pages 1 to 49.
The legal team is responsible for identifying and carrying out Directors share interests assessments of those areas of the business where material Greenhouse gas emissions The interests of the directors holding office at 25 April 2015 are legal and regulatory risks may be present.
In the last year, the We have measured our operational and wider carbon footprint shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 81.
There legal team supported by external advisers where appropriate for the past five years, providing insight into where the largest were no changes to the beneficial interests of the directors reviewed our approach to franchise agreements and carried climate impacts are and to prioritise resources accordingly.
between 25 April 2015 and 8 July 2015. out training in anti-bribery and corruption, data protection and competition law.
We have also further reviewed risks in relation The Corporate Responsibility Report contains a table detailing UK Corporate Governance Code to our intellectual property portfolio and implemented changes our global greenhouse gas carbon emissions on page 35 and Our statement on corporate governance and compliance with to ensure that our strategy to protect the Companys intellectual is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
the Code can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on property is robust.
Where issues are identified, mitigating pages 53 to 57 and is incorporated by reference.
Disclosure of information to auditors actions are built into an action plan involving the drafting and Each director who held office on the date of approval of this communication of policies and the delivery of training where The Takeover Directive Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there appropriate, or are approached by way of a revision to key The rights and obligations attached to the issued share capital is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors contractual terms.
The Board receives regular reports on are set out in the Articles of Association available on our website are unaware.
Furthermore, each director has taken all the steps material litigation and the legal action taken to support our www.
At the AGM in 2014, shareholders that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him or strategy, and the Audit Committee monitors progress against approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish set compliance targets.
value of 1,349,356 representing one-third of our issued that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
share capital as at 1 August 2014.
It is intended to renew this In order to ensure that our suppliers behave in a moral and authority at the AGM in September 2015 in respect of shares Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
ethical manner, we have in place a comprehensive supplier with a nominal value of 1,350,479 again, representing onemanual which includes contractual terms, codes of conduct Lindsay Beardsell third of the issued share capital as at 21 July 2015. and an ethical trading policy.
Compliance with the manual is Company Secretary monitored by audits carried out in accordance with an agreed The disapplication of pre-emption rights for cash issues 8 July 2015 plan, and a report is presented to the Board annually.
of shares was approved at the AGM in 2014 in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 202,403, representing www.
