Applied Sterilisation Technologies & Laboratory Services AST Over the past twelve months the AST businesshas focused on investing to secure future growth, in parallel with initiatives to improve operational efficiency and productivity.
12 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Reported revenue for the period was up Our gamma irradiation businesses Locations 14.2% to 137.5 million 2014: 120.4 inThailandand Malaysia and our EtO million and up 19.4% on a constant currency business inChina, have all experienced basis.
Underlying organic revenue for the strong growth.
Thisgrowth is mainly derived period was up 10.5%.
Volume growth has from existingbusiness: this has in places 42 sites been a key driver of stronger operating been complemented by volumes won from margins of 34.4%, filling new capacity added customers relocating their manufacturing in the year and recovering volumes in Costa from Europe.
The margin improvements led to a in 16 In Rawang, Malaysia, our plant has fully 15.2% increase in adjusted operating profit recovered from the incident which interrupted to47.3 million 2014: 41.0 million.
All damaged Over the past twelve months the AST equipment has been replaced under the countries businesshas focused on investing to secure Groups insurance arrangements, and all local future growth, in parallel with initiatives to permits and licences renewed.
Customer improve operational efficiency and productivity.
Our new gamma facility in Marcoule, France Following the acquisition of Nordion, a isfilling capacity as planned.
Wehave invested supplier of cobalt isotopes, by Sterigenics Inc, Employees in greater volumes of cobalt isotopes in our we have worked to diversify our cobalt supply plants in Ireland, France, andthe Netherlands and have already received a number of to enhance productive capacity, allowing our deliveries of cobalt from alternative suppliers.
1,370 gamma irradiation sites to process customer ASTs strategy continues to focus product at a faster speed.
Our ethylene oxide resourceson selected key global customer EtO plants in Thorne, UK, and Venlo, the partnerships.
We work with these customers Netherlands, have delivered strong revenue to deliver a superior, value-added service that growth year on year, and we expect to be able is differentiated from our competitors, and as to build on this in the next twelve months with aresult these customers have contributed new EtO capacity in the Czech Republic.
adisproportionate share of our 19.4% Construction of a new pallet gamma irradiator revenue growth.
in Bradford, UK, is well advanced and is scheduled to complete in the first quarter With continual month-on-month revenue of2016.
growth, we have confidence that we can maintain our organic growth revenue targets In the Americas, we have seen significant of 10-12% per annum.
Our AST global bid organic growth of close to 16%.
We are book now sits at 33 million per annum, doubling capacity at our Saxonburg facility, reflecting the investments we have made in adding a new facility in San Francisco and our business development team, and giving investing in plant and process innovation us confidence in the strongfuture growth we along with new productivity initiatives to expect from our ASTbusiness.
increase the throughput of our existing electron beams.
