Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy Creating shareholder value To achieve sustainable growth in shareholder value we have a strategy to develop niche, high value-added outsourcing services with global potential, to health-related markets.
We deliver our services more efficiently than our competitors Second, there is the associated technical expertise.
In AST, byemploying a cost leadership strategy taking advantage of our forexample, there is a requirement to obtain licences to handle global scale and the deployment of technology.
We also strive to theradioactive cobalt used in gamma technology sterilisation.
competitively differentiate ourselves through our people by the Inaddition there is the expertise associated with building and waywe deliver our services, reflected in our core values of operating sterilisation plants, which is hard to replicate.
In HS, achievement, integrity, accountability and innovation.
thekey issues are the knowledge, data and expertise required to manage a very complex logistical environment, and be able to take Our businesses have significant barriers to entry, which make it an in-house department and transform the quality standards to very difficult for customers or potential competitors to achieve the near perfection very quickly.
Our HS facilities must comply with low costs and efficiencies that we have in our areas of expertise: stringent regulatory standards which can only be achieved using decontamination, sterilisation, and infection control services.
complex systems and quality procedures which Synergy has First, there is the financial barrier.
We have invested more than developed during the past 15 years.
300 million in building and developing decontamination and Third, almost 50% of the Groups revenue is derived from long sterilisation plants.
This includes the network of backup facilities duration contracts between three and 40 years, which provides that are essential in the mission-critical environment in which we asignificant barrier to entry for competitors in decontamination.
This investment is extremely expensive and time-consuming Insterilisation, the approval of the US Food and Drug Administration to replicate.
is required for entrance into this field, which provides a significant further barrier to entry.
Strategy Expand the business Focus on high Cost leadership Differentiation internationally value-added services from ourcompetitors Our strategy is to continue to expand Our strategy is to focus solely on niche Our strategy is to exercise GroupOur strategy is to differentiate our ourrevenue and further internationalise services that have high barriers to entry, widecost leadership, in order to best services through our people, via our the Group, through organic growth significant value-added content, and a focus our resources on delivering our shared values of achievement, integrity, andthrough bolt-on acquisitions to global potential.
improve the scale of our operations in aspecific market or expand the depth ofour services.
Our values underpin who we are as a business Achievement Integrity Accountability Innovation We believe our success comes from We believe that the way we work is as We take personal responsibility for our We achieve the best possible results ourfocus on exceeding expectations important as what we do.
We care deeply actions and are equipped to take the right byworking with customers to develop andour commitment to go the extra about the quality of our work and inspire course of action.
new ways of solving problems and mile, however small the difference trust by delivering on our promises.
Key performance indicators KPIs Principal risks and uncertainties Corporate governance Read more page 10 Read more page 22 Read more page 32 7 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
