Our business model Synergy delivers a range of specialist packaging, pharmaceutical manufacturing Synergys growth over the last 20 years, outsourced services to healthcare providers and veterinary medicine, to name but a bothorganic and by acquisition, has built and other customers concerned with health fewexamples.
theworlds largest supplier of outsourced management.
In performing these services, hospital sterilisation services, and the worlds Synergy operates a service line structure Synergy supports its customers to improve the second largest supplier of applied sterilisation focused on three key global services quality and efficiency of their activities, whilst technologies.
The Groups size, structure and Applied Sterilisation Technologies, Healthcare reducing risks to their patients and clients.
accumulated expertise provide it with a strong Services, and Healthcare Solutions.
Whilst the platform to deliver sustained technological In addition to core healthcare services, management of eachbusiness is encouraged development, customer focus, and robust thereis a wide demand for our services in to adopt an entrepreneurial style, they operate quality management systems.
Within our applied sterilisation within awell-developed and consistently strengths are critical to creating and technologies business we provide services to applied framework of operational and enhancing sustainable value.
a diverse range of customers including food financialcontrol.
Creating long-term value Applied Sterilisation Technologies Healthcare Services Healthcare Solutions Applied sterilisation technologies AST Healthcare services HS provides a Healthcare solutions HCS provides encompasses a range of sterilisation sterilisation service for reusable medical linenmanagement services to hospitals techniques, including gamma irradiation, and surgical equipment used in hospital and other customers, in theUK and electron and ion beam irradiation, operating rooms.
This service also extends across other Linen management is an essential service Its customers are mainly drawn from the hospital departments, primary care facilities, thatistypically outsourced by healthcare medical, pharmaceutical and biologicals dentistry practices and orthopaedic loan providers on long-term contracts.
markets, including a large number of setsuppliers.
Our customers frequently Synergy has a strong track record multinational medical device manufacturers.
demand additional services, such as the developing services that offer superior In addition, our facilities typically provide provision of medical consumables, and the quality whilst providing best value for sterilisation consultancy, laboratory services optimisation of their instrument inventories.
money rather than the lowest price.
and logistics support services to support the customer relationship.
We operate the worlds second largest We operate the worlds largest outsourced We operate the second largest outsourced outsourced sterilisation business, and HS business.
healthcare linen management businesses thelargest outside the US.
in the UK and Netherlands markets.
Synergy provides an essential service We provide services which are  and cost which in-house The range of services delivered by our critical for our customers, but at a level competitors cannot match, whilst healthcare solutions businesses drives ofefficiency which they cannot attain increasing operating room utilisation rates value for our customers through efficient in-house.
Our facilities are capital intensive and reducing the incidence of hospitaloperations, excellent service, a focus and static: our success in delivering acquired infections.
Our ability to deliver oninnovation, and a strategy of costsustained economic value depends upon this is built upon well-honed operating leadership which enables us to target delivering exceptional customer satisfaction procedures, long-term customer contracts, ourresources to our customers needs.
in long-term customer relationships in order a proprietary instrument management to match capacity to long-term demand.
application SynergyTrak, and our global scale, which enables us to invest infurther technological innovation.
137.5m 175.8m 95.5m 19.4% 12.2% -1.5% Revenue Revenue Revenue Synergy operates 42 AST facilities in Synergy operates 65 HS facilities Synergy operates 26 HCS facilities in the 16countries: in the US, Costa Rica, in8countries: in the US, the UK, the UK and theNetherlands.
Ireland, the UK, France, the Netherlands, Netherlands, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, the Czech the UAE and China.
Republic, Slovakia, Egypt, South Africa, Malaysia, Thailand, and China.
6 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our locations How we build long-term value How the business works
