Directors report The Directors submit their Annual Report Directors indemnity Greenhouse gas emissions andthe audited consolidated accounts of In accordance with the Companys Articles The table below details our global greenhouse theCompany and its subsidiaries for the ofAssociation, Directors have been granted a gas GHG emissions data for 2015: yearended 29 March 2015. continuing indemnity issued by the Company Emissions Tonnes of CO e 2 to the extent permitted by law in respect of Statutory disclosures Combustion of fuel and operation liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The of facilities GHG Protocol Group results and dividends indemnity would not provide any coverage to Scope1 56,961 There was a profit for the period after the extent that the Director is proved to have Electricity, heat, steam and cooling taxationamounting to 33,678,000 2014: acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
purchased for own use GHG 34,265,000.
As a result of the proposed Protocol Scope 2 41,301 Directors and officers liability insurance combination with STERIS, the Board chose Total 98,262 During the period the Company maintained not to pay an interim dividend 2014: Intensity metric: tonnes CO2e insurance cover for Directors and Officers 5,042,213, and is not proposing to pay a thousand GBP revenue 0.258 liability as permitted under the Companies final dividend.
The Board will review this Act2006.
recommendation in the event the combination 1 Assessment results exclude transmission and does not proceed.
A review of the Groups distribution losses.
Directors and Directors interests performance for the period ended 29 March The present Directors of the Company are We have reported on all of the emission 2015 is contained in the Strategic report.
shown on page 30 of this report.
No other sources required under the Companies Act Director served during the period.
The Bribery 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Directors interests in the share capital of The Company has further reviewed and Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within theCompany are set out in the Directors updated its policies in light ofthe enactment our consolidated financial statements.
With Remuneration report on page 59. of the Bribery Act 2010.
The Company the exception of Scope 1 fugitive emissions remains committed to the highest standards which form a very small part of our footprint Corporate Social Responsibility of business conduct and insists allits we do not have responsibility for any emission The statement on corporate social employees act accordingly.
sources that are not included in our responsibility on page 27 contains disclosures consolidated statement.
concerning environmental matters, employee The Audit Committee has reviewed and involvement and socialand community issues.
updated the Companys ethics and The method we have used to calculate whistleblowing policies and the policies are GHGemissions is the GHG Protocol Contractual relationships or other available on the Companys website.
Corporate Accounting and Reporting arrangements Standard revised edition, together with The Company has no contractual Pensions thelatest emission factors from recognised relationships or other arrangements with The Group operates a defined contribution public sources including, but not limited to, contractors, customers or suppliers that are Group Personal Pension Plan GPP, which Defra, the International Energy Agency, the critical to the business.
permanent employees are invited to join.
The US Energy Information Administration, the provision of the GPP is via Aviva.
The Company has a number of significant USEnvironmental Protection Agency and the agreements.
The only agreements considered All those employees who transfer from Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
to be essential to the Group as a whole thepublic sector under the Transfer of In some cases emissions associated with concern its bank facilities, which include Undertakings Protection of Employment ouractivities have been extrapolated or change of control provisions.
In the event of a Regulations 2006 are eligible to join the estimated to ensure as complete a picture change in ownership of the Company, these Synergy Health plc Retirement Benefit aspossible.
The largest area of uncertainty provisions could result in renegotiation or Scheme, a defined benefit pension relates to sites where we operate within withdrawal of the relevant facilities.
arrangement which is otherwise closed to clienthospital premises and do not have newentrants.
Tim Mason, the former Group Policy and practice on payment of creditors direct visibility of utility consumption data.
Company Secretary, is the Chairman of the All Group companies are responsible for Weare working with sustainability reporting Trustees.
There are three other Company establishing terms and conditions with their experts Ecometrica to further improve Nominated Trustees, and one Member suppliers and it is Group policy that payments ourcarbon footprint data quality and Nominated Trustee.
There is a vacancy for are made within such agreed terms and reportingprocesses.
Trade creditors at the period end allGroup pension schemes are contained Going concern amount to 48 days 2014: 44 days of average innote 26 to the Accounts on page 98.
The Companys business activities, supplies for the period.
togetherwith the factors likely to affect its The Company became subject to the Political and charitable donations future development, performance and Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes During the period the Group made charitable position areset out on pages 1 to 28.
The Automatic Enrolment Regulations 2010 for donations totalling 29,000 2014: 88,000. financial position of the Company, its cash employees in the UK on 1 September 2013.
No political donations were made during the flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities The GPP is compliant and is used for the period 2014: nil.
are described in the financial review on pages purposes of these Regulations and was 18to 21.
In addition, notes 17 to 18 to the Treasury and risk management registered accordingly.
financial statements include the Companys The Groups treasury and financial risk Permanent employees outside the UK are objectives, policies and processes for management objectives, and details usually offered membership of local pension managing its capital: its financial risk inrespect of the Groups exposure to arrangements where they exist.
management objectives: details of its financial theserisks, are detailed in note 18 instruments and hedging activities: and its tothefinancial statements.
exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
60 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Company has considerable financial Share capital Additional information for shareholders resources together with long-term contracts As at 29 March 2015 the Companys On a poll, every member present in person or with a number of customers and suppliers authorised share capital consisted of one class by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one across different geographic areas and market of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625p vote for every ordinary share held.
As a consequence, theDirectors each of which there were 59,109,789 ordinary of the general meeting specifies deadlines for believe that the Company is well placed to shares in issue.
No shares are currently held exercising voting rights either by proxy notice manage its business risks successfully despite intreasury.
or present in person or by proxy in relation to the current uncertain economic outlook.
The resolutions to be passed at general meeting.
The rights and obligations attached to the Directors have a reasonable expectation that All proxy votes are counted and the numbers Companys ordinary shares, and restrictions the Company has adequate resources to for, against or withheld in relation to each on the transfer of shares in the Company, continue in operational existence for the resolution are announced at the AGM and areset out in the Companys Articles of foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to published on the Companys website after Association, copies of which can be obtained adoptthe going concern basis of accounting themeeting.
There are no restrictions on the from Companies House in the UK or the inpreparing the annual financial statements.
transfer of ordinary shares in the Company Group Company Secretary.
Shareholders are other than: This statement in respect of the business entitled to receive dividends, when declared, asagoing concern has been prepared in to receive the Companys reports and financial Certain restrictions may from time to time accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity statements, to attend and speak at general be imposed by laws and regulations for Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies, example, insider trading laws : and 2009, published by the Financial Reporting and to exercise voting rights.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Council in October 2009.
No person holds securities in the Company FCAwhereby certain employees of Group companies carrying special rights with regard to control theCompany require the approval A full list of the Groups subsidiaries is detailed ofthe Company.
The Company is not aware oftheCompany to deal in the Companyssecurities.
on page 106. ofany agreements between the holders of securities that may result in restrictions on Risk management There are no agreements between the thetransfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of the Companys principal risks and Company and its Directors or employees uncertainties are set out onpages 22 to 26.
Articles of Association providing for compensation for loss of office Unless expressly specified to the contrary in oremployment whether through resignation, Substantial shareholders the Articles of Association of the Company purported redundancy or otherwise that At the date of this report the Company had the Articles, the Articles may be amended occurs because of a takeover bid.
been notified of the following holdings of by a special resolution of the Companys voting rights attaching to the Companys Power to issue shares shareholders.
ordinary shares of 0.625p each in accordance At the last AGM, held on 23 July 2014, with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company Name Shareholding % up to a maximum of 122,703.49 equivalent to one third of the issued share capital as at 4 AXA Framlington 6,551,208 11.08% June 2014.
This authority expires on the date Morgan Stanley 4,144,456 7.01% of the AGM to be held on 23 July 2015 and UBS 3,674,842 6.22% the Directors will seek to renew this authority M&G 2,471,401 4.18% for the following year.
Kabouter 2,179,398 3.69% A further special resolution passed at that Dr Richard Steeves 1,907,031 3.23% meeting granted authority to the Directors to BlackRock 1,843,311 3.12% allot equity securities in the Company up to a Legal & General 1,791,735 3.03% maximum of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on the date of the AGM to be held on 23 July 2015 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
61 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report continued Appointment of Directors In preparing each of the Group and parent The Strategic Report includes a fair review The Articles give the Directors power company financial statements, the Directors of the development and performance of toappoint and replace Directors.
Under are required to: the business and the position of the issuer theterms of reference of the Nomination and the undertakings included in the Select suitable accounting policies and Committee, any appointment must be consolidation taken as a whole, together then apply them consistently: recommended by the Nomination Committee with a description of the principal risks forapproval by the Board of Directors.
anduncertainties that they face: and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Articles also require Directors to retire the Annual Report and Accounts, and submit themselves for election at the For the Group financial statements, takenasa whole, is fair, balanced firstAGM following appointment, and all statewhether they have been prepared andunderstandable, and provides the Directors who held office at the time of the inaccordance with IFRS as adopted by information necessary for shareholders two preceding AGMs to submit themselves theEU: toassess the Companys performance, forre-election.
For the parent company financial Disclosure of information to auditors However, in accordance with the statements, state whether applicable UK The Directors who held office at the date of requirement under the Code for annual Accounting Standards have been followed, approval of this report confirm that so far as election of Directors, all Directors will submit subject toany material departures they are each aware, there is no relevant audit themselves for re-election at the Groups disclosed and explained in the parent information of which the Groups auditors are AGM on 23 July 2015. company financial statements: and unaware: and each Director has taken all steps Powers of Directors Prepare the financial statements on that he she ought to have taken as a Director to The Directors are responsible for managing thegoing concern basis unless itis make him herself aware of any relevant audit the business of the Company and may inappropriate to presume that the Group information and to ensure that the Groups exercise all powers of the Company subject and the parent company will continue auditors are aware of that information.
tothe provisions of relevant statutes, to any inbusiness.
directions given by special resolution and to Auditors The Directors are responsible for keeping the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
Separate resolutions proposing proper accounting records that disclose with The Articles, for example, contain specific appointmentand determination ofKPMG reasonable accuracy at any time the financial provisions and restrictions concerning the LLPs remuneration will be proposed at the position of the parent company and enable Companys power to borrow money.
Powers AGM on 23 July 2015. them to ensure that its financial statements relating to the issuing of new shares are also comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They On behalf of the Board included in the Articles and such authorities have general responsibility for taking such steps are renewed by shareholders at the AGM as are reasonably open to them to safeguard each year.
Jon Turner the assets of the Group and to prevent and Group Company Secretary Directors responsibilities detect fraud and other irregularities.
2 June 2015 The Directors confirm that the Annual Report Under applicable law and regulations, and financial statements, taken as a whole, theDirectors are also responsible for isfair, balanced and understandable and preparing a Strategic Report, Directors provides the information necessary for Report, Directors Remuneration Report shareholders to assess the Companys andCorporate Governance Statement that performance, business model and strategy.
comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for the the Annual Report and the Group and parent maintenance and integrity of the corporate company financial statements, in accordance and financial information included on the with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to Legislation in the UK governing the prepare Group and parent company financial preparation and dissemination of financial statements for each financial year.
Under that statements may differ from legislation in law they are required to prepare the Group otherjurisdictions.
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Responsibility statement IFRS asadopted by the EU and applicable We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: law and have elected to prepare the parent The financial statements, prepared in company financial statements in accordance accordance with the applicable set of with UK Accounting Standards and applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair law UK Generally Accepted Accounting view of the assets, liabilities, financial Practice.
Under company law the Directors position and profit or loss of the Company must not approve the financial statements and the undertakings included in the unless they are satisfied that they give a consolidation taken as a whole: trueand fair view of the state of affairs of theGroup and parent company and of their profitor loss for that period.
62 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
