Our services Synergys three business service lines provide uswith a mix of established and growth markets.
In our established markets we continue to invest and improve our service offer to our customers.
Americas Inour growth markets we are expanding our 1,150 significant presence, building a strong reputation employees with local hospitals and healthcare organisations as a trusted provider of sterilisation and other services.
Applied Sterilisation Technologies & Healthcare Services HS Healthcare Solutions HCS Laboratory Services 'AST' Service line Synergy provides the full range of sterilisation Our healthcare services business provides a highThe Healthcare Solutions segment provides arange of technologies, including gamma irradiation, electron and qualityoutsourced sterilisation service for the reuseable linen management solutions primarily tohospitals and ionbeam treatments, and ethylene oxide sterilisation.
medical and surgical equipment used in operating other organisations in the healthcare and personal Our customers are drawn from the medical device, theatres worldwide.
Our services also extend across other hospital The business operates in the UK and the Netherlands.
Our laboratory businesses focuses on occupational departments, primary care facilities, and orthopaedic In each market, Synergy is the second largest supplier health, and food and pharmaceutical testing, and on loan set suppliers.
ofoutsourced linen management services to the microbiological testing in support of our sterilisation healthcare sector.
Synergy Health operates the worlds largest outsourced service customers.
Synergy Health is the worlds second largest provider of outsourced applied sterilisation services.
Read more page 12 Read more page 14 Read more page 16 Contribution to Group revenue 33.6% 43.0% 23.4% Service line revenue 137.5m 175.8m 95.5m 2 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements UK & Ireland Europe & Middle East 2,440 1,705 employees employees Asia & Africa 375 employees Applied Sterilisation Technologies & Healthcare Services HS Healthcare Solutions HCS Laboratory Services 'AST' Service line Synergy provides the full range of sterilisation Our healthcare services business provides a highThe Healthcare Solutions segment provides arange of technologies, including gamma irradiation, electron and qualityoutsourced sterilisation service for the reuseable linen management solutions primarily tohospitals and ionbeam treatments, and ethylene oxide sterilisation.
Read more page 12 Read more page 14 Read more page 16 Contribution to Group revenue 33.6% 43.0% 23.4% Service line revenue 137.5m 175.8m 95.5m 3 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
