Healthcare Solutions HCS Synergy has a strong track record developing services that offer superior quality whilst providing best value for money rather than the lowest price.
16 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Reported revenue for our Healthcare Our Netherlands linen business operates Locations Solutions linen business was 95.5 million fromeight medium sized facilities that are 2014: 101.4 million, a decrease of just increasingly focusing on acute hospital 1.5% at constant currency, reflecting services, together with fifteen smaller increasing stability in the Netherlands processing facilities for patient clothing.
26 sites business and a strong performance from Thebusiness is adapting to changes caused theUK business.
Adjusted operating profit by the Dutch health services restructuring was 6.6 million 2014: 9.4 million, with the ofnational long-term care arrangements and lower margins attributed to the Dutch market.
the competitive price war that started three in 2 years ago.
Linen rental is an essential service that is typically outsourced by healthcare providers Over the last three years we have slipped on long-term contracts.
Synergy has a strong froma market leadership position to the countries track record developing services that offer second largest supplier in the Netherlands.
superior quality whilst providing best value for Toaddress this strategic challenge, we have money rather than the lowest price.
In recent refreshed the leadership and focused heavily years healthcare providers have come under on productivity, with the delivery of lean enormous financial pressure however, and processes across the business to improve Employees this has required Synergy to innovate with efficiency both in production and in backnew products and processes.
In certain key facilities we is the dominant strategy, and generally has have also been upgrading our automation to been well executed, creating a sustainable industry leading standards.
It is our ambition to regain our leadership The two geographic markets have historically position in the Dutch market, using the operated separately but under Synergys new innovation and knowhow from the combined management structure, there has been an linen business and indeedfrom the wider opportunity to share best practice and extract Group, supporting our objective to deliver further cost synergies in purchasing.
savings will be wide ranging and when combined with sharing best practice, will provide more support for the maintenance ofmargins.
The UK linen business operates from large-scale facilities in Derby, Sheffield and Dunstable, and primarily focuses on acute hospital linen services.
The business had a good year, with strong growth and sustained margins, and several new NHS contracts won.
The market does have available opportunities for first-time outsourcing, with around a dozen NHS linen facilities still in operation.
Given the typical small scale of these facilities, we would expect to see a greater scrutiny of these services during 2016 and a move towards outsourcing in time.
