Chairmans statement Investing for growth Governance highlights Full compliance with revised UK Corporate Governance Code Extension of our experience and diversity of the Board with the appointment of Caroline Johnstone as independent non-executive director and Chairof Audit Committee Improved boardroom dynamics and effectiveness following external evaluation Significant strengthening oftheGroups succession planning process Neil Johnson Chairman A n excellent year for Synthomer with the Group reporting record underlying profit.
It reflects favourable market conditions in our nitrile business and our focus on innovation, increased capacity and tight cost control.
4 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Performance Safety, health and environment Board changes 2015 has been an excellent year for The Board remains resolute in its view At the start of 2015, we welcomed Synthomer, reflecting favourable market that the Groups standards in relation to CalumMacLean who took over from conditions in our nitrile business in Asia safety, health and environment are of the Adrian Whitfield as our new Chief and our ongoing strategic initiatives to utmost importance to the profitability and Executive Officer.
In May 2015, Stephen invest in future growth through innovation, well-being of our business, and that no Bennett joined as Chief Financial Officer, increased capacity and tight cost control.
compromise is acceptable in the drive for replacing David Blackwood who Sales volumes were 5.0% higher in the continuous improvement in our announced his intention to retire from the year rising to 1,251ktes in 2015 2014: standards.
Each day should end with Group in December 2014.
The increase in volumes employees returning home safely, with the Steve joined from INEOS, where he had reflected growth across both the Europe chemical processes being well controlled held a number of senior finance positions and North America ENA, and Asia and throughout the day, and with no incidents in different businesses, and brings a Rest of World ARW segments, as well giving rise to losses of containment and wealth of chemicals, and merger & as across all strategic business units.
We have acquisitions experience to Synthomer.
Total sales reduced by 9.7% to 894.0m made progress in all these areas and the Jez Maiden, our Senior Independent 2014: 990.5m, with the impact of the Groups reportable lost time accident rate Director and Chair of the Audit rise in sales volumes being offset by improved in 2015 to give Synthomer its Committee, stood down from the Board boththe depreciation in the Euro during best ever performance as set out in our this year after eight years with the 2015, and as a result a fall in raw Resources and Relationships report on Company.
pages 20 to 27 of the Annual Report.
him as Senior Independent Director, and Caroline Johnstone, formerly a partner at Underlying profit before tax increased by Governance , joined the 11% to a record level of 95.3m 2014: The Board is committed to a focused and Board as a non-executive director and 86.0m.
This improvement was despite proportionate governance framework which Chair of the Audit Committee in April.
the adverse impact of currency of 10.3m supports, and is an integral part of, the and the significant rise of employee investment and growth strategy of the The solid foundations laid under Adrians bonuses of 12.5m given the strong Group.
The Board sets the governance leadership and the new impetus of the operating performance.
agenda, the composition, skills and Group have been supported by selected diversity of the Board, and the evolution recruitment of key personnel, which forms Cash flow before financing at 84.4m of the Group strategy under the new an experienced executive team capable 2014: 49.6m was also a record high for executive team.
The Board considers its of driving Synthomer to the next level in Synthomer, mainly benefiting from higher own effectiveness and the effectiveness of the medium term.
earnings and lower working capital, partly the governance structure in balancing the as a result of the fall in raw material prices.
risks and rewards associated with the Groups activities.
This years significant improvement in performance of our business was driven Further information on our corporate by our ARW segment where both our governance policies and procedures nitrile butadiene rubber NBR business isset out in our Corporate governance and our dispersions businesses have had report on pages 44 to 52 of this a very strong year.
Equally important was the stability and resilience of our business in ENA where operating profit was flat once the adverse impact ofthe currency translation and the rise inemployee bonuses are taken intoaccount.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 5 Chairmans statement continued Our people Dividend Outlook I commented last year on our Core Values The Board has recommended an increase Synthomer has had an excellent year in programme that defines the qualities, in the final dividend per share to 5.4p 2014: terms of earnings and cash flows, and we characteristics and culture of our 4.8p, with the total dividend per share remain confident that the Group is well organisation.
A key component of the declared in 2015 up 10.3% at 8.6p placed to capture value through the Core Values programme is our people 2014:7.8p.
The final dividend per share strategies that we have put in place.
and we have appointed an experienced issubject to shareholder approval at the However, we also recognise that there are Group HR Director to lead our HR Annual General Meeting on 28 April a number of challenges currently facing strategies in succession, recruitment, 2016and will be distributed to the global economy, including the grade structure & rewards and training, shareholders on the register uncertainty surrounding China, and the and our investment in our current and at3June2016.
consequent knock-on impact on both future employees.
Having an appropriate global oil and feedstock prices.
HR structure and policies is an integral As provided for in the Capital part of our investment for growth, and will Management Policy of the Group Given the general economic environment, become increasingly important as we announced during 2014, the Board is our outlook for the ENA businesses move our business forward both committed to supporting the ambitious remains cautious with overall volumes organically and through acquisitions.
growth strategy of the Group, whilst and unit margins continuing at similar maintaining an efficient, but flexible levels through 2016.
In relation to ARW, In a year when the Group has reported balance sheet.
The Board will periodically which is heavily influenced by our Asian arecord set of results, I would like to assess the strength of the balance sheet nitrile business, we are aware that a thank our employees, across allour and will continue to consider one off number of nitrile producers, including businesses, who have worked hard returns if the balance sheet becomes Synthomer, have announced plans to todeliver this excellent performance, structurally below 1 times.
increase capacity during the latter part fortheir significant contribution of2016 and early 2017.
confident of continued strong growth in demand from the nitrile glove manufacturers during 2016 and beyond, we expect this planned capacity increase to impact the supply demand balance during the second half of 2016 leading to similar volumes and margins to 2015 for the year as a whole.
Neil Johnson Chairman 1 March 2016 6 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Governance Investing for growth Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Strategic highlights Strengthen Group  Further progress maximising theefficiency of our business Continued R&D investment todrive innovation Well positioned for continued organic and acquisitive growth Calum MacLean Chief Executive Officer 2015 has been a year of strong progress, supported by favourable nitrile market conditions and our focus on innovation, increased capacity andtightcost controls.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 7 Chief Executive Officers review continued Introduction A key metric for the Group, as a speciality Asia and Rest of World 2015 has been a year of strong progress chemicals business, is measuring its Our Asia and Rest of World business had for Synthomer.
The sound decisions progress in research and development a very successful year with underlying made by the previous management through reporting the progress on new operating profits rising significantly.
Whilst toinvest in innovation and capacity products launched to the market.
The the very strong growth was underpinned expansion, coupled with our ongoing proportion of sales generated in the year by our health and protection business in focus on cost control and favourable that related to new products launched in Asia where volumes and margins market conditions in our nitrile business, the previous five years was 18% 2014: 16%.
increased by 11% and 5% respectively, have underpinned record earnings and our construction and coatings business in cash flows.
Safety, health and environment Malaysia, the Middle East and Africa also As a business that has more than 2,000 had a good year, albeit overshadowed by Underlying profit before tax at 95.3m employees across 19 production sites, the exceptional growth in health and 2014: 86.0m is the highest recorded and that handles and consumes protection business.
As commented bythe Group, surpassing the previous hazardous chemicals, Synthomers earlier, the health and protection business high of 94.6m in 2012.
The underlying success is directly related to the Group benefited from the investments in both profit before tax is 11% higher than 2014, conducting its business in a safe and capacity and innovation made in the last 23% higher at constant currency and responsible way.
The Groups standards in few years which, coupled with the 37% higher at constant currency and relation to safety, health and environment continued growth in demand for our nitrile constant bonus.
are of the utmost importance to the Board, butadiene rubber latex from the surgical and to the profitability and well-being of glove manufacturers, resulted in the Strong cash generation remains a key our business.
We are committed to a reported improvement in both volumes feature of our business and cash flow programme of continuous improvement in and margins.
before financing was 84.4m 2014: our standards.
Our progress in driving for 49.6m.
This helped to fuel our continued continuous improvement is set out in our A full review of our ENA and ARW results investment in innovation and capacity Resources and Relationships report on is set out in our segmental review on expansion, a strategic initiative that has pages 20 to 27 of this report.
pages 34 to 37. yielded good returns.
As a speciality chemical company, continued investment, Segmental review New executive team and London HQ both organically and through selective Europe and North America In order to capture both the organic acquisitions, is a priority to underpin our Consistent with the trend in the overall growth and acquisition opportunities, we continued momentum.
level of economic activity in Europe, have made a number of important onalike-for-like basis adjusting for both changes to the way the business is run, On becoming Chief Executive Officer, my currency and employee bonuses, our including the streamlining of the executive first priority was to develop a thorough Europe and North America segment management team, the recruitment of understanding of the business, its people, hashad a relatively stable year in terms asmall number of experienced senior and the opportunities available inorder to ofunderlying operating profits.
Overall personnel, and the opening of our new set the strategy for growth.
Asa focused volumes in 2015 were a little higher operational head office in London.
aqueous polymers business, with strong thanthe prior year, excluding our paper market positions in Europe and Asia and volumes which continued to trend The new executive team of seven now Rest of World, Synthomer can generate downwards in-line with the reduction in comprises three executives leading our solid earnings growth of between 3% and market demand for paper.
Average Euro regional and specialities businesses, the 4% over the cycle, supported by strong unit margins in2015 were also higher Head of Group Operations and the Group cash flow given modest underlying capital than 2014, reflecting anumber of factors General Counsel together with the Group requirements.
Our executive team will including the raw material price reductions Chief Financial Officer and myself.
The continue to ensure that our existing late in 2014, implementation of selective new team benefits from the experience, business is well run and that we focus on price increases and affirmative action to knowledge and understanding of those organic growth in the business, exit low margin business.
who have been with the Group for some underpinned by global mega-trends.
In time, and from the fresh impetus and addition, the planned development of the insight from the three of us who have Group to become a more diversified, joined in the last 12 months.
In addition broad-based speciality chemicals tothe new Head of Group Operations, company represents an evolution in the wehave recruited a Global HRDirector strategy and direction, and we are actively and Group Chief Information focused on finding the right acquisition opportunities at the right price.
8 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Officer.
All three have considerable In our ARW segment, our business is Our reference criteria for adjacent experience in their respective fields and centred on the nitrile butadiene rubber speciality chemicals businesses are those represent an investment in the human skills and dispersions businesses.
The nitrile that have similar EBITDA margins to our capital of the Group.
I am confident they butadiene rubber business is focused existing businesses, include investment will add considerable value to the existing around a Malaysian asset base and inresearch and development, have Group, and their expertise means that we principally serves the disposable glove technical services teams working closely are well positioned in the event we need manufacturers.
The end market is with customers to develop customer to integrate new businesses.
relatively young and is growing rapidly.
specific formulations, have proven Asmarket leader, our strategy is to products with market leading positions, We opened a new head office in London investboth in innovation and capacity and have good people assets.
We will in September and, with the exception of tomaintain our leadership position beopportunistic in looking at potential our head of Asia who is based in Kuala andcapture the strong market growth targets and not limit the selection by Lumpur, all the members of the executive dynamics.
We are actively progressing reference to geography or chemistry.
team, together with the key senior the expansion of our Pasir Gudang facility managers of the Group, are now based to add a further 120ktes of nitrile Outlook there.
The new open plan office brings butadiene rubber capacity, capitalising on Synthomer has had an excellent year together the key commercial, operational, the value of the existing site infrastructure, interms of earnings and cash flows, and development and financial managers with a view to this coming online during we remain confident that the Group is greatly enhancing the interaction and mid-2017.
The dispersions manufacturing well placed to capture value through the communication within our team.
base is more evenly spread across strategies that we have put in place.
Malaysia and the Middle East and Africa, However, we also recognise that there are Organic growth strategy and in these geographies serves mainly a number of challenges currently facing Our organic growth strategy is necessarily the construction and coatings producers.
the global economy, including the tailored to our specific market positions.
We have seen good growth in these uncertainty surrounding China, and the markets in recent years underpinned by consequent knock-on impact on both In our ENA segment, we are mainly our strategy to invest in innovation and global oil and feedstock prices.
focused on the styrene butadiene rubber capacity, and expand our dispersions and dispersions businesses.
Given the general economic environment, styrene butadiene rubber business, which our outlook for the ENA businesses serves the paper, and carpet and foam Acquisition strategy remains cautious with overall volumes manufacturers, operates in a market Acquisitions are clearly highly dependent and unit margins continuing at similar characterised by overcapacity among a on finding the right opportunities at the levels through 2016.
In relation to ARW, few large producers, and accordingly our right price.
We have established an which is heavily influenced by our Asian strategy centres on innovation, strong experienced and skilled team who are nitrile business, we are aware that a cost and cash controls, and asset able to carry out comprehensive due number of nitrile producers, including rationalisation.
Our dispersions business, diligence to ensure that every transaction Synthomer, have announced plans to which principally serves the construction opportunity is fully evaluated.
This is a increase capacity during the latter part and coatings, and adhesives and fibre critical component of a successful of2016 and early 2017.
Whilst we are bonding manufacturers, operates in a acquisition strategy.
Whilst we are fully confident of continued strong growth growth market that is fragmented, with committed and enthusiastic to acquire indemand from the nitrile glove well utilised capacity.
Our strategy is to new businesses, we will only do so if the manufacturers during 2016 and beyond, focus on innovation, cost and cash target offers growth potential, synergies we expect this planned capacity increase control, running the assets hard, and an and sustainable profitability.
The existing to impact the supply demand balance evolving asset strategy that is aimed at Synthomer business is a strong market during the second half of 2016 leading to cost effective debottlenecking of existing leader within its chosen markets, and any similar volumes and margins to 2015 for plant capacity and consolidation.
We are additions made through acquisition the year as a whole.
progressing with our Synthomer 2015 should be equally speciality in nature.
cost reduction programme and at the end Target transactions can include Calum MacLean of 2015, annualised cost savings of 7m consolidation opportunities in our existing Chief Executive Officer had been delivered, with a further 6m markets aswell as speciality chemicals 1 March 2016 expected in 2016. business in adjacentfields.
