Healthcare Services HS The efficiencies, cost-savings andrisk reduction offered to our customers through our work with major partners such asSterilmed and North Shore, continue togenerate interest in the UShealthcare market.
14 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Reported revenue grew by 10.8% to On 27 July 2014 we began a multi-year Locations 175.8million 2014: 158.7 million and contract with Sterilmed part of Johnson wasup 12.2% at constant currency.
Growth &Johnson, reprocessing single use medical has been driven by the start of new contracts, devices.
Synergy is responsible for receiving, partially offset by a re-weighting of the US production and distribution of products.
65 sites HSbusiness as it moves away from the low Thecontract has been implemented well, margin reusable surgical solutions business, andSynergys processing expertise in this into the higher margin instrument business.
market segment has been well received.
in 8 Operating profit grew by 9.4% to 18.4 million Our North Shore project was delayed slightly 2014: 16.8 million, with underlying growth as a result of the protracted planning process of 10.0%.
During the year we won 7.4 million in New York.
We now expect to commence of new customer business and a further full service delivery in the first quarter of2016.
countries 17million has been won since the year end.
The efficiencies, cost-savings and risk One of our objectives for the HS business reduction offered to our customers istodevelop scalable technologies for the throughour work with major partners such HSmarket.
In the second half of FY15, asSterilmed and North Shore, continue welaunched a new initiative in the UK togenerate interest in the US healthcare Employees toreduce operating costs with the use market.
Our business development team ofourlatest SynergyTrak software ismanaging a large number of outsourcing andRFIDtechnology.
The initial reception proposals which we are confident will convert 2,290 hasbeen positive, generating new leads to full outsourcing contracts in due course.
andopportunities worth more than At the end of the year our HS bid book 1.5million per annum at this early stage.
Evidence Now that the result of the UK general election forthegrowth potential in this market is has removed uncertainty, we expect to see shown by the signing of two major US CSSD anincrease in outsourcing.
In the US we outsourcing contracts subsequent to the havewon a number of new Accuset yearend, worth a combined 17 million instrument rental and sterilisation contracts, inrevenue.
with particular customer enthusiasm about thepotential to access RFID technologies Capitalising on our strong bid book and inprocessing surgical instruments and trays.
maintaining our focus on operational excellence will both be key to delivering our objective of In our UK-based healthcare products growing Healthcare Services by 10-20% per business, revenue and operating profits annum, and to continuing to develop scalable areboth ahead of target.
International sales HS solutions for a broader market.
aregrowing well, particularly in the Middle East.
We are capitalising on the coalescing ofour products business with the rest of our HS business, starting with the integration ofRFID into our surgical products.
The use ofRFID tracking devices on consumables inthe operating room will contribute toimproved patient safety.
