Principal risks and uncertainties continued Compliance risk Compliance risks Strategy for risk management The Group may be liable for damages based on Technically qualified personnel and control systems productliability claims brought against its customers areinplacearound the Group to ensure products meet in end-use markets.
Synthomer has Group-wide product liability insurance whichprovides 50 million of cover.
Compliance with extensive environmental, health and safety Detailed safety, health and environmental processes are laws and regulations could require material expenditure, documented in operating guidance which is updated and changes in the operations ofthe Group or site remediation.
communicated to staff on a regular basis.
The Group could suffer substantial penalties, damage to All our key employees affirm their understanding ofthecode reputation and other sanctions for any failure to control of business conduct covering corrupt and anti-competitive anti-competitive behaviour, such as bribery and corruption, business practices.
Malpractice reporting andwhistleblowing orineffective compliance with local and national legislation.
protection are similarly covered in the Group policy on protecting our reputation.
Financial risk Financial risks Strategy for risk management As a significant proportion of the Groups turnover and assets The Group has a policy of hedging all significant foreign are in currencies other than UK sterling and fluctuations in exchange transactional exposure at operating company level.
currency exchange rates may significantly impact the results of the Group and may significantly affect the comparability The impact of translation on the results ofthe business is offinancial results between financial periods.
clearly explained to stakeholders through the use of constant currency reporting.
The Groups balance sheet and cash flow, and also credit The Group closely monitors its operating cash flow and market conditions and credit ratings, may restrict the ability capitalexpenditure on a monthly basis and regularly reviews of the Group to obtain credit facilities or to refinance its covenant compliance.
existing debt facilities in the longer term.
In addition, interestrate fluctuations and increases in bank lending The Group has a policy on leverage limits and has adequate margins may increase the Groups costs of borrowing.
headroom on a twelve month forecast basis.
Interest rate risk is managed through the use of interest ratehedging.
32 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Financial risk continued Financial risks Strategy for risk management The Group has funding risks relating to defined benefit The UK scheme was closed to future accrual during 2009. pension schemes.
Any deterioration in the value of assets The funding risks are mitigated by paying appropriate inwhich the pension schemes have invested as against the contributions into the funds and through balanced investment financial obligations of the schemes could have an adverse strategies designed to avoid a material deterioration in the impact on the Group.
Overseas pension schemes are reviewed annually by an actuary to ensure appropriate contributions are made and that liabilities are recognised appropriately.
The Group is placing greater emphasis on its merger and The Group has recruited a number of senior executives with acquisition strategy to drive the growth in the performance of significant Chemicals M&A experience to lead the M&A and the Group, including expanding the target search to adjacent integration activity.
M&A activity exposes the Group to specific transaction risks including paying too high a The Group works with experienced M&A consultants and price, failure to complete a successful integration or to secure banksto perform appropriate due diligence on the target, the synergies offered by the transaction, performance issues and to coordinate appropriate financing facilities.
Viability statement In accordance with the provision of In making their assessment, the Directors where risk mitigation plans will have less section C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of have considered the Groups current impact in the shorter term.
In addition to theUK Corporate Governance Code, strong financial position and undertaken the risk mitigation plans, the Groups theDirectors have assessed the viability acomprehensive sensitivity analysis over global footprint reduces the impact of of the Group over a five-year period to the key trading assumptions combined specific regional economic issues.
December 2020, being the period with the potential impact of crystallisation covered by the Groups approved of one or more of the principal risks In completing the viability assessment, strategic plan.
The Group strategic plan, detailed on pages 30 to 33 over the the Directors considered the Groups which is updated annually, includes fiveyear period.
The risks have been ability to refinance our current debt, raise analysis of product and profit performance, assessed for their potential impact on the new finance and complete our investment cash flow, investment programmes and Groups business model, future trading plans during the review period.
The range of scenarios tested was carefully considered Based on the results of this analysis, the The Board considers five years to be an by the Directors, balancing the potential Directors have a reasonable expectation, appropriate time horizon for our strategic impact with the probability of occurrence predicated on the assumption that an plan, being the period over which the and the effectiveness of our business to unforeseen event outside of the Groups Group actively focuses on its product take mitigating steps.
control for example, an event of nature or development and investment pipelines.
terror does not inhibit the Groups ability Due to the nature of our business, a Whilst each of the principal risks has a to manufacture for a sustained period, period greater than five years is potential impact, the sensitivity analysis that the Group will be able to continue in considered too long given the inherent has been focused on the critical operation and meet its liabilities as they uncertainties involved.
economic, operational and financial risks fall due over the five year period.
