47 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Other statutory information Suppliers payment policy Property, plant and equipment It is the Companys policy to develop and maintain key commercial Movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 12 relationships with its suppliers, one aspect of which is payment tothe financial statements.
timing, to obtain mutually agreed payment terms.
The Company hascommercially agreed longer credit terms with one of its larger Dividends corporate suppliers.
Excluding this supplier, the underlying average The Company may, by resolution in a general meeting, declare credit period taken on trade payables was 33 days 2014: 32 days.
dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, Including this supplier, the average credit period taken was 43 days but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Company is compliant with the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills Prompt Payment Code and is currently Significant shareholdings in the process of completing an application to be a formal signatory.
At 15 April 2015, the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Companys shares: Contracts with controlling shareholders Number % of Sir Charles Dunstone is a controlling shareholder within the definition Name of shares share capital set out in the Listing Rules.
In compliance with Listing Rule 9.2.
2A R 1, Charles Dunstone 294,059,396 30.77 the Company has entered into a written and legally binding agreement Capital Research Global Investors 141,656,393 14.82 with Sir Charles, containing certain undertakings intended to ensure David Ross 116,160,528 12.16 that Sir Charles complies with the independence provisions set out INVESCO Asset Management Limited 64,549,697 6.75 inListing Rule 6.1.
4D R. The Company also confirms that its Articles of Association do not prevent the election and re-election of independent Alken Asset Management LLP 46,685,603 4.89 Directors to be conducted in accordance with the election provisions Group ESOT 32,479,732 3.41 set out in Listing Rule 9.2.
2F R. The total interests of the Directors are detailed in the Directors There are no material contracts with controlling shareholders, except Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 46. as set out above and disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 46.
Directors indemnities No Director is entitled to any compensation for loss of office on a Directors liability insurance is provided for Directors.
takeover or change of control of the Company.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 5 to the financial statements.
Equal opportunities Shares held by the Group ESOT abstain from voting.
We celebrate diversity and have an equality policy, which ensures that everyone is provided with the same opportunities for employment, Share capital career development, training and promotion.
As part of this policy, The rights and obligations relating to the Companys shares are set applications for employment by disabled persons are fully considered, out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association can bearing in mind the abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event berequested from the Company Secretary at the Companys of employees becoming disabled during employment a thorough registered office.
process is followed and support provided including income support insurance to try to secure their employment.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed Audit information bylaw from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Transparency Rules, certain employees are required to seek approval Annual Report confirms that: to deal in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit onthe transfers of securities and or voting rights.
information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and There is a general right of the Company to purchase its own shares, the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as set out at Article 16 of the Companys Articles of Association.
as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is In addition, at the AGM in 2014, the Directors were granted the right aware of the information.
This right expires on the date of the 2015 AGM or 23 October 2015 whichever is the sooner.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles of Association may be changed by special resolution.
By order of the Board Details in the movements in authorised and issued share capital during the period are provided in notes 21 and 22 to the financial statements.
Appointment of Directors The rules relating to the appointment and or removal of Directors Tim Morris TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC arecontained in Section O of the Companys Articles of Association.
Company Secretary 11 Evesham Street 13 May 2015 London W11 4AR The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles ofAssociation.
