05 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Strategy Our strategy Our corporate strategy revolves around six interlinking elements that combine leveraging our network to build scalein value for money products for consumers and businesses, systems and processes simplification, and disruptive innovation.
Our strategy revolves around sixmainprinciples 1 Leveraging the TalkTalk Network 4 Simple systems and processes TalkTalk has the UKs most extensive all-IP Next Generation Network NGN, To date, since the demerger, we have delivered over 100m of cost savings covering c. 96% of all UK homes with advanced, proprietary equipment through integration and back-office simplification programmes.
However, located in over 3,000 exchanges.
Byinvesting in next-generation switching asa relatively young business that has grown very rapidly, we have a significant and data transmission technology we have been able to further extend our opportunity to further simplify our technology platform and customer network and cost advantage.
The declining marginal cost of bandwidth allows processes.
Our Making TalkTalk Simpler programme comprises detailed substantial increases in capacity without compromising margins or capital initiatives to simplify tariffs and access methods, simplify and upgrade our expenditure limits.
To accommodate expected future growth, we plan to systems, make better use of our data and drive increasing online self-service expand network capacity by50100 times over the next five years and to by customers.
While lowering thecosts of serving and acquiring customers, increase resilience and flexibility whilst reducing network downtime.
This we also expect Making TalkTalk Simpler to lower customer churn by improving investment will be within our long standing capex guideline of 6% of revenues.
2 Value for money products 5 Disruptive innovation We have an established position as the UKs leading value for money provider We have a strong heritage of launching innovative and disruptive products across phone and broadband for consumers and businesses, TV and that leverage our network scale and engineering expertise to save customers mobile products for consumers.
Wealso offer customers high-speed fibre money.
We were the first to offer free fixed line calls between customers, to the cabinet through BTs GEA product.
Inaddition, ourextensive Ethernet thefirst to launch free broadband, the first to offer unlimited downloads presence allows us to offer competitively priced data products to businesses tobroadband customers, the first to launch a free TV offer and the first to across the UK.
Our value for money positioning and growing product offer offer business broadband at under 5 per month.
Our long term innovation drives customer loyalty and sustainable revenue growth and positions us agenda includes the potential to build the first 1Gbps FTTP network in the totake advantage of favourable usage and socio-demographic trends, with UKand an advanced fixed-mobile proposition incorporating femtocells agrowing number of older and smaller households in the UK, growing data andan in-home 4G network.
usage and growing triple and quad-play penetration.
3 6 Scale A brighter place for everyone Building on our large and established fixed line phone and broadband base, Our employees are key enablers in delivering our strategic priorities and we we are able to achieve significant scale benefits from offering our customers have implemented structures and policies that foster and develop a uniquely additional products such as pay TV, mobile, fibre and, for businesses, agile and collaborative culture.
