02 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Strategy Our business model Our network Our business model is based on leveraging our extensive and cost-efficient next-generation network assets toofferconsumers and businesses value for money products and services.
At the heart of our network is the state-of-the-art unbundling equipment This combination of owned and leased assets confers a structural cost DSLAMs, MSANs and Ethernet switches that we have installed in over 3,000 advantage that allows us to offer fixed line broadband and Ethernet BT exchanges the largest such deployment in the UK.
This allows us to take connectivity at significantly lower retail prices than our competitors.
control of the copper line that connects customer premises to the exchange.
We have leveraged this cost advantage to build a sustainable broadband The exchanges are connected via collector nodes and 10Gbps collector market share at the value end of the UK fixed line market and, since 2012, ringsto our dark fibre core optical network a high-speed, high-capacity havefurther leveraged our network with fast-growing IPTV for consumers all-IPnational backbone that enables efficient and flexible routing of voice andEthernet products for businesses.
The size and all-IP nature of our anddata traffic.
network also allows us to scale it very efficiently for growing usage.
Over the Access to the copper infrastructure that connects UK premises to BTs next five years we plan to expand the bandwidth capacity on our network nationwide exchange footprint is price regulated by Ofcom, while we lease 50100 times at falling marginal operating costs.
This will allow us to support thefibre backhaul to connect exchanges to our core network and dark fibre growing customer demand for high speeds and greater data consumption, that comprises our collector ring and core network on long term contracts with longer term opportunities to build fibre to the premise FTTP and an with very competitive terms from multiple providers.
inside-out mobile network using our in-home 4G spectrum and femtocells.
Our network coverage Over the past ten years, we have built one of the UKs largest broadband and voice customer bases, attracting those looking for significant bill savings.
FY15saw us continue to grow significantly as we successfully delivered our quad-play strategy with strong growth in phone and broadband, TV and mobile.
The breadth of our network coverage and product offer also enabled us to acquire phone and broadband bases from Virgin Media and Tesco, customers towhom we are now able to offer a far broader service than they were able to access previously.
Caching Net ix Akamai Caches deployed in our Edge sites, serving Google 400Gbps at peak Unbundled exchange Collector node MSAN and DSLAMs supplying ADSL, FTTC, EFM and Extend reach of Ethernet access services core network Exchange backhaul Collector nodes Nx1Gbps optical circuits Dark bre, 40Gbps and supplied by BTOR and VM 10 Gbps optical circuits OR, supplied by Geo, BTW, BT, Zayo, Hibernia, VM and SSE Core optical networks Two separate national networks with 8Tbps Huawei an d Copper 1.6Tbps Innera of capacity Optical Our NGN covers approximately 96% of UK homes, operating in over 3,000 Our network gives us a strong value for money advantage exchanges.
These exchanges are connected via our own high-speed, We are able to offer our Consumer and Business customers services at high-capacity all-IP national network, enabling us to carry all of our customers significantly lower cost than our cable and incumbent competitors.
This is voice and data traffic efficiently and cost effectively.
Our customers benefit because we operate the UKs most extensive next-generation network NGN, through optimised broadband speeds and quality, and access to our growing which is comprised of our own advanced, highly cost-effective equipment.
range of lower cost, value add products and services.
For example, our all-IP Italso means that TalkTalk is the only ISP that is committed to offering totally Content Delivery Network, which runs over our NGN, puts content closer unlimited broadband across all its consumer packages.
tothe end user to increase the quality of experience for our TV customers.
03 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Our customers We are the UKs leading value for money provider of fixed line broadband, voice telephony, television and mobile services.
We serve four million residential and business customers under the TalkTalk and TalkTalk Business brands.
We also grew TalkTalk Mobile during FY15.
Available exclusively to TalkTalk Services to consumers customers, TalkTalk Mobile offers simplicity, range and some of the most TalkTalk is strongly positioned as the leading value for money phone, broadband competitive prices in the market for both SIM-only and handsets.
As a result, and TV provider for UK homes.
We are differentiated by our clear and simple our mobile offering continues to gain strong traction amongst our base and, tariff structure, low prices, flexibility and our inclusion of valuable services, following the year end, we launched our All-In SIM that offers unlimited calls, such asour ground-breaking HomeSafe, our unique network-based security texts and data for just 12 per month the lowest price unlimited SIM in the UK.
service, which is available free of charge for all customers on our network andprotects the whole home from viruses and inappropriate content.
Services to businesses In 2012 we successfully launched our TV proposition, which included a free TalkTalk Business continues to drive innovation and competitive product YouView set top box.
TalkTalk is one of seven partners behind YouView including development that leverages our NGN capability and is in fact one of the the BBC, ITV and BT.
YouView is a broadband-based television service with fastest growing B2B telecom businesses in the UK.
We believe there is differentiated catch-up and on-demand services and an open platform significant opportunity to use our network to grow all our Next Generation forfuture application-driven innovation.
Our TV offering has enjoyed strong products within TalkTalk Business.
growth during FY15 as it represents a powerful proposition for mass market value seekers who want flexible access to premium content without the need In January 2013, we began offering an Ethernet over Fibre service that delivers to enter into costly long term subscriptions.
In FY15 we acquired blinkbox, high-speed symmetrical services at a significantly lower price point than oneof the UKs leading providers of multi-device, multi-platform video traditional Ethernet technologies.
We also launched an 80Mbps product with content.
This will enable us to accelerate the development of a number generous data allowances and network prioritisation targeted at small and ofkeyfeatures for our TV products.
The year also saw us launch a very competitive Next Generation voice service for businesses requiring high performance data and voice services, which we have made widely available to channel partners.
Market overview Household internet access continued to rise in FY15, accompanied with an increase in the number of different types of internet-enabled devices.
This is driving strong growth in people accessing the internet from mobile-enabled devices.
Significant scope for growth remains, however, amongst specific demographic groups: nearly 20% of households remain offline, risingto nearly 50% of those aged 6574 and two-thirds of those aged 75 and over.
On-net base million On-net customers % 2015 4.177 2015 98 2014 4.060 2014 95 There are four key players in the UK broadband and TV market.
BT Retail is BSkyB onpayTVcontent rights, specifically sports, and has announced that thelargest broadband service provider, followed by BSkyB.
Virgin Media, the itistoacquire EE, the UKs largest mobile operator.
cable provider, is the third largest player followed by TalkTalk.
TalkTalk is the Within this context, TalkTalk is clearly positioned as an asset light business, largest unbundler.
capable of delivering customers a value based package of voice, broadband, Traditionally, BT Retail and Virgin Media are positioned at the premium end TV and mobile, without inherent conflict associated with defending historical ofthe market, with significantly higher price points.
They focus on speed and asset investments or market share.
We believe this reputation for value for reliability ofbroadband connections.
BSkyBs focus is on content, cross-selling money puts TalkTalk in a strong position that will only improve further as the broadband andvoice to its pay TV base, providing discounts to customers UKmarket consolidates and converges.
who take allthree products with them.
BT Retail also now competes with
