04 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 St Str ra ate teg giic c re rep po or rt t:: St Str ra ate teg gy y UK telecoms regulation The UK telecoms market is regulated by Ofcom, which sets the charges and other terms for wholesale access toinfrastructure and associated services provided by BT Openreach Openreach, where Openreach is deemed toenjoy Significant Market Power.
Ofcoms objective is to ensure that these wholesale products enable effective retail competition in the market, so that consumers and businesses benefit from a choice of services and retail service providers.
TalkTalks compliance with regulation is monitored internally by the Regulatory Compliance Committee as detailed on page 18.
The areas regulated by Ofcom that are most material Several other areas of current or potential legislation forTalkTalk are: aresignificant for TalkTalk: TalkTalk relies upon a number of wholesale products from Openreach to be Appeals framework able to offer services to its customers.
The key wholesale products we buy are The new Government may consider whether to introduce changes to the LLU the copper connections into homes businesses, GEA access to BTs framework of how Ofcom decisions can be appealed and, in particular, whether Next Generation Access NGA Fibre to the Cabinet FTTC network and the current merits-based standard should be changed.
TalkTalk has supported Ethernet fibre links used to connect exchanges to our core network and also reform of the appeals regime to enable more robust regulatory decisions.
to connect some business customers.
The price and terms of these are set by Ofcom though a triennial market review process which, particularly in the European Commission Digital Single Market case of LLU, gives us reasonable certainty of costs going forward.
The EC is currently formulating a Digital Single Market strategy.
On 25 March 2015 the Commission set out areas for action.
If implemented this could have LLU Charge Control and service standards anumber of impacts on the mobile and fixed telecommunications market.
In June 2014 Ofcom published its Fixed Access Market Review FAMR, Thefull strategy is expected in May 2015, with major changes unlikely to come whichincluded the new LLU Charge Control for the period to 31 March 2017. into force before 2018.
MPF charges will rise at CPI 0.3% up to March 2017.
The FAMR also established new minimum standards on BT for provisioning and repair of copper access Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act lines, as well as a new requirement for BT to report a range of key performance The Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act DRIPA was introduced indicators.
Ofcom is expected to begin consulting shortly on the next FAMR inJuly 2014 and governs the retention and sharing of communications data.
and LLU Charge Control which will be effective from April 2017.
DRIPA expires in 2016 and new legislation is expected to replace it.
This is expected to maintain a clear legal framework for the system governing Next Generation Access howISPs store and share data.
Openreach provides wholesale access to its NGA infrastructure predominantly FTTC, on an equivalent basis to all communication providers.
The current Illegal file sharing Openreach wholesale product is GEA.
TalkTalk uses GEA to provide its fibre TalkTalk, along with other major ISPs has voluntarily agreed to send educational broadband products.
Whilst the price of GEA is not regulated, TalkTalk had called notifications to customers whose accounts have been identified as being for Ofcom to introduce margin squeeze regulation establishing the minimum used for illegal Peer to Peer P2P filesharing.
The first notifications are margin between GEA and BTs retail price.
In March 2015 Ofcom confirmed expected to be sent in 2016.
At the moment, there are no plans to implement that margin squeeze regulation would come into effect from April 2015, with the Digital Economy Act, which could have imposed similar though more the first compliance report published in June 2015.
Ofcoms next FAMR will severe measures.
Pursuant to various court orders, TalkTalk is required consider regulation of GEA from April 2017. toblock access to certain sites that are used for illegal file sharing.
Wholesale Must Offer for sports channels Voluntary measures on parental controls Ofcom currently imposes a Wholesale Must Offer WMO obligation on Sky, requiring it to offer Sky Sports 1 and 2 on a wholesale basis to other retailers In June 2013, following a formal Government consultation into parental controls, atregulated prices.
Ofcom is reviewing whether the current WMO obligation the Prime Minister announced that the other three major ISPs would introduce isstill appropriate in light of changes in the TV market, particularly BTs entry whole home filtering systems similar to TalkTalks HomeSafe service.
He also into the premium sports market.
Ofcom published a consultation on the issue announced that from December 2012 all providers had voluntarily agreed to in December 2014 and an additional consultation is expected later in 2015 ask every new customer if they want to use parental controls.
This requirement setting out Ofcoms proposed approach and remedies.
was extended to include all existing customers by the end of December 2014.
TalkTalk has delivered its commitment to the Government and along with the Ofcom strategic review of digital communications other major ISPs continues to support Internet Matters, a not-for-profit online On 12 March 2015 Ofcom announced an overarching review of the UKs digital child safety organisation.
As a board member of the UK Council for Child communications markets.
The review will examine competition, investment, Internet Safety, TalkTalk continues to engage actively with the Government innovation and the availability of products in the broadband, mobile and about its policy for protecting children online.
Ofcom will publish a discussion document in summer 2015, with initial conclusions by the end of 2015.
Glossary CPI: Consumer Price Index LLU: Local Loop Unbundling RPI: Retail Price Index FTTC: Fibre to the Cabinet MPF: Full unbundling SMPF: Partial unbundling GEA: Generic Ethernet Access NGA: Next Generation Access WLR: Wholesale Line Rental ISP: Internet Service Provider NGN: Next Generation Network
