STRATEGIC REPORT | SPECIALITY FOOD INGREDIENTS How did the division perform this year?
PERFORMANCE Building a platform Although constrained by the for future growth impact of internal supply chain disruption, we delivered volume growth in all regions except North America, with particularly strong volume growth in Asia Pacific.
GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY Joan Braca Adjusted sales President, Speciality Food Ingredients 908m Adjusted operating profit 149m Starch-based speciality ingredients Adjusted sales 562m High-intensity sweeteners Adjusted sales 162m Food Systems Adjusted sales 184m 1 Source: Leatherhead: LMC International: Company analysis: data as at 2013.
Definition: product launches that have at least one of these claims convenient consumption, easy-to-prepare, ready prepared, time saving.
Definition: product launches claiming no additives preservatives, natural, organic, and or without genetically modified organisms non-GMO.
24 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Year ended 31 March Change 2015 2014 Constant m m Reported currency Adjusted sales 908 983 8 % 4 % Adjusted operating profit 149 213 30 % 29 % Adjusted operating margin 16.4% 21.7% 5.3 ppts Market conditions and trends and provide more value-based alternatives the significant lower corn prices following The global market for speciality food for consumers without compromising taste.
1 ingredients is worth around US$42 billion, approximately half of which we currently Our Speciality Food Ingredients business, In food starches we saw overall volume address.
The areas of the market where we with its deep technical expertise and growth, with strong growth in Asia Pacific, compete continue to benefit from strong portfolio of sweetener, texturising and health particularly in dairy applications, and underlying global consumer trends including and wellness products, supplemented by broad-based European growth offset by convenience, health and wellness, natural new products launched from the innovation North America where volume was and clean label.
pipeline, is well-placed to benefit from these particularly constrained.
Changes in consumer lifestyles have In speciality corn sweeteners, volume was increased the demand for packaged and Financial performance lower due to supply constraints.
We saw convenience foods, for consumption both Within Speciality Food Ingredients, volumes good growth in Asia Pacific, where our at home and on the go.
Although constrained by the business also benefited from the decision year, product launches with a convenient impact of supply chain disruption, we in December to terminate distribution rights claim were nearly 50% higher than three delivered volume growth in all regions previously held by a third party to sell our 2 years previously.
Convenience products except North America.
We estimate supply crystalline fructose primarily in the region.
are also increasingly catering to consumer disruption impacted volume growth by Volume for fibres was slightly lower than demands for healthier foods, with 77% approximately three to four percentage the comparative period due to supply of global convenience product launches in points.
Adjusted sales decreased by 8% constraints.
2014 also making a health and wellness 4% lower in constant currency to 908 2 claim.
Demand for convenience is a global million 2014 983 million reflecting the During the year we completed the acquisition trend, with demand growing in developed pass through of lower corn prices and the of Winway Biotechnology Nantong Co. Ltd. markets, as well as in developing markets Sucralose.
lower prices for SPLENDA a polydextrose fibre business in China.
with increasing urbanisation and associated We also launched two major new products lifestyle changes.
Convenience foods are a Adjusted operating profit was lower than the Functional Clean-Label the new CLARIA TM key driver for speciality food ingredients that prior year down 29% in constant currency Starches and DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose, provide functionality such as stability, texture at 149 million 2014 213 million mainly a low-calorie sugar.
as a result of lower selling prices for SPLENDA Sucralose and the impact of High-intensity sweeteners The rising incidence of diabetes and obesity supply chain disruption.
The prior year also Adjusted sales in this product category, in both developed and developing markets included the majority of the 6 million one-off which comprises SPLENDA Sucralose is one of a number of global health concerns gain from the purchase, sale and leaseback and our no-calorie natural sweeteners, were driving both consumers and governments of our building in Hoffman Estates, Illinois, 18% lower than the prior year 15% lower to focus on the link between diet and health.
and 7 million representing the final annual in constant currency at 162 million 2014 In response to heightening consumer payment received from McNeil Nutritionals 198 million driven primarily by SPLENDA awareness, manufacturers are responding as part of the re-alignment of the sucralose Sucralose price declines.
Volumes were to the demand for healthier products.
The effect of currency 1% higher.
addition to products which address sugar, translation was to decrease adjusted calorie and weight management, consumers operating profit by 5 million.
Food Systems are also increasingly seeking solutions for Adjusted sales were 3% lower than the digestive health, including fibre-enhanced Volume from new products nearly doubled prior year 4% higher in constant currency products, and for heart health including in the year and adjusted sales reached at 184 million 2014 190 million, with 43million or around 5% of total adjusted volumes 15% higher.
In December, we lower sodium products.
sales for the Speciality Food Ingredients acquired a majority equity interest in division.
Gemacom, the leading domestically-owned In response to increasing consumer demand for more natural products across a wide food systems business in Brazil, thereby This division comprises three broad product adding to our Food Systems presence in range of categories, and to concerns around the provenance of finished and unfinished categories: starch-based speciality the higher growth Latin American region.
ingredients, high-intensity sweeteners, and Excluding Gemacom, and on a constant goods, and ingredient labelling, food and beverage manufacturers are launching more Food Systems.
currency basis, adjusted sales and profit were in line with the prior year, with the clean-label products.
Around 25% of all new products launched globally in 2014 Starch-based speciality ingredients business continuing to benefit from the 3.
In starch-based speciality ingredients, decision taken two years ago to focus were positioned as label-friendly adjusted sales decreased by 5% 3% in on higher margin blends.
Against the backdrop of continuing constant currency to 562 million 2014 challenging macroeconomic conditions 595 million.
Volumes increased by 1% in many countries and tighter household despite supply constraints, with strong budgets, cost optimisation also continues growth in Asia Pacific and particularly strong to be a theme with food and beverage demand for texturants.
The lower value of customers looking at ways to reduce costs sales reflects the impact of passing through Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 25
