GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued Change of control Political donations Eight separate donations were made, the The Company has a committed bank facility Again this year, in line with the Groups largest being of $2,500 and the smallest of US$800 million, which matures in 2019. policy, no political donations were made in $500.
The PAC is funded entirely by US Under the terms of this facility, the banks the European Union EU.
Employee contributions are can give notice to Tate & Lyle to prepay the Groups US business made contributions entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed outstanding amounts and cancel the during the year totalling US$26,700: on US employees to participate.
No funds are commitments where there is a change of 17,000 2014 US$22,000: 14,000 to provided to the PAC by Tate & Lyle but under control of the Company.
The Company is state political party committees and to the US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the guarantor of a 200 million bond issue campaign committees of state candidates the name of the employing company.
by its subsidiary, Tate & Lyle International affiliated to the major parties.
In all, 14 Finance PLC, dated 25 November 2009, separate donations were made, the largest which is repayable in 2019.
Under the terms being of $5,000 and the smallest $500.
of the bond issue, noteholders have the US$11,500: 7,000 2014 US$14,000: option to request an early repayment where 9,000 was also contributed by the there is a change of control of the Company.
Tate & Lyle Political Action Committee PAC.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Further information is on page 66.
Directors Statement of Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing Prepare the financial statements on The Group Financial Statements, which the Annual Report, the Directors the going concern basis unless it is have been prepared in accordance with Remuneration Report and the Financial inappropriate to presume that the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Statements in accordance with applicable Company will continue in business.
Parent Company Financial Statements law and regulations.
in accordance with UK Accounting The Directors are responsible for keeping Standards, give a true and fair view of Company law requires the Directors to adequate accounting records that are the assets, liabilities, financial position and prepare financial statements for each sufficient to show and explain the Companys profit of the Group and Parent Company financial year.
Under that law the Directors transactions and disclose with reasonable The Strategic Report and the Directors have prepared the Group Financial accuracy at any time the financial position Report include a fair review of the Statements in accordance with International of the Company and the Group and enable development and performance of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as them to ensure that the financial statements business and the position of the Group, adopted by the EU, and the Parent and the Directors Remuneration Report together with a description of the principal Company Financial Statements in comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, risks and uncertainties that it faces.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally as regards the Group Financial Statements, Accepted Accounting Practice United Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Disclosure of information to auditors Kingdom Accounting Standards and responsible for safeguarding the assets of So far as each director is aware, there is applicable law.
Under company law the the Company and the Group and hence for no relevant audit information of which the Directors must not approve the financial taking reasonable steps for the prevention Companys auditors are unaware: and he statements unless they are satisfied that they and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
or she has taken all the steps that he or she give a true and fair view of the state of affairs ought to have taken as a director in order of the Company and the Group and of the The Directors are responsible for the to make himself or herself aware of any profit or loss of the Group for that period.
maintenance and integrity of the Companys relevant audit information and to establish website.
Legislation in the UK governing the that the Companys auditors are aware In preparing these financial statements, preparation and dissemination of financial of that information.
the Directors are required to: statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors Report on pages 44 to 57, Select suitable accounting policies and pages 79 and 80 and pages 156 to the then apply them consistently Each of the directors, whose names and inside back cover and the Directors Make judgements and accounting functions are listed on pages 44 and 45, Remuneration Report from pages 58 to 78 estimates that are reasonable and prudent confirm that, to the best of his or her of this Annual Report were approved by State whether IFRSs as adopted by knowledge: the Directors on 27 May 2015. the EU and, with regard to the Parent Company Financial Statements, applicable The Annual Report, taken as a whole, is On behalf of the Board UK Accounting Standards have been fair, balanced and understandable and followed, subject to any material provides the information necessary for Lucie Gilbert departures disclosed and explained in shareholders to assess the Companys Company Secretary the Group and Parent Company Financial and the Groups performance, business 27 May 2015 Statements respectively model and strategy 80 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
