STRATEGIC REPORT | OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION How have we been executing our strategy?
INNOVATION DEEP CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT Strengthening customer relationships Bringing new products to market Number of Major new During the year we have been working more In February 2015, we launched our exciting application and product launches closely with customers in a number of ways.
new ingredient, DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose, technical services Our main customer facing facility in Chicago, a low-calorie sugar.
Because of the facilities to work USA, has been the centre for a number of challenges of replacing standard table sugar closely with significant projects, including CLARIA with sweeteners, low-calorie sugar is a very 2 customers Functional Clean-Label Starches, launched attractive proposition for the food industry, in September 2014.
We involved customers but one that, until now, has not been very early in the development of CLARIA, technically possible on a commercial scale.
which was essential for ensuring its Allulose is a sugar that exists in nature, but 16 commercial viability.
Six months on, we have has 90% fewer calories than sucrose table customer wins in North America, Asia Pacific sugar, and to launch DOLCIA PRIMA, and Latin America and, at the date of this we have developed an innovative production Annual Report, are conducting a joint trial of process that is unique to Tate & Lyle.
the product with one of the worlds largest We worked closely with selected customers fruit preparation manufacturers.
at various stages in the development of DOLCIA PRIMA to obtain their Meanwhile, in Europe, our innovation invaluable input.
centres have been working together to host customers.
One key highlight was a visit to We also expect to launch a number of other our European centres by a major Asian dairy products over the next 12-24 months customer, reinforcing our strategic our innovation pipeline includes a range partnership.
of projects across the various stages of development, from original concept, Working with customers is not limited to through to more developed commercial, our innovation centres and our sales manufacturing and execution planning, organisation, however, we also encourage and includes several projects in the later customers to visit our plants, which helps stages.
We aim for a balanced pipeline, deepen the relationship at every level.
This with a combination of next-generation, year, US manufacturing sites hosted senior breakthrough projects and line extensions executives and employees from across across our three platforms.
We aim to marketing, manufacturing and supply chain engage customers at an early stage of the functions, to meet with their counterparts development cycle, which helps ensure we at Tate & Lyle.
This provides a valuable have the right technical and commercial opportunity to learn more about our strategy for each product.
operations, share best practices and develop ideas for how we can further strengthen our partnerships in the future.
20 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Delivering growth in Asia Pacific and Providing stable long-term cash flow Adjusted sales in Percentage of US Latin America We have continued to pursue a strategy corn sweetener Asia Pacific and We continued to invest in Asia Pacific and to dampen volatility in our Bulk Ingredients Latin America volumes in toll Latin America by acquiring businesses that division and deliver sustained cash contracts excluding will help accelerate our growth.
We have progressively SPLENDA 2014, we acquired a majority equity interest re-positioned our US business such that Sucralose and in Gemacom Tech, the leading domesticallytolling contracts contracts often 12 months Food Systems as owned food systems business in Brazil.
or longer, in which the customer pays a 75% a percentage of Established in 1990, and strategically located manufacturing margin and takes on the total Speciality close to the key markets of So Paulo, Rio fide primary corn commodity price risk now Food Ingredients Janeiro and Belo Horizonte, Gemacom Tech represent around 75% of US corn sweetener adjusted sales has built a reputation for quality and customer volumes.
In Europe, where tolling is less service with its range of food quality common and sweetener prices are standards and certifications.
Its commitment referenced to EU sugar prices, prices and to safety also makes the company an margins are more volatile, particularly given 15% excellent partner for Tate & Lyle.
the absence of an efficient futures market to hedge corn prices such as exists in the US.
In Asia, we completed the acquisition of This price volatility, especially ahead of the Winway Biotechnology Nantong Co. Ltd, reform of the EU Sugar Regime which a Chinese producer of polydextrose dietary comes into effect from October 2017 and the fibre based in Nantong, China, and also future capital investment that this is expected re-purchased certain distribution rights to to require, were key factors in our decision sell crystalline fructose directly to customers to substantially exit this business in Europe.
In light of the operational challenges Our investments in the higher growth Asia experienced as a result of the prolonged Pacific and Latin America have generated and severe winter in the US in 2013 14, we strong returns, with adjusted sales for the have carried out a number of preventative business, excluding SPLENDA Sucralose measures to protect our plants from the and Food Systems, now representing effects of severe winter weather.
These 15% of total adjusted sales of Speciality actions included the implementation of Food Ingredients.
specific operating protocols as part of our plants winterisation programme, as well as engaging with other industries that have significant operating experience in extreme cold conditions.
Sustainable cash generation from Bulk Ingredients to support Speciality Food Ingredients growth is a critical element of our strategy.
The actions we have taken to minimise manufacturing disruption, together with the investment made over the past few years in an expanded corn elevator storage network to further strengthen our security of supply, provide key underpins to this.
NEW MARKETS AND CUSTOMER CHANNELS SUSTAINED CASH GENERATION Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 21
