Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors 8 Rob Rowley 6 Baroness Ford Independent 4 James Jordan 5 Kate Barker DBE of Cunninghame 7 Mike Hussey Non Executive 9 Humphrey Singer 1 Kevin Beeston 2 Pete Redfern 3 Ryan Mangold Group Legal Director Independent Independent Independent Director and Senior Independent Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director and Company Secretary Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Independent Director Non Executive Director Committee membership Nomination Committee Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Committee Chairman, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Date of July 2010 July 2007 November 2010 July 2011 April 2011 April 2013 July 2011 January 2010 December 2015 appointment Skills & experience James, a solicitor, was Mike is Chief Executive of Rob was previously Humphrey was appointed Kevin was formerly Chairman Pete was previously Group Ryan previously held the post Kate is a business economist Margaret is an Honorary of Serco Group plc and also of Chief Executive of George of Group Financial Controller previously Group Company and was previously a member Professor of Real Estate Almacantar, a private property Deputy Chairman of Cable to the Board on 9 December Secretary and General Counsel investment and development and Wireless plc, a director 2015.
He is Group Finance Domestic and General Limited: Wimpey Plc and, before that, of Taylor Wimpey plc.
Before of the Bank of Englands at Glasgow University and and was previously a non successively held the posts joining Taylor Wimpey, Ryan of George Wimpey Plc from Monetary Policy Committee an Honorary Member of the company which he founded of Reuters Plc, and a non Director of Dixons Carphone February 2002 until July 2007, in February 2010.
He has held executive director of Prudential plc, a role to which he was executive director of IMI plc.
of Finance Director and Chief was Group Financial Controller MPC from 2001 until May Royal Institute of Chartered Executive of George Wimpeys of Mondi Group for five years, when he was appointed to 2010.
She formerly chaired a number of senior roles in the plc: Taylor Nelson Sofres plc: appointed in 2014.
Humphrey Kevin has a wealth of the same position with Taylor property sector, most recently and Intu Properties plc.
was previously Group Finance UK Housing business.
prior to which he held a number Kate also led two major policy the Olympic Park Legacy commercial, financial and high of senior finance roles with the Wimpey plc.
Before joining reviews for Government, on Company: English Partnerships: as an executive board director Director of Dixons Retail plc level management experience Pete has full day to day Rob has a wealth of financial, Anglo American plc group the Group, James held senior of Land Securities plc.
Prior to and held senior finance-related housing supply and on land Barchester Healthcare Limited: including being a former operational responsibility commercial and management of companies.
legal and company secretary use planning.
Before joining the and May Gurney Integrated that position, Mike was Head roles within Dixons, including CEO of a FTSE 100 company.
for delivering the Companys expertise, principally from roles in industry which included of Leasing and Marketing for as Group Financial Controller, MPC, she was Chief Economic Services Plc.
Prior to these He also has significant strategy in a profitable, Ryan has operational his time as Finance Director positions with The Rugby Adviser at the CBI.
Kate was appointments, Margaret had Canary Wharf Group plc, and and prior to that with experience of chairing boards safe and environmentally responsibility for managing the of Reuters plc and Deputy Group Plc and English held a number of senior posts Coca Cola Enterprises.
awarded a CBE in 2005 for a long career in management of both public and private responsible manner.
He has Chairman of Cable & Wireless China Clays Plc.
services to social housing and consulting with Price in the property industry with the companies and of being significant financial, operational financial, treasury, risk and plc.
He has substantial Humphrey has a wealth British Council for Offices, the a DBE in 2014 for services Waterhouse and then a non executive director and and management experience, financial control expertise James oversees compliance experience as a non executive of financial experience and to the economy.
Eglinton Management City Property Association, and a member of audit, nomination gained from his various roles including that gained from with legal and regulatory director including the chairing expertise in the areas of both as Chairman of the Regeneration Centre, which she founded.
in industry and from his time his time with Mondi Group obligations and also manages Kate is an industry-recognised of audit committees and has digital solutions and customer and Development Committee of services, which will augment at KPMG.
His appointment and Anglo American plc.
the Companys Secretariat and economist who also brings a Margaret has wide-ranging recent and relevant financial the British Property Federation.
in 2014 to the board of Travis Legal Departments.
He has wider economic insight gained experience in a number of experience as required by the the Boards skill sets in these areas.
Perkins plc as a non executive significant legal, commercial, through her various roles, sectors and also has extensive Mike has in-depth expertise UK Corporate Governance director has further broadened transactional and regulatory including as a Member of the knowledge of the property in land development and Code.
On appointment to the his experience at plc board governance related experience.
Oversight Board of the Office sector, gained through various marketing, particularly in Board, he also joined the level.
She has significant London, gained from his Audit Committee, where plc experience including the previous roles as a director his financial expertise will chairmanship of both boards of Land Securities plc and as assist the Committee in the and board committees.
She head of leasing and marketing performance of its duties, and also sits in the House of Lords.
of the Canary Wharf Group plc.
External appointments Kevin is Chairman of Pete is a non executive Kate is a Trustee Director and Margaret is Chairman of Mike is a Fellow of the Rob is the Senior Independent Humphrey is Finance Director Equiniti Group plc and director and member of the Chairman of the British Coal STV Group plc and Grainger Royal Institution of Chartered Director and Chairman of Dixons Carphone plc.
a non executive director remuneration committee Superannuation Scheme: is Group plc and a non executive Surveyors and a Trustee of the audit committee of of The Football Association of Travis Perkins plc, a Trustee presently interim Chairman of director of SEGRO plc.
of the Royal College of moneysupermarket.
of the homelessness charity Electra Private Equity plc: and Surgeons of England.
Group PLC: Senior Independent Crisis and a member of a non executive director of the Director of Greene King plc: the board of the Home Yorkshire Building Society.
a non executive director Builders Federation.
and Chairman of the audit committee of Morgan Advanced Materials plc: and non executive director of Greene King plc and Camelot Group.
8 6 5 4 3 2 1 7 9 44 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk 8 Rob Rowley 6 Baroness Ford Independent 4 James Jordan 5 Kate Barker DBE of Cunninghame 7 Mike Hussey Non Executive 9 Humphrey Singer 1 Kevin Beeston 2 Pete Redfern 3 Ryan Mangold Group Legal Director Independent Independent Independent Director and Senior Independent Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director and Company Secretary Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Independent Director Non Executive Director Committee membership Nomination Committee Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee, Committee Chairman, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Date of July 2010 July 2007 November 2010 July 2011 April 2011 April 2013 July 2011 January 2010 December 2015 appointment Skills & experience James, a solicitor, was Mike is Chief Executive of Rob was previously Humphrey was appointed Kevin was formerly Chairman Pete was previously Group Ryan previously held the post Kate is a business economist Margaret is an Honorary of Serco Group plc and also of Chief Executive of George of Group Financial Controller previously Group Company and was previously a member Professor of Real Estate Almacantar, a private property Deputy Chairman of Cable to the Board on 9 December Secretary and General Counsel investment and development and Wireless plc, a director 2015.
She Head of Leasing and Marketing performance of its duties, and also sits in the House of Lords.
Board gender diversity % Non Executive Non Executive Board tenure Board gender diversity Director experience 1 2 1 1 9 30 2 1 2 25 7 2 22 22 22 22 22 1 6 20 2 2 3 3 3 Financial serivces Healthcare 0-2 years 10 Property Public sector 3-4 years 2 2 Marketing Economist 5-6 years 0 Media Materials Executive Group Non 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 Board Executive Women % of women on Board Men Our Committees See page 58 for more See page 63 for more See page 68 for more KPI KPI KPI on our Nomination Committee on our Audit Committee on our Remuneration Committee 45
