Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk General Board Governance The Board met on eight occasions during 2015 and there was full Taylor Wimpey plc Board attendance at all meetings.
The Board has considered the number of Board meetings that take place each year and has concluded that eight meetings remain appropriate but will keep the number under review.
Additional Board meetings would be convened as and when necessary and there are also processes in place for approving transactions and other matters that need approval in between Board meetings.
Directors make every effort to attend all Board and applicable Committee meetings, as strongly evidenced by the attendance records Kevin Beeston over several years.
Where, exceptionally, a Director is unable to attend Chairman a meeting, it is Board policy that the Chairman and or the Group Number of Legal Director and Company Secretary the Secretary will, as soon Committee members meetings attended as possible, brief the Director fully on the business transacted at the Kevin Beeston meeting and on any decisions that have been taken.
In addition, the Chairman 8 8 views of the Director are sought ahead of the meeting and conveyed Pete Redfern to those attending the meeting by the Chairman and or the Secretary as appropriate.
Details of the attendance of each Director at Board Chief Executive 8 8 and Committee meetings are set out in the table opposite and on Ryan Mangold pages 59, 64 and 70.
Group Finance Director 8 8 The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing strategic James Jordan and entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, within a framework Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 8 8 of strong governance, effective controls and a culture of openness Rob Rowley and transparency, which enables opportunities and risks to be Senior Independent Director 8 8 assessed and managed.
In addition, the Board sets the Companys Kate Barker strategic aims: ensures that the necessary financial and human Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives: and reviews management performance.
Margaret Ford Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 The Board is responsible for the Companys culture and for dening Mike Hussey and setting the Companys values and standards, which it does, Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 amongst other things, through a number of policies and codes of a conduct, and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and other Humphrey Singer stakeholders are clearly understood and met.
The Board is led in these Independent Non Executive Director 1 1 respects by the Chairman, who ensures the Board operates correctly, a Appointed 9 December 2015. setting its culture and, by extension, that of the Company in its operations and its dealings with all stakeholders.
The Board and its Committees As also set out in our 2015 Sustainability Report, which will shortly be As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of nine Directors, available online at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability namely: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Independent , the Board is fully committed to providing a safe Non Executive Directors.
Their names, responsibilities and other details place in which our employees and subcontractors can work, and that appear on pages 44 to 45.
On 9 December 2015 Humphrey Singer our customers can live.
We also ensure that all of our sites are developed was appointed to the Board as an Independent Non Executive Director, to high standards of environmental management.
The Board receives after a selection process led by the Nomination Committee as set out detailed reports on health, safety and environmental matters at each on page 59.
Board meeting in respect of the Companys operations in the UK and Spain.
The Companys detailed carbon reporting, as required by BIS, The role of the Independent Non Executive Directors is to offer advice is set out on page 29. and guidance to the Executive Directors, using their wide experience in business and from their diverse backgrounds, details of which are Operational management of the Companys business is undertaken set out in their biographies on pages 44 to 45 and in the Board diversity by the Chief Executive who receives advice from the Group Management analysis on page 45.
They also provide a constructive challenge, Team GMT.
The GMT is the most senior executive committee and, monitoring the overall direction and strategy of the Company: scrutinising in addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the Group Finance Director, the performance of the Executive Directors: and satisfying themselves the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, the three Divisional as to the integrity of the financial information made available both to the Chairmen, the Group HR Director, the Land and Planning Director, Board and to the Companys shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors the Managing Director of the Central London business unit and the also play an important part in the appointment or removal of Executive Managing Director of the Major Developments business.
The GMT Directors and in general succession planning for the Board and other meets monthly and also once each month with the six Divisional executive and other management positions below Board level.
Managing Directors as a wider Group Operational Team.
51 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 General Board Governance continued The Board also receives regular reports and minutes from the Treasury The Company welcomes the aims and objectives of the Modern Slavery Committee, which meets under the chairmanship of the Group Finance Act 2015 and will be taking its future responsibilities under the Act very Director, and also comprises the Group Legal Director and Company seriously.
A team has since been established to look at what the Secretary, one of the Divisional Chairmen who rotate periodically and legislation will mean for Taylor Wimpey.
The key responsibilities of the Treasury Committee Board and Committee balance, diversity, independence are, broadly, to monitor and keep under review the Groups financial and effectiveness risks, financial policies, financial facilities, covenant compliance and A key role of the Board is to ensure that it retains an appropriate level insurance programme in the light of current and proposed strategic of independence in order to allow the Independent Non Executive and operational requirements.
Directors to challenge the Executive Directors constructively whilst, at The following documents are available for review on the Companys the same time, also supporting them to implement the strategy and run website at www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations the business effectively.
Another key role is to ensure that it has the right corporate-governance: blend of skill, independence and knowledge and this is something that is kept under regular review in conjunction with the Nomination Committee.
Schedule of matters specifically reserved for the decision of the Board.
It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed Terms of reference of the Board Committees: Nomination, Audit appointments to the Board, and succession planning, are based and Remuneration, which outline their objectives and responsibilities on merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having and define a programme of activities to support the discharge of due regard to the benefits of diversity and inclusiveness, including those responsibilities.
gender, age, disability, ethnicity, thought and experience.
The Board Policies covering operational, compliance, corporate responsibility also continues to recognise and take very seriously its responsibility and stakeholder matters, which are reviewed whenever necessary to comply with the recommendations of the Davies Report, encouraging to take account of developments in corporate governance, increased participation by women on boards, which was previously changes in legislation and revised processes.
targeted at 25% on FTSE 100 boards by 2015 but more recently increased to 33% for FTSE 350 companies by 2020, which the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
The Board has an established procedure whereby Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they Following the appointment of Humphrey Singer in December 2015, judge it necessary to do so in order to discharge their responsibilities the proportion of women on the Taylor Wimpey Board has reduced as Directors.
from two out of eight 25% to two out of nine 22%.
The Board will keep the balance of the Board under regular review and this was also The Board took advice during the year from Slaughter and May, on an action point arising out of the 2015 Board evaluation exercise.
the continued effectiveness of the Companys procedures for dealing in the Companys shares, following which the existing guidance was Board and Committee roles and responsibilities refreshed and issued to all restricted employees.
The work of each of the Board Committees Nomination, Audit and Remuneration is described later in this Report.
Advice was also received from Deloitte during the year via the Audit Committee on the significant governance developments during the year.
Relevant skills and expertise It is a requirement of the Code that the Board and its Committees The Board receives at each meeting a report from JPMorgan Cazenove should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence Cazenove on the sector and the relative performance of the Companys and knowledge of the Company, to enable duties and responsibilities share price.
This was reviewed during the year and All businesses and employees are expected to operate at all times to was utilised in drawing up the recruitment framework, including the the highest standards of integrity and conduct in all matters concerning list of desired skills in the process used for the appointment of a the Group.
Accordingly, there is a Code of Business Conduct, which new Independent Non Executive Director during the year.
The Board sets out the standard for individual dealings both internally and externally.
considers that each Director brings relevant and complementary skills, Formal policies have been adopted, which set out the ethical framework experience and background to the Board, details of which are set out within which all Taylor Wimpey companies are required to undertake below, and additional information is also set out in the biographies on their business this includes, in line with the Bribery Act 2010, an pages 44 and 45, and also on page 152.
Anti-Corruption Policy which requires an annual sign-off by Kevin Beeston, Chairman, has a wealth of commercial, financial designated senior management.
and high level management experience including being a former These policies are available for review on the Companys website CEO of a FTSE 100 company.
Kevin also has significant experience www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations corporateof chairing boards of both public and private companies and of governance and relevant reporting against these is provided to the being a non executive director and sitting on audit, nomination Audit Committee by the Head of Internal Audit and the Secretary and remuneration committees.
52 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Pete Redfern, CEO, has operational responsibility for delivering Ensuring there is no conflict of interest the Companys strategy in a profitable, safe and environmentally In order to assist Directors in complying with their duty to avoid responsible manner.
Pete has significant financial, operational and conicts or possible conicts of interest, it is standard procedure management experience, gained from his various roles in industry that the Board must first give its clearance to such potential conicts of and from his time at KPMG.
In 2014 he joined the Board of Travis interest which would include directorships or other interests in outside Perkins plc as an independent non executive director and serves companies and organisations following which, an entry is then made on their remuneration committee, which will only add to his breadth in the statutory register which the Company maintains for this purpose.
of experience at plc board level.
Whenever any Director considers that he or she is, or may be, interested Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director, has operational responsibility in any contract or arrangement to which the Company is or may be for managing the Companys nances.
Ryan has financial, treasury, a party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in accordance with risk and financial control expertise including that gained from his the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
time with Mondi Group and Anglo American plc.
In such cases, unless allowed by the Articles, any Director with such an interest is not permitted to participate in any discussions or James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, decisions relating to the contract or arrangement.
is a solicitor and oversees compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and manages the Secretariat and Legal Departments.
The Board undertakes a regular review of each Directors interests, James has significant legal, commercial, transactional and regulatory if any, outside of the Company.
In addition, all new appointments and governance related experience.
interests of Directors are reported to the Board for consideration or noting as appropriate.
Following these reviews, the Board remains Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director, is an industrysatisfied that, in line with the Code, all Directors are able to allocate recognised economist and has led policy reviews for the Government sufficient time to the Company to enable them to discharge their in the areas of land use, planning and housing supply.
Kate also brings responsibilities as Directors effectively and that any current external a wider economic insight gained through her various roles, including as appointments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which a Member of the Oversight Board of the Ofce for Budget Responsibility.
the Director is able to devote to the Company.
This is further borne Margaret Ford, Independent Non Executive Director, has wide-ranging out by Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings, which has been at or very close to 100% over many years and was experience in a number of sectors and also has extensive knowledge of the property sector, gained through various roles.
Margaret has at 100% for 2015. significant plc experience including the chairmanship of both boards Annual re-election to the Board and board committees.
She also sits in the House of Lords.
The Code requires every Director to seek election or re-election, as appropriate, at each years Annual General Meeting AGM.
Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director, has in-depth Accordingly, at the 2016 AGM, every Director, irrespective of the date expertise in land development and marketing, particularly in London, of his or her appointment and the length of his or her service on the gained from his previous roles as a director of Land Securities plc Board, will be submitted for election in the case of Humphrey Singer, and as head of leasing and marketing of the Canary Wharf Group plc.
as he was appointed since the last AGM or re-election in the case Mike is currently CEO of Almacantar, a property development fund of the other Directors.
Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and Senior Details of the resolutions to be proposed in this respect and supporting biographical details of the Directors appear in the Notice of Meeting Independent Director, has a wealth of financial, commercial and management expertise, principally from his time as Finance Director on pages 147 to 155. of Reuters plc and Deputy Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc.
Rob has As part of the 2015 Board evaluation process, the Board reviewed substantial experience as a non executive director including the chairing and re-afrmed that it considers each of the Non Executive Directors of audit committees and has recent and relevant financial experience to be independent in character and judgement and that there are as required by the Code.
no relationships which could affect the Directors judgement.
Humphrey Singer has a wealth of financial experience as Group A rigorous evaluation took place with regard to Rob Rowley as he will have served six years by the time of the AGM in 2016.
Finance Director of Dixons Carphone plc, and expertise in the areas of both digital solutions and customer services.
In addition the Board re-evaluated each Directors time commitments, Division of responsibilities and was satisfied that they continued to allocate sufficient time to The Board has an established framework of delegated financial, the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively, including commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope not only attendance at Board and applicable Committee meetings and powers of the Chief Executive and of operational management.
where attendance was 100% during 2015 for all Directors but also for preparation time for meetings, visits to businesses including the In line with the Code, the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman annual Board away day visit and other additional requirements that and the Chief Executive have been clearly dened, set out in may be required from time to time.
Recognising the importance of time writing and signed by Kevin Beeston and Pete Redfern in their commitment to shareholders, this will continue to be kept under review respective capacities.
during 2016 including as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
The Chairman, at the time of his appointment on 1 July 2010, met the independence criteria as set out in the Code.
53 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 General Board Governance continued Information and professional development meetings and are then circulated and submitted for approval at The Company has procedures whereby newly appointed the next meeting.
All Board papers are circulated electronically and Directors including Non Executive Directors receive a formal induction.
Board meetings have been effectively paperless for several years, This includes training and continuing familiarisation with the Companys which has worked well and aided the overall efficiency of the wider business, strategy, operations including health and safety and systems, Board process.
the principles underlying the discharge of their duties as Directors and The Secretary provides regular briefings to the Board on regulatory wider issues relating to the housing sector.
The induction also includes and governance matters which are included as part of his formal meetings with key executives and function heads, advisers and site regular reporting to the Board, and are supplemented, as appropriate, visits.
During 2015, and in response to one of the findings from the by briefings from independent advisers.
The Board also receives 2014 Board evaluation, the existing comprehensive induction process regular briefings and updates on environmental, social and was given greater formality and is also subject to specific tailoring governance ESG matters.
for individual Directors as appropriate.
The ESG briefings allow the Board to assess the significant ESG All Directors visit Group operations on a regular basis, engaging with risks to the Companys short and long term value and to identify any employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an understanding opportunities that may arise to enhance value.
Details of ESG risks and of the business.
Board visits are arranged each year to operations value-enhancement pursuits appear in the Sustainability Report which and at least one Board meeting per annum takes place in a regional will shortly be available on our website www.
co. uk business over three days.
In 2015, the Board visit took the form of corporate sustainability a strategic review which was also attended by senior management, which worked well.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Secretary meet sufficiently in advance of each Board meeting in order to ensure action points The Group Legal Director and Company Secretary acts as Secretary from previous meetings have been implemented and to prepare the to the Board and its Committees and he attends all meetings.
It is agenda and matters to be covered at the next and at future Board Board policy that wherever possible a formal agenda and reports are and Committee meetings as appropriate.
The agenda and minutes issued electronically to Directors in respect of all Board and Committee for the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings meetings at least one week prior to the meeting, in order to allow are agreed by the Secretary with the relevant Committee Chairman.
sufficient time for detailed review and consideration beforehand.
Formal minutes are prepared in respect of all Board and Committee Board objectives 2015 Board objectives 2015 Performance 2016 Board objectives Strategy To set the Companys The Board reviewed performance to date towards To ensure the Companys strategy and execution strategic objectives and achieving its strategic objectives and approved a remains robust in the light of strategy for their achievement.
medium term strategy to further enhance returns.
any forecast market and wider economic changes.
To review the Companys At each meeting, detailed reports from the performance, resourcing, Executive were discussed, reviewing forward To ensure the Companys and achievements affecting resourcing requirements in the areas of capital, performance remains on its ability to deliver finance, people and land, and operating decisions schedule to achieve the strategy.
taken or proposed to address them.
To take all measures to ensure To review and, if necessary, The Board conducted a major review of the that health and safety remains revise the strategy or its Companys medium term strategy, together the Groups top priority and will objectives in the light of with more specific reviews in connection with remain an ongoing area of focus.
wider economic, financial the preparation of forward budgets and and market considerations.
To ensure the strategy is Detailed scenario planning was reviewed, sufficiently resilient in different together with assessments of the strategys forward-looking scenarios.
relative robustness in each case.
Risk To review and agree the The risk review was conducted twice during the year, To ensure risk remains within the management Companys risk appetite at the Boards July half year and February full year Companys agreed risk appetite in seeking to achieve its meetings, and covered both the systems used and is adequately monitored and strategic objectives.
At the February meeting reviewed as appropriate to reflect the position was subject to independent check external and internal changes.
To regularly review the with external auditor reports on risk processes robustness of the Companys connected with the annual audit.
systems of risk reporting: assessment: and internal The Boards annual risk review for 2015 was controls.
completed at the February 2016 Board meeting following a process embracing all levels of the Groups businesses.
54 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk 2015 Board objectives 2015 Performance 2016 Board objectives Governance To fully implement the The Company embraced the key requirements To ensure that there is continued and values September 2014 revision of the revised Code in its 2014 reporting and has full compliance with the Code of the UK Corporate now fully complied in all respects, as was required and with wider statutory and Governance Code Code.
To fully implement any The Code requirement for the introduction To ensure that remuneration is related governance of a Viability Statement has been met by the to remain within the Companys requirements, such as the inclusion of the Statement on page 35.
Remuneration Policy and new Viability Statement.
proportionately rewards The Companys Remuneration Policy remains achievement of the strategy.
To review the remuneration unchanged since its adoption by shareholders framework to ensure that at the 2014 AGM but is reviewed, with advisers, To implement the improvements it remains appropriate, by the Remuneration Committee each year to identied on page 56 arising proportionate, and does ensure it remains appropriate and proportionate from the 2015 Board appraisal.
not encourage excessive and helps to drive and reward achievement of Monitor shareholder feedback risk-taking.
and continue to actively promote To conduct an annual The appraisal was conducted internally for 2015 wider engagement.
as reported on page 56 having been , as required at least each third year, To take account of in 2014. shareholder guidance and consultation.
In addition to the AGM, shareholder and institutional feedback was sought when presenting the Companys half year and full year results and in notifying proposals for remuneration during 2015, and taken into consideration by the Board together with advice from its stockbroker.
Organisational To ensure that the Company The Board reviewed reports at each meeting on To ensure that resourcing capacity has the necessary resources the financial performance of the Company and the remains sufficient to achieve financial, people, supply availability, currently and forecast going forward, the strategy together with wider chain and Group structure of financial, people and supply chain resourcing.
to enable it to deliver the The Board and the Nomination Committee reviewed To ensure that training and strategy.
at least twice each year the strategy for succession development plans support To ensure that its people planning and related training assessment and continuous improvement in the are suitably trained and that provision, and progress in achieving it.
team and contribute towards sufficient provision is being wider diversity improvements.
made for succession planning at all levels.
Stakeholder To increase shareholder Shareholder communication was conducted To actively encourage engagement attendance and voting, through encouraging attendance at the AGM: shareholder participation including registering steadily increasing voting on resolutions proposed through clear messaging and proxies, at the AGM.
thereat: briengs to analysts and the press: and reporting and careful review direct consultation on certain special matters.
To keep employees engaged and informed on Employee involvement was promoted through To implement changes the Companys performance regular brieng material online and in hard copy: proposed following the and prospects.
interactive online Q&As: strategy updates around employee consultation the businesses: and explanation of Company conducted during 2015.
To assist prospective and performance around half year and full year reporting actual purchasers of houses Monitor the embedding of the and trading statements.
in making and successfully Customer Service improvements concluding what is, for Prospective and actual purchasers of houses introduced during 2015 and 2016. many, the largest value and were assisted by dedicated teams in each regional To ensure the Group works potentially most stressful business along each stage of the Customer Journey.
with subcontractors and transaction of their lives.
The supply chain received constant feedback suppliers to constantly seek To maintain communication from Group businesses, suppliers and ways of further improving quality: and a culture of continuous subcontractors, which fed into updated sustainability: and delivery in a improvement throughout the arrangements and agreements.
55 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 General Board Governance continued Board evaluation The outcome of the 2014 Board evaluation which was externally Review by the Chairman and the Secretary of each performance area, facilitated, in line with the requirement of the Code that this be and of each Director.
undertaken in this way at least every third year was reported on Presentation of the findings to the Board on a non-attributable basis.
in detail in last years Corporate Governance Report.
The main Preparation of action plans designed to address the findings, action points arising from that exercise, and action taken in as set out in the table below, during 2016. respect of each, are set out in the table below.
Feedback was then provided on an individual basis, by the Senior As previously mentioned, the 2015 Board evaluation was Independent Director to the Chairman and vice versa : and through internally facilitated, as set out on page 46. the Chairman discussing each individual Directors own performance The 2015 evaluation process consisted of the following: assessment with the relevant Director on a one-to-one basis.
A detailed and comprehensive bespoke questionnaire which The recommendations arising from the Board evaluations for 2014 the Secretary sent individually to all Directors for completion.
and 2015, together with actions taken during 2015 in relation to the former, and actions planned during 2016 in relation to the latter, Collation of the responses by the Secretary.
are set out in the table below.
2014 Evaluation Recommendations included Actions taken during the year Refreshing the current strategy: adding scenario planning: adopting This was addressed during 2015 by a comprehensive review of the a longer term focus: and further explanation and communication strategy conducted by senior executives: review by the Board on to the team.
several occasions during the year, culminating in a detailed review at its October meeting including scenario planning outcomes: formal adoption of the revised strategy at its December meeting: and arrangements made for a roadshow around the businesses during 2016 to communicate and explain it to the team.
Continuing focus on succession planning, particularly longer term, This was addressed during 2015 by the extension of the Talent with closer links to talent management and training, and including Management Group through establishing such a Group in each for Board Committee Chairmen.
of the three Divisions of the UK Housing business, linked to reviews of training and professional development requirements and plans, feeding recommendations upwards for review and monitoring of progress.
In addition, the Nomination Committee drew up Succession and Contingency Plans for the Non Executive Directors and Board Committees.
Greater formality around Board induction and specific tailoring This was addressed during 2015 by the re-design of the Board for Executive and Non Executive Directors.
induction process, timetable and documentation, with bespoke additions of relevant areas tailored to Executive and Non Executive Directors.
Consideration is also being given to expanding this into Regional Boards around the UK business.
2015 Evaluation Recommendations included Actions to be taken during 2016 Additional periodic reporting to take place on key areas such as Additional reporting to the Board on these areas of the business land and planning: marketing-related initiatives: and the Major will take place.
Greater alignment of reporting on the three Housing Divisions.
Alignment of reporting has already been implemented.
Additional focus to take place on diversity and inclusivity including There will be increased focus on diversity and inclusivity initiatives continued monitoring and review.
at all levels of the business including at Board level.
The inclusion of special topics for presentation to the Board and A programme of special topics and presenters has been to make structural changes to the Board away day.
Improvements to the Board away day structure will also be implemented so as to maximise the time the Board spends together.
Each of these key areas will remain firmly on the Boards agenda during 2016 and an update will be provided in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
56 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Management Progress in achieving the Group Strategy is reviewed at each Board Shareholder engagement meeting and is reported on pages 16 to 17.
The Chief Executive has The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major responsibility for preparing and reviewing strategic plans for the Group institutional shareholders and other stakeholders and supports and the annual budgetary process.
These are subject to formal approval the initiatives set out in both the Code and the Stewardship Code, by the Board.
which aim to foster a more proactive governance role by major shareholders.
The Board has put in place arrangements designed Budgets are re-examined in comparison with business forecasts to facilitate contact with shareholders concerning business, throughout the year to ensure they are sufciently robust to reect the governance, remuneration and other issues.
This provides the possible impact of changing economic conditions and circumstances.
opportunity for meetings with shareholders and the Chairman, the The Chief Executive and the Board conduct regular reviews of actual Senior Independent Director as well as the Chief Executive, Group results and future projections with comparison against budget and prior Finance Director, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary year, together with various treasury reports.
Disputes that may give and other executives as appropriate, in order to establish a mutual rise to significant litigation or contractual claims are monitored at understanding of objectives.
The Company also operates a each Board meeting, with specic updates on any material structured programme of investor relations, based on formal developments or new matters presented by the Secretary.
announcements and publications covering the full year and half The Group has clearly dened policies, processes and procedures year results.
In addition, the Chairman meets with the Companys governing all areas of the business, which will continue to be reviewed institutional shareholders from time to time, both proactively and rened in order to meet the requirements of the business and and upon request, in order to discuss the Company and its changing market circumstances.
Dened authority limits continue performance, governance and remuneration policies.
As set to be closely monitored in response to prevailing market conditions.
out in the Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee Any investment, acquisition or significant purchase or disposal of land undertakes a consultation exercise each year and as part of requires detailed appraisal and is subject to approval by the Board this exercise, the Committee Chairman also engages directly or the Chief Executive, depending on the value and nature of the with shareholders and their representative bodies.
All Directors receive formal reports and briengs during the year There is a clearly identiable organisational structure and a framework about the Companys investor relations programme and receive of delegated authority approved by the Board within which individual detailed feedback through surveys, direct contact and also other responsibilities of senior executives of Group companies are identied means.
This enables all Directors to develop an understanding and can be monitored.
The Operating Framework, within which of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
delegated authorities, responsibilities and related processes are explained The Board encourages all shareholders to participate in the in detail, is available for review and guidance online by any employee Annual General Meeting, which is attended by all Directors.
These activities are reinforced through Shareholders attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting process compliance and other audits conducted by Internal Audit.
on pages 147 to 155 which sets out details of the rights of The annual employee performance appraisal process is objective-based, shareholders in connection with the notice of, and participation with individual objectives cascaded down from the appropriate business in, general meetings of the Company.
This year, there are objectives.
The process also identies training needs to support 23 resolutions being submitted for shareholder consideration, achievement of objectives.
including, Resolutions 20 to 22 which are requests for approval of substantial property transactions as dened in the Companies During 2015 the Groups control environment was further enhanced Act 2006, between the Company and Pete Redfern and both through the full implementation of the September 2014 update Ryan Mangold.
of the Code and also a robust risk assessment and review led by the Audit Committee.
In addition, an independent review was conducted For the 2015 AGM, shareholders representing 61% of the of the effectiveness of Internal Audit and of the Groups strategic risk Companys issued share capital voted in the poll.
vote in favour of 16 of the 20 resolutions of in excess of 99% and an average vote in favour across all 20 resolutions of over 98%.
This 2015 Annual Report and Accounts Your Directors have responsibility for preparing this 2015 Annual Report Information about the Company, including full year and and Accounts and for making certain conrmations concerning it.
In half year results and other major announcements, and additional accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the Board considers that, information about shareholder facilities, is published on the taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Companys website www.
co. uk corporate the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Board was able to reach this conclusion, and also received advice from the Audit Committee.
The processes of review and assessment followed by that Committee in that respect, are set out on page 67.
Delivering quality for all The Viability Statement, introduced for the first time this year in line our stakeholders Sustainability Report 2015 with the September 2014 revision of the Code, appears on page 35.
