Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information Introduction Directors This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors The following Directors held office throughout the year: are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewhere Kevin Beeston, Chairman: in this Directors Report.
Certain other matters which are required to be reported on appear in other sections of this Annual Report Pete Redfern, Chief Executive: and Accounts as detailed below: Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director: An indication of likely future developments in the business of the James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary: Company and its subsidiaries appears in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 41.
Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director: The Remuneration Report appears on pages 68 to 85.
Margaret Ford, Independent Non Executive Director: The reporting on the Companys carbon footprint appears Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director: and on page 29.
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, including Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and the designated Senior Independent Director.
branches outside the UK, principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year appears on pages 142 to 145.
In addition to the above, Humphrey Singer was appointed to the Board Changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated as an Independent Non Executive Director on 9 December 2015. balance sheet on page 100 and in the Notes to the accounts The Directors together with their biographical information are shown on pages 103 to 146. on pages 44 and 45.
The Groups profit before taxation and the profit after taxation and minority interests appear in the consolidated income statement Retirement and re-election on page 98 and in the Notes to the accounts on pages 103 to 146.
The Company has determined that in accordance with the Code, all Directors should seek election or re-election, as appropriate, at A detailed statement of the Groups treasury management this years AGM as explained in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting and funding is set out in Note 19 on pages 119 to 122. and on page 53 of the Corporate Governance Report.
A statement that this Annual Report and Accounts meets the requirements of Provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Each of the Directors proposed for election or re-election at the AGM Code the Code, is set out in the Corporate Governance Report is being unanimously recommended by all of the other members of on page 57. the Board.
This recommendation follows the completion of the annual performance evaluation process, which included a detailed appraisal Details of the Companys long-term incentive schemes as required by of the Board, its Committees and also in respect of each Director, LR 9.4.
3 R are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 85. which included a review of their respective time commitments.
The Details of any contracts of significance subsisting during the Board appraisal process did not include Humphrey Singer as he was period under review to which a subsidiary undertaking of the appointed to the Board following the conclusion of the 2015 process, Company is a party and in which a Director of the Company is but was, nevertheless, subject to a detailed appraisal of his suitability materially interested appear in the Notice of Meeting on pages as part of the appointment process and participated in the Board 147 to 155. discussions which took place at the December 2015 and February Details of an arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or 2016 Board meetings.
Further information relating to the evaluation, and agreed to waive any dividends, and where a shareholder has agreed the process followed with regard to Humphrey Singers appointment, is to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 49. relating to dividends which are payable during the period under The Articles of Association of the Company further regulate the review, appear later in this Report on page 88. appointment and removal of Directors, in addition to the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The various powers and responsibilities of the Directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report.
Qualifying third party indemnity The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its Directors and officers and those of its Group companies against the financial exposure that they may incur in the course of their professional duties as Directors and officers of the Company and or its subsidiaries affiliates.
The indemnity has been put in place in accordance with section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of which the Company took advice from its corporate lawyers, Slaughter and May.
86 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Audit and auditor Annual General Meeting Each Director has, at the date of approval of this Report, formally The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on 28 April 2016 at The British confirmed that: Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP.
To the best of his her knowledge there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Formal notice of the AGM including details of the special business being proposed is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 147 to 155 He she has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken and on the Companys website www.
In line with as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant recent practice, voting on all resolutions at this years AGM will again audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor be conducted by way of a poll.
The Board believes that this method of is aware of that information.
voting gives as many shareholders as possible the opportunity to have This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance their votes counted as part of the process, whether their votes are with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. tendered by proxy in advance of or in person at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte have confirmed their willingness to continue Web communication in office as auditor of the Company.
Following a review by the Audit With shareholders consent, the Company has adopted web Committee of their effectiveness, details of which are set out on page 64, communication.
The benefits of web communication are that it: a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte will be proposed at the AGM.
Enables the Company to significantly reduce its printing and It is the Companys general policy that its auditor will not carry out postage costs.
non-audit services except where it is appropriate to do so and in Enables shareholders to access information faster, on the accordance with the Companys formal policy for the carrying out day documents are published on the Companys website.
In addition, and in line with the Code, the Committee Reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, takes into account the relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision and therefore helps to reduce the impact of printing, mailing and of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Company notes the related activities on the environment.
consultation currently under way to consider designating further areas for which the auditor should not be allowed to provide non-audit Shareholder communications including the 2015 Annual Report and services.
Any revision to current regulations or guidelines will be Accounts are available electronically through the Companys website.
taken into account in framing the Companys policy going forward The Company will of course continue to provide hard copy and reported on in future Annual Reports as appropriate.
Deloitte documentation to those shareholders who have requested this provided non-audit services to the Group during the year within the and is, of course, happy to do so.
policy framework as described in the Audit Committee Report, details of which are set out in Note 6 on page 110.
Registrar The Companys registrar is Capita Asset Services.
Their details, Basis of accounting together with information on the services and facilities available to As reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts, the Company shareholders, are set out in the Shareholder Facilities section on changed its basis of accounting with effect from 1 January 2015 to page 157.
Further details may be found in the Audit Committee Report on page 66.
Capital structure Details of the Companys issued share capital, together with information on the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 22 on page 128.
87 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information continued The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares of 1p, Substantial interests in the Companys shares each of which carries the right to one vote at general meetings of as at 26 February 2016 Number of Percentage of the Company and such other rights and obligations as are set out shares held issued voting in the Companys Articles of Association, and Deferred Shares Name millions share capital which carry no voting rights.
BlackRock, Inc. 181.0 5.55 The authority given by shareholders at the AGM held on 23 April 2015 JP Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 159.6 4.99 for the Company to purchase a maximum of 325,346,100 of its own FMR LLC 156.9 4.84 shares remained valid at 31 December 2015.
The authority was not Schroder plc & Schroder Investment exercised during 2015 or prior to the date of this Report.
The Company Management Limited 152.1 4.71 has no current intention of exercising this authority but will nevertheless be seeking the usual renewal of this authority at the AGM and the Board The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 131.3 4.04 will continue to keep the position under regular review.
The Company Legal & General Group Plc 98.4 3.02 currently holds no shares in treasury.
Standard Life Investments Limited 96.4 3.02 There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding, the exercise of voting rights, nor on the transfer of shares, which are governed by Dividend the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors Information relating to the recommended 2015 final dividend is set out are not aware of any agreement or agreements between holders of in the Chairmans Statement on page 10 and in the notes to resolution 2 the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer on page 151 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
of securities or on voting rights.
Information relating to the recommended 2016 special dividend is set Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration out in the Chairmans Statement on page 10 and in the notes to Report on pages 72 and 73.
The Employee Share Ownership Trust resolution 3 on page 151 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual General which hold shares on trust for employees under various share schemes, Meeting.
generally abstain from voting at shareholder general meetings in respect The Company will be operating a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP, of shares held by them.
further details of which are set out on page 156 of this Annual Report.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the 2015 final dividend capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
for those shareholders who have previously registered a DRIP mandate unless varied by shareholders beforehand and also in respect of all Substantial interests future dividends, including special dividends, until such time as each The persons set out in the table opposite have notified the Company participating shareholder elects to withdraw from the DRIP, or the pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DRIP is suspended or terminated in accordance with the Terms and of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Board will continue to keep the availability At 26 February 2016, no change in these holdings had been notified of the DRIP under regular review.
nor, according to the Register of Members, did any other shareholder Shareholders are again reminded to check their position with regard to at that date have a disclosable holding of the Companys issued any dividend mandates that are in place, should they either wish to share capital.
participate in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as Directors interests, including interests in the Companys shares, existing mandates will apply to all dividend payments including are shown in the Remuneration Report.
The Board strongly believes special dividends unless or until revoked.
in the alignment of interests between senior management and the The right to receive any dividend has been waived in part by the Trustee Companys shareholders.
of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs over those Trusts combined holding of 9,000,914 shares.
Moredetails of these ESOTs are contained in Note 25 on page 130.
Research and development During 2015 the Company continued to build its new standard house type range in significant numbers.
Taylor Wimpey has designed in-house a new suite of house types that meet the space and accessibility standards introduced as a result of the housing standards review.
These will be available for use by our regions during 2016.
88 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk We continue to work with our supply chain to identify new products Employee involvement and communication and techniques available to us and appraise them before they will be We are proud of how committed our employees are to Taylor Wimpey needed.
As the proposal to further improve energy efficiency through and the long term success of our business.
We strive to listen to and Part L of the Building Regulations in 2016 has been removed, our focus engage with all staff and employees.
During 2015, we undertook for 2015 turned to continual improvement of our specication and the latest annual employee engagement survey Talkback and the construction details to meet current building regulations in the most feedback from our employees continues to shape our plans and robust way.
As an adjunct to our research priorities for the future.
and development we continue to contribute to several industry working More details of the outcomes of the survey are set out in the Chief groups looking at energy efficiency, changes to building regulations and Executives Review on page 15. standards and how to close the gap between design and performance.
We believe that inviting and listening to employee feedback is During 2015 we embarked on Project 2020, a major long essential and we will conduct employee surveys on an annual term initiative that could impact upon several aspects of our basis going forward.
As part of Project 2020 we are exploring and evaluating trends, changes and innovations in design, We have active employee consultation committees in our regional architecture, technology, materials and methodology.
Our aim is business units and communicate with employees via our half yearly to shape, design and future-proof as much as practicably possible, Teamtalk employee magazine and regular Teamtalk Express email the homes that we build for 2020 and beyond.
As part of this process newsletter.
Our intranet includes a wide range of employee information we are engaging with organisations such as BRE and the Zero from human resources policies to advice for employees on sustainable Carbon Hub and also with academics, suppliers, industry and living.
It also includes an Open Door forum that puts employees research bodies.
As part of our Research we will also look at and directly in touch with our Chief Executive.
During 2015 we introduced evaluate developments taking place in Europe, Asia, and America.
a new customer services forum on our intranet and invited employees to voice their thoughts, concerns, ideas and initiatives on key customer Workstreams include product design, demographics, customer questions.
Employees could post comments within the forum or send proling, alternative build methodologies, smart homes technology, an email to our Chief Executive or Customer Director.
sustainability of raw materials and other initiatives.
We are looking at a range of environmental issues including energy efficiency, The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular zero-energy buildings, renewable energy technologies, resource communication throughout the Group on both business-related efficiency and carbon reduction.
issues and issues of general interest.
There is a formal Employee Consultative Committee structure in place in all operations and More information on Project 2020 appears in the Chief Executives elected representatives meet with management to consult on Review on page 29. appropriate issues.
Intranet systems are continually updated which We are working on a number of additional sustainability initiatives provide a valuable communication tool across the Group and an that relate to green infrastructure.
We use a Carbon Futures approach important facility for providing employees with access to a wide to quantify the carbon dioxide emissions for entire sites.
This approach range of information.
Information is regularly cascaded throughout takes into account the buildings but also the carbon absorption of green the Group via email including regular communications from the infrastructure throughout the site.
We have undertaken a Carbon Futures Chief Executive and via verbal briengs and by management assessment for our Prince Philip Barracks development at Bordon.
The Companys internal magazine provides We are also a partner in Newcastle Universitys SUCCESS Sustainable further communication.
Urban Carbon Capture: Engineering Soils for Climate Change project.
This project is investigating the performance of soils to act as a carbon sink and how to maximise sequestration of atmospheric carbon dioxide through natural soil processes including Carbon Capture Gardens.
89 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information continued The Company promotes share ownership as widely as possible Employment of people with disabilities across the business.
In addition to the various share-related reward It is our policy that people with disabilities should have fair plans described in the Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 85, the consideration for all vacancies within the Group.
Company also offers a scheme whereby employees i. e. generally those The Company is therefore committed, where possible, to ensuring who do not participate in the Executive Incentive Scheme cash bonus that people with disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply scheme are offered the opportunity each year to exchange part of any for employment and to achieve progress once employed.
They cash bonus awarded for exceptional performance, into shares of the will be treated so as to ensure that they have an equal opportunity Company, offering a 20% enhancement to the value if taken entirely in to be selected, trained and promoted.
In addition, every reasonable shares and retained for a period.
The scheme has operated since 2012 effort is made for disabled persons to be retained in the employment and in 2015 resulted in 481,160 shares 2014: 724,297 being acquired of the Group by investigating the possibility of making reasonable by 301 employees 2014: 326. adjustments to the job, workplace or equipment.
In addition to the above, the Company also maintains two all-employee We have increased the number of employees with disabilities recruited.
share plans, namely, the Save As You Earn share option plan and the Working with key partners, we hope to increase more permanent and Share Incentive Plan SIP, which are offered as widely as possible secondment opportunities for people with disabilities: across the Group.
Over half of our eligible employees participate in one or both plans or are otherwise already shareholders of the Company.
For example, we have recently engaged with the Leonard Cheshire Disability Change 100 Programme, a charity that provides talented Equal opportunities disabled students with the opportunity to participate in a 100 day We strive to treat our employees fairly and with respect at all times.
summer internship and professional development programme.
We have policies and processes in place to ensure that we act Feedback from the students who participated in the programme in accordance with our cultural values which encompass equal in 2015 has been very positive and we intend to engage with the opportunities, anti-corruption and whistleblowing.
We encourage programme further during 2016. our employees and subcontractors to speak up about concerns over any wrongdoing at work and provide access to an independent Charitable donations reporting hotline service.
The Company has a Charity Committee, which operates within written terms of reference and charitable guidelines.
The Committees We remain committed to the belief that embracing diversity and aims are to monitor and review charitable donations made by regional inclusion will enable Taylor Wimpey to succeed through a workforce businesses as against the guidelines and to assess and administer larger that is creative and innovative.
We continue to actively embrace as donations centrally.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive much as possible the business and local communities in which we and includes representatives from all areas and levels of the Groups UK operate and will strive to reflect their richness and character, including businesses, from the Board to apprentices and trainees.
The Company such aspects as gender, race and religion but also diversity of thought, and the Committee encourage non-financial contributions also and for background and experience.
employees to participate in charitable causes.
As set out in our Diversity Policy, we remain committed to equality During the year, Group companies donated 559,424 2014: 272,790 of opportunity in all of our employment practices, policies and to various charities in the UK.
In addition, many employees at all levels procedures across the Group.
To this end, within the framework around the country gave up their work and free time to participate of applicable law, we are committed, wherever practicable, to in fundraising events for charitable causes including Centrepoint: achieving and maintaining a workforce which broadly reflects The Youth Adventure Trust: and Crisis UK.
that of the local catchment area within which we operate.
Further information on the Groups donations, activities and initiatives No employee or potential employee will receive less favourable can be found in Our Business Model on page 32 and in the Sustainability treatment due to their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic Report 2015 which will shortly be available on the Companys website: origin, religion, political or other opinion, affiliation, gender, sexual www.
co. uk corporate sustainability orientation, marital status, family connections, age, membership or non-membership of a trade union, or disability, unless justifiable Political donations in exceptional circumstances, for example due to health and safety The Company has a policy of not making donations to political parties, considerations particularly on construction sites.
Instruction on equal and has not made any this year and neither does it intend to make opportunities is part of the induction programme and diversity is also any going forward.
The Company does support certain industry-wide promoted through awareness training locally and by its inclusion as organisations which directly assist the housebuilding industry such as a business priority at presentations around the business.
the Home Builders Federation and the Confederation of British Industry.
Whilst we do not regard this support as political in nature in any way, Our Diversity Policy can be found on the Companys the Companies Act 2006 definition of political organisations and website: www.
co. uk corporate sustainability our-policies related terms is very wide and in certain circumstances a donation or a subscription to such organisations or to a charity could retrospectively be categorised as a political donation in the eyes of the law.
Accordingly, as a matter of prudency, the Company will be seeking the usual annual dispensation from its shareholders at the 2016 AGM so as to be able to continue with the above memberships and make charitable donations up to defined levels without inadvertently breaching the applicable legislation.
90 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Agreements The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Apart from a small number of borrowing agreements, pursuant to that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and which the Company borrows or is able to borrow money, which could disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of potentially be terminated by the other party upon a change of control the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements of the Company, there are no significant contracts or agreements which comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Important events since the year end other irregularities.
There have been no important events affecting the Company or any The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of of its subsidiary undertakings since 31 December 2015. the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Directors responsibilities statement website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for In accordance with Provision C. 1 of the Code, the Directors are required, each financial year.
Accordingly, Directors are required to prepare the inter alia, to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts provides the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and performance, business model and strategy.
Details of how this was Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent addressed are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 67.
Company financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law as adopted from Responsibility statement 1 January 2015 and reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: In accordance with company law, the Directors must not approve the The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Company for that period.
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development are required to: and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable that they face.
The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been and understandable and provide the information necessary for followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business explained in the financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless This Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue on 29 February 2016. in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Properly select and apply accounting policies.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner James Jordan that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Group Legal Director and Company Secretary information.
Taylor Wimpey plc Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic 29 February 2016 requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
91 Financial Statements 94 Independent Auditors Report 98 Consolidated Income Statement 99 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 100 Consolidated Balance Sheet 101 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 102 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 103 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 135 Company Balance Sheet 136 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 137 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 142 Particulars of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures 146 Five Year Review 92 93
