R i s k m s a e n v i a t c g e e j m b o e Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Approach to Risk Management Actively managing risks Our risk assessment and management process As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces a number of risks and uncertainties in the course of the day to day operations.
It is only by effectively identifying and managing these risks that we are able to deliver on our strategic objectives of improving operating profit margin, return on net operating assets, cash conversion and net asset value across the cycle.
The successful management of risk is The registers identify key operational, financial The risks identified are assessed for the essential to enable the Group to deliver its and strategic risks to the business, with potential effect on the Groups short and long strategic objectives.
Our risk management strategic risks being identified as part of the term value.
Our risk registers are refreshed and internal control framework defines the business planning process.
Our risk registers on an ongoing basis as part of our financial procedures that manage and mitigate risks take into account the significance of health, planning cycle.
The registers feed into a formal facing the business, rather than eliminate risk safety and environmental issues, together with half yearly risk assessment that identifies the altogether and can only provide reasonable social and governance matters of the Group Principal Risks and Uncertainties see pages and not absolute assurance against material and use a standardised methodology for the 36 to 37 and other key risks which are misstatement or loss.
monitored closely, and allows the Board to re-evaluate the identified strategic risks facing Our risk management framework consists The standard methodology used in risk the Group.
of risk registers that are maintained at all management requires each identified risk to organisational levels, which detail the risks be assessed and measured according to a risk faced by the Group, its operating companies matrix.
This matrix accounts for the likelihood and the central teams that support the and impact of each risk, mitigating actions business and a wider stakeholder group.
and hence the remaining or residual risk.
Group Material Risk Register Principal Risks & The Material Risk Register is Uncertainties maintained by the GMT and The Board, supported by the GMT reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Audit Committee, will with the promotion, removal or identify the Principal Risks based change of risks being made as on the assessment of the Material part of their assessment of the Risk Register.
The Principal Risks Risk Summaries and their views will be disclosed with the half of the changes in the strategic and full year results.
Feedback risks facing the Group.
Each regarding changes to Principal Group Principal Material Risk on the register Risks is given to the risk owners Material Risk will be assessed as to its likely Risks & who have been identified to Register Uncertainties impact based on the Groups manage the specific risk on standard methodology.
BU & Central Risk Register BU & Central Forecast From individual risk registers, and Planning Process all risks are grouped to produce All risk registers are re-evaluated BU & Central a Business Unit and Central and completed as part of the BU & Central Risk Register Risk Summary.
These Risk formal budget process every six Forecast Summaries are discussed and months.
Each regional business and Planning assessed by the GMT and Audit and central function will re-assess Process Committee.
The assessment with their Senior Management includes a comparison of the teams the risks that they are Risk Summaries over time, facing and update their risk taking into account any changes registers as required.
in the risk impact assessment and their views on the strategic risks facing the Group.
34 n c t i g a e n t d a r t m S i t i g a t i o n Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Risk materiality process The Board determines the nature and extent of the Principal Risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, whilst maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Board oversees the risk management and Principal Risks probability internal control framework of the Group.
The Whilst the Principal Risks to the Group being residual likelihood of each risk following our risk Chief Executive is responsible for implementing able to execute its business strategy have mitigation strategies in both 2015 and 2014. any necessary improvements, with the support not fundamentally changed since 2014, the The table does not consider the relative size of of the GMT.
In line with the UK Corporate likelihood of the risk factors occurring may the associated financial or reputational impacts Governance Code, the Board holds formal have changed.
The table shows the for each Principal Risk item.
The Board reviews the risk prole of the Group and the significant risks Low Medium High with the mitigating factors.
At the meeting in February 2016, the Board A Government policy and completed its annual assessment of risks.
2014 2015 planning regulations This followed the Audit Committees formal assessment of risk, which was supported by the detailed risk assessment by the GMT, B Impact of market environment on 2015 2014 and their review of the effectiveness of internal mortgage availability and demand controls.
The key risks affecting the Group were identied and agreed with the Board.
C Material costs and In addition to the principal industry related 2015 2014 availability of subcontractors risks set out in the following pages, we also monitor closely a number of other key internal and external factors.
For example, we have D Ability to attract and retain 2015 2014 considered the impact to the Group from the high-calibre employees EU referendum and in the event the UK elects to leave the EU.
We have also considered those factors that are likely to affect our 2014 E Land purchasing reputation e. g. inadequate customer 2015 service and potential cyber-attacks.
We have enhanced our customer service processes 2014 F Site and product safety and departments to ensure that the quality of 2015 our homes is delivered to our high standards.
We have also invested in IT security to help ensure that we identify any cyber-attacks and respond accordingly.
Viability statement This operational plan includes the financial prices, build costs, planning environments, In accordance with provision C2.2 of considerations attached to the Principal Risks the number of completions and margins.
the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate of the business as described on pages 36 to Based on the results of this analysis, the Governance Code, the Directors have 37.
It includes macroeconomic and industry Directors have a reasonable expectation assessed the prospects of the Company over wide projections as well as matters specic that the Company will be able to continue a longer period than the 12 months required to the Group.
To mitigate the risks inherent in operation and meet its liabilities as they by the Going Concern provision.
The Board in forward-looking projections, budgets are fall due over the three year period of subject to sensitivity analysis on a series of conducted their review for a period of their assessment.
three years, which is in line with the Groups realistically possible changes to principal assumptions, such as variations in house operational planning and risk management review periods.
