STRATEGIC REPORT | OUR STRATEGY How will we deliver our vision?
Our vision is to become the leading global provider of speciality food ingredients and solutions.
SPECIALITY FOOD INGREDIENTS What is our focus?
What were our priorities for the year?
Global network Broaden customer interaction through our Robust number of customer visits to global network of innovation, applications our major innovation centres.
Our global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA is helping us Deep customer and technical services facilities.
Invested in building strategic partnerships transform the way we work with our customers.
It has: We will: Improve quality and size of customer with customers.
Continue to broaden customer engagement project pipeline.
Rolled out customer management Teams of highly qualified food technologists and other specialists interaction through our global Convert more customer relationships programme training across our Speciality Full sensory capabilities network of innovation, applications We believe that getting closer intostrategic partnerships.
Food Ingredients global sales force.
Full culinary capabilities and technical services facilities to our customers, developing High-tech food laboratories Increase the conversion rates from a better understanding of their An advanced pilot plant.
our customer project pipeline needs, and changing theways Convert more customer relationships we interact with them, is a key We have also developed a global network of regional applications and into strategic partnerships.
technical services facilities enabling us to interact directly with customers part of delivering sustainable long-term growth.
across our markets, helping them develop new concepts and get them to market faster.
We will: Ideas within our innovation pipeline are derived fromthreesources: Launch new products from within Commercialised recent innovations.
Launch new products from within our ourinnovation pipeline.
Added CLARIA Functional Clean-Label innovation pipeline Innovation In-house innovation Increase sales from recently launched Starches to our texturants portfolio.
Increase sales from recently launched New products or technologies generated by in-house scientists Creating a world-class innovation products.
Launched DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose, products capability is a key part of our Open innovation Continue to leverage open innovation a low-calorie sugar, as part of our Work collaboratively with customers growth strategy.
The Innovation Leverages our global network of research institutions, start-ups anduniversities network and partnerships.
through the innovation cycle to Provides route to market for technologies or products close tocommercial launch Continued to progress projects through and Commercial Development accelerate post launch growth.
group ICD provides a fully Tate & Lyle venture funds integrated approach to developing Invests in early-stage speciality food ingredients concepts by partnering with and commercialising innovation to research institutions, other venture funds, universitiesand entrepreneurs meet our customers needs.
We will: Expanding in new markets and customer channels Deliver another year of strong organic Continued organic growth in Asia Pacific Deliver strong organic growth Building dedicated speciality food ingredients businesses in both AsiaPacific growth in emerging markets.
in emerging markets New markets and and Latin America Complete acquisition of Winway Expanded presence in Asia Pacific and Fully integrate Tate & Lyle Gemacom Investing in local infrastructure with the opening of regional applications and Biotechnology and continue to expand our Latin America through two acquisitions Tech operations in Brazil and customer channels technical services facilities in Asia Pacific and Latin America presence in emerging markets.
and re-purchase of distribution rights.
continue to expand our presence Changing the way we work with local and multinational food and beverage Leverage dedicated resources to develop Created teams in North America to Our aim is to build our presence in emerging markets manufacturers by establishing more direct relationships relationships with both SMEs and food specifically focus on different market significantly in emerging markets Drive growth in emerging markets Selective acquisitions to broaden geographic presence service customers.
and in those parts of the speciality through sales teams focused on food ingredients market where specific customer channels and historically we have been solutions under-represented.
BULK INGREDIENTS What is our focus?
We will: Optimise margins by improving product Took further actions to dampen volatility.
We aim to achieve sustained cash generation by: Drive performance through leveraging mix and delivering further operational Margins weakened during the year Dampening earnings volatility by diversifying our income streams strong customer relationships and Sustained cash efficiencies.
principally as a result of supply into new areas and reducing our exposures to commodity price volatility customer service excellence Divert a greater share of corn grind constraints.
Optimising margins by gradually moving the corn that we grind away Optimise margins by improving generation to Speciality Food Ingredients.
Leveraged bulk processing expertise from markets that are in long-term structural decline into higher margin product mix and delivering further Further investment in strengthening in supporting the development of a new speciality food ingredients operational efficiencies Within Bulk Ingredients, our security of raw material supply.
Ensuring the security of our supply of raw materials Divert a greater share of corn grind strategy is to provide stable, Leverage bulk processing assets and Reducing costs and continuing to improve operational efficiency to Speciality Food Ingredients long-term cash flow to help expertise to drive diversification.
Managing cash flows by consistent focus on converting our profits to cash Leverage bulk processing assets fund growth in Speciality and expertise to drive further Food Ingredients.
diversification and accretive earnings growth.
18 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION SPECIALITY FOOD INGREDIENTS What is our focus?
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 19
