GOVERNANCE | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Who is on our Board?
Sir Peter Gershon CBE Javed Ahmed Nick Hampton Chairman and Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer of the Nominations Committee Joined the Board as Chief Executive in Joined the Board on 1 September 2014 Joined the Board in February 2009.
Pakistani as Chief Financial Officer.
Skills and experience Prior to joining Tate & Lyle, Nick held a Skills and experience Javed has extensive international experience number of senior roles over his 20-year Sir Peter has broad business experience from a wide variety of senior management career at PepsiCo, most recently as Senior gained in large and complex international roles.
He started his career with Procter & Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, organisations and has held various Gamble and then spent five years with Europe in 2008, a position he held until 2013 leadership roles in the UK private and public Bain & Co. before joining Benckiser later when he was appointed PepsiCos sector.
He was formerly Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser plc in 1992 where he President, West Europe Region and Senior Premier Farnell plc: Chief Executive of the gained significant experience ofinternational Vice President Commercial, Europe.
Office of Government Commerce: Managing consumer goods markets and held positions Other directorships Director of Marconi Electronic Systems: including Senior Vice President, Northern None and a member of the UK Defence Academy Europe: President, North America: Executive Advisory Board.
Vice President, North America, Australia and New Zealand: and Executive Vice Other directorships President, Europe.
Chairman of National Grid plc Chairman of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance Other directorships Member of the advisory board of Member of Mosaic Advisory Board The Sutton Trust Douglas Hurt Virginia Kamsky Anne Minto OBE Non-Executive Director and Chairman Non-Executive Director and Chairman Non-Executive Director of the Audit Committee Joined the Board in December 2012. of the Remuneration Committee Joined the Board in December 2012.
Joined the Board in March 2010.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Ginny is Chairman and Chief Executive Anne was Group Director of Human Douglas is a Chartered Accountant.
He Officer of Kamsky Associates, Inc. She Resources at Centrica plc from 2002 until her held anumber of financial andoperational also served asan Executive Vice President retirement in 2011.
She previously held senior roles, including US and European senior of Foamex International, Inc. and held a management roles at Shell UK and Smiths management positions, at GlaxoSmithKline variety of leadership roles at Chase Group plc and was Deputy Director-General and was Finance Director of IMI plc between Manhattan Bank.
of the Engineering Employers Federation.
Other directorships Other directorships Other directorships Non-executive director of Dana Holding Senior Independent Director of Corporation Non-executive director of Shire PLC Vice Chairman of the University of Vesuvius plc Member of the US Secretary of the Navy Advisory Panel Aberdeen Development Trust Non-executive director of the Court of Trustee of the China Institute in America the University of Aberdeen Non-executive director of ExlService Holdings, Inc. 44 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Liz Airey William Camp Paul Forman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in January 2007. of the Corporate Responsibility Joined the Board on 1 January 2015.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Aged 66.
Liz was an investment banker and has Paul is Group Chief Executive of Coats extensive financial experience inthe UK Skills and experience Group plc, a leading global industrial thread andinternationally.
She was formerly Bill worked for 22 years for Archer Daniels and consumer textiles crafts business.
FinanceDirector of Monument Oil and Midland Company, before retiring in 2007, Prior to joining Coats in 2009, he was Group Gas plc.
and held a variety of management positions Chief Executive of Low & Bonar PLC, a including Executive Vice President, Asia global performance materials group, and Other directorships Strategy: Executive Vice President, was previously Managing Director at Unipart Chairman of Jupiter Fund Management Processing: and Senior Vice President, International, a leading European automotive PLC GlobalOil Seeds, Cocoa andWheat Milling.
Paul also served as Senior Independent Director of Dunedin a non-executive director at Brammer PLC Enterprise Investment TrustPLC Other directorships from 2006 to 2010.
Senior Advisor, Naxos Capital Director of Culligan International Other directorships Director of First Illinois Corporation Group Chief Executive of Coats Group plc Who is on the Board Committees?
Certain responsibilities are delegated to four Board Committees, details of which are provided on pages 53 to 57 and on page 70.
Dr Ajai Puri Lucie Gilbert Audit Committee Non-Executive Director and Chairman Company Secretary Douglas Hurt Chairman, Liz Airey, of the Research Advisory Group Appointed Company Secretary in August Paul Forman, Anne Minto Joined the Board in April 2012.
Skills and experience Anne Minto Chairman, William Camp, Skills and experience Lucie was appointed Deputy Company 1 Paul Forman, Sir Peter Gershon, Ajai has a PhD in Food Science from the Secretary in 2008 and previously held senior Dr Ajai Puri University of Maryland, USA.
He was company secretarial roles in several listed President Research, Development and companies, including Experian PLC and Brit Nominations Committee Product Integrity and amember of the Insurance Holdings PLC.
Lucie is a Fellow Sir Peter Gershon Chairman, Executive Board of Koninklijke Numico N. V. ofthe Institute of Chartered Secretaries Javed Ahmed, Liz Airey, William Camp, from 2003 to 2007.
Prior to this, Ajai held and Administrators and an Associate of Paul Forman, Douglas Hurt, Virginia various management positions with The theChartered Insurance Institute.
Kamsky, Anne Minto, Dr Ajai Puri Coca-Cola Company, culminating in Senior Directorships Vice President Technical, The Minute Maid Corporate Responsibility None Company.
CR Committee William Camp Chairman, Douglas Hurt, Other directorships Sir Peter Gershon, Virginia Kamsky, Non-executive director of Britannia Dr Ajai Puri Industries Limited Non-executive director of Firmenich SA 1 Sir Peter Gershon will cease to be a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 June 2015.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 45
