STRATEGIC REPORT | OUR BUSINESS MODEL How does the business create value?
OUR BUSINESS MODEL We use our know-how, built up over many years, to transform raw materials into high-quality food ingredients.
These ingredients are used by our customers to create foods consumed by millions Global Raw of people every day.
Operations materials p4 How do we deliver value Sourcing raw materials Most of our ingredients are produced from crops, to our customers?
predominantly corn, and we have a sustainable agriculture programme in place.
Ensuring we have Consumer insights drive our product development, a reliable source of corn is essential.
This involves and, togetherwith the sector knowledge of our food understanding commodity markets and developing scientists, differentiate us from our competitors and long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with helpour customers meet consumer needs.
We apply producers to secure supply.
ourmanufacturing know-how toturn agricultural raw materials into high-quality food ingredients for delivery to our customers worldwide.
p42 Sustainable agriculture 16 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION s t n e i B d u e l r k g I n I n g d o What differentiates us?
How has our business Customer relationships model evolved this year?
We work closely with customers to provide them with high quality ingredients and solutions to address the challenge of creating great We established Global Operations, a single global organisation with tasting, healthy food that meets the needs of consumers.
Our local responsibility for raw material procurement, manufacturing, supply customer teams work in regional application centres to solve chain and logistics.
customers taste, ingredient and formulation challenges locally.
A truly global operating model We operate through two global divisions Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
Each division has its own sales force and commercial operations to provide the necessary focus and expertise to customers in their respective end markets.
Both divisions are supported by a single manufacturing network producing high-quality ingredients.
Innovation andCommercial Development Customers Consumers p4 Producing high-quality Provenance, quality ingredients in a and ethical standards Food safety, quality, provenance and traceability are sustainable way very high priorities for our business.
Our manufacturing facilities are externally certified to the Global Food Safety During the year our production facilities included: Initiative each year.
Supply chain ethics are important A network of corn wet mills in North America and Europe to us and our customers.
We work with our suppliers to that manufacture both bulk and speciality ingredients help them achieve our clear standards, both operational Two large-scale continuous SPLENDA Sucralose processing and ethical, and meet our compliance needs.
We use facilities in the US and Singapore the Sedex social and ethical compliance system across A number of other ingredient processing plants and our manufacturing facilities and increasingly in our smaller-scale blending facilities.
Environmental sustainability We work to address environmental considerations across the life-cycle of our products We seek to improve environmental sustainability by using resources such as energy and water more efficiently, and reducing waste.
p42 p43 Product safety, quality and sustainability Standards in our supply chain Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 17 r o e F d y i e t i l n a t i s c e p S
