R e c o v e r y h t w Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Investment Case Creating value by delivering quality through the housing cycle for all our stakeholders The UK housing cycle We operate in a cyclical market.
This can be very easy to forget when the market is positive.
We take a much more proactive approach to managing the cycle than has historically been done before.
We also aim to be transparent about our position in the cycle, and the impact it has on our performance.
Our strategy does more than acknowledge that we operate in a cyclical market, it is a fundamental part of it.
Our strategy is an agile framework, which is set for the long term and adapted through the cycle, with the consistent underpin of a strong set of strategic principles.
These principles are set out on page 16 and remain as valid now as when we first set them out in 2011.
Our strategic objectives for the long term and for the medium term are set out on pages 16 to 17.
A key part of our proactive management of the cycle is the ability to adapt our tactics dependent on market conditions and external factors.
Whilst we do not expect to be able to forecast the timing of this entirely accurately, determining the stage of the cycle affects our decisions ranging from land investment through to returning cash to shareholders.
The positive market conditions have enabled us to make significant progress towards our medium term targets and deliver ahead of our own expectations.
See pages 8 to 9 for further information on some of the key housing market indicators, along with a brief commentary on their relevance to the UK housing cycle.
Our view of the UK housing cycle We believe that we are currently Growth Growth is driven by unsatisfied demand and greater accessibility to operating in the Growth stages of the and affordability of finance housing market, with good accessibility There is house price growth in this stage at varying levels to mortgages for customers and house As maturity is reached, there is good accessibility to mortgages, price growth.
The land market remains at affordable levels, and house price growth at sensible levels stable and positive.
It is important to monitor the Growth stage closely for unsustainability which can lead to a peak in the market.
The peak can be preceded by a period of heat and unsustainable growth in house prices and transaction levels.
This is typically accompanied by a very competitive land market Downturn This is an extremely volatile stage of the housing cycle In this environment, house prices and housing transactions will fall to a trough The speed and depth of the downturn will depend on the Housing cycle preceding peak of the market and the conditions leading to this Recovery This stage begins when there is a relative period of stability after extreme volatility and a oor has been established in house prices Transactions will still be at low levels and we would expect house prices to remain stable at lower levels, or see small incremental increases 6 o r G D o w n t u r n Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Why invest in Taylor Wimpey With an experienced Management Team and in-depth local expertise, our strategy is differentiated by a long term focus on value and on achieving both our financial and quality objectives sustainably in a cyclical environment.
This has enabled us to deliver a record operating profit margin in 2015 and return over 308 million to shareholders.
In 2015 total shareholder return increased by over 55%.
Opportunity led land investment How we are different The strength and quality of our landbank is a key differentiator for Taylor Wimpey.
We have invested in new land at the right time and in the right locations, growing the scale, quality and future profitability.
This has been supported by record conversions from our strategic pipeline.
This approach has enabled us to consistently grow our margins and returns to 1 shareholders, and set new records in both, whilst continuing to invest in the future of the business.
For mor KPI e information see pages 22 to 23 Proactive management of the cycle How we are different We operate in the cyclical housing market and we take a much more proactive approach to managing the cycle, than has historically been done before.
Our focus is on delivering sustainable growth and value generation in a balanced, consistent way through the housing cycle.
2 For mor KPI e information see pages 6 and 8 to 9 Underlying quality business How we are different We believe that the underlying quality of the business is very important and is worth investing in.
This includes our non-negotiable approach to health and safety and our focus on our people, product and customer service.
3 For mor KPI e information see pages 18 to 33 Returns focused How we are different Our dividend policy is inherently linked to our strategy and reects the cyclical environment in which we operate.
Our policy consists of a regular maintenance dividend, which is currently set at 2% of net assets, the top end of our range of 1-2%, in addition to a return of surplus cash to shareholders at the appropriate times in the cycle.
A key part of the 4 rationale of our approach to running the business in a sustainable way is to give investors a significant, consistent and reliable dividend stream.
For more information see pages 13 and 88 KPI Long term sustainable focus How we are different We are focused on the long term sustainability of the business, not just the short term performance.
Sustainability is fundamental to each aspect of our Business Model and value cycle and, therefore, to the long term success of our business.
5 For mor KPI e information see pages 18 to 33 7
