Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model We create value and deliver quality across the housing cycle Our Business Model is based on a value cycle and each component of the value cycle is important in order to achieve our strategic objectives.
This is presented at UK level only as most of the metrics do not apply to our Spanish business.
Focus on customer service Customer service is and will continue to be a key area of focus for us.
We want to be similarly uncompromising about customer service as we are about health and safety.
We have therefore moved customer service into the centre of our Business Model.
Our aim is to keep the customer at the centre of our decisions and coordinate our input to deliver a quality home first time, together with great customer service throughout our Customer Journey.
Integration of sustainability Our commitment to sustainability supports our integrated approach in reporting key sustainability information through each part of our Business Model.
This also evidences how we apply our sustainability strategy across the business.
Our sustainability strategy sets out a range of strategic commitments that relate to key social, environmental and economic issues.
The strategy works alongside our energy and carbon strategy.
Our six sustainability principles apply to all of our business activities, from identifying land through to completing and handing over our developments.
These can be found within our Sustainability Report 2015.
Delivering customer service Selecting land Managing the planning and community engagement process Buying a home is a significant financial and Land is the critical raw material for our Designing a sustainable community emotional investment.
We aim to make buying, business and the ability to purchase the right that meets the needs of local residents, is moving into and living in a Taylor Wimpey sites in the right locations at the right price attractive to potential customers, and provides home as easy and enjoyable as possible and at the right point in the cycle is a key attractive returns for shareholders, requires for our customers.
a consultative and iterative process of community engagement.
For mor KPI e information see pages 20 to 21 For mor KPI e information see pages 22 to 23 For mor KPI e information see pages 24 to 25 Getting the homebuilding Our people Optimising value basics right We work with selected subcontractors Our employees are our greatest asset.
Developing sustainable homes and communities and build using carefully sourced materials Having great teams improves our business is a time-consuming process, but this provides to ensure that the homes that we sell are of success and the retention of high-quality us with the opportunity to undertake regular a high quality and are built safely, efficiently, trained employees is key to achieving reviews over the life of each development cost-effectively and with minimal impact our strategic goals.
For mor KPI e information see pages 26 to 29 For mor KPI e information see pages 30 to 31 For mor KPI e information see pages 32 to 33 Our sustainability strategy Our aim is to build homes and communities We aim to balance the long term economic We believe that sustainability is that our customers will aspire to and that stability and growth of our Company fundamental to each aspect of our enhance the local area with our responsibilities to the environment, value cycle and, therefore, to the long society and the economies in which term success of ourCompany We are working towards being a more we operate socially, environmentally and economically Operating sustainably is both sustainable company the right thingto do and brings significant businessbenefits 18 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 t n e m e O g u a r g p n e e o d p l n e a g n i n n s r a e l d l P o h e k a t s r u o r www.
co. uk Our Business Model o Sold Delivering customer service Our cultural principles If something is worth doing, its worth doing properly We strive to enhance the environment and local community and to run our business in a way that If we make a mistake, we put it right is sustainable We are competitive and dont accept second best Knowledge and information are key, we take our We will not compromise in ensuring that everyone decisions on fact not emotion leaves our sites safe and well We value individuals from diverse backgrounds We behave with integrity, are honest and forthright and aim to develop potential to the mutual benefit and support each other of the individual and the business 19 f e u l a v g n i s i m i t p H O o m d e n b a u i l l d g i n n i g t c b e a l s e i S c s Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model continued Delivering customer service We remain focused on customer service and are committed to delivering an excellent customer service to all of our customers at every stage of their journey mentioned, we have now completed an What makes us different What does this mean?
in-depth review of every aspect and stage Our strong and sustainable We want to ensure that we always deliver of our Taylor Wimpey customer experience customer base our homes to the quality standard to which and Customer Journey, to identify areas We have a strong and sustainable customer we aspire and that our service is always of improvement and to deliver a better base, with over 90% owner-occupiers.
First proactive, positive and professional.
homebuying experience for our customers.
time buyers accounted for 36% of our Our customer vision is to help our This review included comprehensive research completions 2014: 36%.
We continue to customers make our houses their homes.
and extensive engagement with our customers offer a wide range of products to assist first and employees.
Approximately 600 of our time buyers.
Our prices are set locally and Why is it important?
customers from across the UK took part we use targeted customer incentives, on a in the research.
Whilst we operate in a cyclical market, site by site basis, knowing that our customers we strongly believe that a customer centric circumstances vary.
Investors accounted for Following the review, we are now in the approach is needed throughout the cycle.
process of rolling out our new customer We recognise that buying a home is a major approach across the business with our Sales and marketing financial and emotional investment and focus on three main areas: our culture, Over the years our customers communication it is critical that we give our customers structure and process, which are explained preferences have changed, with visits to our the right experience.
As part of this new website from mobile devices increasing by approach, we have developed four customer over 100% in 2015.
As well as increased How are we different?
commitments as set out below and a visits, during 2015 our website has proven We are now in the process of rolling out customer mindset focused on delivering very successful in generating c. 30% more our new customer approach across the proactive, positive and professional service telephone calls than in 2014. business with our focus on three main which we want to ingrain in our behaviour with areas: our culture, structure and process.
During 2015, we reviewed and updated the our customers.
40 existing modules of our award-winning Sales Academy and introduced community Four Taylor Wimpey Our approach engagement and sustainability modules.
customer commitments During 2015, we achieved a customer We also continued to develop our satisfaction score of 86% 2014: 87%.
disappointed that this has slipped.
Right first time We continue to make improvements to delivering a quality home and service has been our online capabilities, including our website more challenging since 2014 because of the and use of social media such as Facebook, industry growth and resource shortages, we Twitter and Instagram.
recognise that we need to do more in order to 2.
Communicate well continue to meet and exceed our customers The Governments Help to Buy equity expectations.
We continue to consider loan scheme remains very popular with our customer service a key priority for our customers.
During 2015 approximately 37% business alongside health and safety.
of total sales used the scheme and we worked 3.
Keep promises with c. 5,200 households to take the first step During 2015 we completed an in-depth review to home ownership or to move up the housing of every aspect and stage of our Customer ladder 2014: 35% and c. 4,400.
Approximately Journey, to identify areas of improvement and 77% of sales through Help to Buy in 2015 were to deliver a better homebuying experience 4.
Find solutions to first time buyers 2014: 73%.
Throughout the review, our focus has been on understanding our Customer service review customers priorities to enable us to deliver at We want to ensure that we always deliver and ahead of expectations.
This is to ensure our homes to the quality standard to which we that going forward we deliver the right product, aspire and that our service is always proactive, supported by excellent customer service to all positive and professional.
As previously our customers at every stage of their journey.
Sold 20 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Award winning show homes Our strategy in action Our Lyde Green Glass House show home in Bristol won Best Marketing Initiative in the Housebuilder Awards 2015.
The four bedroom show home features a fully glassed front so visitors can take a look inside without even stepping through the door.
We believe that this is the only show home of its kind in the country.
We also won a Silver Award in the Best Use of Digital in the Property Sector category at the 2015 Digital Impact Awards for the pioneering technology used in the show home at our Chobham Manor development in Stratford, London.
Best Marketing Initiative Our culture Our KPIs Our progress in 2015 Regardless of the role that any Taylor Customer satisfaction Wimpey employee fulfils in the business, we all Completed an in-depth review of every KPI contribute to the final result for our customers.
aspect and stage of our Customer Objective Across our business operations, we want our Journey We strive to maintain and improve our employees to adopt our customer centric Restructured our Customer Service teams customer satisfaction scores at 90% or above.
culture and to understand the important role Introduced a new mindset and four they play with our customers.
Our aim is Definition customer commitments to keep our customer at the centre of our Percentage of customers satisfied or very Developed and started to implement new decisions and coordinate our input to deliver satisfied with the quality of their new home as training for our Customer Service teams a quality home first time, with great service measured by the National New Homes survey throughout our Customer Journey.
This will Reviewed and updated the 40 existing undertaken by the NHBC on behalf of the HBF help our customers to settle in quickly and modules of our Sales Academy and eight weeks after legal completion.
make our houses their homes.
introduced community engagement and sustainability modules Why is it key to our strategy?
During 2015 we developed and started to implement a training programme to Our priorities for 2016 Delivering high levels of customer satisfaction equip those employees interacting with enhances the reputation of our business and Continue to roll out our new customer our customers with the right skills to deliver reduces the costs associated with rectifying approach across the business a consistently great service.
We will strive to improve our customer Our structure and process satisfaction scores During 2015 we restructured our Customer Continue to implement training for all 100 Service teams, strengthening them with the 90% our customer facing employees 87% 86% introduction of a Head of Customer Service Launch our new Marketing Academy and new Customer Relations Managers roles in all of our regional businesses.
The Head of 50 Customer Service will be part of each regional business Senior Management team to ensure that customer service remains a top priority.
Customer Relations Managers will be based 0 2013 2014 2015 at site locations and will deliver key functional aspects of our new and improved Customer Journey: most notably our relaunched quality assurance process, which will scrutinise and ensure the high standard of quality we expect in our product delivery.
This will also reduce the customer service requirements on our site Production teams, giving them more capacity and time to concentrate on ensuring that our homes are built to the highest quality standards.
More information on all these areas can be found in our Sustainability Report 2015.
21 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model continued Selecting land We believe that the strength and quality of our landbank is one of the key differentiators for Taylor Wimpey Good quality land with planning is the critical Strategic pipeline in place for What does this mean?
raw material for our business investing at the long term success Good quality land with planning is the right time in the right location and enhancing The quality of our short term landbank is critical raw material for our business.
and realising the value of our investments supported by the strategic pipeline and is Strategic pipeline is any land without through effective planning is key, in all market realised as we convert potential plots with residential planning consent.
We believe that the strength no residential planning into the short term and quality of our landbank is one of the landbank with planning.
The strategic pipeline Why is it important?
key differentiators for Taylor Wimpey.
enables us to optimise our cash flows and underpins our profitability, providing a source The value we create for our shareholders, The changes to planning policy over the of land supply at enhanced margins.
In order to communities and customers all starts with last five years have resulted in an improved enhance the value of our strategic land pipeline, land and it is the area we add most value, environment, however we recognise that we our regional businesses and Strategic Land through planning, allowing us to generate have not seen the full benefits flow through teams work together to achieve planning the best quality returns.
Land is a scarce into the planning system yet.
consents on our strategic land sites that resource and we want to make the best align with the detailed design and delivery use of what is available, select the right What makes us different requirements of the local area and business.
sites and transform them into vibrant and Short term land market opportunities thriving communities.
We have one of the largest strategic pipelines We are within the optimum range of our short in the sector which stands at c. 107k potential term landbank at c. 76k plots.
This equates How are we different?
plots 31 December 2014: c. 110k potential to c. 5.7 years of supply at current completion Our investment and scale is based on plots, enhanced by our strong reputation and levels and is broadly spread across the country our view of land quality and capital risk long history of working with land vendors and in targeted high-quality locations, supported in a cyclical market.
We are focused on local communities to progress land through the by strong demographics and economics.
selecting the right land and developing it in planning system.
During 2015, we converted a We therefore have an extremely selective and a sustainable manner.
We have one of the further 8,660 plots from the strategic pipeline to targeted approach to further land investment, largest strategic land pipelines in the sector the short term landbank 2014: 10,779 plots, which is broadly at replacement level in with c. 107k potential plots.
With the benefit significantly in excess of our medium term the short term land market.
This is focused of this, and having reached our optimum conversion target of c. 6,000 plots per annum.
on where we can add value and seek to range of short term landbank, we have an This provides us with increased choices and maximise the returns from our investments, extremely selective and targeted approach opportunities.
We continue to invest in new while continuing to ensure that the business is to land investment.
This allows us to focus opportunities, and in 2015 we added a net optimally positioned to deliver those returns on on where we can add value and maximise 5.8k new potential plots to the strategic a sustainable basis.
The average selling price our returns.
In 2015, a record 47% in the UK short term owned landbank in 2015 of our completions were sourced from the increased by 10.4% to 245k 2014: 222k, strategic pipeline 2014: 39%.
Our aim is to driven by the quality of additions and the Our approach sustain completions from the strategic pipeline improvement in the housing market.
We are highly selective with regard to the of over 40% per annum in the medium term.
types of sites that we buy, focusing on the The average life cycle of a site is approximately quality of the land rather than the number of Sustainability five years, which makes it critically important plots acquired.
We employ dedicated Land We have guidance for employees on our that we continue to assess the capital lock-up teams in each of our 24 regional businesses, approach to sustainable development to on a regional and Group basis.
The short term who use their expertise and local knowledge ensure consistency across our 24 land market remained disciplined throughout to identify potential high-quality, sustainable regional businesses.
2015, enabling us to continue to source sites.
Our landbank is broadly spread across and invest in short term value-creating the country in targeted quality locations, land opportunities at investment operating supported by strong demographics and profit margins of around 20% and a return economics, in the villages, towns and on capital employed in excess of 27%.
cities where people want to live.
In 2015 we acquired 6,971 plots in the short term land market 2014: 8,315 plots.
22 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk A major urban extension Great Western Park is a new community which is supporting the sustainable growth of Didcot.
Our Strategic Land and Planning team carried out the initial land assembly bringing together different pieces of land and bought the site.
They then worked to secure outline planning consent, including the negotiation of a complicated Section 106 planning agreement.
The masterplan for this 3,000-home development is divided into three character areas and includes 62 hectares of both natural and formally landscaped open space.
3,000 homes Our KPIs Our progress in 2015 Strategically sourced completions Owned and controlled plots with planning We are within the optimum range of our KPI KPI short term landbank at c. 76k plots Objective Objective Converted 8,660 plots from the strategic We aim to source more than 40% of our We aim to maintain sufficient land in our pipeline to the short term landbank completions from the strategic pipeline portfolio to enable us to remain selective per annum in the medium term.
Added net c. 5.8k new potential plots to the strategic pipeline, which Definition Definition stood at c. 107k potential plots as Number of completions which originally did not The total number of plots that we either own at 31 December 2015 have planning permission when we acquired or control, with some form of planning consent.
47% of 2015 completions were a commercial interest in them, expressed as sourced from the strategic land a percentage of total completions.
pipeline 2014: 39% Why is it key to our strategy?
Why is it key to our strategy?
Our priorities for 2016 The strategic pipeline enhances our ability to We operate in a planning constrained Continue to work with land vendors, increase the contribution per legal completion environment.
Having a portfolio of land in communities and local authorities to because of the inherent margin uplift from place is key to planning the required scale convert land from the strategic pipeline strategic plots.
It also allows us to take of our building operations for future home into the short term landbank a long term view of sites.
It enables us to be selective in land purchases.
Continue to focus on selecting the right land and developing it in a sustainable manner 50 80,000 47% 39% 29% 25 40,000 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 23 70,628 75,136 75,710 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model continued Managing the planning and community engagement process We aim to be the industry leader in managing the planning and community engagement process We believe that a positive and structured Stakeholder engagement What does this mean?
approach to working with others is at the We undertake tailored, development specific We aim to be the industry leader in all heart of a successful scheme.
We work in engagement with local communities on each aspects of planning and to obtain the right partnership with the communities in which and every one of our UK sites.
We introduced planning consents that enable us to respond we build to deliver homes that meet their a comprehensive community engagement to a changing market, reflect the desires of requirements and aspirations.
framework in 2011 and have been regularly our customer base and deliver the quality improving and updating it since.
We are proud During 2015 we worked with communities, homes we want to build, whilst meeting of our approach to community engagement planners and landowners to convert a further our financial objectives.
and the way that our employees deliver it.
8,660 plots from the strategic pipeline.
The framework applies to every stage of the Why is it important?
development timeline, from pre-planning What makes us different consultation to ongoing communication We believe that local communities should Serving our communities with existing and new residents during have a say in development.
This enables us We work with communities and our and after construction.
to achieve the right planning permission and partners to create well designed, sustainable ensure our developments are valued by their During 2015 we developed guidance on neighbourhoods where our customers want local communities.
Building Our Reputation, which advises to live, grow and thrive and which are valued employees on communicating with local by our local communities.
communities and customers throughout the We actively seek the views of local We are pleased that 96% of employees lifetime of our developments.
Transparency is who responded to the 2015 employee communities and other stakeholders.
We an essential part of community engagement, develop a tailored planning and community survey agree that Taylor Wimpey benefits local and we want local communities to know communities.
In 2015, we contributed over engagement strategy for each site and work what we are doing and why we are doing closely with communities and other local 335 million to local communities in which we it, as well as how they can express an build across the UK via planning obligations, stakeholders throughout all aspects of the opinion or get involved.
We believe that we have providing local infrastructure, affordable homes, public transport and education facilities a responsibility to contribute to our local communities and that this responsibility 2014: 300 million.
In 2015 we contributed over 335 million via planning obligations.
Meeting the neighbours Our approach We design and build our developments so Whilst we have a national presence, we that they can become thriving and vibrant operate as a very local homebuilder with 24 communities where people enjoy living.
regional businesses across the country.
We Our engagement with customers continues are committed to working with local people when they have moved in and we regularly and stakeholders throughout the planning host events to help build community spirit.
process and seek to engage, consult and For example, we held a Meet Your work in partnership with communities and all Neighbour event at our Forge Wood interested stakeholders both before we submit development in Crawley in 2015.
We a planning application and during the life cycle provided a barbecue and childrens of the site.
In this way we can listen to their entertainment so our new residents could concerns and, where possible, incorporate get to know each other and start to turn these within our plans.
our development into a true community.
24 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Engagement with schools We regularly engage with schools located close to our developments, raising awareness of the dangers of live construction sites and giving schoolchildren an opportunity to learn about the housebuilding process.
We have developed curriculum packs to provide our regional businesses with a range of interesting and interactive projects they can use with schools throughout the different stages of our engagement process.
These educational resource packs have been distributed to over 130 schools throughout the UK and are available to any school.
130 schools Planning is fundamental to the success of Our KPIs Our progress in 2015 our business and we aim to progress sites Conversion of strategic pipeline through the planning process to enable us Continued to embed our comprehensive KPI to develop our sites as efficiently as possible.
community engagement framework Objective We support the Governments Localism Act Launched an economic benefits toolkit We aim to convert on average c. 6k plots and work closely with local authorities and for use during consultation per annum in the medium term.
communities throughout the planning process Continued to undertake social media and beyond.
We aim to create development Definition engagement trials proposals that are financially viable, benefit the Number of plots, which originally did not Distributed curriculum packs to 130 local community and provide the housing that have planning permission when we took a schools across the UK to help our is needed.
As outlined on page 22, we believe commercial interest in the land, which we have regional businesses to engage with that changes to planning policy over the promoted through the planning process and local pupils and their parents last five years have resulted in an improved achieved some form of planning on.
In this way environment, however we recognise that Our Taylor Wimpey Schools Initiative we convert potential plots from the strategic we have not seen the full benefits flow was Highly Commended in the Best pipeline to plots in the short term landbank.
through into the planning system yet.
Community Initiative category at the Housebuilder Awards 2015 Online engagement Why is it key to our strategy?
Our Taylor Wimpey website includes pages for The strength of our strategic pipeline plots Our priorities for 2016 all of our proposed developments throughout without residential planning consent is a key Continue to maintain best practice the UK.
We have continued to develop and differentiator and enables us to be extremely community engagement improve the functionality and content of selective in the short term land market and these pages in 2015.
Embed our Building Our Reputation also reduces the pressure on the teams.
We employee guidance work with landowners, local authorities and We are committed to publishing information Continue to investigate ways to engage communities to promote the strategic pipeline on proposed developments online so that with a wider and more diverse range of through the planning process and achieve members of local communities and other people within local communities planning permission.
interested parties can easily find out what we are planning and where.
We would like people to register their interest so we can update 12,000 them on progress.
Above all, we want wider and more diverse groups and individuals to get involved and tell us their views, whether positive or negative.
Moving forward, we 6,000 will continue to investigate digital aspects of community engagement.
During 2015, we continued to undertake social media trials in community engagement to 0 2013 2014 2015 understand how social media could contribute to our community engagement process.
25 9,210 10,779 8,660 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model continued Getting the homebuilding basics right Getting the basics right means effective processes are consistently applied across all our regional businesses in our 2015 employee survey which the Home Builders Federations Home Builder What does this mean?
found that 98% of our staff who took part Average AIIR of 361 for 2014 15 and the We work with selected subcontractors and believe that Taylor Wimpey takes health Health and Safety Executives Construction build using carefully sourced materials to and safety seriously.
Industry Average AIIR of 421 for 2014 15. ensure that the homes that we sell are of We reduced our AIIR for major injuries per We believe that sustainability is fundamental to a high quality and are built safely, efficiently, 100,000 employees and contractors from each aspect of our Business Model and value cost-effectively and with minimal impact 26 in 2014 to 18 in 2015. cycle and, therefore, to the long term success on the environment.
Operating sustainably is both We continue to engage extensively with the right thing to do and makes good business contractors and operatives on health and Why is it important?
We aim to balance the long term safety, working in partnership with them to nd There is nothing more important to us economic stability and growth of the Company safer ways of carrying out their tasks on site.
than providing a safe place in which our with our responsibilities to the environment, During 2015 we introduced stages two and employees and subcontractors can work.
society and the local economies in which three of The Operatives Journey, a major new We are also committed to high standards of we operate.
HSE Theme Initiative that we launched in 2014. environmental management.
The building The overall initiative is aimed at improving process is carefully managed by our We strive to be an open, transparent and how we communicate the health and safety responsive company for all our stakeholders site-based and regional Production teams message to our supply chain and those that to ensure quality, minimise disruption to and to work with them to understand and work on our sites and how we can gain the address the wider social, economic and residents in the surrounding areas, and to help of our partnering contractors to share protect and enhance the value of each site.
environmental impacts resulting from our ownership for maintaining a safe site.
We are particularly pleased that, How are we different?
based on our employee survey, 97% of Quality product range respondents believe that Taylor Wimpey We build homes that people want to live in.
We believe that quality objectives matter is committed to being an ethical and We are proud of the homes we build and as much as financial objectives.
Our focus is sustainably is both the right thing to do on providing high-quality, well-designed, and makes good business sense.
We are committed to high standards of sustainable homes and communities that meet environmental management.
The building the needs and aspirations of local residents.
process is carefully managed by our site Our approach Our mix of homes is informed by the local area.
based and regional Production teams to ensure The health and safety of individuals on our quality, minimise disruption to residents in the We continue to offer a wide range of homes sites is, and will remain, our non-negotiable surrounding areas, and to protect and enhance from apartments to five bedroom houses, with top priority.
We are committed to providing the value of each site.
prices ranging from under 100k to over 3m.
a safe place in which our employees and In 2015, the proportion of apartments in our subcontractors can work and our customers What makes us different private completions was 13% 2014: 18%.
We will not compromise in ensuring The average square footage of our private We do not compromise on health that everyone leaves our sites safe and well.
completions also increased slightly to 1,072 and safety We have a comprehensive Health, Safety square feet 2014: 1,042 square feet.
We have continued to keep our Annual Injury and Environmental HSE Strategy and a fully Incidence Rate AIIR for reportable injuries low During 2015, Taylor Wimpey once again integrated HSE management system in place at 175 per 100,000 employees and contractors delivered an excellent performance in the which is regularly reviewed at all levels.
Our in 2015, a 16.3% reduction on our 2014 AIIR National House-Building Councils NHBC commitment to health and safety was reected 2014: 209.
Our AIIR compares favourably with Pride in the Job Awards 2015, with 63 of our 26 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Award winning development Our Cranbrook development in East Devon was named Best Overall Development as well as winner of the Affordable Housing category at the Inside Housing Magazines Top 60 Awards.
The awards celebrate success and innovation in delivering new homes and looks at achievement in 10 key areas, from design to sustainability.
Best Overall Development Site Managers awarded Quality Awards 2014: During 2015, the improved market resulted Our contributions to the environment 70, 20 Seals of Excellence 2014: 23 and three in underlying build cost increases excluding We strive to keep any adverse effects that our being named Regional Winners 2014: five.
activities may have on local environments and More information can be found in our case This was weighted towards labour, with communities, such as pollution and ecological study on page 31. materials largely keeping pace with the damage, to a minimum and to make a positive growth of the industry.
Looking forward, contribution to the environment of the areas Our standard house plan range, which is material pricing remains broadly flat and we we build in.
used on over 70% of our sites, offers many have seen a reduced rate of inflation on labour advantages, including efficient procurement We acknowledge the global threat of climate pricing.
We anticipate underlying build costs opportunities, quality of design, and build and change and are committed to reducing our will increase by 3-4% in 2016. cost control within the regulatory framework.
emissions, energy use and waste and Taylor Wimpey Logistics plays an important reviewing water use.
In 2015 we reduced We continually review our product offering part in our supply chain management, scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions intensity to ensure we are able to reflect our customers particularly in the current environment, by 7.8%, supported by our energy reduction lifestyles and expectations.
During 2015, we providing us with an alternative route to delivery programmes in place in our offices, on our launched a detailed review of our standard and aiding efficiency with the preparation of sites and within our show homes and sales specification across the full range.
just in time build packs for each stage of the areas.
Further information can be found on building process.
More information on this part Looking longer term, we have commissioned pages 28 to 29, together with our Global of our business can be found on our website.
a major long term initiative, working with a range of stakeholders including customers We have improved our UK net operating asset We implemented a new specification and suppliers, to explore and evaluate trends, to 1.34 times 2014: 1.29 times and turn for site compounds in 2014 which means changes and new innovations in design, routinely consider opportunities on sites which that all of our new site compounds are now architecture, technology, materials and we already own to assess possible ways of highly energy-efficient.
We also launched a methodology with the aim of shaping, bringing forward the delivery of much needed programme of retrofitting appropriate existing designing and future-proofing our product new homes.
More information on this can be compounds and retrofitted 169 compounds range.
More information can be found in found on pages 32 to 33. in 2015. our case study on page 29.
We build much more than homes We have a comprehensive Waste and Build costs and efficiency Our operations add significant additional value Resource Strategy and Action Plan for our Our scale affords us the benefit of strong to the communities in which we build.
For housing operations and our supply chain.
We purchasing power and we achieve significant example, through job creation, improvements focus on seeing materials as resources, using cost savings across our regional businesses to local environments and infrastructure, as well them more efficiently through design and on with national agreements with a number as contributions to education and community site recovery, and keeping generated waste of suppliers.
facilities, creating sustainable and vibrant to a minimum.
More information can be found on pages 24 to 25.
27 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model continued Getting the homebuilding basics right continued During 2015 our construction waste Our KPIs Our progress in 2015 increased to 4.78 tonnes per 100 square Health and safety metres of completed build 2014: 4.58 tonnes.
We have continued to keep our AIIR for KPI Our previous research indicated that nationally reportable injuries low Objective there has been upward pressure on waste Made progress on our energy reduction We are committed to providing a safe place generation figures, however we have continued programme on sites, offices and in in which our employees and subcontractors our internal investigation on what is happening sales areas can work and our customers can live.
across our industry and within Taylor Wimpey.
Our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions Definition Environmentally sustainable homes intensity reduced by 7.8% in 2015 New homes are considerably more Reviewed internal processes with regard Reportable all reportable injury frequency energy-efficient than older housing stock rate per 100,000 employees and contractors to flood risk and undertook a water audit and we are committed to building increasingly and biodiversity review Annual Injury Incidence Rate.
energy-efficient homes in line with Government Continued to review biodiversity practices policy and Building Regulations.
Our fabric Why is it key to our strategy?
and started to develop a tool to measure first approach to energy efficiency, which Health and safety is our non-negotiable biodiversity performance on sites concentrates on highly insulated walls and top priority.
As well as having a moral duty to Launched a detailed review of our windows, helps owners to save energy maintain safety on site, accidents and injuries standard specification across the and money.
can have a detrimental impact on the business full range through additional costs, delays and or Global Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG reputational damage.
Our priorities for 2016 We continue to take steps to improve our approach to climate change mitigation, Improve or, as a minimum, maintain adaptation and transparency.
Data is provided the same AIIR as achieved in 2015 as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 Continue to embed The Operatives 220 and covers all of our operations including our 209 207 Journey, our HSE Theme Initiative sites, offices, business travel, as a result of 175 Continue with our detailed review of waste disposal and throughout our supply our standard specification chains.
Our 2015 scope 1 and 2 data has 110 been externally verified by the Carbon Trust.
Reduce our mains water consumption from our metered UK offices by 6% per full time employee Further information can be found within our Continue to progress towards our carbon KPI 0 2013 2014 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 intensity reduction target of 25% by 2018 Develop and implement action plans for reducing construction waste 28 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Research and development We have commissioned a long term initiative Project 2020 to explore and evaluate trends, changes and new innovations in design, architecture, technology, materials and methodology in the housebuilding industry with the aim of shaping, designing and futureproofing our product range for 2020 and beyond fully reflecting our customers lifestyles and expectations.
As part of this project, we are engaging with a well-known organisations such as BRE, RIBA and the Zero Carbon Hub as well as our customers, academics, suppliers, industry and research bodies to look at workstreams such as product design, customer demographics, alternative build methodologies, new technologies and build materials, supply chain and more.
Future-proofing our product Sustainability reporting recognition Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions for period Taylor Wimpey continues to be a constituent 1 January to 31 December of the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index and the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Category total emissions tonnes CO e 2015 2014 2013 2 We participate annually in CDP the Carbon Emissions from combustion of fuel scope 1 17,769 16,436 16,177 Disclosure Project and received a score Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and of 97% D in 2015 2014: 88% C. cooling purchased for own use scope 2 a location-based method 11,159 11,885 10,526 Total scope 1 and 2 emissions 28,928 28,322 26,703 Emissions Intensity: Emissions per 100 sqm of completed homes 2.26 2.45 2.48 Percentage reduction in direct carbon b emissions intensity scope 1 and 2 7.8% 1.2% # a 2015 scope 2 emissions market-based method : 12,947 tonnes CO e: see our Carbon Reporting Methodology 2 Statement at www.
com corporate sustainability for calculations for market-based methodology.
b Not available due to using a new emissions measurement methodology in 2013 due to the introduction of Mandatory Carbon Reporting.
This means that 2013 data is not entirely comparable to previous years.
Methodology We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the Mandatory Carbon Reporting MCR requirements, and emission factors from the Governments GHG Conversion Factors for our corporate reporting.
We have reported on the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 apart from the exclusions noted.
The reported sources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements and are for emissions over which we have financial control.
We do not have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
The following sources of emissions were excluded or part-excluded from this report: Fugitive emissions refrigerant gases : excluded on the basis of expected immateriality and difficulty in acquiring data Gas and electricity of part-exchange properties: excluded on the basis of immateriality due to very few completions of this type Certain joint venture properties: where Taylor Wimpey was not part of the handover process.
In these cases other housebuilders have captured MCR-related data CHP District Heating Systems: In most cases Taylor Wimpey pays for the output fuels supplied to plots and therefore we have reported these.
In most cases Taylor Wimpey does not pay for the input fuel and as a result we have not reported on these supplies 29 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model continued Our people We aim to be the employer of choice in the housebuilding industry Following this, and reecting the size and scale Following the continuing success of our What does this mean?
of the business in the South, we separated the Sales Academy model, we have designed We want to attract and retain the best South into two divisions the Central and South a Production Academy for launch in 2016 to people and treat them fairly and with respect.
West Division, and the London and South East give our employees a clear career path to site Division and we are now operating within this management through a structured programme Why is it important?
that will develop their technical expertise.
We plan to expand this academy model to Our people are our greatest asset and are During 2015, we continued our review of all commercial and land and planning disciplines a competitive advantage that cannot be aspects of our human resources strategy and in the future.
We believe that engaged extensively with different areas of the having the right people with the right skills business, to ensure our employee proposition At Taylor Wimpey, we strive to treat our at all levels in our organisation is critical to is attractive and, therefore, helps to retain our employees fairly and with respect.
During building a quality, sustainable business employees whilst at the same time encouraging 2015 we continued to focus on diversity and and delivering our strategy.
them to go the extra mile for our customers, inclusion through our Senior Management now and into the future.
This is also particularly working party and, according to our employee How are we different?
survey, 92% of respondents believe that Taylor We have consistently invested in our people Wimpey is committed to becoming a more through traineeships, apprenticeships and What makes us different inclusive organisation with a diverse workforce.
During 2015, we Our people matter We believe that employee share ownership developed a new strategic approach to our Our people are one of our greatest competitive is important.
We are pleased that over 50% human resources and have further improved advantages.
We fundamentally believe that of all eligible employees participated in the our approach to talent, succession, having the right people with the right skills at Companys all-employee share schemes or resourcing and reward, as well as all levels in our organisation is critical to building held shares of the Company during 2015 learning and development.
a quality, sustainable business and delivering and we plan to extend this eligibility further.
Our approach During 2015 we directly employed, on average, Supporting disability in the workplace We aim to be the employer of choice in the 4,299 people across the UK.
In an increasingly housebuilding industry, attracting and retaining During 2015 we worked with the Leonard competitive market, we are pleased that our the best people to establish a culture that gives Cheshire Disability Change100 programme, voluntary employee turnover rate remained individuals the opportunity and support to a work placement and mentoring initiative to low, relative to history, at 13.3% during 2015 develop to their full potential, regardless of kickstart the careers of talented university 2014: 13.6%.
Three Investing in our people university students undertook 100-day paid We will continue to seek a balance of internal We believe that building a pipeline of talent is work placements with us.
Feedback from and external appointments, in order to combine key.
Through our learning and development the graduates has been extremely positive career development with the introduction of initiatives, aimed at growing talent from within, with all of them conrming they would new perspectives and innovative approaches.
we give our employees the opportunities and recommend us to future students for a skills to become our future business leaders As previously set out on page 15, in 2015 placement.
We learned a great deal from and develop their careers with Taylor Wimpey.
we reviewed the operational structure of the these very successful placements and look During 2015, we recruited 98 apprentices business and future operational reporting forward to continuing our participation in including 29 site management apprentices, lines, which resulted in some changes and the programme in 2016.
22 management trainees and 19 graduates, enhancements in the GMT.
whilst improving our apprenticeship and trainee schemes across a number of areas 2014 total: 168.
30 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Pride in the Job Awards In 2015 63 of our Site Managers received Quality Awards in the NHBCs annual Pride in the Job Awards 2015.
A further 20 also achieved a Seal of Excellence Award and three of them were named Regional Winners.
These were Steve Cole from our East Anglia regional business, Andy Shaw from our Midlands regional business and Rob Mitchell from our North East regional business.
63 Quality Awards Since its implementation in 2014, 73 Our KPIs Our progress in 2015 employees have taken advantage of our Employee turnover enhanced employee discount scheme of up Continued our review of all aspects of KPI to 20% subject to certain criteria when buying human resources and the employee Objective a Taylor Wimpey home.
The scheme aims to proposition We aim to attract and retain the best people reward and encourage long term loyalty of Continued to focus on diversity in the industry and give them opportunities our employees.
and inclusion to develop to their full potential.
Employee engagement Further improved our approach to talent, We are committed to really understanding Denition succession, resourcing and reward, as what our employees think we do well, what Voluntary resignations divided by number well as learning and development we could improve upon and how likely they of total employees.
Continued to develop our approach are to stay with the business.
We undertook to learning and development for our an employee survey called Talkback in 2015.
production and technical employees This survey enabled us to measure how Our employees are one of our greatest engaged our employees are and take action competitive advantages and they are crucial Our priorities for 2016 where necessary to ensure our employee to executing the strategy.
We aim to keep proposition really reects our company culture.
Produce a diversity and inclusion strategy this within a range of 5-15%.
We will continue to conduct annual employee and action plans surveys for the foreseeable future.
More Continue to develop our new talent and 20 information on this, including key highlights succession process and competency can be found on page 15. framework 13.6% Review our apprentice and management 13.3% Human rights We support the United Nations Universal trainee programmes 10 Declaration of Human Rights and have policies Continue to improve employee benets and processes in place to ensure that we act in accordance with our cultural values which encompass areas such as business conduct, 0 2014 2015 equal opportunities, anti-corruption and whistleblowing.
We do not consider this a material issue in our business.
31 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Model continued Optimising value We look to optimise the value of each site not only during the initial acquisition process, but throughout the planning and development stages so that the original value is not only protected but enhanced We actively review every site, both new and Partnerships What does this mean?
old, through our value improvement meetings We strive to be an open, transparent and which are held quarterly and are tracked This approach covers everything we do responsive company for all our stakeholders centrally.
This allows us to benchmark our and to work with them to understand and from enhancing value on our sites through success and identify opportunities for further cost savings or better planning through to address the wider social, economic and improvement, ranging from replanning of sites environmental impacts resulting from our ensuring we are adding value to the charities to redesign and selective enhancements to we support and our wider partnerships.
Based on our employee survey, our specification.
We are committed to not 97% of our employees who took part believe Why is it important?
only delivering what we set out to do but that Taylor Wimpey is committed to being by delivering more, instilling a discipline an ethical and responsible company.
The discipline of continually reviewing of capturing inflation.
We also delivered and challenging ourselves to do more, During 2015, we continued our partnership an additional 2.8% of contribution margin ensures we do more than simply protect with Centrepoint and our network of six on 2015 completions on land acquired the business, we enhance the value.
regional homelessness charities across the post-2009.
UK, and remained a patron of CRASH, the How are we different?
We have improved our UK net operating construction and property industrys charity for We have a relentless focus on value at every to 1.34 times 2014: 1.29 times asset turn homeless people.
Our Chief Executive, Pete stage of our Business Model and this is and routinely consider opportunities on sites Redfern, also continued his work as a Trustee ingrained into the Taylor Wimpey mindset.
which we already own to assess possible at Crisis, the national charity for single We also balance our desire to improve ways of bringing forward the delivery of homeless people.
quality with a focus on making our assets much needed new homes.
In addition to helping to tackle homelessness work harder for us and our stakeholders.
Higher return potential and housing issues, in 2015 we supported a We have established a dedicated team, range of other charitable causes at a national Our approach Major Developments, to evaluate the increasing as well as regional level.
In total, during 2015 We achieve this optimisation of value by number of land opportunities, which have a we donated and fundraised over 746k for undertaking a series of thorough reviews of high return potential and a lower land and registered charities 2014: 539k, in addition each site at all stages of its life cycle, using our capital risk funding structure.
The Major to c. 112k for other organisations, such as value improvement and tracking processes to Developments team also enables us to control Scout groups and other local community ensure that we are continually optimising and and enhance large scale land opportunities.
More information about our charity delivering the value within our land portfolio.
The team seeks acquisition structures that partnerships can be found within our require low upfront capital investment, offering Sustainability Report 2015.
What makes us different reduced land risk and, therefore, reduced During 2015 we reviewed our Charity Policy exposure to longer term market changes.
Capturing value to ensure that it is fully aligned to our values We currently have c. 20 sites within our Our ability to constantly increase efficiency as a business and that we continue to make a land portfolio which also broadly have these and tightly control costs is part of the Taylor difference to the charities that we work with by characteristics and continue to see these Wimpey culture and remains central to actively contributing financially, with our time, structures as an attractive route to creating delivering enhanced returns.
This extends energy or through leadership.
Going forward additional value through enhanced returns to and encompasses all aspects of our we will support selected charities at both a on capital employed and, importantly, as a business as we strive to optimise and national and regional level with a focus on means to further reduce future cyclical risk.
capture value at every level from projects which promote aspiration and More information can be found in the case procurement through to delivery.
education in disadvantaged areas and study on page 33. intervening to help tackle homelessness for seriously economically disadvantaged groups in the UK.
More information can be found within our new Charity and Community Support Policy on our website.
32 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Creating additional value We have a dedicated team Major Developments to evaluate the increasing number of land opportunities available, focusing on high return potential with a lower land and capital risk funding structure.
As a result of this teams work, we have been selected by the Ministry of Defence MoD as partners for developing Prince Phillip Barracks in Hampshire together with Dorchester Regeneration.
This joint venture draws on our land development and planning expertise, and the Development Agreement with the MoD allows us to use a funding structure that requires low upfront capital investment, offering reduced land risk and, therefore, reduced exposure to longer term market changes.
We view this approach as an attractive route to creating additional value and, importantly, as a means to further reduce future cyclical risk.
High return potential Our KPIs Forward order book as a percentage Our progress in 2015 of completions Contribution per legal completion Continued to review every site through KPI KPI our value improvement meetings Objective Objective We were involved in a wide range We look to maximise and maintain a strong We strive to maximise the level of contribution of charitable and community activities order book.
throughout the UK Reviewed our Charity Policy Definition Definition We have been selected by the Ministry of Revenue, net of incentives, less build costs, The number of homes in our year end order Defence MoD as partners for developing book, expressed as a percentage of the land costs and direct selling costs, divided by Prince Phillip Barracks in Hampshire the number of homes completed excluding number of homes completed during the together with Dorchester Regeneration year excluding joint ventures.
see case study above Average selling prices on completions Why is it key to our strategy?
increased in 2015 to 230k 2014: 213k Our strategy is focused on value and we A strong order book provides our customers benefiting from our focus on better with good visibility and provides greater stability continue to prioritise both short and long quality locations and market sales price term margin performance.
Increasing the for business planning and enhances our ability increases, which contributed to the rise to deliver the best experience for customers contribution per plot is a key driver to in contribution per legal completion achieving this.
whilst driving the most value for shareholders.
to 59.4k from 49.6k in 2014 Our priorities for 2016 60 60 59.4k 57.4% 56.6% 53.7% We will continue to actively review every 49.6k site and optimise new sales outlets prior 38.8k to opening 30 30 Explore further ways to have a major impact on charities through partnership as well as donations 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 33
