Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements aim to earn both their loyalty which delivers long term, sustainable revenues and their enthusiasm for our business model which creates growth through referrals.
We have taken a number of steps in this direction over the past few years, culminating most recently in our decision to stop giving introductory short-term discounts to new Members as an incentive to switch: this reflects our view that it is unfair for existing loyal Members not to be able to benefit from the same prices and tariffs as those offered to new ones.
Simultaneously we are progressively segmenting our customer base, based on their expected lifetime value to us as a Member.
Consistent with this approach, we have recently increased our focus on attracting owner-occupiers taking multiple services from us, by introducing a range of extra benefits from which they can choose.
We continue to invest heavily in our bespoke IT systems: these enable us to integrate all the services we supply into a single monthly bill, supported by just one set of central overheads including all administrative and membership service functions.
This highly efficient cost base is a key factor in enabling us to offer attractive pricing and a wide range of valuable benefits to our Members, a secure residual income to our Partners, and a growing dividend stream to shareholders.
We are extremely pleased with the further progress we have made this year in taking advantage of our multiple key points of differentiation, and towards securing our position as the Nations most trusted utility provider.
STRATEGY Our strategy is to build on the consistent strong organic growth we have historically delivered in order to progressively increase our share of the markets in which we operate.
We will achieve this by maintaining our focus on delivering best-in-class service and support to our Members, treating them fairly, investing in our systems and staff, simplifying and, where possible, improving the competitiveness of our services even further, encouraging existing Members to talk about the unique benefits we offer to their friends and acquaintances, and making it easier for our Partners to promote our services more effectively.
We continue to explore the possibility of expanding our current range of core services into areas where we can leverage our existing strong relationship with our Members to offer them improved service and better value on services they currently obtain from other suppliers, whilst also delivering a satisfactory return for our shareholders.
Later this year we hope to introduce a range of insurance products, such as home and motor policies: in the medium to longer term, other potential new services might include water, television, and home emergency cover including boiler cover.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 11
