THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 105 OTHER DISCLOSURES for up to an aggregate of 43,749,517 Ordinary Shares, representing SHARE CAPITAL approximately 5.0% of the issued share capital of the Company at the The Company has the following three classes of shares in issue: date of issue subsequently increased by 4,440,376 Ordinary Shares Number of shares to reflect the Companys Rights Issue and Placing in June 2013 at in issue at a subscription price per share of 0.10 subsequently adjusted to 30 September Name 2015 0.0857282 to reflect the Companys Rights Issue and Placing in June 2013.
In addition, the Warrants issued as part of the bank facility Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each 1,535,851,316 announced in November 2011 were re-priced to the same exercise Deferred Shares of 0.09 each 934,981,938 price.
During the year, the final remaining Warrantholder exercised its Subscription Rights in respect of 1,939,126 Warrants exercised into Deferred Shares of 1 each 50,000 Ordinary Shares on a one-for-one basis.
Therefore, as at 20 November Ordinary Shares 2015, there were no outstanding Warrants.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company Allotments of shares during the year available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up On 15 December 2014, the Company issued 1,939,126 Ordinary Shares of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and with an aggregate, nominal value of 19,391.26 to a Warrantholder speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the for an aggregate price of 166,237.78.
On 6 March 2015, the Company right to one vote.
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium issued 73,135,777 Ordinary Shares with an aggregate, nominal value segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock of 731,357.77 to Fosun International Limited for an aggregate price of Exchanges main market.
Further details in relation to the Companys share capital can be found on page 159.
Employees who hold shares under the Thomas Cook BAYE or vested shares under any of the Companys executive share plans as detailed ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION on page 103, are sent a Form of Instruction by the relevant trustee The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may only in respect of any general meetings of the Company, so that they be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of may instruct the trustee to vote on their behalf.
The Articles are available on the Companys website under the Companys executive share plans are not voted at atwww.
Deferred Shares AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the The Company currently does not have authority to purchase Company.
On a winding up, the holders of the Sterling-denominated itsown shares.
Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each Sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the SHARE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS holders of the Euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled The Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Companys to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each Euroshares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level which could denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary jeopardise the Companys entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy Shares and Sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in the benefit of any authority, permission, licence or privilege which aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon.
The holders of both classes it, or any of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and which enables an of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak air service to be operated each an Operating Right.
In particular, orvote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general meetings EC Council Regulation 1008 2008 on the licensing of air carriers of the Company.
requiresthat an air carrier must be majority-owned and effectively controlled by EEA nationals.
Warrants As part of the 200 million bank facility announced on 25 November The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a Permitted 2011, the Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders, giving Maximum on the number of the Companys shares which may holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe for be owned by non-EEA nationals at such level as they believe is in up to an aggregate of 42,914,639 Ordinary Shares representing compliance with the Operating Rights, provided that the Permitted approximately 4.9% of the issued share capital of the Company at Maximum shall not be less than 40% of the total number of thedate of issue at a subscription price per share of 19.875 pence.
On 10 May 2012, the Company issued Warrants as part of the bank facility amendment announced on 5 May 2012 to certain of its lenders, giving holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 106 GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares, of shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies the Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant corporate or other entities have an interest such shares are referred Shares may give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring to as Relevant Shares in the Articles.
An interest in this context and, subject to any such determination, will have regard to the is widely defined see below.
The Directors may require relevant chronological order in which particulars of Relevant Shares have been, members or other persons to provide them with information to or are to be, entered in the Separate Register unless to do so would, enable them to determine whether shares are, or are to be treated in the sole opinion of the Directors, be inequitable.
If there is a change as, Relevant Shares.
If such information is not provided, then the in any applicable law or the Company or any subsidiary receives any Directors will be able, at their discretion, to determine that shares direction, notice or requirement from any state or regulatory authority, to which their enquiries relate be treated as Relevant Shares.
which, in either case, necessitates such action to overcome, prevent Registered shareholders will also be obliged to notify the Company or avoid an Intervening Act, then the Directors may either: if they are aware either a that any share they hold ought to be lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose or b that any share consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening they hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be Act: or so treated.
In this case, the Directors shall request such information resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected and evidence as they require to satisfy themselves that the share Shares.
The rights of the Directors referred to above apply until should not be treated as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such such time as the Directors resolve that grounds for the making evidence, shall remove particulars of the share from the Separate of a determination have ceased to exist, whereupon the Directors Register.
If the Directors determine that such action is necessary must withdraw such determination.
The Permitted Maximum is set to protect any Operating Right due to the fact that an Intervening at 40%.
This Permitted Maximum may be varied by the Directors.
Act an Intervening Act being the refusal, withholding, suspension If the Directors resolve to vary the Permitted Maximum to deal or revocation of any Operating Right or the imposition of materially with shares as Affected Shares or relax the ownership limitations, inhibiting conditions or limitations on any Operating Right in either they shall publish in at least one national newspaper in the UK and case, by any state or regulatory authority has taken place or is in any other country in which the shares are listed notice of the contemplated, threatened or intended, or the aggregate number of determination and of any Permitted Maximum.
Relevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur or the The Directors shall publish, from time to time: ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening Act may occur, the Directors may, among other things: information as to the number of shares particulars of which have been entered on the Separate Register: and identify those shares that give rise to the need to take action and any Permitted Maximum that has been specified.
treat such shares as affected shares Affected Shares see below : or The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares that unless such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, may subsist at any time which may not, save in the circumstances together with such evidence as the Directors may require, stating referred to below, be lower than 40% of the total number of issued a the name and nationality of any person who has an interest in any shares and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this Permitted such share and, if the Directors require, the nature and extent of such Maximum as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors may serve interest or b such other information as the Directors may from time a notice an Affected Share Notice in respect of any Affected to time determine.
An Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifies, have the The Directors may decline to register any person as a shareholder effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, vote if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
and speak at general meetings which they would otherwise have Existing holders of shares will be recorded on the Special Register had as a consequence of holding such shares.
Such an Affected unless and until they have certified, to the satisfaction of the Share Notice can, if it so specifies, also require the recipient to Company, that they are EEA nationals.
dispose of the Affected Shares so that the Relevant Shares will then cease to be Affected Shares within 21 days or such longer period as the Directors may determine.
The Directors are also given the power to sell such Affected Shares themselves where there is non-compliance with an Affected Share Notice at the best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on behalf ofthe shareholder.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 107 A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Thomas MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS Cook Group plc shares if: The table below shows notifications of major shareholdings received such person has an interest that would subject as provided below by the Company in accordance with rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and be taken into account, or which they would be taken as having, in Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority: determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 Percentage of whether a person has a notifiable interest: or Number of shares held issued capital % Name as at 30 September 2015 as at 30 September 2015 they have any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, but shall not be deemed to have an interest Invesco Ltd 277,529,587 18.07 in any shares in which their spouse or any infant, child or stepchild Standard Life Investments Ltd 138,942,805 9.05 or, in Scotland, pupil or minor of theirs is interested by virtue of The Capital Group 107,099,975 6.97 that relationship or which they hold as a bare or custodian trustee under the laws of England, or as a simple trustee under the laws FPI UK Limited Fosun 79,789,001 5.20 ofScotland, and interest shall be construed accordingly.
Black Rock Inc. 72,899,276 5.02 Marathon Asset As at 30 September 2015, 486,987,357 Ordinary Shares 31.71% were Management LLP 72,555,285 4.97 held on the Separate Register.
During the year the Board increased Orbis Holdings Limited 43,905,280 3.01 the Permitted Maximum from 40% to 45% in light of the acquisition byFosun International Limited of a 5% stake in the Company.
The Company did not receive notification of any changes to the above shareholdings in the period from 30 September 2015 to PROVISIONS OF CHANGE OF CONTROL 20 November 2015.
The Company has a facilities agreement the Agreement in DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING place which consists of 500 million revolving credit facility and RULE 9.8.
4 300 million bilateral bonding and guarantee facilities.
The Agreement provides that, on any change of control of the Company, the lenders Details in respect of allotments of equity securities are given on under the Agreement are obligated to negotiate for a period not page105.
This is the only disclosure required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4. exceeding 30 days, unless extended by agreement for a further period not exceeding 30 days terms for continuing the facilities but, GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS where agreement on new terms cannot be reached, any such lender Information in respect of greenhouse gas emissions have been included is entitled to: i receive a repayment of amounts owing to such in the Sustainability section of the Strategic report on page64.
lender: ii cancel all of its commitments under the Agreement: and or iii under certain conditions demand immediate credit support.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION Disclosures in respect of the employment of disabled people and The Company also has 300 million 7.75% guaranteed notes due 2017 employee evolvement can be found on pages 60 and 61 of the upon the occurrence of certain change of control events relating to Strategic Report.
the Company and then only if certain rating conditions in respect ofthe relevant notes are met, each holder has the option to require INDEPENDENT AUDITORS the Company to redeem or at the option of the Company to purchase the notes of such holder at par value plus accrued interest.
PwC have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as Auditor of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, The Companys subsidiary, Thomas Cook Finance plc, has outstanding resolutions to re-appoint them as the Companys Auditor and to 525 million 7.75% senior notes due 2020 and 400 million 6.75% authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be senior notes due 2021.
On the occurrence of certain change of control proposed to the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
events relating to the Company, each holder has the option to require Thomas Cook Finance plc the issuer of these notes to repurchase all The Strategic Report and Directors Report comprising pages 16 to 65 or any part of the holders notes at a purchase price in cash equal to have been approved and are signed by order of the Board by: 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
ALICE MARSDEN POLITICAL DONATIONS GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY The Company did not make any political donations during the financial 24 November 2015 year 2014: nil.
Registered office 3rd Floor, South Building 200 Aldersgate London EC1A 4HD Registered number 6091951 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 109 financial statements DELIVERING IMPROVED FINANCIAL RESULTS 11 Group Statements p108 p121 v64.
indd 109 06 01 2016 13:08 F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L S ST TA AT TEM EMEN ENT TS S
