Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information A fresh start It was a huge honour for me to be asked to The action we have taken so far has helped lead Tesco.
Its a business I had worked with to reset the business and restore our for 27 years.
As a supplier, I always had customer focus.
The reality is that it will enormous admiration for Tesco its people, require concerted action to get Tesco passion, and expertise.
So when I was invited back to where it should be.
to come in and lead this great organisation, it was an opportunity not to be missed.
In this report we are publishing losses of 6.4bn for 2014 15.
These losses were I arrived at a time of significant challenge.
largely the result of a series of one-off Dave Lewis Clearly, for a number of years, the global charges representing our past performance.
Group Chief Executive retail market has been highly competitive.
They recognise a number of issues: the value We were losing market share in our critical of the property we own has fallen: the cost home market and the growth momentum of dealing with our excess stock levels and Tesco has always we had enjoyed internationally had faltered.
restructuring costs, as well as the cost of The channel shift to online and convenience the retail sites we are no longer developing.
been a champion for presented both challenge and opportunity, Our reduced trading profit of 1.4bn reflects but the bottom line was that we had stopped the challenges we have seen in the UK and customers.
The last few years In addition, or perhaps as a result of this While these results reflect the difficulties our have been challenging, lack of growth, we had significant internal business has faced over a number of years, but we are confident that challenges.
The commercial income issue we are also beginning to see early promising identified in September was a significant signs from the changes we have made.
By if we get back to doing blow and has resulted in a SFO regulatory focusing on the fundamentals of availability, inquiry.
We have been cooperating fully with service and targeted price reductions over an unbeatable job for the inquiry and as we work on a programme the last six months, we have seen a steady customers, our best of change across Tesco, we must ensure this increase in footfall, transactions and, most never happens again.
Our like-for-like sales days lie ahead.
volumes are now up for the first time in four Alongside these issues is a deeper challenge years.
Every day we are seeing our customers of trust.
For customers to choose to shop recognise this.
Put simply, more customers with us, they have to place their trust in us are now buying more things at Tesco.
on price, quality, service and as a brand.
But over a number of years, weve seen a Our task now is to build on this and nourish gradual erosion of that trust for a number these small green shoots of recovery.
Earning that trust back is need to continue to listen to our customers fundamentally important to T esco.
We will and they will guide us.
Tesco became a great do this not by any quick fix or short term business by putting our customers at the initiative, but rather by continuous and lasting heart of everything we do and we shall do changes in what we do and how we behave.
Despite the challenges, at no point during Customers today are hard pressed for these first few months has my belief in the both time and money.
They want prices potential of T esco diminished.
As I got to which are simple and stable, as well as low.
know the different parts of our business Wherever they shop, they want great choice across Europe and Asia, I have found an and outstanding service which makes their energy and engagement by colleagues shopping easier.
Above all they want help which is incredible beyond anything I had to make life a little simpler, every step of expected.
That passion to do the right thing the way.
for customers and the expertise to make it happen still beats strongly within our business.
With our reach, our footprint, our skills and capabilities, we are perfectly placed to lead I am extraordinarily proud of the way that and offer this kind of service.
When I look at colleagues have responded to the challenges our business, I see a sea of opportunity.
The business has started a long we need to do now is unlock the potential journey of renewal and change.
In particular, which exists within T esco and to do that, the way colleagues from across the business we need to do some key things differently.
worked so hard to deliver a fantastic Christmas showed me the strength and depth of retailing In October, we set out our three expertise which exists within our business.
Regaining competitiveness in core UK business 2.
Protecting and strengthening the balance sheet 3.
Rebuilding trust and transparency Visit www.
com ar2015 to hear more from Dave Lewis Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 3 We firmly believe that if we give colleagues more power to choose the right actions, well do a better job for customers Over the last six months we have customers think and feel.
This needs taken action to deliver on each of to change.
these priorities sharpening our focus on availability, service and selectively A crucial part of that is about giving on price: undertaking a significant more power to colleagues empowering programme of restructuring and them to do the right thing for customers.
financial discipline: and launching We firmly believe that if we give a programme of renewal to restore colleagues more power to choose trust in every aspect of the brand.
the right actions, well do a better job A key part of our early work has been for customers and achieve greater to simplify our organisation in all success for our business.
And one our markets and to make sure that of the reasons I believe this, are the customers are the absolute focus stories I receive each day of colleagues of all parts of the Group.
going out of their way and doing exceptional things for our customers.
In many cases this has involved very difficult decisions.
The consequence A few months after I arrived at Tesco, on our business and importantly I was asked what had most surprised on our colleagues has been significant.
me since joining the business.
My In the face of these changes they have answer was how big its heart is.
I have been brilliant at all times, putting never met a business with so many the needs of the customer and the colleagues doing so many things to help business first, and I would like to thank customers and communities on a daily them for that.
Whether its raising millions for changes we are confident that we give charity, taking hundreds of thousands ourselves the chance to be great again.
of children on food education tours, or leading the charge against food poverty, The changes we are making are the work colleagues do is simply significant and are likely to result awe-inspiring.
This kindness and spirit in an increased level of volatility is also in the DNA of Tesco and Id like in our performance over the short us to show it just a little more.
We are still in an extremely challenging market and face tough As we embark on this journey of trading conditions in the UK and renewal and change, we recognise overseas.
The benefit of at least the responsibility and opportunity some of the changes we are making that comes with the choices we make.
will only be seen over time.
Crucially, Doing the right thing for customers however, the approach we are taking in a way that supports communities now is based on a clear commitment and the environment will be crucial to reinvest any savings or to our future success.
outperformance in the shopping trip.
The better our offer is for Tesco is a great British success story.
customers, the more customers will We grew into a successful business shop with us, and the stronger our by focusing on the customer and helping business will be over the long term.
him and her with both the big and the little things.
These are challenging As we continue the work of transforming times, and we must be prepared for Tesco, my overriding message to the further volatility in the coming months, business is this: work as one team but we are emerging stronger and we and keep it simple.
Too often in the believe our destiny is in our own hands.
past we have added in layers of If we keep focusing on our customers, complexity where simplicity was and challenging ourselves to make needed.
The result is that we have every single customer experience better sometimes lost focus on what our every day, we know we can succeed.
Dave Lewis Group Chief Executive 4 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
