THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 25 MARKET OVERVIEW WHERE OUR MARKET IS TODAY The Travel & Tourism industry is again expected to outperform the wider economy in 2015, and register positive growth for the sixth successive year.
Global growth is expected to be 2.8% in 2015, while direct travel &tourism GDP growth is forecast at 3.7%.
This represents a continuation of the pattern seen over recent years, where the strengthening of the world economy following the financial crisis of 2008 09 has been accompanied by accelerated growth in travel and tourism.
The UNWTO is forecasting average growth rate of 3.8% per year in international tourism arrivals between 2010 and 2020. accelerating from recent levels, supported by a weakening Euro, ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT declining oil prices, record low interest rates and an improvement in The global economy is expected to achieve moderate growth of 2.8% bank credit supply conditions.
In China, while structural adjustments in 2015 overall, with the recovery in high-income countries, including and policy efforts to address financial vulnerabilities continue, growth those in which our source markets are based, expected to gather is expected to decline modestly to 7.1% in 2015. momentum.
Growth in developing markets is expected to slow, as aresult of tighter financial conditions and lower commodity prices.
Our markets have also been affected by geopolitical events, with the terrorist attack in Tunisia in June affecting that destination Within our source markets, the UK is showing the strongest economic in particular, the threat of a Greek exit from the Euro impacting growth, with GDP expected to rise by 2.6% in 2015.
Lower oil prices, demand to Greece for a period in July, and more recently events robust job creation and rising wages continue to bolster consumer inEgypt leading to the near-cessation of travel to Sharm-el-Sheikh.
spending, which coupled with the strong Pound is leading to Nevertheless, Europes tourism market has seen an overall rise increased demand for international travel.
Most notably, the tragic events in Tunisia in June 2015 Consumer protection is a constant and increasing area of focus have led to the UK Government warning against non-essential travel atthe EU level.
Within the framework of regulations and standards to that country, resulting in the withdrawal of our programme from in each of our source markets, we offer our package customers the UK.
the assurance of financial protection including the reimbursement of travel costs in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of a tour KEY INDUSTRY TRENDS operator.
The European Package Travel Directive PTD places various A number of mega-trends continue to influence and steer the leisure disclosure and liability obligations upon us as marketers of travel travel market.
The reconsideration of this directive started at the EU levelin July 2013 and concluded in Autumn 2015.
The proposed revision HOTELS AND RESORTS is intended to enhance consumer protection rights and to create In order to protect their business model, all major tour operators a more level playing field among travel businesses.
The changes selling package holidays have developed their product offering to created by the reforms will take effect in 2017 18.
The UK Government include a more well defined hotel portfolio.
This hotel offering includes has announced that it will, once the PTD is finalised, reconsider the exclusive hotels that are only sold by a single tour operator, and industrys ATOL consumer protection regime.
differentiated hotels that have been specifically designed to appeal to The airline industry is heavily regulated principally for safety reasons.
Tour operators have been developing their own-brand It also faces increasing levels of taxation and the enhanced protection hotels to follow, and benefit from the momentum behind, this trend.
European airlines, including our own, are subject Thomas Cook identified this trend early on and we have worked to to air passenger rights legislation whereby airlines may be required to develop our own hotel brands, since first creating the SunWing brand pay compensation to passengers whose flights are delayed by more more than 40 years ago.
Today the Thomas Cook Group offers more than three hours.
This legislation is also in the process of revision than 200 hotels across our five hotels brands SENTIDO, SmartLine, within the EU, but progress has been interrupted by a sovereignty SunConnect, SunPrime and SunWing with a total of 41,000 rooms dispute between Spain and the UK regarding the applicability of available each day.
Our new brand, Casa Cook, is due to open in this legislation to Gibraltar.
During this period, the original EU law summer 2016.
Our own hotel brands and assets form a core part of Regulation 261 has continued to be modified by the courts in various our strategy and operating model, and by maximising utilisation we EU countries such that its original scope and application has been will be able to grow our portfolio profitably.
Through the creation of much increased.
our hotel investment fund and with the support of our investors, In this respect, two examples are of note.
One is where the courts in wewill strengthen our hotel portfolio and be in control of our assets, the UK have established that claims for compensation are permissible which will in turn allow us to more easily manage the quality of in instances of technical fault, even though the original drafting of the ourproducts and maximise returns.
EU legislation recognised that technical faults were an area for which compensation would normally not be payable.
The Court of Justice of THE EVER-GROWING COMPLEXITY OF the European Union have confirmed this principle, which means that DIGITALCHANNELS compensation will now generally be payable for all delays caused For Thomas Cook, the trends we see in digital offer many exciting by technical faults to aircraft, irrespective of the cause throughout opportunities, some of which we are actively responding to already Europe.
In another UK case it was established that compensation and others which are still in development.
As has been the case for claims for delayed flights are valid even if the flight took place up anumber of years, the growth of mobility continues to be an exciting to six years ago, and again, this finding is inconsistent with the and critical trend in the travel industry which can be seen in a application elsewhere in the EU.
Customers are using mobile devices Since its introduction, this legislation has impacted the airline smartphones, tablets, etc.
to not only research and share travel industry significantly.
We continue to engage in lobbying governments ideas, but also to make bookings.
Thomas Cook does not only look in the interests both of our industry and our customers, and to atmobile, but at the wider concept of mobility.
We continue to invest remind them of the importance of travel and tourism as a source in our Group platform to optimise our booking experience across ofemployment and driver of growth.
all devices and also in our Companion App to broaden the services we offer customers post-booking and whilst they are on holiday.
Our holiday programmes are also influenced by national and political This trend will continue to grow as customers become increasingly events, and the responses of governments to them.
We follow such confident with such devices, bandwidth continues to expand governmental travel advice closely and are generally able to change allowing richer content and usability insight grows.
our flying programme and hotel capacity to alternative destinations THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 27 % OF TRAFFIC BY DEVICE, 2014-2015 % 52 Desktop % 23 Tablet % 25 Mobile A related trend, which is extremely relevant to Thomas Cook, Within these market developments, Thomas Cook, which operates is the desire by customers to move between channels as they its own Group Airlines but also purchases approximately 50% of its consider and make their travel decisions.
As an omni-channel air capacity from third-parties, is able to sustain its strong market retailer, we are very close to all the challenges and opportunities position.
The close coordination with our own tour operator ensures this brings.
Critical to success is the ability to allow customers to strong load factors on our flights where 46% of the airlines revenue begin, continue and complete their engagement with Thomas Cook is generated by our own tour operator.
In parallel, we expand into through whatever channel they choose whether this is digital or third-party sales channels, driven by substantial growth of seat-only face-to-face.
Thomas Cook has embraced this trend with digital teams sales through higher web share ratios and better conversion rates working hand-in-hand with colleagues in retail teams to enhance on our new and improved websites in many of our markets.
We offer our customer experience.
We have a number of digital initiatives in our customers a competitive product, driven by a comprehensive place and in development to make the transitions between channels fleet renewal.
Nearly 90% of our fleet are either new or have been as simple as possible for our customer for example, MyAccount completely refurbished over the past two years.
Our airlines are now and DreamCapture.
Additionally, we work hard to create enhanced managed to optimise our competitive cost position by bundling our in-store experiences for customers through digital innovations such volumes in joint contract negotiations.
An integrated perspective on as the Thomas Cook Virtual Holiday experience which we have now our sales enabled us to introduce new flights to popular destinations extended to our brochures.
Our airlines achieved a competitive on-time performance of 82.2% during 2014-15.
Whilst there are many other trends including social media, wearables, ancillaries, rich content, too many to cover fully here, it is exciting At the tour operator interface, Thomas Cooks strong market that despite numerous technological advances, our customers position enables us to differentiate our services further.
continue to embrace our relationship in new ways as we enter Our dynamic packaging engine allows customers to customise our175th year of business.
individual components of their travel, backed by our quality assurance guarantee.
LOW-COST AIR TRAVEL Low-cost airlines are continuing to grow dramatically across Europe.
Fleet sizes of the leading low-cost carriers are expected to grow significantly over the coming years.
These airlines are also moving up the value chain and becoming integrated tour operators, thereby increasing their offering to consumers substantially.
In 2015, excess air travel capacity led to further increasing pressure on the industry as a whole.
Combined with the growing threat of online disruptors, consumer power to drive competitive prices remains atanall-time high.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
