Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the audited accounts Company is seeking to renew the authority at the forthcoming for the year ended 28 February 2015.
Other information that is AGM, within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
relevant to the Directors report, and which is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located as follows: Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Incentive Plan Trust, International Employee Benefit Trust, Tesco Ireland Share Bonus Pages Scheme Trust and Tesco Employee Share Scheme Trust rank pari Future developments 1 to 25 passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Voting Greenhouse gas emissions 21 rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the shares held in these trusts rests with the trustees, who may take account of any Financial instruments and financial risk management 25, 116 to 124 recommendation from the Company.
Voting rights are not exercisable Corporate governance report 27 to 45 by the employees on whose behalf the shares are held in trust.
Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would on the following pages: take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director Pages or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or Statement of capitalised interest 100 and 108 employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Long-term incentive schemes 55 Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under Allotment for cash of equity securities 132 such plans to vest on a takeover.
Waiver of dividends 70 Major shareholders Information provided to the Company by major shareholders pursuant The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414 C 11 to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR are published of the Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors report, via a Regulatory Information Service and is available on the Companys to include certain matters in its Strategic report that would otherwise website.
The Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the DTR be required to be disclosed in this Directors report.
The Strategic of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares as at report can be found on pages 1 to 25 of the Annual Report and 28 February 2015 and as at the date of this report: Financial Statements 2015.
% of issued share % of issued share Group results capital as at capital as at the date 28 February 2015 of this report Group revenue excluding VAT decreased by 1,273 million to 62.3billion, representing a decrease of 2.0%.
Group loss before BlackRock, Inc. 5.01 5.01 tax was 6,376 million from a profit before tax of 2,259 million Norges Bank 7.002 7.002 in 2013 14.
The loss for the year including discontinued operations was 5,766 million, of which 5,741 million was attributable to equity Articles of Association holders of the parent company.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Dividends As announced by the Company on 8 January 2015, the Board has Directors and their interests decided not to recommend the payment of a final dividend in respect The biographical details of the current serving Directors are set out on of the year ended 28 February 2015.
An interim dividend of 1.16p pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015. per ordinary share was paid to shareholders in December 2014.
The Directors who served during the year were: Mark Armour: Sir Richard Broadbent: Gareth Bullock: PatrickCescau: Stuart Chambers: Philip Certain nominee companies representing our employee benefit Clarke: Richard Cousins: OliviaGarfield: Ken Hanna: Dave Lewis: Laurie trusts hold shares in the Company in connection with the operation McIlwee: Mikael Olsson: Deanna Oppenheimer: Alan Stewart: and of the Companys share plans and have submitted evergreen Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker.
Changes to the Board since 22 dividend waivers on shares held by them that have not been February 2014 are shown on page 35.
The interests of Directors allocated to employees.
The total amount of dividends waived and their immediate families in the shares of Tesco PLC, along with by them during the year ended 28 February 2015 was 1.3 million.
details of Directors share options, are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 46 to 69.
Fixed assets Capital expenditure excluding business combinations amounted At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material to 2.0 billion compared with 2.7 billion the previous year.
interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
A qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined Share capital and control of the Company and significant agreements in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force for the benefit Details of the Companys share capital, including changes during the of each of the Directors and the Company Secretary who is also a year in the issued share capital and details of the rights attaching to the Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company in respect of liabilities Companys ordinary shares are set out in Note 27 on page 132 of the incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
In Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015.
No shareholder holds respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, securities carrying special rights with regards to control of the Company.
the Company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance There are no restrictions on voting rights or the transfer of securities in policy throughout the financial year.
the Company and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that result in such restrictions.
Employment policies We develop people policies in line with our Values and, by putting The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2014 AGM our colleagues first, we enable them to give our customers a great to purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum of experience.
We promote a fair, honest and transparent culture where approximately 10% of its issued share capital.
No shares were information is available to everyone so our people know how they purchased under that authority during the financial year.
Further details can be found on page 20 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015.
70 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We are committed to providing an inclusive environment at work We have continued our positive engagement with the Groceries Code in which people are treated with respect.
We believe that having Adjudicator GCA, Christine Tacon, and her office.
Specifically, we people from diverse backgrounds, with different experiences and are in ongoing dialogue with the GCA around the probable breaches talents is a real strength for our business.
of the Code we have identified and our proposed remedial actions.
Our colleagues are our most valuable asset.
Promoting and supporting Our Code Compliance Officer has also continued to take an active skills and development is at the core of what we do and we provide and visible role during the year and we have proactively engaged many training and learning programmes to give everyone the support, the supply base through supplier training events.
This year we have resources and opportunities they need to be the best they can be.
seen an increase in suppliers raising Code issues.
Eighteen CodeOur selection, training, development and promotion policies ensure related complaints were raised by suppliers this year, and as at the equal opportunities for all colleagues regardless of factors such as date of this report we have resolved all but one complaint through gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference and orientation, discussion with the suppliers concerned.
We are continuing to discuss colour, creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability or trade union the final matter with the relevant supplier.
We have had twelve affiliation.
All decisions are based on merit.
instances where complaints were referred to the Code Compliance Officer, although in none of those instances was a formal dispute We believe it is essential for our colleagues to have a voice.
By really raised as all matters were resolved directly with the supplier.
The Code listening to our colleagues it enables us to understand what really Compliance Officer regularly reports to our Compliance Committees matters to them and respond to make it better.
We use a variety and Audit Committee.
of communication channels to regularly engage, consult, inform and connect with our teams so that the views of our colleagues Going concern can be taken into account when key decisions are made that affect The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have them and to ensure that our colleagues are aware of the financial adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We actively encourage colleagues to become involved in the financial performance of our business through a variety of voluntary Events after the Balance Sheet date share schemes.
On 20 March 2015, the Group regained sole ownership of 21 stores, previously held in a joint venture with British Land.
The Group received Political donations British Lands share of the 21 stores and cash of 96 million.
In The Group did not make any political donations 2013 14: nil exchange, British Land took sole ownership of three shopping centres, or incur any political expenditure during the year 2013 14: nil.
three retail parks and three standalone stores which were held in two joint ventures between the two companies as at the Balance Sheet Compliance with the Groceries Supply Chain Practices Market date.
The Group will continue to lease the stores at these sites at Investigation Order 2009 and the Groceries Supply Code of Practice market rents which are not subject to RPI-indexed increases.
the Code The Code places obligations on grocery retailers with a turnover Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors greater than 1 billion to maintain a Code compliance programme, Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the which includes training staff and providing information to the date of this Annual Report and Financial Statements have each Competition and Markets Authority.
In addition, the Code sets confirmed that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit out a number of provisions which relate to different aspects of information as defined by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the relationship between a retailer and supplier.
of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to The Code establishes an overarching principle that retailers must deal make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and with their suppliers fairly and lawfully.
Specific obligations include to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
giving reasonable notice in circumstances such as changes to supply This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance chain procedures and when ceasing or significantly reducing with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. purchases from a supplier.
The Code also contains a number of provisions relating to payments by suppliers, including obligations Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information for retailers to pay suppliers without delay and a prohibition on Where this document contains forward-looking statements, these certain types of payments, such as those for shrinkage.
are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
These Regrettably, we have concluded that there have been a number of statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent risks instances of probable breaches of the Code which fall short of the and uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
high standards we expect to uphold in our dealings with our suppliers.
The Group cautions investors that a number of factors, including matters referred to in this document, could cause actual results We are taking effective action to prevent this arising again.
We are to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking fundamentally changing the way we work with our suppliers to statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those deliver a more sustainable and collaborative business model for discussed under Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22 everyone in the supply chain.
In addition, we are significantly to 25 of this Annual Report.
up-weighting our Code compliance programme.
The programme will include comprehensive new starter training and annual refresher By order of the Board training which is delivered through both e-learning and in-person training, improved guidance and processes, deep dive audits Paul Moore throughout the year, bi-annual compliance declarations and Company Secretary disciplinary action where necessary.
5 May 2015 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 71 72 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
