Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information rebuild Our third priority is to rebuild trust A new Code of Business Conduct, communities and the environment, and transparency.
supported by a company-wide we want our actions to make a big training programme to help difference for everyone and we are We rely on the trust customers, colleagues follow key policies.
restless to build on the foundations suppliers, communities and we have in place.
Regrettably, A speak-up culture, with a stronger this trust has been undermined, focus on ethics and compliance.
Code Key highlights this year include: following the commercial income compliance and ethical leadership issue identified in September.
are now key factors in performance Helping on health.
In 1994 we were management and reward.
In addition, the first supermarket to take sweets What happened is a matter of profound we now have protector lines for both off checkouts in our big stores.
This regret for everyone at Tesco.
We have colleagues and suppliers, so any year we became the first to do it in acted swiftly and decisively to ensure concerns with business conduct every UK store, including Express.
that it can never happen again.
Across can be raised confidentially.
We also announced our partnership the business, we have brought in a wide with Diabetes UK and the British ranging programme of change and Restoring trust is not just about process Heart Foundation to help tackle these renewal, which includes: and structure.
Its about culture and diseases.
It builds on our partnership individual actions.
In the same way with Diabetes UK which started in New management who are that every colleague holds the key 2013 and raised over 18m.
transforming our commercial model to to better customer service, so every create long-term, mutually beneficial colleague can help us to be a better Helping to tackle food poverty.
Over partnerships, with a greater focus on active corporate citizen.
the last three years we have pioneered cost prices than on the commercial a national programme of food income we receive back from suppliers We recognise the impact we can have collections working with FareShare for promoting their products.
on the lives of many not just through and the Trussell Trust.
Together with our global reach but also in the way we customers weve now provided over run our business.
For our customers, 21.5m meals for those in need.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 7
