Executive Committee Our Executive Committee is organised around our three core capabilities customers, channels and products alongside leaders for each of the key functions.
Dave Lewis Alan Stewart Matt Davies Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer UK & ROI CEO Dave became Group Chief Executive of Tesco on Alan joined the Board on 23 September 2014.
Matt joined Tesco on 11 May 2015 as UK & ROI CEO 1 September 2014, joining from Unilever.
Over Alan has extensive financial experience in retail on the Executive Committee.
Prior to Tesco, Matt nearly 28 years, Dave worked in a variety of roles having been CFO at Marks & Spencer and WH Smith.
was CEO at Halfords Group PLC and before that with Unilever, which took him across greater Europe, A qualified accountant, he started his career in CEO at Pets at Home.
He brings a huge amount of Asia and the Americas.
His last three roles were investment banking with HSBC in 1986.
He became experience, both in retail and business transformation.
Chairman for Unilever in the UK and Ireland, CFO at Thomas Cook Holdings in 1998 and was He is also a qualified Chartered Accountant with President for the Americas and Global President, appointed UK CEO in 2001.
In 2005 he moved to extensive corporate finance experience.
During his career, Dave has been WH Smith as Group CFO.
In 2008 he was appointed responsible for a number of business turnarounds.
CFO at AWAS, a leading aircraft leasing business, Dave is a Non-executive Director of British Sky before moving to M&S in 2010.
He is also a Broadcasting Group plc.
Non-executive Director of Diageo plc.
Jill Easterbrook Benny Higgins Alison Horner Group Business Transformation Director CEO, Tesco Bank and Group Strategy Director Chief People Officer Jill joined Tesco in 2001 and has held various Before joining Tesco Bank, Benny served as Chief Alison joined Tesco in 1999 as a Personnel Manager leadership roles across the Group.
In 2013, Jill joined Executive Officer of Retail Business at HBOS PLC.
and was later promoted to Personnel Director for the Executive Committee as Director of Developing Between 1997 and 2005 Benny was Chief Executive Tescos UK operations.
After eight years in stores and Businesses.
She subsequently became Chief Customer of Retail Banking at the Royal Bank of Scotland.
general merchandise roles she joined the Executive Officer until January 2015 when she took up the role Prior to joining RBS, Benny was at Standard Life for Committee in 2011 as Group Personnel Director, of Group Business Transformation Director.
He has been Chief Executive of Tesco Bank with responsibility for the development of our since 2008.
As well as his role leading the Bank, 500,000 colleagues.
Benny Higgins became Group Strategy Director in January 2015.
30 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Trevor Masters Adrian Morris Rebecca Shelley International CEO Group General Counsel Group Communications Director Trevor joined Tesco in 1979, starting his Tesco career Adrian joined Tesco in September 2012 as Rebecca joined Tesco in May 2012 as Group as a Store Manager, and later a Store Director.
Prior to Tesco, Adrian Corporate Affairs Director.
Prior to Tesco, Rebecca was held the role of Operations Director for Extras in the worked at BP plc as Associate General Counsel a partner at Brunswick LLP where she advised a range UK during a period which saw the expansion of the for Refining and Marketing.
From 2002 to 2009, of companies on financial and corporate reputation Extra estate from 9 to 200 stores.
He has also served Adrian was with Centrica PLC, initially as European issues.
From 2000 to 2007, Rebecca worked at as CEO Central Europe and CEO Asia.
In January General Counsel and then as General Counsel Prudential as Group Communications Director 2015, Trevor was appointed International CEO.
and was a member of its Executive Committee.
Jason Tarry Robin Terrell Chief Product Officer Chief Customer Officer Jason joined Tesco in October 1990 on the graduate Robin joined Tesco in February 2013 as Group recruitment programme.
He has held a number Multichannel Director on the Executive Committee.
of positions in both food and non-food divisions, From 1999 Robin worked at Amazon, ultimately including Impulse and Bakery Category Director, as VP & Managing Director, with responsibility for Non Food Sourcing Director and Clothing Category Amazons UK and French businesses.
Jason was appointed CEO of Group also held senior e-commerce and multichannel roles Clothing in 2012, which included UK & ROI store and at Figleaves.
com, John Lewis and House of Fraser.
online operations, as well as overseeing F&Fs Asia In January 2015, Robin was appointed Chief business and franchise partnerships.
Jason joined the Executive Committee, becoming Chief Product Officer.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 31
