THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 19 OUR BUSINESS MODEL HOW VALUE IS CREATED We create value by providing our customers with great holidays and a high level of personal service, built on strong customer relationships and underpinned by industry-leading consumer brands.
Q: How does Thomas Cook SERVICE AND ASSURANCE create value through its business model?
A: We offer our customers an integrated, end-to-end travel 2 1 Production and marketing 3 experience, underpinned Supply of hotel beds of travel packages, Omni-channel distribution and airline seats bythestrength of the components and ancillaries ThomasCookbrands A: We help make sense of the overwhelming choice of travel Third-party Third-party products available to customers A: We differentiate ourselves from competitors by offering Brands, services and product package portfolio high levels of service and support throughout the In-house In-house customer journey A: We offer quality and financial assurance 5 4 Innovation Shareholder value Customer value Q: What makes hotel partners Q: How does Thomas Q: Why do customers buy from and other suppliers want to Cook sustain its Thomas Cook and why do they work with Thomas Cook?
Where does Thomas Cooks competitive A: Our distribution strength A: We develop new holiday concepts advantage come from?
and services in response to A: Our industry expertise and customer needs, preferences A: Product range and choice market intelligence andindustry trends A: Value for money A: Our deep supplier relationships, A: We invest in our core brands, dedicated service agents and A: Service and assurance and in our processes and field support technology infrastructure A: Brand strength A: We are proud innovators inour industry SERVICE AND ASSURANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 20 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED 1 SUPPLY OF HOTEL BEDS AND AIRLINE SEATS Sourcing good quality hotels and flights efficiently and economically agreements.
In order to further develop customer awareness of our is key to our business.
This includes investing in hotel and flight own-hotel brands, our Hotels & Resorts unit intends selectively to sell capacity and utilising it well, balancing risk and non-risk capacity, capacity directly to customers, as well as through our tour operators.
and flexing allocations of this capacity within the Group to maximise THOMAS COOK AIRLINES profits.
We source our hotels and flights both from our in-house operations and third-parties.
Our in-house operations, through which Our in-house airlines enable our tour operators to benefit from we can better control product quality and typically make higher guaranteed capacity and seat rates, as well as operating profitable margins, are at the core of our holiday offering.
Given our strong seat-only businesses on numerous routes in their own right.
position in the market, we are able to leverage our Group buying Our airlines operate under the Thomas Cook brand in the UK, Belgium power to take measured risks in inventory and balance these risks and Scandinavia, and the Condor brand in Germany.
By balancing against customer demand.
their use of in-house flight capacity with flights provided by third-parties, our tour operators are able to flex their risk business THOMAS COOK HOTELS & RESORTS according to demand, while at the same time taking advantage of Our Hotels & Resorts unit is dedicated to sourcing and managing flexible seat sourcing at competitive spot prices from third-party our own-brand hotel portfolio, through which we deliver consistent carriers.
Our airlines provide just over half of the Groups total flight quality-controlled holiday experiences to our customers.
It is volume, with the remainder being supplied by third-parties.
We have responsible for approximately 200 own-brand hotels, located across 18 significantly upgraded our fleet over recent years, purchasing a total destination countries, ensuring that they operate smoothly and to our of 25 brand new Airbus A321 aircraft 21 of which we have already taken delivery of, with the remaining four entering service in summer brand standards, and overseeing investments and upgrades.
As well as strategic planning and pioneering new hotel formats, the Hotels 2016, and investing over 100 million to refurbish cabins in the rest ofthe fleet such that by spring next year 95% of our fleet will either & Resorts unit is also responsible for the strong positioning of our existing in-house brands Sunwing, Sunprime, Sentido, Sunconnect, be refurbished or new.
Smartline, and the recently launched Casa Cook, within the Group and among customers.
The Group favours an asset-light approach to hotel management, with most own-brand hotels operated under franchise Investment in own-brand hotels for summer 2015 Investment in airlines with a customer focus 1 2 3 209 25 4 Own-brand hotels New aircraft purchased 5 1.
New builds 5 60 New cabin interiors so far THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 21 2 PRODUCTION AND MARKETING OF TRAVEL PACK AGES, COMPONENTS AND ANCILLARIES We offer a broad range of holiday experiences and travel products with a mark-up or commission.
There has been a significant growth in order to meet the needs of a wide array of customer segments.
in the amount of dynamically packaged holidays sold in the last few Our product offering includes core differentiated and exclusive years, and this will remain a key strategic focus.
holidays to a closely managed portfolio of own-brand hotels and COMPONENTS selected partner hotels chosen on the basis of quality and high standards of service, complemented by a broad range of other The sale and marketing of components is an important part of our hotels and flights to offer customers range, choice and flexibility.
business, providing a flexible offering to our customers in order to Our flexible business model allows customers to select either fully meet their requirements.
This also allows our Hotels & Resorts unit packaged holidays, or individual travel components, in line with their and airlines to better manage yields and occupancy, especially in the preferences.
Ancillary products such as travel insurance, airline shoulder and low seasons.
seat selection and car hire, allow our customers to personalise their holiday, purchasing everything they need for their holiday from a ANCILLARIES single supplier.
Regardless of the type of holiday experience or travel product our customers buy, ancillaries are key both to completing the customer PACK AGE HOLIDAYS proposition and allowing customers to take a one-stop shop Pre-packaged or classic package holidays combine two or more approach to their travel buying, whilst providing us with a valuable components of a holiday typically a flight and a hotel at a minimum source of incremental revenue and margin.
We aim to offer a basic and are sold as a single product to the end consumer.
Usually these package that consists of only a hotel and flight in some markets components are sourced from pre-allocated charter flight and a hotel, transfer and flight, and allow customers to tailor-make hotel inventory charter risk, giving the tour operator certainty their perfect holiday through the addition of modular ancillaries in over availability and pricing.
The classic package remains popular order to meet all of their requirements.
Ancillary products include and economical for core sun and beach holidays, and is one of the travel orbooking insurance, airline meals and seat selection, extra largest and most popular holiday segments in Western Europe.
luggage, private transfers, room upgrades and excursions whilst Package holidays offer our customers convenience and value, inresort.
We have also developed other, more innovative ancillaries, together with the care and support of our staff throughout the such as theability for some of our Scandinavian customers flying holiday experience.
with Thomas Cook Airlines to check in their luggage for their return journey at the hotel rather than at the airport, and the ability to In addition to classic packages, we also offer dynamic packages, pre-book specific hotel rooms in some of our differentiated hotels.
which allow customers to tailor their holidays in line with their Airshoppen is our catalogue-based pre-flight shopping business, individual requirements destination, duration, quality and price are which has been successfully developed in Scandinavia and is now all customisable.
We source these holiday components from a range being expanded into other markets.
of third-party providers, package them with other services, and resell them to the end consumer directly or via a third-party travel agent Making ancillaries tangible FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 22 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED 3 OMNI-CHANNEL DISTRIBUTION We believe in being accessible to our customers both physically and Our contact centres also sell directly to customers, as well as online.
Our omni-channel approach means that our customers can providing sales and customer support at any customer touchpoint now access our products and services either via any web-connected on the customer journey.
A holiday is one of the most cherished device, phone or in person at one of our stores.
We also place purchases of the year for our customers, and we recognise this significant importance on direct or controlled distribution, through importance by ensuring that our support is tailored to each which we distribute product directly to customers, enabling us to individual caller and delivered through personal contact rather build direct relationships with them, as well as reducing our cost to than an automated computer system.
Our contact centre service is serve.
Recognising the value of the travel distribution trade, we also available out of hours and complements our web and retail offering.
sell via third-party distributors in order to broaden our reach.
This supports the growth of our digital organisation and our omnichannel strategy.
OMNI-CHANNEL APPROACH DIRECT DISTRIBUTION Developing our websites to offer a better online experience is critical to our omni-channel philosophy.
We have developed OneWeb, our Direct, or controlled, distribution is a key strategic advantage, international web platform, which has now fully replaced all legacy allowing us to form direct relationships with our customers, as well front-end systems for thomascook.
com in the UK, and is in the as reducing distribution costs.
Our model has some local adaptations process of being introduced into the Netherlands on thomascook.
within each of our markets in this respect.
In the UK, Northern OneWeb has led to a significant uplift in conversion in the UK across Europe and Belgium, we enjoy a high level of controlled distribution each device type, through a greatly improved user experience.
through our own websites, call centres and, in the case of the UK and Using acommon codebase deployed across multiple markets, Belgium, our stores.
In Germany, however, the majority of our travel OneWebwill enable us to deliver new website functionality and products and services are sold through third-party travel agents.
innovations rapidly across the Group.
In mobile, we have made Online is a key means to increase our controlled distribution, and significant progress creating responsive websites and mobile we are placing considerable emphasis on further developing this applications, and usage trends are very encouraging.
We are very aware that a large portion In stores, as well as developing new concept and next generation of our market continues to value the face-to-face service offered stores to test new features and technologies, we have also by our Travel Advisers for these market segments our focus is on introduced new ways of working for our Travel Advisors to allow them continuously improving the in-store experience whilst introducing to spend more time with our customers, focusing on performance new technology to support the sales process.
briefs at the start of each shift and management observation and coaching.
Tablets and Wi-Fi have also now been rolled out to many ofour stores.
Controlled distribution 49% 33% UK and Ireland 16% 13% Continental Europe 76% 15% Northern Europe Our Web Our Retail THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 23 4 CUSTOMER VALUE Our experience, flexibility across platforms, destinations and deep CUSTOMER SERVICE AND EXPERIENCE sector expertise helps ensure that the level of service our customers We aim to create value by putting customers at the heart of our receive via the internet or face-to-face, at home or in-resort is business.
Our customer service is present at many different truly differentiated from the competition.
touchpoints during the holiday experience, including in-store, online, at the airport, on our aircraft and in-destination, and we aim to QUALITY AND ASSURANCE provide high-quality seamless advice and support from the time of We have developed a high level of trust with our customers.
booking, through to the holiday itself, and upon the return home.
Our product inventory is quality assured, taking into account Recognising the importance of customer service and trust to our customer and third-party reviews.
For our high-volume destinations, overall proposition, we have introduced four promises to underpin our we have engaged SGS, a specialist third-party auditor, to carry out customer relationships.
These promises focus on our reliability and professional checks to ensure that a high standard is maintained.
trust, the quality of our holidays, the transparency of the information An active health and safety assurance process is also in place across we provide, and our customer service.
They include our innovative our entire product range.
24-hour hotel satisfaction guarantee, which offers customers at many of our hotels means of redress if we cannot resolve an issue or problem BRAND STRENGTH within 24 hours.
Our four customer promises areshown below.
Thomas Cook is one of the leading leisure travel brands in the industry, given our 174-year heritage.
Unlike online and offline travel agents and many other tour operators, we operate a significant in-destination services organisation, which The Thomas Cook master brand is supported by a number of employs around 2,500 efficient and customer-oriented staff in the very strong local brands across our source markets, including summer.
Their role includes providing customer service and support Neckermann, JetTours, Ving, Spies, and Tjreborg which are integrated to customers at their hotel, managing quality, and providing leisure with the Thomas Cook Group through the Sunny Heart logo.
and entertainment services for guests.
We believe this is a key differentiator for Thomas Cook.
We recognise that trust and consistency are two of the most important drivers of conversion across our source markets and so we strive to ensure that these values are deeply embedded in our brands.
Customer promises This table shows our four customer promises that will be used in our UK tour operator business.
These promises will be tailored for use in each of our source markets.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 24 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED 5 SHAREHOLDER VALUE SUSTAINABLE AND PROFITABLE GROWTH HOW WE DISTRIBUTE THOSE RETURNS We believe that our strong business model, combined with our As we embark on the second phase of our transformation, our focus strategy to further develop and strengthen our business through remains on ensuring a sustainable, profitable outlook for the Group, our New Operating Model see page 29, will enable us to deliver our employees and many stakeholders.
sustainable and profitable growth in the future.
In particular, our In particular, our strategy of profitable growth and cash generation twin focus of: improving our customer proposition by creating and positions the business to deliver value to Shareholders in three marketing more differentiated products underpinned by an improved main areas: customer service: and generating increased operating efficiencies share price appreciation: bychanging the way we work, will lead to continuing improvements debt reduction: and in our financial position.
CASH GENERATION AND STRENGTHENING OF In view of the progress we have made and the projected benefits BALANCE SHEET webelieve are deliverable as part of our profitable growth strategy, Following the successful recapitalisation of the business in FY13, we expect to pay a dividend from FY16 profits in early FY17.
a key element of our corporate strategy has been and remains Our policy will be to target a payout ratio of between 20% and 30% cash flow generation and the retention of a greater proportion of of net profit each year.
We believe this represents an appropriate our earnings for reinvestment in the business, debt reduction or balance between debt reduction and providing a return to distribution to Shareholders.
We have made significant progress in shareholders.
A final dividend will be declared with the full year this area, with the Group consistently achieving significantly higher results announcement each year, starting with the announcement levels of cash conversion than in FY12 see page 50. of our FY16 results, in a years time.
In view of the seasonality of the In January 2015, we strengthened the balance sheet with a Groups profit profile, it is not our intention to pay interim dividends 400 million bond due in 2021, refinancing the 400 million bond for the foreseeable future.
The Board will review the policy annually which matured in June 2015.
In March 2015, we raised a further as we reduce debt, to determine the scope to increase the payout 92 million through an issue of new equity to Fosun, in order to ratio in the future.
In May 2015, we refinanced our Alongside making dividend payments, the reduction of fixed-term bank facilities, increasing the total facilities amount to 800 million debt remains a priority for the Group, and we intend to continue and extending the maturity to May 2019. to move towards a more efficient capital structure, with reduced interest costs.
