28 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OUR FOUR KEY STRATEGIC PILLARS Our strategy is to grow profitably, by providing our customers proposition, complemented by a widerange of third-party with a broad range of high-quality differentiated and flexible products.
In order to realise our strategy, we have outlined four holiday experiences, supported by world-class customer main strategic objectives as seen below.
We believe that these service.
Recognising that the hotel and flight is key to any strategic pillars will enable us to generate resilient revenue holiday experience, we are putting our own portfolio of growth, improve profitability, increase cash flows and deliver own-brand hotels and flights at the centre of our customer further shareholder value.
1 OWN-BRAND HOTELS AND FLIGHTS Maximise value from our own-brand hotels and aircraft 2 OUR HOLIDAY OFFERING Focus on differentiated holidays, complemented by a broad range of flexible hotels and flights 3 OMNI-CHANNEL AND CUSTOMER Enhance our omni-channel proposition and web efficiency 4 EFFICIENCIES Simplify operations and remove duplication CUSTOMER AT OUR HEART We firmly believe that providing consistently excellent This programme includes key initiatives such as reviewing customer experiences is the key to the long-term growth and and improving customer service levels across the Group, success of our business.
With more satisfied customers, we introducing a customer charter and satisfaction guarantee, can increase customer retention rates and loyalty, driving top further empowering front line staff to delight our customers, line growth through an increased customer lifetime value, and embedding Net Promoter Score NPS improvement targets and margin growth through lower customer acquisition costs.
Wehave therefore launched a major programme to ensure we put the customer back at the heart of our business.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 29 NEW OPERATING MODEL TO DRIVE TRANSFORMATION Our New Operating Model NUMO is a programme of key Through NUMO, we can create a future to be proud of with our initiatives that will enable us to implement our strategy customers truly at the heart of our business.
in a clear and structured way over the next three years.
STRATEGIC PILLARS KEY NUMO INITIATIVES BENEFITS Grow own-brand hotel occupancy Hotels & Resorts unit 1 and improve yield OWN-BRAND HOTELS AND FLIGHTS Optimise mix package vs seat only In-house airline See more on page 30 and yielding Grow sales to fewer, higher margin, Differentiated holidays 2 quality hotels OUR HOLIDAY OFFERING Complementary products Develop low-cost model See more on page 31 Improve omni-channel Online and retail 3 effectiveness and efficiency OMNI-CHANNEL AND CUSTOMER Increase ancillary sales CRM and ancillaries See more on page 32 through improved CRM Align and integrate One Tour Operator 4 tour operator processes EFFICIENCIES Generate further efficiencies Cost-out continuation See more on page 33 through cost-out These initiatives aim to generate significant, sustainable, long-term Cash conversion in excess of 70% per year, based on a revised profit growth, including revenue growth through a better quality definition of cash conversion, being the percentage of underlying proposition that attracts more customers at higher price points, and profit before tax that is converted into free cash flow margin improvements through better yielding and cost efficiencies.
Fixed-term debt reduction of at least 300 million over the next three years We believe the New Operating Model will enable Thomas Cook to achieve the following, between FY15 and FY18: We expect these benefits to be generated by business improvement initiatives which focus on the areas below are embedded in our Revenue growth at least in line with the European leisure travel strategy as described on the following pages.
Further details were market, which is estimated to grow, on average, at between 2% provided at our analyst presentation on 25 November 2015, a copy and3% per year ofwhich is available at www.
com Annual EBIT benefits of between 100 million and 120 million byFY18, with one-off implementation costs totalling approximately 100 million, of which 25 million was incurred in FY15 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 30 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES CONTINUED 1 OWN-BRAND HOTELS AND FLIGHTS OUR AIM WHAT NEXT?
As a customer-centric business, we aim to provide an industryHaving launched approximately 200 own-brand hotels in just over leading consumer experience with our own-brand hotels and flights two years, our priority is now to refine the customer experience and firmly placed at the forefront.
We are developing our Hotels & Resorts drive occupancy rates in these key properties.
Our Hotel & Resorts division into a hotel management company that controls and develops division will manage this initiative as we expand this area of the our core hotel offering and managing our Group Airlines business to business, assuming responsibility for further key hotel relationships ensure that our aircraft offer the very latest in customer comfort and and development projects across the Group.
reliability, while delivering maximum occupancy for both.
Our airlines will take delivery of a further four brand new Airbus A321 aircraft next summer, completing our single aisle fleet replacement OUR PROGRESS IN 2015 programme.
At the same time we will continue to look for Through our Hotels & Resorts division we added 72 own-brand hotels opportunities to further profitably grow our seat-only business, refine in FY15, taking the total to 209 for the summer 15 season.
We worked the customer experience and generate further benefits from the with the owners of these hotels over the winter to completely recent integration of our four airlines into a single airline platform.
refurbish or rebuild around a quarter of them, implementing quality measures across the portfolio which are consistently monitored and managed.
As a result, bookings of our own-brand hotel brands Sunwing, Sunprime, Sentido, SunConnect and Smartline rose by 41% last year.
This reflects growing customer demand for our differentiated holiday products and we continue to drive occupancy growth among these hotels.
Since FY13 we have taken delivery of 21 brand new Airbus A321aircraft and fully refurbished cabins in 60 existing aircraft as part of a 100 million investment programme.
We have now either replaced or fully refurbished around 90% of our fleet, resulting in a significantly upgraded flying experience, increased customer satisfaction and greater operational efficiency.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 31 2 OUR HOLIDAY OFFERING We also launched Thomas Cook Signature as our brand for premium, OUR AIM tailor-made holidays resulting in an uplift in UK premium holiday Our product strategy is to focus the customer proposition on bookings of 10% year-on-year.
We continued to promote our differentiated holidays, which offer a better quality customer complementary products, including the launch of Thomas Cook City experience.
Our differentiated holiday product consists of a Escapes in the UK which offers competitive pricing on our widest portfolio of own-brand and quality-controlled hotels, and includes choice of city destinations covering 31,000 hotels in over 2,000 specialist holidays that focus on more niche and tailored product.
These products drive higher average selling prices, margin and, ultimately, higher customer loyalty and retention.
This holiday offering WHAT NEXT?
is supplemented by a wide range of complementary products that We are building common platforms for each of our product categories, give customers greater flexibility and choice when choosing their which will enable us to benefit from more efficient sourcing of next destination.
holiday product and optimise our yield management processes across the Group.
Our wide range of complementary product will be OUR PROGRESS IN 2015 sourced from a low-cost, digital production hub.
We plan to migrate We have identified a core portfolio of approximately 2,500 hotels approximately 10,000 low-volume hotels that are traditionally sourced which form the basis of our differentiated holidays.
Factors that onto this platform.
distinguish these hotels include a higher level of in-resort service and our innovative 24-hour customer guarantee, whereby we will rectify a customer issue within 24 hours of being notified, and promise to compensate the customer if we fail to do so.
In specialist holidays, wegrew our presence in the long haul market significantly, with double-digit capacity and like-for-like revenue growth.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 32 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES CONTINUED 3 OMNI-CHANNEL AND CUSTOMER OUR AIM WHAT NEXT?
As a full service tour operator, we have close personal contact We are continuing to optimise our websites, and in particular to with many of our customers throughout their holiday experience.
develop features that enable us to offer increasingly personalised Our objective is to further develop these customer relationships to services to customers via our online platforms.
We are also in the make customer interactions with us as seamless as possible through process of rolling out OneWeb to the Netherlands and intend over better technology, an omni-channel proposition and to improve time to introduce it to our other Continental European markets.
customer service, relations and loyalty.
We plan to review our call centre procedures and technologies, with the aim of bringing them onto a single platform based on improved, OUR PROGRESS IN 2015 harmonised business processes.
We will also aim to grow our share of controlled distribution, particularly in Germany, in order to develop Our online customer experience has seen significant improvements closer and more direct customer relationships.
We also intend to over the year, as a result of the investment we have made to develop sharpen our focus on ancillary sales to complement the holiday our international web platform OneWeb, with conversion uplifts of experience, in particular through improved CRM services.
10% for desktop, 16% for tablet and 67% for mobile devices.
Our focus on mobile has been enabled by our dedicated Mobile Development Team based in Stockholm.
Amongst other things, the team launched a successful digital companion app into the Scandinavian and UK markets, following on from the success of our TravelGuide app in Germany over the last three years.
These apps allow customers to search for holidays, manage their bookings, make balance payments, help to know their destinations better and book excursions and ancillaries.
In the UK, the new web journey has been fully integrated into our retail stores, enabling us to recognise and serve customers seamlessly across all channels.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 33 4 EFFICIENCIES OUR AIM WHAT NEXT?
Continuing to build a more efficient and effective business is Having made the required organisational changes, we will continue to key to Thomas Cooks ongoing transformation and development.
embed our One Tour Operator initiative, harmonising IT platforms and Although we have made excellent progress in reducing costs to business processes, and removing as much duplication as possible date, we believe there remains opportunity for significant further between our source markets.
At the same time we will continue to efficiencies, while still improving customer satisfaction and welfare.
pursue every opportunity to minimise cost and complexity throughout This will be achieved by reducing duplication between markets, our business.
andby better integrating processes and functions.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2015 Our Cost-out and Profit Improvement programme continued to deliver significant benefits in 2015, achieving 110 million of further cost savings, in addition to the 400 million of cumulative savings achieved in the previous three years.
These savings were generated from a variety of measures which created efficiencies across the Group, but particularly in the UK and in our airline, where our initiatives to transition what previously was four airlines to one airline system has generated significant benefits.
Mirroring the initiative with our airlines, and as part of our New Operating Model, we are pursuing a One Tour Operator initiative that seeks to integrate our tour operations across the Group, consolidating our processes, simplifying our structure and making us more efficient and effective.
On 1 October 2015, we implemented a new organisational structure to support this, creating horizontal functions to steer the business, with strong local market organisations that are close to the customer.
w e will continue to embed our One Tour Operator initiative, harmonising IT platforms and business processes FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 34 Booking Departure In-destination Returning home DEPARTURE WITH THOMAS COOK holidays really do begin on board.
Altogether our Group airlines carry 17 million passengers signature in-flight meals along with complimentary drinks everyyear.
Across our fleet of 91 aircraft, customers can fly and state-of-the-art, on-demand entertainment systems.
with us to over 100 destinations worldwide.
Weve recently OurEconomy Cabins have brand new, ergonomically designed upgraded and refurbished our fleet and purchased 25 new seats, ensuring comfort is our priority for all customers.
Our new Premium Cabins guarantee more legroom, PASSENGERS PER YEAR AIRSHOPPEN Customers can buy boutique products 17 million on our website, we deliver their order direct to their seats.
Read more about how we are transforming our fleet on page 30 35 NEW PREMIUM CABINS More legroom, signature in-flight meals, complimentary drinks, entertainment systems.
DESTINATIONS AIRCRAFTS a fleet of 91 aircraft 100 25 worldwide destinations new FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
