First impressions It is a genuine privilege to have been the company has been under with great appointed Chairman of this company.
I would also like to thank Patrick Cescau, Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker, I am acutely aware that this has been Liv Garfield and Gareth Bullock who have a difficult year for the company.
This is recently retired as Non-executive Directors reflected in the financial results contained and also Ken Hanna and Stuart Chambers in this report.
As Chairman, my primary who have decided not to seek re-election duty is to shareholders, and I believe the to the Board at the AGM.
Im delighted best way to deliver shareholder value is to welcome Richard Cousins, Mikael John Allan to regain our absolute focus on customers Olsson and Byron Grote to the Board.
Chairman and on improving the shopping trip.
Tesco is lucky to have an outstanding new A key priority for me will be to ensure management team led by our CEO, Dave that the governance of the business Lewis, and our CFO, Alan Stewart.
They are is as it should be.
Our shareholders expect supported by a first-class team of people their company to be run in a responsible, who have begun the hard work of putting sustainable and transparent manner.
this great business back on its feet.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express sincere regret for the impact of the As I have visited stores and other sites commercial income issue on this company, I have been struck by the commitment, and would like to assure you that we have enthusiasm and capability of Tescos moved swiftly and decisively to address people.
I am very confident that with this serious matter.
An explanation of their support Tesco will be successful this issue is set out on page 33.
With my in refocusing on customers, rebuilding colleagues on the Board, I am determined trust and over time delivering that Tesco will be known for the highest progressively better returns.
standards of corporate governance and ethical leadership.
The challenges Tesco faces remain significant and fixing them will take I would like to thank my predecessor time.
However, I firmly believe we have Sir Richard Broadbent, who has been the right team and the right strategy resolute in addressing the numerous to deliver the longer-term performance challenges and handled the scrutiny which our shareholders expect and deserve.
John Allan Chairman Visit www.
com ar2015 to hear more from John Allan on his first months at Tesco 2 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
