Key performance indicators Our business has always been at its We now have just six simple, key best when weve made customers our business performance measures.
Colleagues want us about alignment and focus: if we give to make it easier to put customers first.
A our colleagues more power to choose key part of that is the way we measure the right actions, well do a better job performance and reward success.
for customers and achieve greater success for our business.
For a long time, we measured our performance using the Steering Wheel.
This served us well for many years, but as time has gone on, it has become too complex, with over 40 different measures.
We build trusted us and come back time us as a great place to work partnerships and again and shop 70% 77% 58% work shop The best result we can ever achieve For customers to recommend us, we need Our business is built on strong partnerships.
is that our customers are so pleased to start with our colleagues and make sure At a national level, we need to build with their experience at Tesco that Tesco is a great place to work.
trusted partnerships with suppliers to they recommend us to friends and provide the best offer for customers.
We shop with us again and again.
In our latest survey, 70% of colleagues told also rely at a local level on partnerships us they would recommend Tesco as a great with communities and wider society as We define loyal customers based on place to work, and 77% said they would part of our licence to operate.
their frequency of shopping with us recommend us as a great place to shop.
Over the We survey our suppliers to capture how past year, we have seen a 2.5 % As part of our business transformation they feel about their relationship with decline in this measure.
plan, we are committed to being more Tesco and the latest figures indicate that open, transparent and responsive to what 58% feel satisfied.
We have already Going forward, this measure will really matters to colleagues.
We are already started to make significant changes to the provide a clear indication of our making important changes, including new way we work with suppliers as part of our progress in regaining competitiveness.
weekly calls between all store managers goal of restoring trust and transparency.
10 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 4.
Improve operating cash flow Sales including fuel and VAT 57.5 % 69.7bn 1.3 % 1,390m 1,860m 59.6 % Sales excluding fuel and VAT 55.9bn 1.4 % If we do a better job for our customers, As customers recommend us and We need a strong cash flow so we can we will grow sales and achieve a stronger keep returning to shop with us, our keep the business running and invest financial position.
profitability will improve and we will in our customers and the shopping trip.
Last year, our Group sales declined by In 2014 15, our retail cash flow declined 1.4 %, reflecting a challenging backdrop Group trading profit declined to 1.4bn in to 1.9bn, reflecting both an extremely and our own underperformance in the UK.
2014 15, driven by a challenging year for challenging year for Tesco and a year While we must be prepared for further the UK business.
We have taken action to in which we began a process of volatility, our focus will remain on our start to restore our competitiveness and considerable change.
customers and were working hard to have have committed to reinvest any savings a positive impact on their shopping trip.
back into the shopping trip to help our business be stronger over the long term.
Growth is on a 52 week basis see the Glossary on page 155.
Excluding VAT, fuel and IFRIC 13.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 11
