Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information regain Our starting point is the market where products and important items have not we serve the most customers: the UK.
been available at peak times.
We have now given more space to the top 1,000 The UK represents more than two-thirds lines in each store, resulting in marked of our sales.
So if we regain our improvements in product availability at competitiveness and do a better job peak times during the day.
for customers in this market, it will have a dramatic impact on the Price.
Along with great service and performance of the Group.
availability, we want to make those products which are most important We have been focusing on four things to our customers as affordable as we for our customers: can.
As an example of this, we focused on the Festive Five, the five vegetables Service.
Our business is based people most want with their Christmas on great service, but we havent lunches.
Since January, we have got this right in recent years.
To help dropped prices on hundreds of fix this, we have invested in 4,652 branded products and essential new colleagues in customer-facing own-brand products.
We have also asked everyone committed to simpler, lower and who works in our offices to spend more stable prices wherever we can.
As a result of these changes, our Range.
Over the last few years, customers are responding.
Although we have significantly increased the we have work still to do, since October number of products in our ranges.
we have improved our competitiveness This has put extra pressure on our and every day more people are choosing store colleagues and its also left to shop at Tesco.
So over the course of this year and into the In addition, we have identified cost next we have started to review our savings across the Group of 400m.
ranges across all categories to make We have also taken a difficult decision them simpler.
As part of this weve to close 43 unprofitable stores in the already met with over 100 suppliers.
UK, and not to proceed with plans for 49 new stores.
Partly because of an been difficult but have been made increasing range, we did not leave to put the needs of the business enough space for the most popular and customers first.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 5
