Corporate governance report Introduction from the Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce our corporate governance report.
The Board believes that how we do business is as important as what we do and is committed to delivering the highest standard of corporate governance.
Ensuring we have the right approach to governance and that the Board works effectively will be my key focus in my first year.
Commercial income issue The overstatement of expected profit was identified in the second half of the 2014 15 year.
The Board sincerely regrets what has happened but moved swiftly and decisively to address John Allan these serious matters.
As this subject is of such major importance, a statement addressing Chairman this matter is set out on the following page.
Board changes In this section The Board has seen significant change over the last year.
As well as my own appointment This corporate governance report is as Chairman, we have appointed a new CEO, Dave Lewis, and a new CFO, Alan Stewart, intended to provide shareholders with to lead the turnaround of this great business.
Four of our Non-executive Directors retired a clear and comprehensive view of the and a further two Non-executive Directors will not put themselves forward for re-election at Groups governance arrangements and this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
I would like to thank these Directors for their how it has operated during the year.
commitment and contribution to the Company.
We have also appointed three new We have structured the report as follows: Non-executive Directors, Richard Cousins, Mikael Olsson and Byron Grote, and I would like to welcome them to the Board.
Ensuring we have the right skills and experience is a key p33 Commercial income issue priority and the Board will continue to evolve to best meet the needs of the business.
p34 Our corporate governance framework p34 Corporate governance highlights The UK Corporate Governance Code p37 Audit Committee report We recognise and support the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This year we complied with the relevant provisions of this Code except for the areas described below: p40 Corporate Responsibility Committee report p41 Nominations Committee report Board evaluation and Chairmans performance evaluation p43 Compliance with the UK The Board had previously agreed a three-year cycle whereby they would conduct Corporate Governance Code an externally-led review in one year, followed by internally-led reviews in the subsequent two years, one led by the Chairman and one led by the Senior Independent Director.
The externally-led evaluation was due in 2014 15 as the last one was conducted in 2011 12.
However, given the number of changes to the Board, including my own appointment, the Board agreed that an external review would be of more value if carried out during 2015 16.
An internal review of the Board and its Committees was conducted and further details about this can be found on page 36.
Sir Richard Broadbent was Chairman throughout the 2014 15 year but stepped down on 1 March 2015.
Given his planned departure, the Board agreed that there would be no benefit in conducting a performance review.
My performance as Chairman in 2015 16 will be assessed by the Non-executive Directors, led by our Senior Independent Director, Richard Cousins.
Audit tender On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board decided to put the Companys external audit out for tender this year.
After 32 years we and  LLP mutually agreed that they would not take part in the tender.
They will therefore step down as the Companys Auditor at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
A resolution to appoint the Companys new Auditor will be proposed at the Companys AGM in June, and this is set out within the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
It was a challenging year for the business and putting things right will take time but I believe we are on the right road to success and I am looking forward to playing my part in this.
John Allan Chairman 32 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Commercial income issue In September 2014, information was brought to the Boards attention that indicated that the recognition of UK commercial income was being accelerated and the accrual of costs was being delayed.
The Board announced on 22 September 2014 that it had identified an overstatement of its expected profit for the half year to 23 August 2014, principally due to this accelerated recognition of commercial income and deferral of costs, in the order of 250 million.
The Board decided immediately to appoint Deloitte to carry out an independent investigation of the commercial income numbers in the UK, and to defer the announcement of the interim results to allow time for this.
The Deloitte report confirmed that amounts had been pulled forward in the case of income or deferred in the case of costs, contrary to Tesco Group accounting policies: that there had been similar practices in prior reporting periods: and that the current and prior practices appeared to be linked as income pulled forward grew period by period.
In October 2014 as part of the interim results announcement, the Board further announced that the overstated recognition of commercial income was estimated at 263 million.
Taking into account the build-up of such overstatement in prior years, the impact on the trading profit expectation for the half year was an over-estimate of 118 million, with overstatement of reported profits in the previous year to 28 February 2014 of 70 million, and in years prior to that of 75 million.
Subsequent to October 2014 we have continued to focus on this area and we have identified some further amounts, bringing the total one-off adjustment relating to prior years to 208 million for our UK and ROI businesses.
Commercial income arises in a number of different ways, including discounts and rebates that suppliers agree to pay us based on the volume of sales achieved and contributions to product promotion expenses.
Our external auditors,  LLP, focused on this area in their audit of the 2013 14 accounts because of the significance of commercial income, the judgement required in accounting for commercial income including the amounts owed at the year-end, and because of the potential risk of the manipulation of these balances.
The matters surrounding the commercial income issue are now the subject of an investigation by the Serious Fraud Office, and the Company is co-operating fully with this investigation.
This has limited the extent of the Companys own investigation and what we can say about the circumstances in which the overstatement occurred.
A number of individuals have ceased employment with the Group as a consequence of this investigation.
The pulling forward of commercial income from suppliers that was more appropriately attributed to future periods, was clearly a management failure within the UK division.
The fact that it remained undiscovered has been a matter of the deepest concern.
The Board had two main priorities in their response to the commercial income issue: 1.
Ensure that all available steps are taken to ensure that nothing like this can happen again.
The Chief Executives report details some of those steps.
New management is in place, training has been given and the overall commercial relationship with our suppliers and the incentive structure for our commercial teams are being reset.
Ensure that the results accounted properly for all commercial income, whether in the UK business or our overseas operations, and with all other aspects of our relationship with our suppliers.
The overarching focus of the Board has been to ensure that this work did not, and does not, distract us from our core business of providing value and a quality service to our customers.
We have noted that the Financial Reporting Council has urged companies to provide greater clarity in respect of their commercial income and the Board has concurred that increased transparency is appropriate.
This is discussed in the Financial review, pages 12 to 17.
On 4 February 2015, the Grocery Code Adjudicator Adjudicator announced that an investigation has been launched into the conduct of Tesco under the Groceries Supply Code of Practice.
The Adjudicator is specifically investigating Tescos conduct under provisions of the Code relating to delays in payments to suppliers and payments for shelf positioning.
We are continuing to co-operate fully with the Adjudicators investigation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 33
