Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee Chairs introduction Dear Shareholders I am pleased to introduce my first Directors Remuneration Report as Chair of the Committee, having taken over the role from Stuart Chambers on 1 January 2015.
Stuart chaired the Committee from 2010 and I would like to take this opportunity to thank him on behalf of the Board for his work as Chair and his thorough effort during our handover period.
2014 15 reward outcomes Looking back to 2014 15, Tescos performance and challenges have been reflected through the remuneration outcome.
As a result, no annual bonus will be paid to either the new Deanna Oppenheimer or departing Executive Directors as the Committee determined that satisfactory financial Chair of the Remuneration Committee performance had not been achieved over the course of the year.
The Earnings per Share EPS and Return on Capital Employed ROCE performance targets for the Performance In this section Share Plan PSP awards granted in 2012 were not met and these awards will lapse.
p46 Introduction from Deanna Oppenheimer Executive Director changes p48 Annual Subject to an advisory As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, 2014 15 saw changes to the Executive remuneration report vote at the 2015 AGM team.
DaveLewis joined as CEO on 1 September 2014 and Alan Stewart joined as CFO p62 Directors Subject to a binding on 23September 2014.
For both Dave and Alan, all pay and benefits have been set in-line remuneration policy vote at the 2015 AGM with our remuneration policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
You can find a summary of their remuneration arrangements on page 49.
On leaving their previous employers, Dave and Alan forfeited outstanding incentive awards.
These have been bought-out by Tesco in accordance with our approved remuneration policy and details of these awards have been summarised on pages 52, 54 and 55.
Both of the Executive Directors have significant shareholding requirements to be built up over a five year period and both are on track to meet these requirements.
Changes to remuneration framework With new Executive leadership in place, the Board has been working hard to develop a strategy to improve financial performance by building a more sustainable, customer-focused Tesco.
The Committee believes that it is important that remuneration arrangements follow and support this strategy.
Therefore we have proposed changes to Executive remuneration for 2015 16 to better focus performance measures on the areas that are important for shareholder value creation at this time.
In February, Stuart Chambers and I met with the majority of our largest shareholders to discuss our remuneration framework and found these conversations and the feedback very helpful in shaping our proposals.
Annual bonus The performance measures for the annual bonus will be focused on sales, profit and individual measures.
The Committee wants the management team entirely focused on achieving the metrics which are vital to the early phase of the turnaround plan.
Further details can be found on page 49.
Performance Share Plan Since we are early in the turnaround phase of the business, the Committee considers it appropriate to base the 2015 award on a relative measure of Total Shareholder Return TSR to keep the focus on delivery of shareholder value through share price and dividend performance.
A second metric, Retail Cash Generated from Operations, focuses on the business generating a sustainable, quality cash flow.
The 2015 awards will be based 70% on relative TSR performance against a group of FTSE 100 consumer business and services companies, and 30% on cumulative Retail Cash Generated from Operations.
Specifics of the plan were revised as a result of the discussions in our investor meetings.
Further details can be found on pages 49 and 50.
Clawback Clawback provisions will be introduced for the 2015 16 annual bonus and Performance Share Plan awards.
Further details can be found on page 64.
As a result of these changes to our remuneration framework, it is necessary for us to seek shareholder approval for a revised remuneration policy which we will be doing at the 2015 AGM.
The full revised Policy Report can be found on pages 62 and 63.
46 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Payments to former Directors After detailed legal advice and a rigorous review, the Board paid the legally binding contractual payments to former CEO Philip Clarke and former CFO Laurie McIlwee in February 2015.
Details of their departure arrangements can be found on pages 56 and 57.
Changes to Committee membership In addition to the change to the Committee outlined above, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Mikael Olsson who joined the Committee on 2 December 2014, and thank Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker for her services to the Committee until her retirement from the Board on 28 February 2015.
I would also like to thank Stuart Chambers and Ken Hanna, who will not seek re-election to the Board at this years AGM, for their services to the Committee.
John Allan joined the Committee with effect from 20 April 2015.
Further review in 2015 16 As a Committee we have agreed to complete a further review of remuneration in 2015 16 to ensure that future arrangements are fully aligned to our long-term strategy to deliver value to shareholders and that the performance metrics used in our incentive plans are transparent and trackable with our business plans.
This will be developed over the coming months and, although we anticipate that no further changes to our Remuneration Policy will be required as a result of this review, we will consult shareholders again once this review has been completed.
Deanna Oppenheimer Chair of the Remuneration Committee Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 47
