SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT CAPTURING THE WAY THINGS ARE DONE AROUND HERE The power of the Group delivers great benefits.
The multiple businesses within Travis Perkins plc capitalise on the abundance of different skills, knowledge and expertise and are the foundation for success.
70 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Collaboration and Innovation Technology - Helping to Source the Best People Together, the Groups companies make up the largest distributor of building materials in the UK.
Through greater The reach and influence of the Groups in-house sourcing collaboration and innovation, significant benefits have function has grown considerably over the course of the been achieved by creating new and better ways of serving year.
The multi-channel approach to sourcing and recruiting customers in 2015.
This will continue into 2016. new talent has expanded, shaping the resourcing strategy and making the Group a market-leader.
Social media With great people and great brands, the Group will continue channels now work alongside traditional recruitment to look for ways to maximise these attributes to improve advertising campaigns, recruitment fairs, school leaver what it offers to customers.
This year has seen some exciting customer innovations LinkedIn followers have increased by 114% over the last across the Group.
For example, the click and collect 12 months and the number of times posts were viewed over programme offered by Wickes and the service from the same period was 5.9m.
Toolstation which now provides a sector-leading one hour turn-around.
Candidates are also engaged through Twitter and Facebook, as these channels are used to source different The General Merchanting business launched its trade pools of talent.
offers site and has extended the range available to customers through supply chain investments and the WeRecruit is the new recruitment system that has been launch of the Benchmarx selection centres has set it apart developed in 2015, becoming live to the branch network in from its competitors.
This makes talent recruitment more efficient and easier to use for the management population and better Technology - Connecting People enables internal candidates to connect with opportunities across the Group across the Group.
Technology is increasingly influential within the businesses, Investing in Early Career and helping colleagues to achieve the Groups strategic Talent Pipelines objectives, as well as enabling the activities and successes outlined in this report.
Investing in early career talent is integral to the success of the Group.
Therefore the Group has focused its efforts Since the launch of Google within the Group, collaborative in 2015 on delivering diverse, talented, early-potential working has grown considerably through the different colleagues into the recruitment pipeline, for all businesses digital communication channels.
In particular, Google and functions.
This increase in investment supports communities are a great tool to enable colleagues to engage the Groups long standing passion for helping young with each other, build their own content, have discussions, people into work.
The programmes operated include share information and learnings.
Communities exist across apprenticeships, traineeships, graduate and MBA many businesses and functions, as well as topic areas - programmes, the Duke of Edinburgh scheme, young just a few of these communities include Eye on the Ball, grafters and fast track programmes.
Fit for the Future, Womens Community, Management Apprenticeship and Omega ESP Easy Supply of Product.
A range of apprenticeship schemes is offered which leads to NVQ level 2 3 equivalent qualifications.
In 2015 the The Eye on the Ball community gives colleagues the first apprenticeships in HGV driving and in information opportunity to connect with CEO, John Carter, sharing technology were introduced.
This year has seen the knowledge and successes from across the Group.
largest induction ever into a well-established management Innovation is high on the Groups strategic agenda and the apprenticeship scheme, with 140 starters signing up to Fit for the Future community provides a perfect channel for the latest programme and more than 50 graduating at a sharing new technologies from across the businesses that ceremony at Silverstone motor-racing circuit.
These young have improved efficiency, profitability and competitiveness.
people are the new, up-and-coming branch managers The Omega ESP community provides branch colleagues and leaders of the future.
In September, there was an with instant answers on product availability within the induction and graduation event for over 150 management supply chain.
apprentices - an event that was filled with energy, pace and determination to contribute to the success of the The Management Apprenticeship community is open Groups businesses.
to all existing apprentices in the Group and helps those new to the business to integrate and settle in.
There is also an externally focused community which has contributed to attracting double the number of applicants to apprenticeship schemes compared to previous years.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 71 STRATEGIC REPORT All 15 entrants on to the 2014 FastTrack high-calibre, During the year the Group has forged links with agencies high-potential scheme successfully graduated during the focused on supporting the employment of ex-military year with all securing key roles in the Groups businesses.
personnel and it is anticipated activity will increase in this This was the first ever group management training area in 2016. scheme of its type where the trainees work right across the businesses and, in view of its success, new groups of entrants were inducted onto the scheme in 2015.
The Group received a regional highly commended award in the 2015 BT Awards for Macro Employer of the Year.
The 2015 awards recognise excellence in businesses that grow their own apprentice talent and apprentices who have made a significant contribution to their workplace.
The 200 regional finalists fought off competition from over 1,000 other entries made to the National Apprenticeship Service.
The creative use of social media Twitter by the group recruitment team to promote group apprenticeship schemes during the year was picked up by the Prime Ministers Office Twitter feed and re-tweeted to its 3m followers.
During the year the Group is pleased to have appointed its Workforce with a Difference first three female Managing Directors and its first female What does difference mean to the Group?
It means Operations Director, all of whom have contributed to the sourcing and engaging people from different cultures, incremental, positive shift in the number of women in the countries and backgrounds, with different educations, Groups senior management team.
experiences, skills, genders, ethnicities, ages or religions.
Women in Senior Management Women in Senior Mana ement The Companys view is that the more diversity there is, the better it is for business.
25% The drive to build a Workforce with a Difference 20% started in July 2014 and since then this vision has been communicated widely to colleagues in internal magazines 15% and at business conferences, head office events, MD Forums 23.2% and the Groups leadership conference in November.
20% 10% Each group business is now driving their specific plans, supported centrally with attraction campaigns, social media 5% communities and development initiatives.
In 2015, achieving a Workforce with a Difference has 0% 2014 2015 remained high on the Groups diversity agenda.
The Year Womens Community on Google was launched in 2014 as a hub for knowledge sharing, challenging existing practices The Companys first, all-female Duke of Edinburgh Award and highlighting successful initiatives across the Group.
It scheme was sponsored by the Group during the year with engages both male and female colleagues, with over 1,200 15 women successfully completing the programme.
members, and has instigated some very healthy debates as well as being a key influencer in some big changes in After winning first place out of 70 commercial floats in the Group.
This has included changes to workwear for 2014, Wickes continued its commitment to diversity in 2015 female colleagues through to improvements to working when colleagues in this business, again, organised a float for environment and employment policies.
The Womens the August Manchester Pride carnival.
Community has been embraced by all the Managing While gender diversity has been a focus of attention in Directors and over the course of the year they have shared the past two years, 2016 will see more focus on the wider their achievements and what the community means to each diversity agenda.
72 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT more options and choice for colleagues.
Throughout 2015, Helping People Develop Themselves the range of benefits continued to grow and now includes and Each Other discounted phones, childcare vouchers, healthcare plans, flexible life assurance and a wide range of special offers.
Over the past year there have been significant advances In addition to the growth in benefits offered, colleague in people development.
The Groups online learning and engagement with myPerks has also increased with 18,000 development platform, iLearn, has been re-launched with now using the hubs.
Not just a success internally, but a fresh, new look that gives colleagues the best chance also achieving recognition externally, myPerks received to develop their own skills, at a time that suits them.
engagement excellence awards for Best Smarthub iLearn houses over 500 courses and more than 1,000 Relaunch and Most Innovative Company Benefits at the new development opportunities, and each of the Groups Engagement Excellence Awards which aim to celebrate the businesses has their own home page that is tailored to their best in employee engagement.
Further affirmation of the people practices within the Group From inductions to mandatory training and development was recognised at this years CRF Institute Top Employers programmes, iLearn is a one-stop shop for colleagues awards.
For the sixth consecutive year the Group was development needs.
The Group received two awards at awarded the certification by the Institute, and this year the e-Learning Awards 2015 in London - Best e-Learning achieved a Top Ten recognition by the award organisers for Project in the Private Sector and e-Learning Team of the first time.
Individuals across the Group continue to be rewarded for a Rewarding Our People - Providing More variety of reasons such as embodying the cornerstones and Choice and Driving Engagement leadership framework, and continued loyalty through the award of long service milestones.
The introduction of the Groups online benefits hubs, myPerks Flex and myPerks Plus, in 2014 has enhanced the approach to compensation and benefits by providing Developing Our Leaders Senior leadership effectiveness is assured through a customer routes to market, technology and the specific continuous review process that considers the long-term business objectives that need to be delivered to achieve vision and direction of the Group and businesses, whether the Corporate plan.
The twice-yearly reviews with each there are any new future requirements eg product, divisional CEO follows the framework outlined below: Business Growth and Leadership Demand Corporate Plan Destination Development Cycle Position Summary Leaders performance and business results are reviewed There is also a full range of well-established programmes formally by their line managers twice a year.
The frameworks for developing branch managers and senior leaders that run used to measure the performance of leaders at all levels regularly throughout the year.
and identify leadership potential, ensures a good balance on the what lifecycle stage of their business and the how behaviours that are required.
Alignment of all leaders to the key leadership characteristics and group cornerstones is also critical for the future success of the Group.
During the year a number of forums were run for senior leaders, where guest speakers stimulated debate and learning on key, current business issues.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 73 SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT In addition to developing and growing existing leaders a Each was selected because of what they can do to help further 43 new leaders joined the Group from external grow the Groups businesses but, most importantly, because businesses during 2015, each one bringing a wealth of they will go about their work in the right Travis Perkins different experiences to share and add value.
Group way because they fit with the Groups leadership model and cornerstones.
OUR CORNERSTONES WHAT MAKES US GREAT WHO HOW HOW HOW I AM I LEAD I THINK I DELIVER Have the courage to Develop relationships Think broadly and make Be passionate about lead as myself at all levels timely decisions improving performance Down to earth our people Visible and approachable Seek out market trends and Challenge the way we do things value honesty use them to make decisions Listen and show interest in Passionately pursue that generate profit I am comfortable in my own people opportunities for growth skin we appreciate genuine Take a longer term and group Praise people and develop Tackle poor performance people who can have fun wide view them to be great Get the right things done with I am confident in my own Think about my whole business Use a range of styles to pace and energy knowledge our customers influence Know when to use rigorous Know the competition and value our expertise analysis or gut feel Keep the customer at the keep on improving I am humble arrogance centre of everything we do Consider risk and the impact doesnt work in our business for us I am resilient we overcome Make reasoned decisions in obstacles and keep on going ambiguous situations I am self-aware we ask the right questions of ourselves and learn from our mistakes 74 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT At Group level today there is a shared focus in the Charities and Communities following areas: Colleagues continue to be known for their unparalleled Corner stones and leadership model enthusiasm for engaging in a wide variety of charitable i. e. the way things are done around here causes and community activities with a range of beneficiaries.
Fundraising activities alone last year W orkforce with a Difference - achieving the raised 1.5 million.
diversity agenda During the year, Keyline broke the 1m barrier for its A ttracting and retaining ensuring the business fundraising activities in recent years in support of Prostate has high-calibre talented colleagues Cancer UK.
In addition, Wickes eight-year collaboration with the blood cancer charity, Bloodwise previously known Developing and r ewarding - to ensure colleagues as Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research, broke the 5m are engaged and motivated fundraising mark.
The behaviours needed to underpin this shared focus are Another high spot during the year included the support of reinforced through awards.
At the annual conference, those the Andrew Simpson Sailing foundation and 1851 Trust leaders and colleagues who, in the opinion of their peers, which enabled over 1,000 disadvantaged, nine to fourteenhave demonstrated the behaviours valued by the Group are year-old children to realise their first experience of sailing.
The opportunity for the Group to support this worthy cause arose as a result of its official partnership with the Americas Because of the Groups complexity, a balance is struck Cup World Series in Portsmouth during the summer of 2015. between group-led people initiatives for the shared challenges faced, versus business brand specific activities Concluding Commentary which are addressed locally.
These are driven by growth plans, the change and transformation agenda or customerThis section opened by acknowledging the power of the specific challenges.
Focus, flexibility and cost are weighted Group and the way it uses collaboration and technology to highly in the choices the Group and its businesses make - underpin its success and it is appropriate to conclude by but always with a better end result for customers in mind.
highlighting further the areas that glue the Group together.
OUR SHARED SUCCESSES - CHARITY PARTNERSHIPS 1.5 MILLION Why this matters Giving something back and making decent returns ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 75 STRATEGIC REPORT Statutory Reporting Requirement for Gender Diversity F M Total Number % Number % Number % Director 2 25.0% 6 75.0% 8 100% Senior Manager 164 23.2% 543 76.8% 707 100% Colleague 6,663 24.1% 21,028 75.9% 27,691 100% Grand Total 6,829 24.0% 21,577 76.0% 28,406 100% F M Total Number % Number % Number % Central Services 773 46.7% 881 53.3% 1,654 100% Consumer Division 3,599 34.7% 6,772 65.3% 10,371 100% Contracts 597 18.2% 2,686 81.8% 3,283 100% General Merchanting 1,037 12.4% 7,310 87.6% 8,347 100% Plumbing & Heating 716 18.2% 3,223 81.8% 3,939 100% Supply Chain 107 13.2% 705 86.8% 812 100% Grand Total 6,829 24.0% 21,577 76.0% 28,406 100% Ashley Sawyer Wickes, Rugby 76 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Chris Bailey Toolstation ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 77
