SECTION continued STAY SAFE REPORT THE GROUPS APPROACH Keeping people safe is a cornerstone of the business.
The Groups underlying philosophy that all those affected by our business should return home safe and well at the end of every day, remains unchanged.
Since its inception in 2008, Stay Safe has resulted in real TALK POSITIVELY, about safety, health and wellbeing: improvements in safety performance particularly in the Talk about the value safety adds at work and at home early years, however improvement had slowed and what and the immediate, positive and certain consequences for was a recognised and characteristic plateau in the Groups doing the right thing performance needed to be addressed.
So this year the Group has evolved its Stay Safe programme and language.
Talk about health and wellbeing as much as safety The Group recognises that good safety and good business T alk to the customer to make safety part of the leadership and behaviours are indistinguishable from each Groups service other.
Importantly, whilst safety is rated equally with other management responsibilities and all decisions balance the CHALLENGE RESPECTFULLY needs of employees, customers and other stakeholders, any If in an y doubt, stop, challenge others, colleagues, employee who is uncomfortable or unsure about their own customers and suppliers or others safety, is empowered to STOP work, seek help, raise a concern or escalate issues.
Ask questions rather than criticise The Group believes in the power of making things simple, Recognise that mistakes ar e part of being human avoiding bureaucracy and safety for safety sake and by and most often these are unintentional, apply applying a few simple principles relentlessly as a group it Just Fair Culture can achieve extraordinary health and safety results.
COLLABORATE OPENLY The new Group Stay Safe principles are designed to encourage engagement, underpin and guide everyones Shar e your story, report incidents, near misses or thinking and action throughout the Group: good ideas Consult the end user and consider the impact of y our decisions on others Celebrate the Groups safety success 78 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT The Group Stay Safe Committee has reviewed the risk Stay Safe Governance profile of the business and established a number of leading Throughout 2015 Stay Safe activity was reviewed by the Stay Safe objectives relating to: Stay Safe Committee, in addition to Stay Safe performance Imp lementation of divisional Stay Safe strategy, aligned to being reviewed at board meetings, executive committee the group Stay Safe vision meetings and also as part of the Groups regular divisional board meetings.
Further fide-risking of the Groups operations November saw the retirement of the existing Chairman of Manual handling the Stay Safe Committee, Andrew Simons.
The incoming Chairman of the Committee, Pete Redfern commented: Driver behaviour On behalf of the Executive Committee and the Board Progress against these objectives will form part of the Iwould like to thank Andrew Simon for his dedication and Remuneration Committees overall assessment of executive hard work in instigating the Stay Safe programme and in performance next year.
laying some strong foundations for Stay Safe in the Group.
I look forward to working with the executive and Stay Stay Safe Performance Safe function to build on his work in the coming years to In last years report the Group noted a plateau effect in reporting continued improvement in the Groups recent lost time frequency rates.
For 2015 Travis Perkins safety performance.
saw a 22.6% drop in the lost time frequency rate.
This positive trend is supported by a 40.7% reduction in the severity frequency rate.
This means that despite a significant increase in workforce numbers the Groups absolute number of days lost overall is down from 6,527 2013 to 5,640 2014 to 3,918 in 2015, representing an estimated reduction in the cost of lost days of 860,000 on 2014.
Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates 14 Month Current Rollin Year 12 Previous Rollin Year 10 8 6 4 2 0 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 79 Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 Apr 14 May 14 Jun 14 Jul 14 Au 14 Sep 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 Dec 14 Jan 15 Feb 15 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Au 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 STRATEGIC REPORT In previous years the Group has reported on its Safe Branch The winner, who is a first time entrant, and in the words measure, branches where: of Chief Assessor, Jim Maccall, truly deserve this honour, because their enthusiasm and desire to achieve SafeHire No lost time injuries have been reported compliance was magnificent at all their depots.
Near misses ar e being reported using our online The Group also continues to lead in the transport arena, reporting system maintaining gold accreditation as part of the Fleet Operators Recognition Scheme FoRS for the fifth T he Groups internal audit team has not given the branch consecutive year.
As well as continuing to champion a red or amber rating on its most recent Stay Safe audit the Construction Logistics and Cycle Safety CLOCS programme which brings together developers, construction In 2015, 43% of the Groups branches that were assessed companies, operators, vehicle manufacturers and regulatory achieved this benchmark.
The Group recognises that bodies to ensure a road safety culture is embedded across whilst obtaining Safe Branch status is an achievement it the construction industry.
also needs to continually challenge the baseline for this benchmark and raise the bar in terms of expectation INNOVATION & COLLABORATION for what makes a truly safe branch.
With this in mind the Group has reviewed its performance measures with a The Groups businesses continue to take the Stay Safe view to focusing on a new suite of leading or input based philosophy and translate this into specific actions that are indicators for 2016 and beyond.
tailored to their operations and the safety issues that they face.
Some of the activity completed in 2015 and planned Following the implementation of a new incident reporting for 2016 includes: system in March near misses for the Group have increased by 142%.
The new system is accessible online via a phone Case studies from 2015 app and has been well received by staff who now find it much easier to report incidents and near misses.
Just Fair Culture In May the Groups Tool Hire business was awarded In 2015 the Group adopted and implemented the Just SafeHire Company of the Year over 5 outlets as part of Fair Culture model as a management tool to encourage the industrys Hire Awards of Excellence 2015.
The award reporting and to help investigation identify the root cause of is for the company which can best demonstrate how it incidents.
The model provides a simple framework, setting maintains compliance to the SafeHire Standard and has clear expectations of how colleagues treat each other so improved the health, safety and well-being of its workforce that the Group can better learn from incidents and near and or users of hired or owned equipment.
Further work will continue in 2016 to embed commented on the Groups entry: this model.
Would others Does the person START No No Yes Informed about have done the have a history of Was the action procedures?
same in the same contravening the deliberate?
Yes No Yes No Was damage, Were the Deficiency in loss or injury procedures clear, selection, training the intended workable and or experience?
Yes No Yes Yes No No Yes Negligence Possible violation or reckless Violation caused Error or poor Error caused Routine error Routine error or lapse in contravention for by the system judgement by the system by individual by Group attention personal benefit Action required, Retrain or Corrective Corrective Disciplinary Fix the system might be coach with actions fix training Fix the system Action supervision disciplinary mentoring the system coaching Diminishing Culpability in all case, document the outcome 80 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Transport Safety Plumbing & Heating In 2015 Travis Perkins joined forces with 3D Driving The Building the Best programme resulting in over 230 Awareness to support safety in the local community through branch changes was a key change programme for the the Wheels & Skills programme.
2015 saw a continued focus on front line Stay truck will be on hand to show young adults the hazards on Safe initiatives to support this change programme to the road and educate on the effects of drink & drug driving.
embed grass roots behavioural safety in the branches.
The truck has all of the safety features Travis Perkins has Initiatives include: on its fleet, 4 way CCTV cameras, fresnel lens, white noise Stay Saf e calendar, designed to engage all the branch reverse alarm & handbrake alarm.
team in stay safe activities Recently students from West Derby College near Liverpool Driver s days, where all senior leaders spend time out with were invited to the Omega Warrington site, each student our delivery drivers as part of our reality check had a ride in the truck which included wearing a pair of beer goggles to show the effect of drink-driving.
The students Br anch & Warehouse Day, for all senior leaders to spend really engaged with the day and took a lot away with them.
the whole day going back to the floor!
In 2016 the safety truck aims to visit over 130 schools, colleges and universities.
Regular br anch Stay Safe meetings and a full team meeting on 26 June, when all branches closed at 3pm to General Merchanting ensure quality time devoted to Stay Safe The What Great Looks Like programme has focused on Design and specif ication of new delivery vehicles designing risk out from new and refurbished Travis Perkins Use of EPOD f or completing daily vehicle checks and to branches, using a set of standard design requirements take and share pictures of deliveries that are tailored to each location that cover everything from traffic management to material storage, staff welfare to customer behaviour.
A review of the first 19 branches completed show a 75% reduction in accidents compared to the traditional estate.
As well as continuing the What Great Looks Like Capital investment programme the business is also seeking to implement some of the lower cost and behavioural solutions across all branches in 2016.
Contract Merchanting Following near miss reports and Branch visits, the Commercial Team have been working with Celotex, CCF Carlisle and Peterborough to change the way Celotex product is supplied.
Product over 100mm thick is now completely shrink wrapped, meaning it is now easier and safer to transport, store and handle.
Celotex are working on a solution for thinner products and anticipate having a similar solution in 2016.
Celotex have also listened to concerns regarding pallet heights and will be trialling a split lift in the coming months.
Changing the way a supplier packages their products is not a fast process nor is it easy to do.
Celotex have had to invest heavily in changing the way the products come off the production line but by working together collaboratively the supply chain is made safer for the Group and its customers.
Darren Cassidy Primaflow, Lancashire ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 81 STRATEGIC REPORT PLANNED ACTIVITY FOR 2016 fide-risking the Groups operations Health & Wellbeing W ork will continue through the What Great Looks Like The Group will partner with Public Health England as programme to design risk out of Travis Perkins branches they launch One You a major national behaviour change complimented in the Groups other divisions through programme encouraging, empowering and enabling people Building the Best and new format Wickes.
to protect and improve their health.
The programme will focus on seven areas of health and wellbeing and link to T he Group will be revisiting the foundations of its both internal and external resources to assess individual safety programme with a new risk assessment process, health and support needs.
The programme also links to encouraging greater colleague engagement in local related colleague benefits available via MyPerks.
Similarly its manual handling programme will evolve to focus more on eliminating lifting rather than simply training colleague to lift safely.
Both programmes are practically based in branch and use front line colleagues to solve problems.
The programmes effectiveness will be measured by the output in terms of improvement activity rather than simply the volume of attendees.
T he Groups drivers spend much of their time working alone and dealing with a variety of operational challenges delivering to complex sites and demanding customers.
By using a revised suite of driving and driver behaviour measures and utilising the newly created Driver Coaches role, the Group aims to better target interventions with this key group of colleagues.
Jordon Berry CCF, Leeds 82 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT All those affected by our business should return home safe and well at the end of every day ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 83
