STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE CREATE VALUE THE UKs LARGEST DISTRIBUTOR OF BUILDING MATERIALS WITH ROOM TO GROW Whilst the Group is the largest distributor of building materials in the UK, its businesses are not always the first choice for many of its customers, presenting a compelling opportunity to improve and grow.
The Group will remain committed to its core expertise as a distributor of building materials.
Whilst there are other markets in Europe the Group could enter, the Group has significant opportunity to grow in the UK and this will remain its principal focus in the near term.
Be the first choice distributor of building materials in the UK First Choice Distributor The Group is the largest distributor of With the exception of some minority building materials, but not the first choice investments the Group is a distribution for the majority of customers business with complementary supply chains Building Materials UK The products the Group sells are used in The advantages the Group and its the repair, maintenance or improvement of businesses enjoy are generally not existing buildings and the construction of scalable outside the UK new buildings and infrastructure projects 14 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Str Strateg ategic Repor ic Report t Go Governance & Rem vernance & Remuner uneration ation F Financial Statements inancial Statements Shar Shareho eholder Inf lder Information ormation STRATEGIC REPORT Brendan Cowlam - BSS, Leeds ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 15 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL The core of all of the Groups businesses is distribution, meaning they are engaged in buying, moving and selling building materials.
buy move sell Distribute 400,000 product Sell goods and services to over Source products from over 2 lines from over 4m ft 280,000 account customers 50 countries and over distribution space using 4,000 and millions of cash customers 9,000 suppliers delivery vehicles from more than 2,000 branches However, the markets each of the Groups businesses operate within have distinct characteristics based on the type of customers they serve, what products they sell, the basis of pricing and the fulfilment channel.
Therefore, the Group is organised into divisions and business units to cater for this spectrum of needs.
Consumer Merchants Contracts PTS, CPS F & P, Keyline, Wickes Toolstation Travis Perkins Connections, BSS, CCF Primaflow Sales 1.4bn Sales 2.0bn Sales 1.4bn Sales 1.2bn Medium - lar e trade Customers Small tradesperson Consumer Tendered Variable by customer to Fixed framework Pricin templates uided a reements Variable Mandated Ran in 35% 50% 85% Delivery 16 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Str Strateg ategic Repor ic Report t Go Governance & Rem vernance & Remuner uneration ation F Financial Statements inancial Statements Shar Shareho eholder Inf lder Information ormation STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 17 DIY retail 6.6b Addressable 11.9b Total Retail 18.1b Addressable 7.5b Direct from manufacturer Specialist trade 16.8b Specialist retail 11.5b Not addressable l Addressab e 3.4b STRATEGIC REPORT THE GROUPS MARKETS The total UK construction and home improvement materials market is worth approximately 70bn.
The Groups addressable market is around 37bn, which excludes certain trade and DIY categories and direct from manufacturer to end-user supplies, which are not currently served by the Groups businesses.
Many of the Groups businesses hold market leading positions by value of sales, and those that do not are generally the number two in their respective market.
Therefore the Group is well-positioned to benefit from the UKs continuing economic recovery and so further enhance shareholder returns.
The Groups largest nationwide competitors account for less than half the turnover in the Groups addressable markets.
Independent and regional, largely private companies make up the remainder of the market.
There are product categories with an addressable market of approximately 16bn, in which the Group does not currently operate.
These categories provide potential opportunities for the Group to extend its reach.
Not addressable The UK has a long history of significantly under-investing in its housing stock.
According to a survey by the Office for National Statistics, there are approximately 28 million homes in the UK and only 60% of these are maintained to a satisfactory standard.
A trend towards smaller family units results in around 225,000 new households being formed each year.
The combination of under-investment in existing dwellings and new household formation provides a Total Trade 35.1b reasonable expectation of sustainable medium to long term Addressable 29.6b growth in both the new build housing market and the repair, maintenance and improvement RMI of existing homes market.
SMALLER FAMILIES DRIVING 27.8M HOMES ACROSS ONLY 60% MAINTAINED 225, 000 NEW HOUSEHOLDS THE COUNTRY TO A SATISFACTORY LEVEL PER YEAR 18 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Not addressable Merchants 12.1b Addressable 4.9b Addressable 14.3b Total Direct 17.1b Direct trade 17.1b Not addressable Other trade xed price online 6.1b Addressable 2.6b Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information l i a t e R C o n s t r STRATEGIC REPORT change in those key indicators and a corresponding uplift in RECENT MARKET TRENDS demand volumes.
The Groups businesses supply greater volumes of product There was a significant improvement in the key lead to the more resilient RMI market, albeit with a small, but indicators the Group monitors as the UK recovery took important component of turnover coming from the supply hold in 2013, which moderated throughout 2014 and 2015. of material to the new build market.
Whilst it is still relatively early in the recovery of the UK construction industry, these key indicators are now at levels The Group tracks several market indicators from the consistent with those needed to support sustained mediumhousing, retail and construction sectors in order to term growth in RMI spend, new housing construction and determine levels of investment and inform the Groups new commercial and industrial development.
Secondary housing transactions and consumer confidence remain the key indicators that most The following chart shows some of the key lead indicators closely correlate to future performance.
Traditionally there the Group tracks: has been a lag of around six to nine months between a Site visitors Consumer 27 pt confidence Site 3 pt reservations 14 pt Climate for purchases 9 pt Mort a e approvals 17% Equity withdrawal 10 pt Housin transactions 10% Retail sales rowth 2.6% Housin prices 4% New Architect construction workload orders 16% 0% Trade Construction confidence output Expected 10 pt 3% workload 16 pt ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 19 u c t i o n n i s u o H STRATEGIC REPORT RECENT MARKET TRENDS continued The chart below demonstrates the correlation between these indicators.
There is an approximate three month lag between the approval of a mortgage and subsequent housing transaction.
Following the completion of a housing transaction there is a further lag of approximately six months to when expenditure on home improvement occurs.
50 Mort a e approvals la ed by 9 months 40 Housin transactions la ed by 6 months 30 ONS Repair & Maintenance expenditure 20 10 0 10 20 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Au Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Source: HM Revenue & Customs Bank of England O ce of National Statistics CUSTOMER BEHAVIOUR TRENDS Following the last three years of economic recovery and a relatively stable economic outlook which have been characterised by lower inflation, rising employment, low and steady interest rates and rising real wages, consumer confidence became positive on the GFK index for the first time in almost 20 years.
10 0 10 20 30 Index ure 40 Index annual movin avera e 50 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 20112012 2013 20142015 2016 Source: GFK THE GROUPS AMBITION Whilst demand in markets the Groups businesses operate in is a very important factor in the Groups continued success, the Groups growth is not constrained by the market.
The Group has a relatively low market share, which presents an excellent opportunity for the majority of the Groups businesses to gain market share.
These businesses are well positioned to take advantage of this opportunity to gain share because of the significant structural advantages the Group enjoys, which include the scale of its purchases, its distribution infrastructure and the breadth of its property portfolio, enabling operating businesses to access good quality sites quickly and cost effectively.
In addition, each operating business is challenged to create superior customer propositions through ranging, value for money, convenience and advantaged delivery and service expertise.
20 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Index % Percenta e Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT l Majority of the markets the Group competes in are highly fragmented Market l Proliferation of small family-owned businesses 1 fragmentation l The Groups businesses are No.
2 in each of its markets, but with relatively low market shares l Sourcing & supply chain: sourcing terms, range, stocking and distribution efficiency Structural l Branch network: 2,000 locations in UK with strong financial position underpinning tight yields & site access 2 advantages l IT: selective sharing of software platforms and volume hardware purchasing l Range & value: improved promotions & KVI pricing range extension, own label development, availability Superior l Space: new branch & store opening programme with implants intensifying space 3 propositions l Channel, format & customer service: investment in online channels, new formats and better service Fragmented markets structural advantage superior propostion sustainable market share gains As a result, the Group continues to strive to grow revenue ahead of the market on a sustainable basis.
8 6 1-2% 4 1-2% 0-2% 2 2-3% 0 Market OutNew Ination volume performance space Based on the Groups ability to grow sales ahead of the market, its financial ambitions of the Group can be summarised as: Outperform the market sales growth in each of its markets Grow operating margins in Plumbing & Heating, Contracts and Consumer and sustain sector leading margins in General Merchanting Deliver low double digit growth in EBITA per annum Increase LAROCE by 200-300 basis points over the medium term Deliver strong and consistent growth in shareholder returns ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 21 Sales rowth p. a.
% STRATEGIC REPORT LEVERS OF VALUE CREATION In order to deliver its ambitions, the Group developed a strategy in 2013 which was subsequently refined in 2014 and 2015.
The chart below sets out the levers the Group is using to create value for its shareholders.
Portfolio Scale Management Optimising Advantage Streamlined central Customer Network functions Supply chain investment Innovation TP expansion & Devolved management Leverage property modernisation Improved value responsibility capability Wickes national footprint Extended range Disciplined planning & Group sourcing benefits capital allocation Plumbing & Heating Product development Shared technology format clarity Regular market updates investment Format renewal Implants intensify Technology enabled returns Multi-channel Trade parks Enabled through people & evolution of unique culture In addition to the levers of value creation noted above, the Group has focused its efforts in three key areas to improve performance: 1.
Modernising the Travis Perkins builders merchant 2.
Re-segmenting Plumbing & Heating branches to better meet customer needs 22 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Str Strateg ategic Repor ic Report t Go Governance & Rem vernance & Remuner uneration ation F Financial Statements inancial Statements Shar Shareho eholder Inf lder Information ormation STRATEGIC REPORT Ian Sharkey Travis Perkins, Warrington ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 23 STRATEGIC REPORT John Fergson Travis Perkins, Shrewsbury 24 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATION IN CUSTOMER PROPOSITIONS AND OPTIMISING THE BRANCH NETWORK GENERAL MERCHANTING DIVISION Travis Perkins is, and for the foreseeable future will continue fleet and branch managers who have built an unparalleled to be, the Groups core business.
It is the Groups largest relationship with customers.
Branch manager incentives, business by sales, profitability and one of the highest which are based on return on capital performance, set returning businesses operated within the Group.
the business apart from its competitors, and are a key component of Travis Perkins market outperformance.
The business benefits from national coverage with over 650 branches, an efficient lightside central distribution network, The following chart sets out the key components of the plan an expanding heavyside network, access to a product range to improve Travis Perkins, combining both sales and profit few competitors can match, a modern vehicle delivery drivers and investments in enabling infrastructure.
Expand the network Managed Modernising services formats development Toolhire Enhanced expansion CRM Category Multi-channel management development and pricing Enhanced Regional IT distribution Invest capability in safety and develop our people There is significant scope for network expansion and Measure Current Medium-term relocation.
Travis Perkins is targeting 5-15 net new branches ambition per annum and plans to increase the number of tool-hire Network expansion 656 TP 5-15 TP p. a. equipment implants within existing branches.
In addition 157 Bmx 20-30 Bmx p. a. Benchmarx, is targeting to open a total of 30 new branches per annum, which will be a mix of new standalone branches Like-for-like sales 3-5% 1-4% p. a. outperformance and implants within existing Travis Perkins sites.
Operating margin Sector leading Sustain The modernisation programme for the Travis Perkins improvement prospects business is underway with a focus on improving range, better use of space and ensuring that the value proposition Capital expenditure 50-60m 40-60m p. a. remains competitive.
This programme coupled with the LAROCE 16% Add 200-300bps development of sales to local authorities through the managed services business, expanding the tool-hire category and improving Travis Perkins multi-channel proposition, offers significant opportunities for growth.
The Group is confident that Travis Perkins can extend its market leading position and further drive improvements to the customer proposition, which over the long term will improve returns for shareholders.
The targets for improvement are set out on the right: ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 25 Sales and profit Drivers Enablers STRATEGIC REPORT Pete Groucott City Plumbing Supplies, Shrewsbury 26 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT PLUMBING & HEATING DIVISION The strategy for the Plumbing & Heating division has three key elements: 1.
Providing large, value and heating engineers and bathroom service focused contract installers with a dedicated customers with a dedicated network of over 350 branches nationwide network of over through the City Plumbing 90 branches through PTS.
With fewer larger branches, PTS is able to offer broader ranges of products in quantities designed to The majority of branches contain a bathroom complete large contracts for same or next day delivery.
showroom showcasing the best branded and Further improvements are planned to PTS account own label ranges, operated by a design consultant, management capability to provide transparency of helping local tradesmen deliver a complete offer to products ordered, despatched and awaiting delivery their customers faster and more efficiently.
In addition, City Heating Spares concessions within City Plumbing branches enable an extension to the range of spares available to customers at short notice.
City Plumbing offers a range of renewable heating products and intends to extend this range further in the future.
Building scale in the P&H divisions focused customer proposition through: F & P, Primaflow & Connections expanding the range of products offered through the reconfigured distribution infrastructure to local independent merchants PlumbNation online providing local heating engineers with a fixed price, online ordered only boiler and spares delivery service Solfex providing solar, thermal, photo-voltaic and under-floor heating packages to specialist installers Graphically Underfloor Heating Store providing both trade and represented retail customers with an extensive range of water and overleaf electricity based under-floor heating systems ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 27 STRATEGIC REPORT PTS City Plumbing reconguration Develop More standalone contract City Plumbing business branches Leverage high Supply ROCE chain F & P model eciencies Roll-out Tailored of bathroom multi-channel showroom capability and spares Talent to lead Stay UKs No.
1 safe P&H business Excellent IT 28 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Enablers Sales and profit Drivers Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT To achieve its ambitions the Plumbing & Heating Division Measure Current Medium-term has undergone a significant change programme in 2014 and ambition 2015 to ensure that business models, branches and customer Network expansion 463 5-10 net new service teams are matched to customer needs.
This change branches branches p. a. programme, Building the Best, involved the conversion of more than 160 PTS branches to the City Plumbing format, Like-for-like sales Flat 0-3% p. a. outperformance the closure of more than 60 branches and training of almost 1,000 colleagues.
This programme commenced in Operating margin 3.3% Good mid-2014 and completed in February 2016. improvement prospects Capital expenditure 15-20m 10-20m p. a.
The Division intends to further extend the penetration of its own label range and enhance its online routes to market to LAROCE 6% Add 250bps ensure it meets its customers changing needs.
The targets for the Division are shown in the following table alongside how the Plumbing & Heating Division intends to outperform other operators in its markets.
Simona Platekova - Travis Perkins plc, Warrington ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Mark Jackson and Grahame Williams Keyline, Lincoln 30 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT CONTRACTS DIVISION The Contracts Division was formed on 1 January 2014, bringing one division, it is enabling the Group to offer a comprehensive together the three businesses within the Group that supply range of products to customers, and assist them with technical products to large construction companies, their contractors and issues in design, specification and installation.
These businesses all track major commercial The key components of the strategy for the division are set and infrastructure projects and by bringing them together into out below.
Deepen Growth Major Contract pricing Branch sector and Category Develop BSS in presence in and project network category expansion industrial o er insulation partitions management optimisation specialism Whole Contracts Division Market-leading Excellent Multi-channel customer IT capability service BSS is further developing its industrial product offer and improving its logistics efficiency in order to offer continuous improvements in range, service and technical support to its customers.
In CCF, the strategy is focused on providing national coverage through its branch network, expanding the range of products offered to customers not previously served by the Group and developing a significant presence in commercial interior partitions through its Sektor brand.
Keyline has a strong nationwide network supplying civils, drainage and heavyside building materials.
Keyline is reconfiguring its estate to operate from lower cost sites, with excellent access to the road network, given the high proportion of its customers demanding delivery of products.
Emma Walmsley BSS, Leeds As with the other divisions, the Group has clear performance targets for the division including increasing the level of capital investment with the ambition of outperforming market peers.
Measure Current Medium-term ambition Network expansion 181 branches 1-2% net space growth p. a. Like-for-like sales 3-5% 1-3% p. a. outperformance Operating margin 6.9% Good improvement prospects Capital expenditure 30-40m 20-30m p. a. LAROCE 14% Add 200-300bps ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 31 Enablers Sales and profit Drivers STRATEGIC REPORT The Consumer divisions three businesses, Wickes, Toolstation and Tile Giant have distinct strategies.
The strategies for Wickes and Toolstation are set out on the right and page 35 respectively.
Darren Hawksworth - Wickes, Rugby 32 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT CONSUMER DIVISION The strategy is to transform Wickes into the UKs strongest serious DIY retailer with the ambition of having a Wickes project in every home.
This will be achieved by leveraging Wickes advantaged position in the market and building on: Wickes small store footprint Modest range extensions to the focussed in-store range Reinforcing Wickes value price position Investing in further improvements in the online proposition Selectively opening new stores in underserved catchments The Wickes plan is graphically represented below: A WICKES PROJECT IN EVERY HOME!
V VALUE FOR MONEY ALUE FOR MONEY WE AL WE ALWA WAY YS DELIVER S DELIVER QUICK, QUICK, SIMPLE & EASY SIMPLE & EASY Refocus product oerin based on Build on multi-channel strenths clear customer needs National estate coverae Maintain structural price Improve in-store infrastructure advantae with authority & experience Extend to broader customer base Leverae roup scale in Become a reat place to work, buyin & distribution always Leaner service model Develop a diverse workforce to match our customer base Enable reater eciency throuh IT Wickes offers a focused range of high quality products at availability enable customers to shop for a DIY project great value combined with best in class availability.
Range confident that they will be able to find all the materials they reviews have been conducted throughout the year to provide need to complete the project.
Wickes investment in its multithe right mix of products for customers.
The business channel capability means customers can access an extended continues to expand its appeal to a broader customer base, range of products which can be delivered to their home or whilst remaining a great value, reliable and convenient place business and collected in-store.
to shop for a loyal base of trade and expert DIY consumers.
With a focused range and access to buying scale through The Wickes business is structurally advantaged over its the Travis Perkins Group, Wickes is able to offer DIY sector competitors.
The majority of stores operate from 25,000 leading prices and intends to maintain this advantage.
2 30,000 ft and there are no plans to significantly modify the Wickes plans to continue to expand its network by between average store size.
There are over 60 potential new locations 10 and 15 new stores per year and continue to grow sales and in the UK where the Wickes model has already proved that gain market share over the medium term.
the business would be able to gain a profitable share of the market.
The focused Wickes in-store range and excellent ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 33 STRATEGIC REPORT Ben Farler - Toolstation 34 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Toolstation operates from over 200 stores across the UK offering the same range in-store, online and through its catalogue.
It aims to provide the lowest price lightside building materials to tradesmen and serious DIY customers and to always be in stock in the project quantities its customers require.
If for any reason products are not available it offers next day delivery of those products free of charge.
Toolstation plans to continue to open new shops across the Measure Current Medium-term UK to meet growing demand from tradesmen for transparent, ambition fixed price products.
Further investments are planned to Network expansion 236 Wickes 10-15 Wickes p. a. improve customers online experience, provide enhanced click 111 TileGiant 30 Toolstation and collect services and modestly extend the range offered 224 Toolstation p. a. tocustomers.
Like-for-like sales Above market Above market The performance targets for the Consumer Division are set outperformance out on the right: Operating margin 6.8% Good improvement prospects Capital expenditure 40-50m 40-50m p. a. LAROCE 7.4% Add 150-250bps Emma Thomas - Toolstation, Longwell Green branch ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 35 I n f r n a o s i t t i r s u o c p t o u r r p e r & e m e o t s c i u e C n c y STRATEGIC REPORT EXPLOITING THE GROUPS SCALE ADVANTAGE One of the key value creation levers is using the Groups Simplified ordering for branches with improved range scale to move products more efficiently through its supply management tools and automated stock chain, leverage its property portfolio, buy better and replenishment systems selectively share technology.
Providing better availability through an increased range of lightside and heavyside distribution centres, stocking a broader range of products The Groups supply chain ambition is to provide branches and customers with easy access to the broadest range of Vehicle route planning reducing the cost of, and enhancing, products, reliably, efficiently, safely and delivered on time the local delivery proposition through a number of programmes of work: Full multi-channel proposition O er market-leadin customer for transaction and fullment propositions Deliver on-time in-full Hold an extended ran e of every time products closer to the customer Make profitable customer Optimise ran e architecture promises includin increased own-label Stayin safe, all Access to broader ran e Improve product availability, with faster availability in-branch and next-day the time, at every Invest in centralised Auto replenishment improves location distribution infrastructure in-branch availability and reduces stockholdin Drive eciency by exploitin scale and improvin systems A sin le view of stock for collea ues and customers The Groups scale enables improved efficiency and the The Group is also focused on using its buying scale to source ability to offer a stronger proposition.
Customers increasingly products directly from manufacturers at lower cost and to want certainty of product availability and access to broader create more commonality in product ranges such that it can productranges.
consolidate volumes so reducing unit costs still further.
For many years, the Group has benefited from efficient, The Groups strategy of Easy Supply of Product ESP offers low-cost IT systems.
These systems are approaching the end continuous access for customers to more products quickly, of their useful lives and, therefore, a clear four point strategy reliably and efficiently.
The strategy will deliver a sustainable has been developed to ensure better IT systems capacity and structural advantage in the form of: flexibility in the future: Next day availability on 24,000 lightside Delivering a common, shared trading platform across the products - nationwide Groups merchanting businesses Next day availability on 3,000 heavyside to 90% of the UK Delivering an appropriate multi-channel presence for each Next week availability on a further 3,000 heavyside brand making it easier for customers to order, buy and products - to 90% of the UK receive products Lower in-branch stock holding Simplifying back office systems to enable decoupling of Reduced inter-branch transfers businesses, enhancing efficiency and cost accountability Fewer empty trucks, travelling fewer miles, more frequently Increasing system usability and the experience for colleagues and customers so that it is easier to do business The strength of the Groups balance sheet enables businesses with the Group within the Group to occupy properties they would otherwise find it difficult to access.
Furthermore, by developing multi-fascia sites, the Group is able to provide opportunities for the Groups smaller operating businesses to co-locate with the Groups larger businesses and benefit from greater foot traffic.
36 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 A t v n a e i l m a l b i l l u i t f y r e & m v o i t s s i b u i l C i t y Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information s D s e e n v i e s l u o b p l u f s t r s a e n c c s f u o S r m STRATEGIC REPORT Sophie Haynes Wickes, Rugby ENHANCE THE MANAGEMENT OF THE PORTFOLIO The Group has a robust planning approach enabling it to The Group is taking advantage of investment opportunities allocate capital to the opportunities which are expected to through increasing its capital expenditure and, consistent with deliver the most material value for shareholders.
Aligned with its strategy to strengthen the balance sheet, by also investing this approach to managing capital allocation is a selection of in freehold property.
Capital expenditure is tiered based upon key metrics upon which the Group is managed.
In particular the risk and return profiles of the investment opportunities lease-adjusted return on capital employed is an important identified under four broad categories: measure of success as the Board believes it best aligns 1.
Extending the Groups leadership: investment in proven investment decisions with the ultimate goal of shareholders: businesses and opportunities delivering attractive returns their return on equity.
Investing to grow: investment in customer propositions In order to improve lease adjusted return on capital, to adapt to changing customer needs and strengthen the management responsibility for both earnings and capital Groups market leading positions employed is devolved down through the business.
This greater accountability and autonomy is managed and 3.
Infrastructure investment: investment to enable future monitored through strong governance processes.
As outperformance including IT and supply chain infrastructure management in each of the businesses are taking more 4.
Divest: where there are better uses for capital either to control for managing returns, central functions are being grow the business or where it is sensible for it to be streamlined to ensure all teams are closer to the businesses returned to shareholders they support and ultimately customers.
This approach to capital allocation is creating more competition for capital with In addition the Group is better utilising the property portfolio management allocating capital to those investments with through more active asset management as outlined below.
Access strate ic requirements for hold sell Successful property process requires stron underlyin businesses Release capital throu h sale or sale & leaseback Business requirements always come first Reinvest capital back into the business Enhance existin site usa e throu h Identify optimal locations usin implants trade parks data local expertise Develop freehold sites plannin, Assess Group site usa e or acquisitions DA, construction needed Secure sites throu h freehold leasehold ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 37 t s e A v c n i q e u r i r e e l c y s c e e l e R c t STRATEGIC REPORT GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITION The Group is committed to achieving growth through organic expansion, but that does not preclude taking advantage of suitable opportunities that arise to support growth through small bolt on acquisitions.
During 2014 and 2015 the Group has completed a number of these smaller strategic acquisitions and investments including Rudridge, Primaflow, Staircraft, Bathrooms.
com and the Underfloor Heating Store.
Strate ic investments to protect supply chain Share in cate ories which bypass distribution Geo raphy Tar etin under-served catchments New cate ories with existin business models International only in exceptional Access specialist markets & circumstances adjacent cate ories Manufacturin anufacturin Focus on product areas attractive to existin customers Buy or Build trade-o where valuations Channel Produc Product t prohibitive or lack of tar ets On-line Demonstrable IP innovation key Installation nstallation tar et areas Accelerate expansion into new channels for key product areas Buy or Build trade-o wher e valuations prohibitive Not a focus COMPARING PERFORMANCE WITH STRATEGY The Groups ambition is to deliver long term, sustainable value to shareholders.
There are a series of financial and non-financial measures which the Group tracks to monitor performance.
Operationally, success is measured through a comprehensive set of key performance indicators.
All of these indicators are aligned to achieving the Groups strategic ambition.
The Groups actual performance for 2015 is shown in the performance review section on pages 42 to 56.
Executive Director remuneration is linked to strategy and performance, which is explained further in the Directors remuneration report on pages 110 to 135.
Risks The Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 65 to 69 sets out the key risk factors that are considered by the Directors to be material to the business and may impact upon the successful delivery of this strategy.
38 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Str Strateg ategic Repor ic Report t Go Governance & Rem vernance & Remuner uneration ation F Financial Statements inancial Statements Shar Shareho eholder Inf lder Information ormation STRATEGIC REPORT Kevin Johnston Primaflow, Lancashire ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 39
