Governance Report Board of Directors Dame Helen Alexander Tim Cobbold UBM Board members Chairman 1,3 Chief Executive Officer CEO deliver foresight and oversight, based on a wealth of experience in global business environments Appointed as Chairman of the Board in 2012, Appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the Board Dame Helen began her media career in publishing, in May 2014 and was previously CEO at fide La moving to The Economist Group in 1985, Rue, an international business employing becoming Managing Director of the Economist 4,000 people in more than 150 countries Intelligence Unit in 1993 and CEO of The worldwide.
His previous roles were with UK Economist Group from 19972008.
Dame Helen engineering group TI Group and Chloride Group has extensive board experience having been a plc where he became CEO in 2007.
He is a Non-Executive Director at Northern Foods, BT plc Non-Executive Director at DRAX plc.
After and Centrica plc, Chair of the Port of London graduating from Imperial College with a degree in Authority and President of the Confederation of Mechanical Engineering, Tim qualified as a British Industry CBI 200911.
She is a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Non-Executive Director at Rolls-Royce Holdings plc and at Huawei Technologies UK Co. Ltd. She is also a senior adviser to Bain Capital.
In 2015, Dame Helen was awarded the Lgion dHonneur.
Marina Wyatt Alan Gillespie Chief Financial Officer CFO Senior Independent Director 2,3 Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board in April 2008, Alan has in September 2015, having previously been Chief extensive experience in both the private and the Financial Officer and a member of the public sectors, with a background in investment Management Board at TomTom NV for ten years.
Alan spent Before joining TomTom, Marina was Chief Financial ten years at Citibank, followed by 13 years at Officer of Colt Telecom from 200205.
Prior to this Goldman Sachs as a partner, with responsibility for she was Group Finance Director at Psion Plc corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions in having initially held the role of Group Financial the UK and Ireland.
Chairman of The Ulster Bank Controller.
Marina is a Chartered Accountant Group 2001 to 2008, Alan is currently the Senior having begun her career with Arthur Andersen, Independent Director at Old Mutual plc.
He is also working in London and the US.
Chairman of the Economic and Social Research Council ESRC.
Committee membership key 1 Remuneration 2 Audit 3 Nominations denotes Chair Appointed with effect from 1 March 2016 48 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Greg Lock Trynka Shineman John McConnell Non-Executive Director 1, 2,3 Non-Executive Director 2,3 Non-Executive Director 2, 3 Appointed to the Board in February 2010, Joining the Board in March 2016, Trynka is Appointed to the Board in January 2014, Greg has more than 40 years experience in the President of Vistaprint, a leading global online John is Group Finance Director of Inchcape plc, technology, software and computer services provider of professional marketing products and the leading premium automotive group which industry.
In a 30-year career at IBM he held a wide services to tens of millions of micro business operates in 26 developed and Emerging Markets range of senior roles in the UK, Continental Europe owners.
Trynka leads Vistaprints technology, around the world.
An Australian national, John and the US including as a member of IBMs product and marketing strategies and previously joined Inchcape in 1999 as CFO of their Australian Worldwide Management Council and Governor of held a number of senior marketing and leadership and New Zealand businesses and was promoted the IBM Academy of Technology.
Greg is Chairman positions since she joined the Company in 2004. to CEO of that region before being appointed to his of Computacenter plc, the IT services business, Her career in marketing spans more than 18 years current role in October 2009.
Prior to joining and was previously Chairman of Kofax plc, the and all facets of the marketing discipline.
Inchcape, John worked with Reckitt and Colman leading provider of document-driven business now Reckitt Benckiser for 13 years in a variety process automation solutions.
of senior financial roles in the UK, Germany and Australia.
Pradeep Kar Terry Neill Mary McDowell Non-Executive Director 1,3 Non-Executive Director 2,3 Non-Executive Director 1,3 Appointed to the Board in August 2006, Pradeep Appointed to the Board in September 2009, Appointed to the Board in August 2014, Mary has has extensive experience in building global Terry spent over 30 years with Accenture experience running both enterprise and consumer information technology businesses based out of Andersen Worldwide.
He has wide experience divisions in global technology companies.
Founder of Microland, Indias leading global of leading and delivering large-scale projects and 2004 to 2012 she worked at Nokia, most recently provider of outsourced IT infrastructure managing change in a global business.
Variously as Executive Vice-President in charge of Nokias management and cloud services.
A serial based in Dublin, Chicago and London, Terry was mobile phones unit.
An Independent Director and entrepreneur, Pradeep founded and sold four the worldwide managing partner of Accentures Chair of the Compensation HR Committee at technology businesses, Planetasia.
Andersens Change Management Practice and Autodesk Inc, a US-based multinational software com, Net Brahma and Media2India.
Pradeeps part of the team that successfully transformed corporation, Mary is also an Independent Director deep understanding of technology generally and Accenture into a public company.
Terry was for the Austin, Texas-based Bazaarvoice, a cloud the Asian market specifically is crucial to the Chairman of Andersen Worldwide from 1996 to technology company.
She previously held senior Boards strategy in Emerging Markets.
2000, and a Non-Executive Director of Bank of executive roles at HP-Compaq.
Ireland Group and of CRH plc.
Terry served as a Governor of the London Business School for 12 years.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
