STRATEGIC REPORT CREATING VALUE CREATING VALUE ACROSS THE OIL LIFE CYCLE This diagram describes the capital investment that oil companies make throughout the life of a project, as well as the production sharing that takes place between oil companies and host governments to allow for up front investment to be recouped.
It also shows the added value from jobs and businesses opportunities that are typically created through a project.
3-10 YEAR PERIOD Development of discovery Complex projects and significant investment During this capital intensive period, an oil company will drill further wells and invest in the necessary infrastructure to extract and produce resources.
For onshore projects, this includes transport infrastructure, amenities, processing facilities and pipelines.
For offshore projects, this includes 2-10 YEAR PERIOD production platforms, floating production, storage and offtake vessels FPSO and sub-sea equipment.
Exploration and Appraisal Geological studies and evaluation of risks Capital is invested by oil companies through licence Increased opportunities for local jobs and suppliers acquisitions, acquiring seismic data and the drilling of This phase represents the greatest opportunities for local exploration and appraisal wells.
Opportunities in the supply chain range from providing engineering expertise and construction, to logistics and catering.
Initial opportunities for local jobs and suppliers In the early stages of a project, Tullow invests in community projects and employs local sub-contractors in exploration and appraisal programmes, where possible.. Employment Training Governments Local community Governments Improved investment infrastructure Taxes Social investment Local community Infrastructure Value investment Value improvements shared shared Capacity building Social investment Spend with local suppliers General trades and services Spend with local suppliers Support services Specialist and non-specialist trades Skills and knowledge transfer Increase in local jobs 14 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 INVESTMENT AND RETURNS Tullow aims to create sustainable long-term value across the oil life cycle for our shareholders and also a wider group of beneficiaries including employees, governments, local suppliers and communities.
International oil company investment An oil company will often carry the host governments share of costs through to first oil.
In addition to the capital invested, the oil company pays the host government a number of taxes as well as land rentals, training and ongoing licence costs.
20-50 YEAR PERIOD The oil company also undertakes capacity building Production programmes including skills, knowledge and technology transfer to maximise local business Maintaining and extending the life of producing fields and workforce participation in the industry.
Once a field is producing, investment will focus on sustaining and extending plateau production in the most cost-effective way.
This involves general maintenance, steps to protect International oil company take the integrity of the field and additional infill or near-field exploration drilling.
An agreement between the oil company and government determines how and when costs can be recovered and how production and revenues are shared.
Typically, the oil companys share of production or revenue is higher in the earlier years Cost-effective production for high-margin cash flow Once producing, the oil can be marketed and sold to of production as costs are recovered in the form international buyers.
Maintaining low operating costs allows of allowable deductions against income tax or as the oil company to make greater margins on each barrel sold.
an allocation of production, commonly known The oil companys take is dependent on the oil price, levels as cost oil.
of expenditure and agreed licence terms.
In-country value creation Creating shared prosperity is the key pillar of Monetary value from production tax and royalties Tullows sustainability strategy.
The area where we The main economic value to host countries is from production can create the most discretionary value is through revenues and income taxes on the oil companys profits.
Goods foreign direct investment, local procurement, local and services from local businesses and expertise from the local workforce are needed to run operations, maintain employment and capacity building through skills, production and work on potential further development.
The scale of the opportunity for local business contracts and jobs increases as a project moves from the exploration phase through to production.
2015 TOTAL SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Governments Taxes from production Employment Government tax Employee salaries Spend with local suppliers Royalties Training $359M $309M Value shared $1.1BN Local community Local community investment investment Social investment Spend with $8M local suppliers Capacity building Foreign Direct Investment Governments $391M www.
