STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE ROBUST STRATEGY FOCUSED ON LONG-TERM VALUE Tullows Board is confident that Tullows strategy and business plans remain effective in steering our Company through challenging market conditions.
Our long-term strategy is to find oil through exploration substantially hedged: strengthened our banking facilities: which we then seek to monetise through production or the and suspended our dividend.
Accordingly, although our sale of assets.
We have demonstrated this both in Ghana long-term strategy for creating value for our shareholders through the development of the Jubilee and TEN fields and remains unchanged, we have made significant changes to its in Uganda with our farm-down to CNOOC and Total in 2012. implementation in the current environment.
Exploration success gives us options to monetise assets and As and when the sector recovers, and costs within oil maximise value at various points in the cycle.
We selectively services are reduced, Tullow will reconsider its exploration develop the oil we find, focusing on world-class development budget in the firm belief that the best oil to develop or sell projects that are economically viable and will return is oil that we have found ourselves.
Meanwhile, our much sustainable future cash flows.
As and when surplus cash reduced exploration spend is currently focused on ensuring is generated, a decision is made to either reinvest this that Tullow has a balanced and exciting prospect inventory cash into additional operational activities, pay down debt which is ready for any change in market conditions.
We or return cash to shareholders.
recognise that our strategy requires disciplined execution Due to the significant fall in the oil price since mid-2014, we in the short term to deliver a successful, well-funded have reduced our expenditure on exploration substantially: business for the future and we continue to stress-test both limited our development spend to those projects which our balance sheet and business plan at very low oil prices maintain or bring onstream substantial new production: to ensure that we can execute our strategy despite the focused on cost reduction: made sure our oil production is current volatility in the oil and gas industry.
OUR STRATEGY ADDITIONAL CASH FLOW FROM NEW PRODUCTION High Margin Exploration Monetisation Options & Selective Production Cash flow & Appraisal Portfolio Management Development Debt reduction, cash Surplus Cash Costs & Dividends distribution & operations 16 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE The Groups progress against its corporate scorecard is tracked every month to assess the Groups performance and delivery against its strategy.
Tullows Key Performance Indicators KPIs are important The Group scorecard is used to determine Executive in assessing the overall health and performance of the Directors and employees performance related pay to ensure business and they make up a Group scorecard that includes that all areas of the business are driving towards the same a range of operational, financial and non-financial measures.
Executive Directors performance is judged solely on the delivery of the targets set in the Group scorecard, The KPIs measured in 2015 differ from those reported in whereas the majority of employees bonuses are based 2014 and this is a result of the Major Simplification Project on a combination of individual and Group performance.
MSP, which has evolved the Groups approach to ongoing performance management.
A single Group scorecard was Each objective measured has a percentage weighting and agreed with the Board for 2015 which included specific financial indicators have a baseline and a stretch strategic targets that were deemed important for the year.
As reflected in the table below, in 2015, Each year, targets within the scorecard may change to reflect Tullows overall performance was 37.7 per cent.
This reflects the most material strategic objectives and associated risks the challenging year the Group faced and the impact it has the Group faces, as well as measures to deliver on the had on our Total Shareholder Return TSR, which accounts longer-term strategy of the Company.
Tullows performance for 50 per cent of the total possible score.
However, the against the scorecard is tracked and reviewed at monthly delivery of the majority of remaining targets reflects strong performance management meetings, which are attended by performance in maintaining liquidity, sustaining cash flows, Executive Directors and Senior Leaders.
The Groups ongoing operating safely, reducing our costs and overall operational performance is regularly cascaded to staff through delivery.
More detailed discussion on each KPI management briefings and internal communications.
% 2015 2015 GROUP SCORECARD available in scorecard actual performance 10% 6.6% OPERATIONAL Production, Opex, Net G&A 10% 7.2% TEN DEVELOPMENT First oil date and cost 10% 7.3% SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Lost Time Injury Frequency and safety and sustainability scorecard 20% 16.7% STRATEGIC TARGETS Liquidity, East Africa progress, Major Simplification Project 50% 0% RELATIVE TSR Total 100% 37.7% Due to rounding, column does not add to the total.
com 17 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED OPERATIONAL WORKING INTEREST PRODUCTION PRODUCTION Relevance to strategy: Production provides a key source of funding for the Group in the form of highmargin annual cash flow.
Production guidance is set as part of the business 73,400 BOEPD planning process and meeting these levels is important for ongoing liquidity.
78,200 79,200 84,200 75,200 73,400 Target 2015 performance Maintain Group production against The Groups working interest a base target of 71,000 boepd, and production in 2015 was 73,400 boepd, maintain the integrity and operating exceeding the base target.
This reflects efficiency of the Jubilee field.
strong performance from the Jubilee field and our non-operated West African portfolio.
11 12 13 14 15 CASH OPERATING OPERATING COSTS COST PER BOE Relevance to strategy: Operating costs determine how much it costs Tullow to produce each barrel of oil it extracts.
The lower the cost, the higher the margin Tullow receives when $15.1 PER BOE the oil is sold.
Opex is impacted by industry costs, inflation, Tullows fixed costs 13.5 14.6 16.5 18.6 15.1 and production output.
Target 2015 performance Deliver Opex boe base target Opex boe in 2015 was $15.1 boe, after of $14.5 boe.
taking account of the uncontrollable effect of Gabon royalties.
This did not achieve the base target of $14.5 boe, primarily due to unforeseen maintenance on the Jubilee FPSO.
11 12 13 14 15 NET G&A COST SAVINGS $46 MILLION Relevance to strategy: Administrative costs are the corporate costs of running the organisation.
saving compared to They should be directly related to our levels of operational activity, efficiency, planning and budgeting.
2014 adjusted net G&A Target 2015 performance $155 million Reduce activities and related G&A Net G&A was $194 million in 2015. costs that will deliver net G&A cost There have been significant reductions savings of a $50 million run rate in headcount, payroll and non-payroll at the end of 2015. costs during 2015.
The adjusted 2015 annualised exit run-rate was $109 million, which is a reduction of $46 million compared to 2014 adjusted net G&A of $155 million, after excluding the effect of the IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments charge.
18 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 TEN DEVELOPMENT TEN PROJECT SCHEDULE AND BUDGET OVER 85% Relevance to strategy: Delivering the TEN Project on time and on budget will lead to significant of project production growth and will build on available reserves which underpin debt capacity.
completed Target 2015 performance Forecasts on track for delivering TEN The base target for the forecast delivery first oil in mid-2016 and within budget.
of the TEN Project was achieved in This is measured on a sliding scale and 2015.
The project is forecast to be the full score of this KPI required the delivered within budget and is on schedule and budget forecasts to meet track for first oil in July August 2016. stretch targets.
SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS EHS SCORECARD SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS SCORECARD Relevance to strategy: Tullows safe and sustainable operations scorecard provides a complete view of Tullows performance and drives towards a sustainable business for the long term.
Target in the safer management of motor 14 Demonstrate measurable vehicle operations, with significantly MEASURES improvements to performance fewer Motor Vehicle Collisions MVC based on the scorecard, which covers incidents 75 per cent reduction.
The occupational safety, process safety, number of private and public security social performance, social investment, forces trained in compliance with environmental performance and Tullows Voluntary Principles on Security regulatory compliance.
and Human Rights requirements has Fully achieved 6 also increased significantly during the Partially achieved 6 2015 performance year.
Areas of declining performance Not achieved 2 Performance measures in 2015 showed included volume of gas flared and GHG improvements across the majority of emissions due to a compressor issue categories.
Improvements were notably on the Jubilee FPSO.
LTI, TRI, MVC LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY 12 MONTH TREND Relevance to strategy: Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF is a measure of incidents that occur either % in Tullow or our contractors operations that result in a fatality, a permanent 2.0 disability or a reduction of man-hours worked.
They are a direct measure of our safety procedures and the quality of training and have the potential to 1.5 impact our reputation and ability to operate effectively.
1.0 Target 2015 performance Reduce LTIF by 20 per cent from the Tullow reduced LTIF by 48 per cent, 0.5 2014 end of year performance.
with an end of year LTIF of 0.30.
Improvements were made through a greater focus on the organisation 0 of land operations and control of work Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov at these locations, in particular in our drilling, completions, and extended Rolling MVCF LTIF 12 Month Avg well testing activities.
TRIR 12 Month Avg Trend Incident frequency www.
com 19 per million man hours STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED STRATEGIC TARGETS TOTAL MAJOR SIMPLIFICATION PROJECT MSP WORKFORCE Relevance to strategy: Tullows strategy is focused on creating long-term shareholder value, supported by efficiency, cost management and a strong culture.
The objective of the MSP, 1,403 which was completed in 2015, was to streamline our business and processes, 1,548 1,778 2,034 2,042 1,403 cut costs and re-focus the Group on key priorities and activities.
Target Deliver business restructuring and defined key accountabilities and efficient processes focused on value.
Ongoing performance management reviews have evolved 2015 performance to improve discussions around value The MSP project has successfully creation on a more regular basis, adjusted the operating model of the with the Groups ongoing delivery business, clarified key accountabilities, against its key objectives regularly improved culture around value creation communicated to staff.
A shift to a and performance management, and more cost-conscious culture has 11 12 13 14 15 simplified the organisational structure occurred as a result of regular with further work ongoing to simplify expenditure reviews and improved internal processes and better manage cross business challenge.
Headcount has been with the Executive, in-country reduced across the business to better management and peers has been reflect Tullows activities and scope of stepped up to help motivate, engage operations.
The new operating model and focus staff on the Groups targets and implementation of an integrated during this period of change and management system has better challenging market conditions.
EAST AFRICA 636 mmboe Relevance to strategy: Tullows basin-opening discoveries in Uganda and Kenya have discovered a new East Africa net oil province with the potential of circa 300,000 bopd combined gross production.
Monetising these discoveries through development and or portfolio management contingent resources is a fundamental part of Tullows strategy.
Elsewhere, three Deliver East Africa exploration potential basin opening exploration campaign, demonstrate commercial wells were drilled in 2015, but none viability of South Lokichar resource made discoveries.
In August 2015, the base and maintain ability to accelerate Governments of Kenya and Uganda a commercially attractive project issued a joint statement agreeing into 2016.
Progress East Africa the Northern pipeline route would be development programme though used to export oil, subject to certain pipeline agreements and resolution conditions.
A technical team is working of Uganda tax issues.
on addressing these conditions to gain unequivocal agreement from both 2015 performance governments.
A draft field development Nine appraisal wells were drilled in the plan for the discoveries in the South South Lokichar Basin in Kenya in 2015 Lokichar Basin was submitted in and all were largely on prognosis.
In Uganda, historic Extended Well Tests displayed good CGT and VAT issues were resolved.
connectivity at Ngamia and Amosing and provided important data for 20 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 STRATEGIC TARGETS CONTUNUED LIQUIDITY $1.9 BILLION Relevance to strategy: Sufficient liquidity is imperative for a companys survival and it enables the Group headroom and to meet its capital commitments and to invest in projects and assets that will bring value in the future.
free cash at year end 2015 Target prices.
Net debt at year end 2015 Take appropriate steps to ensure was $4.0 billion and headroom cost-effective and sufficient liquidity and free cash was $1.9 billion, ahead in 2015. of guidance due to a combination of cost savings and deferral of certain 2015 performance capex to 2016.
A number of exploration The March 2015 re-determination farm-outs were concluded during the accessed $450 million of increased year, reducing E&A expenditure debt capacity, and the strength of our through carried costs.
producing assets helped to maintain debt capacity in the October 2015 re-determination despite lower oil TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR TOTAL SHAREHOLDER TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN RETURN Relevance to strategy: 350 Tullows strategy is focused on building long-term sustainable value growth.
300 Our primary strategic objective is to deliver substantial returns to shareholders.
250 Target 2015 performance 200 The baseline target is median TSR Tullows TSR is measured against a 150 performance in relation to a peer group bespoke group of listed exploration 100 and the stretch target is upper quartile and production companies.
was ranked 19 out of 21 peers for 50 TSR performance, resulting in no 0 TSR is based on performance over the award for TSR.
24-month period, Tullow experienced negative TSR of 77.78%, compared to Tullow FTSE 100 a median of negative 38.2%.
FTSE 250 2016 GROUP SCORECARD Stretching financial metrics, a strong balance sheet and operational and organisation targets are included in the 2016 scorecard, as well as measures to deliver on the longer-term growth strategy of the Company.
A summary of the targets is listed below, and the KPIs will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report.
Ensuring funding capacity in a downside environment and determining a long-term strategic solution to deleverage and rebase the balance sheet Deliver business development and growth targets relating to the TEN and East Africa Projects and exploration progress Organisation and operational priorities including production, operating costs, capex, net G&A, safety and sustainability targets, improved efficiency and effectiveness, and the progression of the diversity agenda www.
