STRATEGIC REPORT SHARED PROSPERITY CREATING A POSITIVE LONG-TERM LEGACY As Africas leading independent oil company, Tullow has a role to play in creating shared prosperity and leaving a legacy of sustainable social and economic benefits.
We aim to do this by paying fair and appropriate amounts of tax, being transparent in the payments we make to governments, creating local employment, and building capacity to enable local businesses to bid successfully for contracts.
Tax transparency Operationally, our contracting and procurement processes Our payments to governments, including payments in kind, are critical to delivering Local Content and we structure our amounted to $391 million in 2015 2014: $518 million.
contracts to optimise the amount of goods and services that can be sourced locally.
We ensure that local companies are Total payments to all major stakeholder groups including given the opportunity to prequalify for contracts and that our employees, suppliers and communities, as well as international suppliers submit Local Content Development governments, brought our total socio-economic contribution Plans as part of contract tenders.
These plans are part of to $1.1 billion 2014: $1.4 billion.
This included $309 million our selection and award process and are continually spent with local suppliers, $359 million in payroll globally reviewed throughout the life of the contract to ensure and $8 million in discretionary spend on social projects.
Our total payment made to the Ghanaian Government in Local job creation 2015 was $237 million 2014: $314 million.
The reduction We aim to align our local hiring policies with our host in income taxes paid was partly offset by an increase in our governments priorities, and we work to ensure that local carried interest of approximately $30 million and withholding staff make up the majority of our skilled workforce.
Other tax payments such as Value Added localisation programmes focus on training and skills Tax and PAYE & national insurance were broadly consistent transfer through mentoring and job shadowing.
Most with 2014. contracts during the exploration and appraisal phase tend to be short term, making the recruitment and training Lower oil prices and continued investment in the TEN Project of local staff problematic.
This becomes easier during the will continue to have an impact on our likely payment of taxes development and production phases, when there is a to the Government of Ghana in 2016. clearer business case for the investment in required training programmes.
Opportunities for local businesses Local content expenditures by contrast have increased by In Ghana, Tullow meets the requirements of the Local 37 per cent across the Group and have almost doubled in Content and Local Participation Bill 2013 and we have a Ghana.
This is largely due to the ongoing concerted effort target of employing local nationals in more than 90 per cent of the government, Tullow and our Joint Venture partners of positions for the Jubilee Field Phase I Development.
to identify contracts where local businesses can tender for the supply of goods and services locally.
In 2015, in Ghana we spent $226 million 2014: $124 million with local businesses.
This expenditure also does not include the NATIONALS IN COUNTRY AND BUSINESS UNIT % significant sums that our international suppliers spend 83 67 74 66 94 93 68 58 78 61 68 58 with local businesses, which is as a direct result of our contracting strategy, which requires our international suppliers to maximise opportunities for local businesses within their contracts with Tullow.
Full disclosure under the UK Regulations of taxes and other payments to governments of our host countries can be found on page 171.
Ghana Uganda Kenya Local nationals as a % of in country staff Local nationals as a % of in country workforce Local nationals as a % of business unit staff Local nationals as a % of business unit workforce 66 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 This year, in our Ghana Business Unit, the proportion of In Ghana, IIA is working to empower local enterprise and our expatriate staff marginally increased, reflecting the need increase links to international companies with West Africas to secure expertise for the TEN and the Jubilee Field Full first online business platform the African Partner Pool Development Projects that was not available in Ghana.
The APP allows Ghanaian small to medium sized Once all operational phases of these projects are under enterprises to better promote their services and helps way, the proportion of expatriates will decrease.
investors choose the best local businesses to partner with.
Although we have made progress in employing more local For example, prior to joining the APP, one of the major staff across all functions in Ghana, they remain underchallenges faced by Adentiti, a Ghanaian IT supply company, represented in technical and engineering roles.
Overall, was identifying and responding to tenders from larger permanent staff who are Ghanaian nationals make up companies in a quick and easy way.
According to Business 67 per cent of our Ghana-based workforce and 83 per cent Development Manager Kafui Bokor: The decision to join the of our permanent Ghana-based staff.
However, the number APP was the solution that completely simplified Adentitis of nationals as a proportion of our technical staff lags behind search for tenders.
Adentiti now has access to opportunities from some of the In Kenya, as the Government prepares for the development biggest buyers in Ghana such as General Electric, Newmont of its oil and gas resources, its draft national content Mining, Ecobank and others.
After winning a tender posted legislation is expected to come before parliament in 2016. on the APP, Adentiti has established a profitable business This will build on the Petroleum Act that already requires relationship with UT Bank.
Adentiti is just one of over 1,000 Tullow to prioritise the employment and development of companies registered on the APP and Kafui concluded: Kenyan nationals.
Currently, Tullow Kenya has 194 Adentiti has received so many benefits from being a permanent employees and contractors working in our member.
I urge my fellow local SMEs to register to enjoy Nairobi offices and in the field, 61 per cent of whom are the many benefits it offers.
Permanent staff who are nationals Social investment working in Tullow Kenya, represent 78 per cent of our We support investment in education and training employee base.
We are committed to increasing the programmes to develop the future pipeline of expertise proportion of local staff and developing sector-specific skills required by the oil and gas industry in the medium and and we continue to coordinate this effort with our partners long term.
We try to ensure that our technical and vocational and the Government.
Improving this performance will be an skills training programmes provide both relevant and area of focus in 2016. transferable skills that will enhance long-term socioOur Kenyan operations have created a number of local economic stability and boost growth in our host countries supply chain opportunities for businesses in Turkana.
example, Kapese Transporters specialise in providing light Tullow Group Scholarship Scheme and heavy vehicles to transport personnel and materials Tullows flagship social investment project remains the to drill locations.
Over the last five years, Kapese have Tullow Group Scholarship Scheme.
It is administered increased the number of vehicles in their fleet and have by the British Council and aims to build capacity in our host been able to strategically diversify their business to include countries.
$24 million has been invested over five years and the supply of spare parts.
students are sponsored to take academic and vocational Invest in Africa courses at leading institutions.
Over 400 students have Invest in Africa IIA was founded in 2012 by Tullow Oil benefited to date and 227 students have completed their with the vision of partnering with companies across courses.
Participants have a 93 per cent employment rate sectors to create thriving African economies.
LOCAL CONTENT $ MILLION 145.4 217.0 225.4 308.9 This Strategic Report and the information referred to herein have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Kevin Massie Corporate Counsel and Company Secretary 12 13 14 15 www.
com 67 OUR EAST AFRICA BUSINESS Tullow has a large onshore acreage position in Uganda and Kenya and considers this region to have great potential.
To date, the Group has discovered a total of 2.3 billion barrels of oil in the Lake Albert Basin in Uganda and the South Lokichar Basin in Kenya.
Tullow is focused on its continued exploration in Kenya and progressing the regional development.
CORPORATE 2 GOVERNANCE Directors report 70 Audit Committee report 79 2 Nominations Committee report 84 EHS Committee report 86 Ethics & Compliance Committee report 88 Directors remuneration report 90 Other statutory information 107 Drilling operations in Kenya
