STRATEGIC REPORT ORGANISATION & CULTURE CREATING A FIT FOR PURPOSE TULLOW Despite the challenges of the downturn for Tullow and the industry, we ended 2015 with a new organisational structure that makes us more efficient, providing clearer lines of responsibility and accountability inside the business.
Tullow and the industry faced a year of significant challenge Total workforce in 2015 was 1,403 2014: 2,042 with during 2015.
Initiated ahead of the fall in oil price in 2014, 1,156 permanent staff 2014: 1,595 and 247 contractors work on our Major Simplification Project MSP dominated 2014: 447.
While Tullows workforce has been reduced, much of the year, leading to a restructuring aimed at driving we have also focused on engaging, reinvigorating and efficiency and simplicity across the business, with clearer motivating our staff to help them focus on delivering lines of accountability.
The ultimate aim of the programme our business objectives.
was to enhance shareholder value: make Tullow a more Employee engagement engaging and rewarding workplace for our staff: and over Our 2014 annual employee survey, engageTullow, a three-year period, we expect to secure $500 million in highlighted communication and organisational efficiency as cost savings.
During the MSP, engagement with While there is more work to be done to embed the changes, staff was a high priority.
We held a series of focus groups it has already resulted in greater efficiency and a culture with a cross-section of staff on why the MSP was needed focused on better cost management and more regular and how it could have positive outcomes for the Company.
and rigorous review and challenge of performance.
In addition, we set up an internal confidential e-mail address to encourage ideas and We have implemented a new suggestions for three-pillar organisational organisational effectiveness Establishing a new organisation with clearer operating model, comprised from staff, and this platform lines of responsibility and accountability was a of three Business Delivery became a critical and Teams BDTs, a corporate key achievement in 2015.
While there is more well-used feedback tool.
centre and a team which work to do, we are already a more efficient and delivers services requested In light of the amount of performance focused business.
by the BDTs across the change in the organisation whole organisation.
Now, and how frequently we have clearer lines of employees have been asked accountability for delivery in the Business Delivery Teams: to give feedback this year, we decided to postpone the annual the corporate centre is better positioned to provide the employee survey until 2016. advice and direction, governance, and assurance expected Reward by our stakeholders: and employees are clearer about their Tullows integrated reward strategy is designed to attract, roles and what is expected of them.
retain and motivate the best talent in our industry.
We aim This work and everything we do is underpinned by our to offer a transparent, competitive reward package of base values, which set the framework for our organisational salary, incentives and benefits, which reflects market culture.
The behaviour we expect of our employees is set practice and is fully compliant with the regulations in each out in our Code of Ethical Conduct.
We also work to create of the countries where we operate.
Our incentive plans a consistent culture that embraces, understands and are linked to the Companys financial and operational integrates the diverse set of international cultures and performance, as well as to individual achievement subcultures that make up our workforce.
measured through Tullows annual employee performance management process.
The new operating model has also helped to create a more streamlined organisation that is appropriate for the level All permanent employees have the opportunity to earn of work in our exploration, development and production an annual bonus and a share award based on how well portfolio.
In addition to managed headcount reduction, they perform against their set objectives for the year.
there was a natural turnover of 6 per cent across the Group.
Our employee share award plans are intended to provide employees with a longer-term stake in the success of our business.
64 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 In recognition of this years challenging environment and employees commitment to the Company, a one-off Exceptional Share Award was granted to permanent employees.
People plan Our approach to attracting, developing and retaining people starts by identifying our requirements through business plans and resource planning activities.
Although the reduction in headcount and the pressures in the industry have been challenging, we worked to ensure that talent management and any recruitment was aligned with current business needs and anticipated future requirements.
We also continued to develop a succession pipeline for Executive leaders, senior managers and other critical roles.
We have now identified a pool of possible successors for 100 per cent of senior roles.
During 2016, a robust assessment and development programme will be introduced to help develop future leaders.
We have also looked at other critical roles and will ensure we have robust succession plans in place.
An inclusive workforce that enables employees to reach their full potential is crucial to our business success, and we strive to create an environment where all employees are treated fairly, equally and with respect.
We have 57 nationalities in our workforce.
Women made up Tullow employees in the Accra office, Ghana 28 per cent 396 1,403 of our total workforce in 2015 and 22 per cent 76 338 of our managers and 17 per cent 2 12 of our Board of Directors.
The plan is aimed at being proportionate and with a Each of our key African Business Units is headed by nationality mix representative of our asset geographies, African nationals, and 83 per cent of our Ghanaian as well as seeking gender diversity particularly in senior Leadership Team is now represented by African nationals.
Our local offices will primarily employ Kenyan and Ugandan nationals make up 67 per cent of local nationals, and expatriate employees will have those respective Business Units leadership teams.
personal objectives committing them to training and development of local staff to support the Groups In 2014, we reported on our plans to develop and meet localisation strategies, succession targets and our clear diversity targets, but in light of the focus on the commitment to shared prosperity.
reorganisation and the reduction in headcount during the year, we deferred this work.
Our 2016 Diversity Plan, Our recruitment practices will change and broaden which is on the Boards agenda, will focus on setting to proactively seek out, attract and encourage stronger nationality and gender targets with proactive monitoring nationality and gender diversity in our workforce to and reporting against these goals.
Training and development NATIONALS IN COUNTRY LEADERSHIP TEAMS There was a decrease in the amount of staff training that took place during 2015 as a direct result of the 6 6 6 reorganisation.
Some notable initiatives introduced were the in-house Passport to Manage course for new and 5 4 4 inexperienced managers and team leaders, and the launch of Fundamentals of the Oil and Gas Industry an interactive training and e-learning tool available on Tullows intranet.
Tullow continued its support of the Chartered Engineering Council-accredited Well Engineering Development 2 2 Programme, achieving an 88 per cent retention rate of 1 those who participated since the programme started in 2012.
Ghana Kenya Uganda During 2016, we plan to implement a 70:20:10 Development Local nationals Expatriates Framework that supports learning through experience, mentoring and formal training.
