Governance Report Executive Committee Robert Gray Jim Essink An experienced Chief Executive Officer, PR Newswire Chief Executive Officer, UBM Asia management team providing strategic and operational leadership across the Group Robert Gray is Chief Executive Officer of PR Appointed CEO of UBM Asia in November 2007.
Newswire, the global leader in innovative Jim started his career with NV Databank in communications and marketing services that international trade promotion, business information enable organisations to connect and engage with and advertising.
Subsequently he worked for their target audiences worldwide.
As CEO, Robert Expoconsult now part of UBM as Managing oversees PR Newswires business operations Director of the Netherlands office.
Robert joined PR Newswire from UBM responsible for the branded international food plc in August 2015, where he was Executive ingredients and pharmaceutical ingredients shows Director and CFO.
Before joining UBMs Board in in Europe, Asia, and South and North America.
2009, Robert was CFO of Codere S. A.
Previously Jim then joined Ogilvy & Mather and he served in a number of investment banking roles subsequently Royal Dutch Jaarbeurs VNU with J. P. Morgan & Co. and Deutsche Bank.
He was appointed as CEO of Robert is a graduate of Dartmouth College BA VNU Exhibitions Europe and then President of and Harvard Business School MBA.
He serves as VNU Exhibitions Asia in 2006. a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of eDreams Odigeo.
Simon Foster Richard Piercy Chief Executive Officer, UBM EMEA and Chief Information Officer Acting Chief Executive Officer, UBM Americas Appointed to the EMEA Board in 2006, becoming Appointed as CIO of UBM in January 2013 Managing Director and later CEO in July 2008. following a 12-year career at EMI, where he After a broad ranging career in marketing, sales started out as Global Programme Director and and public relations, he joined UBM in 1998, rose to CIO: having previously been COO of managing several of UBMs leading brands and World Sport Group.
Richards focus at UBM working initially on the IFSEC security event is on transformational change.
He has 30 years which has now expanded into a suite of brands experience in the field of information technology in fire and safety.
Simon has overseen global and a diverse background in both media and expansion in new products and geographies, corporate technology settings and uses his and several acquisitions and integrations, consultancy experience, first gained at Accenture adding to the robust core of flagship events.
and The Boston Consulting Group, within complex Following the resignation of Sally Shankland and fast-moving business structures.
in June 2015, Simon was appointed the acting CEO of UBM Americas.
During this period, the EMEA leadership team has supported Simon with his UBM EMEA Board responsibilities.
50 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Mark Peters Eleanor Phillips Company Secretary Group Human Resources Director Appointed as UBM Company Secretary Appointed as UBM Group Human Resources in September 2014.
An experienced company Director in October 2014.
An experienced HR secretary, he has a strong commercial practitioner with wide-ranging industry experience, background, having spent several years in Eleanor combines strong commercial appreciation commercial contracting roles at both British with in-depth experience of providing HR services Aerospace and Guinness.
On the formation of to global organisations.
Most recently with SAP, Diageo plc, Mark was appointed its joint Deputy she was latterly Senior Vice President Human Secretary.
He has subsequently held senior Resources for EMEA, responsible for providing company secretarial appointments at both Xansa integrated HR services to SAPs growing European formerly FI Group and Balfour Beatty.
Eleanor previously held roles in responsible for regulatory and compliance matters medium-sized, acquisitive technology across the Group, including Business Conduct, companies including Geac Corporation and Legal, Risk and Health & Safety.
Lawson Software, having started her career with Mobil Oil Corporation.
1 Jane Risby-Rose Tim Cobbold Global EVP UBM Events Chief Executive Officer CEO 1 Marina Wyatt Chief Financial Officer CFO 1 Biographies on page 48.
Appointed as Global EVP, UBM Events in June 2010, from her role as a divisional CEO.
Jane joined UBM in 1993 following successive positions in sales, management and publishing at both VNU and Haymarket.
She has managed several flagship brands at UBM, ranging across multiple markets and geographies, launches and mature products and acquisitions.
Jane is now charged with leading GEM Global Events Momentum across UBM which is an internal engine of customer and event excellence, best practice and growth innovation.
She was previously on the Board of the Association of Event Organisers.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
