OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION 2 Results and dividends Shareholders rights The loss on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group The rights and obligations of shareholders are set out in the for the year ended 31 December 2015 was $1,036.9 million Companys Articles of Association which can be amended 2014: Loss $1,639.9 million.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are as follows: No dividends have been recommended by the Board in 2015 2014: Stg 4p.
Dividend rights holders of the Companys shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but Subsequent events may not declare dividends in excess of the amount In January 2016 Tullow completed the farm-down of recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may 25 per cent of its interest in block 12A to Delonex and also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid Tullow also agreed to sell a 20 per cent interest in the other than out of profits available for distribution.
Bannu West licence in Pakistan to Mari Gas.
Tullow was Subject to shareholder approval, payment or awarded a 60 per cent operated interest in the Orinduik satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly licence in January 2016, a 1,801 square kilometre block or partly by distribution of specific assets: offshore Guyana.
On 23 January 2016, the TEN FPSO set Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a sail from Singapore to Ghana with arrival expected in early show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a March 2016. show of hands every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting and every proxy or Subsequent to the balance sheet date there has been a corporate representative appointed by a shareholder deterioration in the spot price of Brent crude.
Sensitivity and present at a general meeting has one vote analysis on the impact of a reduction in Brent crude prices regardless of the number of shares held by the on the carrying value of PP&E is provided in note 12. shareholder or represented by the proxy or corporate representative.
If a proxy has been appointed by more Share capital than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or As at 1 February 2016, the Company had an allotted and more of those shareholders to vote for the resolution fully paid up share capital of 911,655,547 each with a and by one or more of those shareholders to vote nominal value of 0.10. against a particular resolution, the proxy shall have Substantial shareholdings one vote for and one vote against that resolution.
On a As at 9 February 2016, the Company had been notified poll, every shareholder who is present in person has in accordance with the requirements of provision 5.1.
2 one vote for every share held by that shareholder and a of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rules proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which and Transparency Rules of the following significant he has been appointed as proxy the deadline for holdings in the Companys ordinary share capital: exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
On a poll, a corporate representative may Number of % of issued exercise all the powers of the company that has Shareholder shares capital authorised him.
A poll may be demanded by any of the The Capital Group following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at least Companies, Inc. 109,187,335 11.98 five shareholders entitled to vote and present in person Genesis Asset Managers, LLP 72,871,524 8.01 or by proxy or represented by a duly authorised Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. 45,191,459 4.96 corporate representative at the meeting: c any BlackRock, Inc. not provided below 5 shareholder or shareholders present in person or Commonwealth Bank of by proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate Australia on behalf of certain representative and holding shares or being a controlled undertakings 28,054,427 3.08 representative in respect of a holder of shares representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth Following requests under section 793 of the Companies Act of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to 2006, the Company understands that the percentage of its attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder issued share capital held by Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. as at or shareholders present in person or by proxy or 31 January 2016 was 0%.
represented by a duly authorised corporate representative and holding shares or being a representative in respect of a holder of shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sums paid up on all the shares conferring that right: www.
com 107 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the Company to it under the agreement and any connected Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions finance document, which amount will become due and taking priority, the balance of assets available for payable within 15 business days and, in respect of each distribution will be distributed among the holders of letter of credit issued under the agreement, full cash ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on cover will be required within 15 business days: the shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the US$300 million secured revolving credit facility authority of a special resolution, divide among the agreement between, among others, the Company shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys and certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, assets: or vest the Companys assets in whole or in HSBC Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of Bank plc and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to accept Bank and the lenders specified therein pursuant any property in respect of which there is a liability: to which each lender thereunder may cancel its Control rights under employee share schemes the commitments immediately and demand repayment Company operates a number of employee share of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company schemes.
Under some of these arrangements, shares and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under are held by trustees on behalf of employees.
The the agreement and any connected finance document, employees are not entitled to exercise directly any which amount will become due and payable within voting or other control rights.
The trustees will 15 business days: generally vote in accordance with employees US$1 billion secured revolving credit facility agreement instructions and abstain where no instructions are between, among others, the Company and certain received.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Crdit the discretion of the trustees: and Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Standard Restrictions on holding securities there are no Chartered Bank and the lenders specified therein restrictions under the Companys Articles of Association pursuant to which each lender thereunder may cancel or under UK law that either restrict the rights of UK its commitments immediately and demand repayment resident shareholders to hold shares or limit the rights of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or vote and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under the Companys ordinary shares.
the agreement and any connected finance document, which amount will become due and payable within There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions 15 business days.
on the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys ordinary shares.
Material agreements containing change of control provisions The following significant agreements will, in the event of a change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: US$3.4 billion or up to US$3.9 billion in the event that the Company exercises its option to increase the commitments by up to an additional US$500 million and the lenders provide such additional commitments senior secured revolving credit facility agreement between, among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder may cancel its commitments immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the 108 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Under the terms of each of the above agreements, a change Directors of control occurs if any person, or group of persons acting The biographical details of the Directors of the Company in concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and at the date of this Report are given on pages 50 and 51.
Mergers, gains control of the Company.
Details of Directors service agreements and letters of An indenture relating to US$650 million of 6 per cent appointment can be found on pages 96 and 97.
Details of the Senior Notes due 2020 between, among others, the Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and and in the Groups long-term incentive and other share Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee.
option schemes are set out on page 102 and pages 104 Pursuant to this Indenture the Company must make an to 106 in the Directors remuneration report.
offer to noteholders to repurchase all the notes at 101 Directors indemnities and insurance cover per cent of the aggregate principal amount of the notes, As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under plus accrued and unpaid interest in the event that a which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, change of control of the Company occurs.
The to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against repurchase offer must be made by the Company to all claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities noteholders within 30 days following the change of arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their control and the repurchase must take place no earlier powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the than 10 days and no later than 60 days from the date Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are also the repurchase offer is made.
Each noteholder may indemnified against the cost of defending a criminal take up the offer in respect of all or part of its notes.
prosecution or a claim by the Company, its subsidiaries or An indenture relating to US$650 million of 6.25 per cent a regulator provided that where the defence is unsuccessful Senior Notes due 2022 between, among others, the the Director must repay those defence costs.
The Company Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and also maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee.
cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Pursuant to this indenture, the Company must make an offer to noteholders to repurchase all the notes at Conflicts of interest 101 per cent of the aggregate principal amount of the A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest in the event has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, that a change of control of the Company occurs.
The or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
repurchase offer must be made by the Company to all The Board requires Directors to declare all appointments noteholders within 30 days following the change of and other situations that could result in a possible conflict of control and the repurchase must take place no earlier interest and has adopted appropriate procedures to manage than 10 days and no later than 60 days from the date and, if appropriate, approve any such conflicts.
The Board is the repurchase offer is made.
Each noteholder may satisfied that there is no compromise to the independence of take up the offer in respect of all or part of its notes.
those Directors who have appointments on the boards of, or relationships with, companies outside the Group.
Under the terms of each of the above indentures a change of control occurs, in general terms, when i a disposal is Powers of Directors made of all or substantially all the properties or assets The general powers of the Directors are set out in Article 104 of the Company and all its restricted subsidiaries other of the Articles of Association of the Company.
It provides that than through a merger or consolidation in one or a series the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board of related transactions: ii a plan is adopted relating to the which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether liquidation or dissolution of the Company: or iii a person relating to the management of the business of the Company becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of shares or not.
This power is subject to any limitations imposed on of the Company which grant that person more than 50 per the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also limited by cent of the voting rights of the Company.
the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company and any directions given by special resolution of the shareholders of the Company which are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
com 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the Appointment and replacement of Directors exercise of power by the Directors: The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors no fewer than two and no more than 15 Directors.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the The appointment and replacement of Directors may be made holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights as follows: under the Articles of Association of the Company.
However, the ability of the Directors to cause the The shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect Company to issue shares, securities convertible into any person who is willing to act to be a Director: shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant The Board may elect any person who is willing to act to an employee share scheme, is restricted under the to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold Companies Act 2006 which provides that the directors office only until the next Annual General Meeting and of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to shall then be eligible for election: allot any equity securities without express authorisation, Each Director is required in terms of the Articles of which may be contained in a companys articles of Association to retire from office at the third Annual association or given by its shareholders in general General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more which he or she was last elected or re-elected although than five years.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the he or she may be re-elected by ordinary resolution if Company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise eligible and willing.
However, to comply with the than pursuant to an employee share scheme without principles of best corporate governance, the Board first making an offer on a pre-emptive basis to existing intends that each Director will submit him or herself shareholders, unless this requirement is waived by a for re-election on an annual basis: special resolution of the shareholders.
The Company The Company may by special resolution remove any received authority at the last Annual General Meeting Director before the expiration of his or her period of to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up office or may, by ordinary resolution, remove a Director to a maximum nominal amount of 4,554,406.
The where special notice has been given and the necessary authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual General statutory procedures are complied with: and Meeting of the Company in 2016 or 30 June 2016.
There are a number of other grounds on which a Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by Directors office may cease, namely voluntary shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its resignation, where all the other Directors being at least own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. three in number request his or her resignation, where Any shares that have been bought back may be held as he or she suffers physical or mental incapacity, where treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately upon he or she is absent from meetings of the Board without completion of the purchase.
The Company received permission of the Board for six consecutive months, authority at the last Annual General Meeting to becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her purchase up to 91,881,196 Ordinary Shares.
The creditors or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2016 or 30 June 2016.
Encouraging diversity in our workforce Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of Tullow is committed to eliminating discrimination and the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed encouraging diversity amongst its workforce.
Decisions an amount equal to four times the aggregate of the related to recruitment selection, development or promotion Groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated in are based upon merit and ability to adequately meet the the manner prescribed in Article 105 of the Companys requirements of the job, and are not influenced by factors Articles of Association, unless sanctioned by an such as gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, colour, ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
nationality, religion, sexual orientation, age, or disability.
110 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 We want our workforce to be truly representative of all Annual General Meeting sections of society and for all our employees to feel The Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanies this respected and able to reach their potential.
Our commitment Annual Report and sets out the resolutions to be proposed to these aims and detailed approach are set out in Tullows at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held on Code of Ethical Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy.
28 April 2016, at Tullow Oils Head Office, 9 Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, London, W4 5XT from 12 noon.
We aim to provide an optimal working environment to suit the needs of all employees, including those of employees This Corporate Governance Report which includes the with disabilities.
For employees who become disabled during Directors remuneration report and the information referred their time with the Group, Tullow will provide support to help to herein has been approved by the Board and signed on its them remain safely in continuous employment.
behalf by: Employee involvement and engagement We use a range of methods to inform and consult with employees about significant business issues and our performance.
These include webcasts, the Groups intranet, town hall meetings and Tullow World, our in-house magazine.
Kevin Massie We have an employee share plan for all permanent Corporate Counsel and Company Secretary employees which gives employees a direct interest in the businesss success.
9 February 2016 Political donations Registered office: In line with Group policy, no donations were made 9 Chiswick Park for political purposes.
566 Chiswick High Road London W4 5XT Corporate responsibility The Group works to achieve high standards of environmental, Company registered in England and Wales No.
Our performance in these areas can be found on pages 46 and 47 of this Report.
In addition, Tullow publishes a separate Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the Group website: www.
Auditors and disclosure of relevant audit information Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
More information can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 79. www.
com 111 OUR NEW VENTURES BUSINESS The New Ventures Business Delivery Team is responsible for Tullows frontier exploration and appraisal activity.
This involves investigating potential new countries to enter, negotiating deals to acquire, farm-in or farm-out of licences and high-grading the Groups explorations portfolio to prepare drill-ready prospects for future years.
FINANCIAL 3 STATEMENTS Statement of Directors responsibilities 114 Independent auditors report for the Group Financial 3 Statements 115 Group Financial Statements 120 Company Financial Statements 154 Five year financial summary 163 Supplementary information Shareholder information 164 Licence interests 165 Commercial reserves and resources 170 Transparency disclosure 171 Subsidiaries 176 Glossary 178 South American exploration team reviewing subsurface geology, Dublin office, Ireland
