CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT APPLYING THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code Leadership Tullow Oil plc is required, under the UK Listing Rules, to The long-term success of the Company is the collective comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code responsibility of the Board.
published by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in The role of the Board September 2014, for the year ended 31 December 2015.
A The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation copy of the Code is available at www.
In 2014, the and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and FRC published the Code which applies to financial reporting long-term shareholder value.
It meets these aims through periods commencing on or after 1 October 2014 and which setting the Groups strategy and ensuring that the necessary replaced the previous UK Corporate Governance Code resources are available to achieve the agreed strategic goals.
The Code contains a number The Board also sets the Companys key policies and reviews of new provisions, including requiring companies to: make management and financial performance.
The Board greater disclosures of their strategic approach to risk and operates within a framework of controls and these clear risk management: make a statement about the long-term procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities viability and prospects of the company: ensure that allow risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
These remuneration policies are designed to deliver long-term are underpinned by the Boards work to set the Groups benefits to the company and include measures for claw-back core values and standards of business conduct and ensure on variable pay: and, in cases where a significant proportion that these, together with the Groups obligations to its of shareholders oppose any particular measure, explain the stakeholders, are widely understood across all its activities.
actions the company intends to take to understand the reasons for this opposition.
Board meetings and visits The Board and its Committees deal with its core activities This corporate governance report describes how the in planned meetings throughout the year.
Matters which Company has applied the principles and standards set require decisions outside the scheduled meetings are dealt out in the Code during the year and sets out our activities with through additional ad hoc meetings and conference relating to the main sections of the Code: Leadership, calls.
During 2015, the Board met eight times.
A programme Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and of strategy presentations covering a wide number of Relations with Shareholders.
operational and other issues is made to the Board in The Company is also required to disclose whether it has June each year.
During the year, each of the Regional complied with the more detailed provisions of the Code Vice Presidents and other heads of functions presented during the year and, to the extent it has not done so, to a strategic overview of their respective area to the Board explain any deviations from them.
It is the Boards view that for endorsement.
In particular, the Board reviewed and the Company has fully complied with all of the provisions of endorsed non-technical risk strategies for its major areas the Code during the year ended 31 December 2015. of operations.
The Board normally holds one Board meeting at a principal overseas office of the Group.
These meetings ensure that the Board has a clear knowledge of the Companys overseas operations.
During the trip, Senior Management from across the Group present to the Board and have an opportunity to meet its members informally.
In addition, the Board meets a broad cross-section of staff, assesses Senior Managers and reviews in depth operational matters and, in particular, matters relating to non-technical risks.
In October 2015, the Board travelled to Accra.
70 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent Attendance at meetings contact with the other Directors in addition to the regular The attendance of Directors at the eight scheduled Board meetings.
This ensures that all members of the meetings of the Board held during 2015 was as follows: Board have an opportunity to discuss any issues of No.
of meetings attended concern and to be fully briefed on the Groups operations.
Director out of a total possible Tutu Agyare 8 8 Matters reserved Mike Daly 8 8 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that Anne Drinkwater 8 8 can only be decided by the Board.
This schedule is reviewed by the Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the Ann Grant 8 8 consideration and approval of: Aidan Heavey 8 8 Steve Lucas 8 8 The Groups overall strategy: Graham Martin 8 8 Financial Statements and dividend policy: Angus McCoss 8 8 Borrowings and treasury policy: Paul McDade 8 8 Material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts, Ian Springett 7 8 major capital expenditure projects and budgets: Simon Thompson 8 8 Entry into new countries: Jeremy Wilson 8 8 Risk management and internal controls supported by the Audit Committee : In addition to the Board members, a number of Senior Managers attend relevant sections of Board Succession planning and appointments supported meetings by invitation.
by the Nominations Committee : The Groups corporate governance and compliance Division of responsibilities arrangements: and The Chairman, Simon Thompson, is primarily responsible Corporate policies.
for the effective working of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive Officer, Aidan Heavey, is responsible for Summary of the Boards work in the year the operational management of the business, for During 2015, the Board considered all relevant developing strategy in consultation with the Board matters within its remit, with a particular focus and for implementation of the strategy.
This separation on the following issues: of responsibilities is clearly defined and agreed by the Board.
Strategy and resource allocation: Non-technical risks in major areas of operation: Portfolio management: Finance and treasury: Governance and compliance: Assurance, risk and internal audit: and Organisational design, capacity and succession planning.
com 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Chairman Delegated authorities The Chairman leads the Board, setting the agenda and Board Committees ensuring that the meetings provide adequate time for The Board has delegated matters to five Committees: discussion.
From the time of his appointment as Chairman the Audit Committee, the EHS Committee, the Ethics & on 1 January 2012, Simon Thompson met the independence Compliance Committee, the Nominations Committee and criteria set out in the Code and continues to do so.
the Remuneration Committee and the Board is satisfied that the Committees have sufficient resources to carry out their Non-executive Directors duties effectively.
Their terms of reference are reviewed The non-executive Directors have a broad range of business and approved annually by the Board and the respective and commercial experience.
They provide independent and Committee Chairs report on their activities at the next constructive challenge to the Executive Management and Board meeting.
Details of Committee membership, roles monitor the performance of the management team in and work are set out later in this report: the Audit Committee delivering the agreed objectives and targets.
At the end of on page 79, the EHS Committee on page 86, the Ethics every scheduled Board meeting, the Chairman holds a & Compliance Committee on page 88, the Nominations discussion with the non-executive Directors without the Committee on page 84, and the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors.
These are supplemented by informal on page 90. meetings between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the non-executive Directors.
Individual delegations In addition to delegating certain matters to Board The non-executive Directors receive regular briefings on Committees, the Board has also delegated certain the more technical and operational aspects of the Groups operational and management matters to the Executive activities.
These include major offshore development Directors.
In line with ICSA guidance, the Board approved projects e. g. TEN.
Non-executive Directors with particular formal terms of reference for the Executive Directors expertise in these areas also meet the Chief Operating Committee in December 2015.
Officer and the Exploration Director to discuss operations in more detail.
Effectiveness Composition of the Board Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a The Board currently comprises the Chairman, Chief term of three years, which may, subject to satisfactory Executive Officer, four other Executive Directors and six performance and re-election by shareholders, be independent non-executive Directors.
Their biographical extended by mutual agreement.
details are set out on pages 50 and 51.
Senior Independent Director The Directors believe that the Board and its Committees The Senior Independent Director, Ann Grant, is available consist of Directors with an appropriate balance of skills, to meet shareholders if they have concerns that cannot experience, independence and diversity of background to be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, Chief enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or for matters effectively.
The composition of the Board did not change where such contact would be inappropriate.
During the year, during the course of 2015. she met with the other non-executive Directors without the Chairman to discuss the Chairmans performance.
BOARD TENURE 2015 BOARD TIME GRAPH TITLE X. X XXXXX Less than 1 year 5 to 10 years 4 Strategy & Stakeholder Management 24% 1 to 5 years 6 Greater than 10 years 2 Financial management 28% SSEA 12% D&O 14% E&A 7% Governance Risk Management 15% 72 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Independence Information and support The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors Independent advice to be independent in character and judgement.
The Board Directors have access to independent professional advice, is fully satisfied that Ann Grant demonstrates complete at the Companys expense, on any matter relating to their independence and robustness of character and judgement responsibilities.
in her capacity as Senior Independent Director.
The Board The Company Secretary is of the view that no individual or group of individuals The Company Secretary is Kevin Massie, who is also dominates decision making.
He is responsible Appointments to the Board for ensuring compliance with all Board procedures and The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size for providing advice to Directors when required.
The and composition of the Board and makes recommendations Company Secretary provides company secretarial to the Board about any changes required.
As part of the services to the Board and the Group.
He acts as secretary appointments process, candidates disclose any other to the Audit, Ethics & Compliance, Nominations and significant time commitments they may have and are Remuneration Committees and has direct access to required to inform the Board of any subsequent changes the Chairs of these Committees.
Board evaluation Commitment In 2015 the Board undertook an internal evaluation of its All Directors have disclosed their other significant own performance and effectiveness and also that of its commitments and confirmed that they have sufficient Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation was time to discharge their duties effectively.
facilitated by Lintstock Ltd and each of the Directors was required to submit responses to a series of questionnaires Training and development needs designed to the specific circumstances of the Company and, Induction in particular, to pick up on themes identified in the 2014 All new Directors receive an induction programme when they exercise, including the composition and expertise of the join the Board.
This reflects their background, experience Board, strategic oversight, risk management and internal and knowledge and their understanding of the upstream oil control, succession planning, human resource management industry and Tullow in particular.
The programme includes and a review of past decisions.
In addition, the Chairman one-to-one meetings with Senior Management, functional conducted a process of interviews between himself and and Business Unit heads and, where appropriate, visits to each of the individual Directors.
the Groups principal offices and operations.
New Directors also receive an overview of their duties, corporate The results of the survey determined that the performance governance policies and Board processes.
and composition of the Board and its Committees were adequate and found a strong alignment within the Board on Familiarisation and development the key strategic priorities in the year to come.
The Board All members of the Board have access to appropriate determined that its allocation of time and priorities and professional development courses to support them in particularly its focus on strategy had improved in 2015. meeting their obligations and duties.
During the year, Discussions at Board meetings continued to display a Directors attended external seminars on relevant topics positive balance of support and healthy challenge of relating to the business.
They also receive ongoing briefings management exercised by the non-executive Directors.
The on current developments, including updates on governance review noted a recent improvement in the presentation of and regulatory issues.
information with a focus on the need for clearly articulating any decisions sought.
The time management by the Board and each of its Committees was improved following a review and restructuring of its annual rolling agenda and meetings schedule.
Finally, the review noted that the Board would need to continue to review: the size and composition of the Board and its Committees: the diversity and succession planning for Executive Directors and Senior Management: the utilisation of the non-executive Directors expertise: and the Boards focus on strategic priorities and the market environment.
The Board objectives for 2016 set out on the next page reflect the action plan and priorities agreed by all the Directors as part of the 2015 Board evaluation.
com 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The internal Board evaluation carried out in 2015 followed the independent and interview-driven Board evaluation 2015 Board objectives 2015 Performance 2016 Board objectives conducted by Lintstock in 2013 and the subsequent internal evaluation facilitated by Lintstock in 2014.
This completes a Regularly review strategy in light of market, The strategy was debated at the Boards annual strategy offsite in June Test Tullows strategy against evolving market and Strategy and political and socio-economic developments.
and regularly reviewed throughout the year, as market conditions evolved.
three-year cycle of Board evaluation and it is envisaged that, socio-political conditions to ensure that we: execution in accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Board Deliver the TEN Project on time and on The Board received regular updates on the TEN Project and travelled to Reduce costs, maximise cash flow from budget.
Ghana in October to be briefed by the project team.
The Ghana trip also will commission a new external facilitation of the Board operations and manage the business allowed Directors to visit key facilities, including the FPSO.
Lintstock have no other connection Progress development plans for Kenya to deleverage the balance sheet: Uganda.
In Uganda, CGT and historic VAT issues were resolved.
The Government to the Company.
Pursue portfolio management options: of Kenya and Uganda issued a joint statement agreeing the Northern Reduce expenditure and ensure high-grading pipeline route in August.
A draft field development plan for discoveries Deliver the TEN Project on time and on budget: Board objectives of exploration opportunities.
in the South Lokichar Basin in Kenya was submitted to the Government Create options for future growth, and continue We remain confident that the Board and the wider leadership Reduce costs, maximise cash flow from of Kenya in December.
to high-grade prospects, while minimising team have the experience and track record to meet the operations and manage business within The exploration budget was reduced to $200 million.
exploration expenditure: and prudent funding constraints.
Companys aims of delivering long-term growth and Eliminate non-core activities and focus The Major Simplification Project resulted in significant headcount and successfully managing the challenges of an expanding cost reductions across the Group.
Headroom and liquidity were actively on core value-creation opportunities.
The Board sets its specific future monitored throughout the year, amid a rapidly declining oil price.
Tullows objectives at the end of each year and they reflect the prudent hedging policy helped to maximise cash flow and the business particular focus of the Company in the year ahead.
Progress was managed within funding constraints.
against each objective is tracked by the Company Secretary Continue to strengthen processes for A revised enterprise risk management process was implemented, which Ensure the effective implementation of the revised Risk and reviewed with the Chairman at the mid-year point.
identification, management and assurance of maps Tullows key risks, potential impacts, mitigation strategies and enterprise risk management process.
financial, technical and non-technical risks, focus on: The following table shows how the Board performed against with a particular focus on: the 2015 objectives and also details the priorities and rolling A new Integrated Management System has been launched across the Liquidity management: Tullow Group to centralise and simplify corporate policies and standards.
agenda items the Board will focus on in 2016.
Safety, health and environment: Operational and project risk: The Board receives regular reporting of project specific technical and Reserves and resources management: Re-election non-technical risks.
Safety, health and environment: Capital project management: All Directors seek re-election every year and accordingly The Board receives quarterly political risk reports highlighting emerging Community relations and social performance: all Directors will stand for re-election in 2016 with the Community relations and social performance: issues in the countries and regions where Tullow is active.
Reserves and resources management: and exception of Graham Martin who the Company has already Performance management has been added as a key component of Government relations: Government relations.
the strategic people plan and is subject to regular Board review.
announced will retire at the end of the AGM in April 2016.
Liquidity management: and The Board has set out in the Notice of AGM its reasons for Improving performance management.
supporting the re-election of each of the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Governance Maintain and enhance Tullows culture The Major Simplification Project involved extensive staff engagement Maintain and enhance Tullows culture and and values throughout the re-shaping aimed at establishing a more cost-conscious, entrepreneurial culture with values under challenging market conditions.
and values of the business.
clearer lines of responsibility and accountability for the delivery of the Ensure the new Code of Ethical Conduct is agreed strategy.
Update the Code of Business Conduct embedded and encourage all levels of to reflect trends and best practices A revised Code of Ethical Conduct was approved by the Board and is management to champion the new Code.
and reinforce compliance with it.
currently being rolled-out across the Group.
Ensure that the Integrated Management System is embedded and that Tullows policies, standards and procedures are consistently followed and result in efficient, safe and responsible operations.
Redesign, streamline and simplify The Major Simplification Project was completed during the year Monitor and assess the new organisational Organisational organisational structure to deliver resulting in a significantly smaller and more streamlined organisation.
Continue to look for ways to improve capacity revised strategy.
Efforts are ongoing to enhance performance management and efficiency, effectiveness and accountability.
Continue to strengthen Human Continue to develop effective succession Resource function.
A new Group Head of Reward has joined the HR team along with key planning for the Executive Directors and hires in a strengthened commercial function.
Continue to strengthen Commercial function.
Succession planning, diversity and talent management were regularly Develop detailed plans to enhance the Progress Senior Executive development discussed at Board level with an acknowledgement that improvement diversity of the leadership pipeline.
plans and strengthen succession planning is required in these areas.
Processes to expedite the identification for key positions.
and development of a more diverse talent pool are under preparation.
Further increase diversity of talent pipeline.
A new diversity KPI will be introduced in 2016.
Ensure that shareholders, staff and other Both Executive and non-executive Directors engaged with shareholders, Ensure that shareholders, staff and other Stakeholder major stakeholders understand and are staff, CSOs and other major stakeholders throughout the year.
major stakeholders understand and are aligned engagement aligned with the revised strategy.
Internal communications were enhanced as part of the Major Further enhance engagement with Simplification Project.
Engage with shareholders and other key governments and Civil Society Organisations stakeholders to develop an appropriate CSOs in our principal countries of operation.
remuneration policy for approval by shareholders in 2017.
Further enhance engagement with governments and CSOs in our principal countries of operation.
74 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 2015 Board objectives 2015 Performance 2016 Board objectives Regularly review strategy in light of market, The strategy was debated at the Boards annual strategy offsite in June Test Tullows strategy against evolving market and Strategy and political and socio-economic developments.
socio-political conditions to ensure that we: execution Deliver the TEN Project on time and on The Board received regular updates on the TEN Project and travelled to Reduce costs, maximise cash flow from budget.
The Ghana trip also operations and manage the business allowed Directors to visit key facilities, including the FPSO.
Progress development plans for Kenya to deleverage the balance sheet: Uganda.
The Government Pursue portfolio management options: of Kenya and Uganda issued a joint statement agreeing the Northern Reduce expenditure and ensure high-grading pipeline route in August.
A draft field development plan for discoveries Deliver the TEN Project on time and on budget: of exploration opportunities.
in the South Lokichar Basin in Kenya was submitted to the Government Create options for future growth, and continue Reduce costs, maximise cash flow from of Kenya in December.
to high-grade prospects, while minimising operations and manage business within The exploration budget was reduced to $200 million.
Eliminate non-core activities and focus The Major Simplification Project resulted in significant headcount and cost reductions across the Group.
monitored throughout the year, amid a rapidly declining oil price.
Tullows prudent hedging policy helped to maximise cash flow and the business was managed within funding constraints.
Continue to strengthen processes for A revised enterprise risk management process was implemented, which Ensure the effective implementation of the revised Risk identification, management and assurance of maps Tullows key risks, potential impacts, mitigation strategies and enterprise risk management process.
financial, technical and non-technical risks, focus on: with a particular focus on: A new Integrated Management System has been launched across the Liquidity management: Tullow Group to centralise and simplify corporate policies and standards.
Safety, health and environment: Operational and project risk: The Board receives regular reporting of project specific technical and Reserves and resources management: non-technical risks.
Safety, health and environment: Capital project management: The Board receives quarterly political risk reports highlighting emerging Community relations and social performance: Community relations and social performance: issues in the countries and regions where Tullow is active.
Reserves and resources management: and Performance management has been added as a key component of Government relations: Government relations.
Liquidity management: and Improving performance management.
com 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Tullows fourth Ghana Investor Forum took place in May 2015 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS in Accra.
The event gave key institutional shareholders the Communication and dialogue chance to hear presentations and question the Executive Exploration and production companies have faced Directors and Senior Managers from the Ghana Business yet another challenging year.
Oil prices falling to Unit.
The Group recognises the importance of continued unexpected lows has impacted both companies shareholder engagement with our 9,000 Ghanaian and investors, and the sector, as a whole, continues shareholders, and Tullow plans to give a Facts Behind the to experience some negative shareholder sentiment.
Figures presentation to investors and brokers at the Ghana Stock Exchange in the second half of 2016.
Tullow recognises that it is important to maintain open and transparent communication with shareholders and potential Meetings with Board members investors, especially in these difficult times.
We do this Outside these formal events, institutional shareholders through meetings, presentations, investor conferences are offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman to and ad hoc events with institutional investors and sell-side discuss any issues and concerns in relation to the Groups analysts.
Over the year, the Investor Relations IR team governance and strategy.
Non-executive Directors are also and Senior Management met some 380 institutions and available to attend meetings with major shareholders if the Group participated in approximately 40 roadshows requested to do so.
and investor conferences around the world.
Executive Directors and Senior Management met institutional The Board is kept in touch with market developments investors in the UK, Europe, Ghana, Asia Pacific, following major operational announcements through regular South Africa and North America.
summaries from the Investor Relations team.
They also receive a monthly Board Report which includes shareholder Tullow also participated in a roadshow for Socially analysis, shareholder feedback and Tullows performance Responsible Investors SRI following the release of our against our peers.
These meetings provided an opportunity to discuss topics including health and safety, the Keeping shareholders informed environment, corporate governance, bribery and corruption, We ensure shareholders can access details of the Groups country and political risk and other operational matters.
The results and other news releases through the London Stock meetings were hosted by our Vice President of SSEA and Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
In addition, these news Head of IR.
releases are published on the Media section of the Groups website: www.
Updates and details of the SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS BY INVESTMENT STYLE BY GEOGRAPHY BY CATEGORY Value & Growth 40% UK 55% Mutual Fund Manager 29% Retail 16% Europe 19% Pension Fund Manager 18% Value 11% North America 20% Asset Manager 12% Growth 8% Rest of the world 6% Insurance Fund Manager 11% Hybrid 8% Private Banking 7% Other 17% Other 23% 76 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 status of exploration and development programmes are also available on the website.
Shareholders and other interested 2016 KEY SHAREHOLDER parties can subscribe to email news updates by registering ENGAGEMENTS online on the website.
The Group continually looks for ways January to improve how we use online channels to communicate Trading Statement and Operational Update with our stakeholders.
As part of this work Tullow launched a new corporate website in the first half of 2015.
Among the February improvements, the new site provides a consistent experience Full Year Results for all desktop, tablet and mobile devices.
Since its launch in April, the new corporate website has had just under 200,000 March unique visitors and around one million page views.
Full Year Results roadshows We are also responding to the growing use of social media April by shareholders and the media.
The Group has circa 16,700 Annual General Meeting followers on its corporate Twitter account, circa 12,000 on Annual General Meeting Trading Update Facebook, circa 65,800 on its LinkedIn account and the films July provided on YouTube have received circa 124,000 views.
Trading Statement and Operational Update Another important way we keep shareholders informed Half Year Results is through regular formal reporting and Tullows Annual September and Corporate Responsibility Reports are available on Half Year Results roadshows the corporate website.
November Communicating with bond holders November Trading Update Tullow has two corporate bonds and the IR and Group Finance teams have continued their engagement with our bond investors through a number of High Yield conferences and one-on-one meetings throughout the year.
COM Financial results, events, corporate reports, webcasts and fact books are all stored in the Investor Relations section of our website www.
2015 Annual Report and Accounts www.
com 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting This Report provides shareholders with a clear assessment system covering both technical progress of projects and the of the Groups position and prospects supplemented, as state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in required, by other periodic financial and trading statements.
place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks that face the Group.
Principal risks are The Boards arrangements for the application of risk regularly reported to the Board.
management and internal control principles are detailed below.
The Board has delegated oversight of the relationship Tullow recognises that any system of internal control can with the Groups external auditors to the Audit Committee.
provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that Their work is outlined in the Audit Committee report material financial irregularities will be detected or that the on page 79. risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
However, the Boards objective is to ensure that Tullow has Going concern appropriate systems in place for the identification and The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate in commodity prices, different production rates from the Governance Code, the Board of Directors is required to Groups producing assets and delays to development monitor the Companys risk management and internal projects.
In addition to the Groups operating cash flows, control systems and, at least annually, carry out a review portfolio management opportunities are reviewed to of their effectiveness, and report on that review in the Annual potentially enhance the financial capability and flexibility Report.
At Tullow, the Board has delegated responsibility for of the Group.
In the currently low commodity price this assessment to the Audit Committee, and results of the environment, the Group has taken appropriate action to assessment are described on pages 82 and 83. reduce its cost base and had $1.9 billion of debt liquidity Remuneration headroom and free cash at the end of 2015.
The Groups The Board has delegated responsibility for agreeing the forecasts, taking into account the risks described above, remuneration policy for the Chairman, Chief Executive show that the Group will be able to operate within its current Officer, Executive Directors and senior executives to the debt facilities and have sufficient financial headroom for the Remuneration Committee.
Its role and activities are set 12 months from the date of approval of the 2015 Annual out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 98.
Constructive use of the AGM Notwithstanding our forecasts of liquidity headroom At the AGM held on 30 April 2015, shareholders received throughout the 12-month period, there remains a risk, given presentations setting out the key developments in the the volatility of the oil price environment and its impact on business and put questions to the Chairman, the Chairmen operating cash flows and facility availability, that the Groups of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees liquidity position may deteriorate and or the Group may and other members of the Board.
A business presentation become technically non-compliant with one of its financial was held in Dublin on 1 May 2015 following the AGM.
A poll was used to vote for all resolutions at the 2015 AGM, To mitigate this risk, we will continue to maintain our and the final results which included all votes cast for, long-term banking relations and will monitor our cash against and those withheld were announced via the London flow projections and, if necessary, take mitigating actions Stock Exchange and on the Companys corporate website.
well in advance to maintain our liquidity and compliance Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working with covenants.
Actions available to the Group include days before the meeting.
further rationalisation of our cost base, cuts to discretionary capital expenditure, portfolio management and other On behalf of the Board funding options.
Simon R Thompson Based on the analysis above, the Directors have a reasonable Chairman expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
9 February 2016 Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
Internal controls The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the MORE INFORMATION reliability of financial information for both internal use Risk Management 52 and external publication and to comply with the Long-term viability statement 55 requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
78 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts
