SPECIAL FEATURE THE TEN PROJECT 22 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts ON TRACK On 23 January 2016, following 26 months of fabrication and testing, the FPSO Prof. John Evans Atta Mills left Singapore and set sail for Ghana, achieving a major milestone for the Tullow operated TEN Project.
This milestone was achieved as a result of 17 million man hours of labour at the Sembcorp Marine shipyard.
Main contractor MODEC supervised the build and will own and operate the FPSO.
The FPSO conversion was one of the most successful projects of its type ever completed.
It was finished on time and on budget with minimal work left to be completed on the voyage to Ghana.
The departure of the vessel on schedule keeps the project on course for its July August 2016 first oil target.
com 23 Sailaway of the FPSO Prof. John Evans Atta Mills from Singapore, en route to Ghana SPECIAL FEATURE THE TEN PROJECT KEY FACTS TEN PROJECT FPSO facility capacity 80,000 bopd PROGRESS Our operations began in Ghana 10 years ago, and the Gas processing TEN Project is Tullows second development following the record Compression capacity delivery of the Jubilee field in 2010.
In this annual update of the 170 MMscf d projects progress, we highlight key milestones achieved and work remaining as we fast approach first oil.
The project remains Water injection on time and on budget, demonstrating the operating capability 132,000 bwpd of Tullow Oil and its Partners.
Operated by Tullow, the TEN Project takes its name from the three offshore fields under development Tweneboa, Enyenra and Ntomme which are situated in the Oil reserves being developed Deepwater Tano block, around 60 kilometres offshore Western Ghana.
240 mmbo First oil is scheduled for July August 2016.
Following start-up, a gradual ramp up in production towards plateau is anticipated during the second half of 2016.
The field will add significant low-cost production to Tullows portfolio.
Gas reserves being developed 60 mmboe The TEN Plan of Development was approved by the Government of Ghana in May 2013.
Since then, 11 wells have been drilled and the completions campaign is progressing well.
Partners working interest Construction vessels began installing subsea production equipment in the fields Tullow operator 47.175% in the third quarter of 2015 and the bulk of this work is now complete.
When the Kosmos 17% FPSO arrives in Ghana in the first quarter of 2016, it will be ready for installation, Anadarko 17% hook-up and commissioning.
GNPC 15% Tullow and its Partners are confident the project will remain on schedule and Petro SA 3.825% they will deliver the TEN first oil safely and successfully for Ghana.
Cte dIvoire Ghana Sekondi TEN FPSO Enyenra TEN Subsea Installation Vessels Tweneboa Ntomme TEN Drilling Rig Deep Pioneer Deep Energy En route from Singapore West Leo Viking Neptun Simar Esperanca 24 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts REALISING GHANAS POTENTIAL When the TEN fields come Ghanas oil resources and delivering onstream, it will be a hugely on our promise to create shared significant moment for Ghana.
The development of the With TEN producing alongside TEN fields has led to the creation of the Tullow operated Jubilee field, work for Ghanaian companies and Ghana will join the select club will bring increased revenue to the of nations with two major oil Government of Ghana.
The team in Ghana has much to It will also be a proud moment look forward to in 2016 and remains for Tullow Ghana as we move to focused on creating value for operating two developments and Tullow, our shareholders and two FPSOs.
This will be a new for Ghana.
challenge for Tullow Ghana and Charles Darku, one I am certain we will rise to.
CHARLES DARKU Managing Director, MANAGING DIRECTOR, TULLOW GHANA LTD.
I am extremely proud that Tullow Tullow Ghana Ltd. is at the forefront of unlocking Cte dIvoire Ghana Sekondi Enyenra Tweneboa Ntomme Welder working on TEN Project infrastructure at Technip yard in Takoradi, Ghana www.
com 25 SPECIAL FEATURE THE TEN PROJECT 2013 Centennial J arrives in Singapore PROJECT TIMELINE 2013 May The Government of Ghana approved TEN Plan of Development October Work began on FPSO conversion in Singapore 2013 Project team onboard vessel, Singapore 2014 Q2 All seismic work completed July August The FPSOs module support stools fabricated in Ghana arrived in Singapore August FPSO entered dry dock 2015 2013-2016 Drilling operations, Ghana January 11 wells drilled and project 50% complete overall February First subsea christmas tree assembly completed in Takoradi July Construction of the FPSOs mooring piles in Sekondi July First subsea installation vessels arrived in Ghana September FPSO naming ceremony in Singapore November FPSO turret testing completed 2014 Module support stools, Ghana 2015 FPSO mooring piles, Ghana 2016 January FPSO departed from Singapore March FPSO to arrive in Ghana June Umbilical and riser installation to be completed July August First oil from the TEN field 2H 2016 Final commissioning and gradual production ramp up 2015 Helideck construction, Singapore 2017 Plateau production reached Stay up to date with all the latest news on how were progressing: www.
com 26 26 T Tull ullo ow Oil pl w Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Ac c 2015 Annual Report and Acc counts ounts 2015 Turret block lift, Singapore 2014 Ghanas Energy Minister visits FPSO, Singapore 2014 Turret under construction at the Keppel shipyard, Singapore A COLLABORATIVE PROJECT Seeing the FPSO leave Singapore was local content and note the a huge milestone for us and, crucially, contribution of Ghanaian companies it sailed with minimal carry over.
All of our major contractors have over delivered on I would like to recognise the efforts of their local content commitments our major contractors and their suband each work package contains contractors in keeping the project on equipment built in Ghana.
Fabricating the equipment for a complex deepwater development As we enter the home straight, we is no mean feat and requires foresight must stay focused so Tullow, our and flexibility to adapt to changing contractors and the people of Ghana circumstances and new challenges can celebrate first oil later on on a weekly basis.
I would also like to commend our Terry Hughes, TERRY HUGHES contractors for their commitment to TEN Project Director TEN PROJECT DIRECTOR www www.
com om 2727 2016 TEN FPSO departing Singapore en route to Ghana SPECIAL FEATURE THE TEN PROJECT FIRST OIL WELLS SUBSEA FACTS En03-WI 1 En01-WI 2 Water depth: 1,000 2,000 metres En06-WI 3 Semi-Submersible Flowlines: 70 km Drilling Rig En08-P 4 En02-P Umbilicals: 60 km 5 En05-P 6 Risers: 40 km Nt04-WI 7 Riser Bases: 2 Nt01-P 8 1 Nt03-P 9 Christmas Trees: 24 Nt02-GI 10 2 Manifolds: 4 oil production manifolds 6 and 1 gas export manifold 3 Enyenra Manifold 1 5 Enyenra Enyenra Manifold 2 Enyenra Manifold 3 PIPELINE LEGEND oil production flowline gas production injection flowline water injection flowline umbilical TEN subsea installation vessels, offshore Ghana Helipad on Viking Neptun, offshore Ghana 28 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts Offloading SUBSEA Tanker FPSO Floating Production Storage DELIVERY Offloading Vessel The subsea installation campaign began in July 2015 and is progressing well.
In total, 35,000 tonnes of equipment is being installed on the seabed in the TEN fields.
The first equipment to be installed was the FPSOs nine TNAG anchor piles, which will hold the FPSO in position.
These 21 metre high steel cylinders, fabricated in Ghana, were installed in the seabed by the Normand Installer in July and August 2015. to Jubilee Enyenra South Oil The bulk of the subsea production equipment is being Production Riser Base installed by the TS7 consortium Technip and Subsea7.
The Seven Borealis and Simar Esperanca operated in Ntomme Oil Enyenra Manifold 1 the fields in the second half of 2015.
Their work scope Production Riser Base included the installation of three Enyenra manifolds, one Ntomme manifold and the Enyenra and Ntomme oil production riser bases.
At the same time, several pipe laying vessels completed the installation of flow lines 10 on schedule.
The projects umbilicals, which will connect the FPSO to Ntomme the subsea equipment and have a total combined length of over 60 kilometres, arrived in Ghana in November 9 8 2015.
The installation of the first 10 was completed by the Viking Neptun in January 2016 and the remainder will be installed by the Deep Pioneer by the end of April 2016.
7 The flexible risers, which will carry fluids to and from the FPSO, are being installed by the Deep Energy.
Ntomme Manifold Following its arrival in the field, the FPSO will be hooked up to the subsea production system and commissioned.
The final milestone in the campaign, the installation of all umbilicals and risers, is planned to be completed by June 2016.
Viking Neptun, subsea installation vessel, offshore Ghana www.
com 29 FPSO NAMING CEREMONY The TEN Project FPSO was officially named by Her Excellency the First Lady of the Republic of Ghana, Dr. Nana Lordina Mahama at a ceremony in Singapore on 30 September 2015.
The vessel was named FPSO Prof. John Evans Atta Mills after the late President of Ghana who presided over First Oil from the Jubilee Field.
During the ceremony, Her Excellency paid tribute to the contribution of Ghanaian artisans to the construction of the FPSO.
Ghanaian companies Seaweld Engineering Ltd and Orsam Ltd fabricated the module support stools which sit on the deck to support heavy equipment.
In addition, the FPSOs anchor piles, which will keep the vessel moored in place, were built in Ghana by Group Five Construction Ghana Ltd.
The anchor piles were completed on time and are already installed in the seabed in the TEN fields, awaiting the arrival of the FPSO.
The First Lady also met some of the Ghanaians who have been working on the construction of the vessel in Singapore, many of whom will be part of the crew that will operate the FPSO when it begins producing.
Her Excellency commented: It has been my great pleasure to officially name this magnificent FPSO today in honour of a true Ghanaian statesman, the late Professor Atta Mills.
I saw the impressive facilities onboard and it gives me great pride to know that this state-ofthe-art FPSO will be producing oil for Ghana for many years to come.
DR. NANA LORDINA MAHAMA GHANAS FIRST LADY wwwwww.
comom 3131 During my time here in Singapore I have learnt how to piece the various aspects of a project together to ensure that it is delivered on time, according to design and on budget.
GIDEON AGYEMAN OPERATIONS READINESS & ASSURANCE ENGINEER, GNPC ON SECONDMENT WITH TULLOW 32 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts MODEC trainees onboard the TEN FPSO, Singapore GHANAIAN SECONDEES IN SINGAPORE The offshore oil business is relatively new to Ghana so, with the exception of those working on the Jubilee field, opportunities for Ghanaians to gain experience have been rather limited.
The TEN Plan of Development included commitments by Tullow Oil and its partners to create opportunities for Ghanaians to gain experience and develop skills as integral members of the project team.
Since 2013, a total of 52 Ghanaians from GNPC, the Petroleum Commission of Ghana and Tullow Ghana Ltd have spent time on secondment with the TEN Project team in London, Singapore, Houston and Ghana.
The secondees have worked in a variety of roles including Subsea Engineer, FPSO Commissioning Engineer, Geologist and Project Finance Manager.
They have developed skills and experience relevant to a major offshore development project, making them well placed to contribute to future oil developments in Ghana.
In addition, 30 Ghanaian nationals worked on the FPSO conversion with MODEC in Singapore.
Fifteen of these trainees completed the Level 3 General Vocational Qualification Diploma in Process Operations.
Ten of these Ghanaian engineers were members of the crew for the vessels voyage to Ghana and many more will be part of the team that operates the FPSO.
com 33 the TEN FPSO in Singapore
