H O E W U W L E A V R U E T N A E O STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL HOW WE RUN OUR BUSINESS Tullow is a leading global independent exploration and production company.
Our business model shows the parts of the Group that work together to run our business and create value.
How we create value Element of Business Model Our key strengths and activities 2015 progress We create value over the business cycle by finding oil and selling oil.
To achieve this we must execute exploration Exploration & Appraisal In its recent history, Tullow has achieved significant exploration success by opening commercial oil Nine successful appraisal campaigns, deliver selective development projects, basins in Ghana, Uganda and Kenya.
While recent focus has been on monetising these discoveries, our wells in South Lokichar Execute high-impact E&A programmes.
E&A team continues to build on our industry leading acreage position as we prepare for increased Basin in Kenya maintain our production and ensure we are page 34 exploration activity in future years, subject to market conditions.
suitably financed through a mix of diverse funding options and portfolio management.
Development & Production Tullow has some of the best low-cost and high-quality oil assets in the world.
The Group has a track TEN Project on budget These elements are the basis of our record of delivery, with the Jubilee field developed in a record 40 months, and the TEN Project on its way and on schedule Safely deliver selective development strategy, which is explained on projects.
All major projects and to first oil on time and on budget by mid-2016.
In 2017, the Group will target production of circa 100,000 Met 2015 production bopd and significant upside from current and future developments for sustainable long-term cash flow.
page 16. production operations focus on guidance averaging increasing cash flow and 73,400 boepd commercial reserves.
page 34 Finance & Portfolio Management Our business model is underpinned by access to diverse sources of funding and we adopt a prudent Quality assets secured hedging strategy to mitigate oil price risk.
The Group negotiated suitable debt capacity to fund the additional $450 million Continually manage financial and DEVELOPMENT business assets to enhance our capital intensive period of the TEN development.
However, the Boards primary objective is to fidedebt capacity in 2015 & PRODUCTION leverage the Company organically through new production cash flow, but also through portfolio portfolio, replenish upside and support funding needs.
WHAT EXPLORATION FINANCE & page 42 DIFFERENTIATES & APPRAISAL PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT TULLOW?
Responsible Operations Our ambition to be a top quartile oil and gas company on health and safety performance remains 48% reduction in Lost The skills, experience steadfast and we have reduced our Lost Time Incident Frequency LTIF for a second year in a row as Time Incident Frequency Achieve safe and sustainable operations, SUSTAINABLE minimise our adverse environmental we work towards this important goal.
Managing our social impacts is critical for keeping our projects LTIF compared to 2014 and reputation we call LONG-TERM VALUE GROWTH on track and on budget, and meeting our commitment to creating benefits for local communities.
and social impacts, and achieve the upon across the seven SHARED RESPONSIBLE highest standards of health and safety.
elements of our business PROSPERITY OPERATIONS page 46 model are what we believe sets Tullow Governance & Risk Management Tullow upholds the highest standards of business ethics and has a zero-tolerance approach to breaches New Ethics & Compliance apart from its peers.
ORGANISATION GOVERNANCE of our Code of Ethical Conduct.
Our day-to-day business is governed by a set of policies and standards Board Committee Achieve strong governance across all & CULTURE & RISK Tullow activities and maintain an which form part of our Integrated Management System IMS, covering the breadth of our business.
Our MANAGEMENT policies and standards outline the Groups values, set expectations and define controls against which appropriate balance between risk and reward.
we can assure ourselves that all activities, and associated risks, are being effectively managed.
page 48 The challenging market in 2015 was a catalyst to the restructuring, streamlining and strengthening Planned and executed Organisation & Culture Build a strong, unified team with of our organisation.
This has resulted in greater efficiency and a culture focused on better cost the Major Simplification management and more regular and rigorous review and challenge of performance.
Following the Project excellent commercial, technical and financial skills and entrepreneurial flair.
restructuring our workforce is more empowered, with the Tullow team now clearer on their individual How we run our business roles and how they contribute to delivering the Group strategy.
page 64 Our business model addresses the fundamentals that we must have in Our brand and reputation have been built over almost 30 years of operating in Africa.
We are long-term $1.1 billion total Shared Prosperity place to manage our risks and help us Create sustainable, transparent and investors and seek to build strong relationships, based on mutual trust, with our host governments.
These include: We aim to leave a legacy of sustainable social and economic benefits in the countries where we operate.
contribution tangible benefits from the development sustainable operations: protecting our people, of oil in host countries.
communities and environment: high standards of page 66 governance coupled with strong and effective risk management: an engaged multi-disciplined, diverse and entrepreneurial team: and making a positive and lasting contribution where we operate.
12 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts U R R C B E U W S I W N O E S H S 1 Element of Business Model Our key strengths and activities 2015 progress Exploration & Appraisal In its recent history, Tullow has achieved significant exploration success by opening commercial oil Nine successful appraisal basins in Ghana, Uganda and Kenya.
E&A team continues to build on our industry leading acreage position as we prepare for increased Basin in Kenya page 34 exploration activity in future years, subject to market conditions.
The Group has a track TEN Project on budget record of delivery, with the Jubilee field developed in a record 40 months, and the TEN Project on its way and on schedule Safely deliver selective development projects.
production operations focus on guidance averaging increasing cash flow and 73,400 boepd commercial reserves.
The Group negotiated suitable debt capacity to fund the additional $450 million Continually manage financial and business assets to enhance our capital intensive period of the TEN development.
However, the Boards primary objective is to fidedebt capacity in 2015 leverage the Company organically through new production cash flow, but also through portfolio portfolio, replenish upside and support funding needs.
page 42 Responsible Operations Our ambition to be a top quartile oil and gas company on health and safety performance remains 48% reduction in Lost steadfast and we have reduced our Lost Time Incident Frequency LTIF for a second year in a row as Time Incident Frequency Achieve safe and sustainable operations, minimise our adverse environmental we work towards this important goal.
Managing our social impacts is critical for keeping our projects LTIF compared to 2014 on track and on budget, and meeting our commitment to creating benefits for local communities.
and social impacts, and achieve the highest standards of health and safety.
page 46 Governance & Risk Management Tullow upholds the highest standards of business ethics and has a zero-tolerance approach to breaches New Ethics & Compliance of our Code of Ethical Conduct.
Our day-to-day business is governed by a set of policies and standards Board Committee Achieve strong governance across all Tullow activities and maintain an which form part of our Integrated Management System IMS, covering the breadth of our business.
Our policies and standards outline the Groups values, set expectations and define controls against which appropriate balance between risk and reward.
restructuring our workforce is more empowered, with the Tullow team now clearer on their individual roles and how they contribute to delivering the Group strategy.
page 64 Our brand and reputation have been built over almost 30 years of operating in Africa.
We are long-term $1.1 billion total Shared Prosperity Create sustainable, transparent and investors and seek to build strong relationships, based on mutual trust, with our host governments.
socio-economic We aim to leave a legacy of sustainable social and economic benefits in the countries where we operate.
contribution tangible benefits from the development of oil in host countries.
