CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EHS COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role The Committee has an objective of enhancing the Boards EHS COMMITTEE engagement with EHS by instigating appropriate in-depth reviews of strategically important EHS issues for the Group.
The agenda of the Committee is forward looking, seeking to provide appropriate advice in anticipation of emerging risks the business might face in its operations.
The Committee reviews a wide range of EHS leading and lagging indicators to gain insight into how EHS policies, standards and practices are being realised in the field.
Some examples are high-potential incidents, especially where incidents occur repeatedly in one location or activity, and audit and investigation outcomes.
Committees main responsibilities The Committees responsibilities are: Advising on Company EHS policies: DEAR SHAREHOLDER Providing feedback on Company EHS standards and The Environment, Health and Safety EHS Committee practices: monitors the performance and key risks the Company Monitoring performance on implementation of its faces in relation to its occupational and process safety, environmental, health, security and safety policies, security, health and environmental management.
including process safety management: Process safety is an enduring focus for the Committee.
Providing feedback on reports relating to material We had the opportunity to review first-hand the environmental, health and safety risks: and progress being made on the Jubilee multi-year Assessing material regulatory and technical Asset Integrity Management Plan during a site visit developments in the field of EHS management.
to the FPSO Kwame Nkrumah in October 2015.
We also reviewed the structure and competence of the The Committees terms of reference are reviewed integrated operations team that underpins process annually and can be accessed on the corporate website.
safety this same team will also support TEN operations, leading to the efficient transfer of The Committee currently comprises three non-executive best practice.
Directors and one Executive Director Paul McDade, who has executive responsibility for EHS across the Group.
The EHS Committee has observed how Tullows Anne Drinkwater is Chair of the Committee and chaired all simplification of its business and risk management meetings throughout the year.
Collectively, the Committee process within the Integrated Management System members have considerable operational EHS experience has facilitated greater emphasis on improving the from diverse operating environments across the oil and core elements of good EHS performance such as gas and extractive industries.
In addition to the core Committee members, functional During 2015 Tullow made significant progress in heads and Senior Managers from across the Group were implementing the UN Voluntary Principles on Security invited to meetings to provide additional details and insights and Human Rights VPSHR in its operations.
This is on specific agenda items, provide guidance on EHS issues, particularly important in onshore operations, such as or discuss how EHS can be embedded across their parts in Uganda and Kenya, and sets a solid foundation for of the business.
2015 visiting attendees included Senior the development phase.
Management and management team members from the SSEA function and line leadership.
Anne Drinkwater Chair of the EHS Committee 9 February 2016 86 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Committee activities in 2015 Looking forward to 2016 The Committee reviewed the EHS elements of the The Committee will have a continued emphasis on SSEA 2015 plan.
The plan sets out milestones towards process safety, and will continue to closely monitor the achieving SSEAs multiyear objectives and covers Jubilee Asset Integrity Management Plan to completion all aspects of EHS.
Specific examples are: and to review well control.
Finalising Safe and Sustainable Operations As TEN heads towards first oil in 2016, the Committee and Human Rights policies, and issuing will monitor implementation of EHS in the planned supporting standards: pre-start up audit.
The Committee will place an emphasis on reviewing Process safety and asset integrity audit of the EHS elements of the East Africa development the Jubilee FPSO: project plans.
Implementing the Voluntary Principles on An external audit of VPSHR in Kenya stated that the Security and Human Rights VPSHR : and approach compares well with other projects in the Continuing to develop competence across exploration phase, and made recommendations the range of EHS skills.
The Committee will monitor delivery of the plan developed by SSEA.
In monitoring the plan during 2015, the Committee noted the benefits to the business of clear, simple standards and accountabilities.
This facilitated greater focus on improving the foundational elements of good 2015 EHS COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS EHS performance, including work planning, work force competency, and adherence to critical procedures.
Simplification actions taken by Tullow leadership At each meeting the Committee tracked performance have clarified policies, set out clear standards and against EHS KPIs, which cover both leading and lagging identified accountabilities.
In addition to providing a snapshot of are making the organisation more efficient and progress, they have been used to inform areas where deploy skills to where they are most needed to more focus may be required, such as asset integrity.
During 2015, Tullow implemented a four-tiered risk Implementation of a common enterprise-wide assurance framework in order to provide different levels risk management process across the business, of the organisation with assurance that risks are being bringing enhanced clarity to the top EHS risks appropriately managed, and that mandatory Group and their mitigation.
requirements and standards are being adhered to.
Developing and commencing the implementation Within this context, the Committee reviewed of the Jubilee Asset Integrity Plan which implementation of VPSHR in Kenya and Ghana, brings together all tasks with clear priorities, asset integrity management on Jubilee, well accountabilities and resourcing.
control, and greenhouse gas management.
Progress on VPSHR in Kenya.
During the year the Committee worked to ensure that Successful Committee visit to the Jubilee lessons learnt from incident investigations and audits FPSO in Ghana.
were incorporated in the IMS and business processes.
An example is the inclusion of environmental and social EHS Committee membership management plans in the Companys stage gate Meetings out assurance and decision processes.
of a total Members of the EHS Committee visited the Jubilee Committee member possible FPSO in October.
The main purpose of the visit was Anne Drinkwater Chair 4 4 to review progress on the multiyear Asset Integrity Paul McDade 4 4 Management Plan.
The plan is risk-assessed and Simon Thompson 4 4 prioritised, and progress on the plan was evident Mike Daly 4 4 from the Committees reviews both on the FPSO and in the Accra office.
During that site visit, the Committee also reviewed the structure and competence of the integrated operations team that is an important element of Jubilee best practice.
Lessons learned from this review are being embedded in TEN operations.
As part of the review process that resulted in the Boards decision to not operate in UNESCO World Heritage sites, the SSEA team developed a Protected Areas Management Process which will inform the Groups decision-making process for entry to new areas, as well as new activities within existing acreage.
