Strategic Report Strategic Priorities and KPIs pg 18 pg 21 Events Strategic priority Strategic priority Agile growth Customer insight First and innovation strategy See page 10 for visual illustration Progress in 2015 Progress in 2015 Event plan template agreed and all Standard customer satisfaction major event plans populated and loyalty metrics Established criteria for tail Marketing Excellence MX management and sold or discontinued programme initiated Events which generated 21.8m Vision in 2014 To become the worlds Discontinued OMS activities which delivered 12.6m of revenue leading B2B events in 2014 company Acquired three event bolt-on Focus in 2016 acquisitions 39.9m consideration Roll out MX training Focus in 2016 Objectives: Customer metrics baselines Embed use of event plans and targets Growth Bolt-on acquisitions acclerated Innovation roadmap notably digital through redeployment of retained match-making Attractive margin proceeds from PRN disposal Further ORBIT and TouchPlan roll-out Further discontinuation of tail events Best platform Continued OMS alignment KPIs going forward Net promoter scores NPS KPIs going forward Customer satisfaction scores CSAT % growth rate of major 1m events % of OMS aligned to events 2015 strategic KPIs The operational KPIs, above, will measure In 2015, the Advanstar acquisition, the For a better understanding of the 2015 progress for each priority going forward.
intentional rationalisation of events and financial performance see pages 38 to 47. non-aligned OMS activities and the The financial KPIs, below, illustrate whether incremental costs of delivering the strategy, we are achieving our objectives, enhancing make this picture less clear.
the quality of the Company and delivering shareholder value.
Total revenue m Total adjusted operating pro t margin % Total fully diluted adjusted EPS p 1.1%pt 30.6% 6.0% 974.6 25.2 41.6 24.1 40.5 23.5 38.2 23.1 22.8 37.5 37.0 793.9 754.1 769.4 746.3 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 16 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements pg 22 pg 25 pg 26 Strategic priority Strategic priority Strategic priority Operational Standardised High performance excellence technology culture and data Progress in 2015 Progress in 2015 Progress in 2015 Sales Excellence Phase 1 roll-out Design of standard global sales model Incentives review complete in EMEA and Asia and supporting Customer Relationship Focus of training and development Management CRM technology Value Based Pricing VBP and VBP on strategic areas Light roll-out plan Initiated consolidation of Content Continuous improvement methods Management System CMS platforms Procurement savings of 1.5m and toolkit for websites Initiated legal and procurement review of largest venue contracts Focus in 2016 Focus in 2016 Focus in 2016 Continued VBP roll-out Roll-out of global sales model Long-term incentives aligned to strategic KPIs Roll-out of consistent sales process EMEA CRM roll-out Q2 2016 to be completed H1 2017 Training spend directed to Sales Legal and procurement review and Marketing enablement of venue contracts Americas Asia development H2 Organisation design in support Further procurement savings Standard marketing model of unified strategy development KPIs going forward KPIs going forward KPIs going forward Pipeline conversion improvement Shows now running common Employee ratios by area of CRM platform specialisation Procurement savings Event websites on common Learning and development spend on CMS platform targeted Events First focal areas Cash generated from operations m ROACE % Net debt adjusted EBITDA x 271.9 60.4% 1.2% pt 1.0x 203.7 17.7 2.8 189.8 2.5 15.4 2.4 169.8 165.8 14.6 14.5 2.2 13.3 1.8 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement continued Agile growth We are adopting an agile approach to both organic and inorganic growth with a focus on consistently delivering value for customers and shareholders Managing the Events portfolio created a standard event plan to focus Improving OMS alignment In 2015 our top 116 annual events delivery on longer term revenue growth and As part of the strategy we emphasised shows, which have revenues of 1m so optimise resource allocation and drive our intention to align our digital and print the majors, generated 86% of annual event performance.
All major events now activities more closely and to exit those Events revenue.
Central to our strategy are have a new three-year event plan.
properties that were not well aligned to decisions to direct resource and investment the core events business.
towards the larger, higher-margin events Enhancing the portfolio through including smaller events which support acquisitions During 2015 we discontinued OMS them and to small events which have the The events market is very fragmented and activities which had revenues of 12.6m clear potential to achieve scale and margin.
this presents good opportunities to in 2014. enhance the portfolio and accelerate During the year, we established a set of growth through acquisition.
UBM has good Looking forward studied criteria to help identify whether experience of doing so.
Late in 2014 we Using the portfolio criteria we expect a a show enhances the UBM portfolio as acquired Advanstar and during the year similar level of discontinuation of events a whole.
Applying these criteria we decided made good progress in integrating the during 2016 with a lower level in OMS.
to discontinue or sell events which had business into UBM.
We also completed the delivered 21.8m of revenue in 2014. acquisition of three events for a total Finally, following completion of the consideration of 39.9m.
These events, proposed PRN disposal, the retained Fundamentally the performance of UBM one in Brazil and two in China, vary in scale proceeds will provide more financial is driven by the performance of the and serve different sectors.
For more flexibility to pursue value-enhancing individual events.
We have therefore information see pages 19 and 47. bolt-on acquisitions.
Sustainability case study Behaving responsibly and ethically Governance is important, particularly responsibly and in good faith, free from fraud as we enhance the portfolio and or deception and on treating everyone with expand our presence around integrity and respect.
training on anti-bribery and corruption last year, during 2015, we launched Safecall.
Our Code of Business Conduct Doing It is an independent reporting service, both business at UBM builds on the UBM online and telephone, which allows any Commitments and gives guidance on how employee globally to voice concerns in UBM conducts business honestly, a confidential and anonymous manner.
To find out more about our progress in sustainability please see pages 28-32 18 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements IMAGE TBC Living Events First UBM has, over a number of years, built Although the economic climate in Brazil is up a strong presence in Brazil and in challenging at present, the event has good June 2015 we enhanced it further with the growth prospects given the expansion of Hospitalar acquisition, the largest health sector private healthcare for a growing, more tradeshow in Latin America.
With more than affluent middle class.
95,000 visits in four days it is the leading event for equipment, services and technology for the Jean Franois Quentin Brazilian healthcare sector.
MD of UBM Brazil, Sao Paulo The acquisition makes UBM the number three organiser in the country and also complements UBMs Medical Device and Manufacturing and Life Sciences portfolios in the US.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement continued Living Events First Someone said that: A data scientist is an As part of the Events First strategy we are alchemist who has the ability to turn data into putting processes in place to ensure that gold.
Thankfully, alchemy is not a required skill our customer data is of high quality and on my job description.
I see the role of data fit for purpose.
Then its about identifying scientists as helping the organisation to treat patterns of behavior and telling the their data as a core strategic asset.
The truth stories hidden in the data that reveal is that there is lots of work before we get to the deep customer insight and drive point of mining the diamonds in the data.
Jody Porrazzo PhD Data Scientist, UBM EMEA 20 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Customer insight and innovation We are adopting a customer-centric and innovative approach to our interactions.
This is underpinned by quality insight Understanding our customers Marketing Excellence Examples include ORBIT the iPad-based The key to running a successful event is One of the key touchpoints for our re-booking tool, Supplier Finder and satisfying customer needs through great customers is UBMs marketing community.
TouchPlan a new touchscreen floor experiences.
Better customer insight We have created a Marketing Excellence planning application.
particularly from data and analytics, MX initiative to actively connect, support coupled with innovations, will help us to and invest in our global marketing During 2015 we also announced a deliver enhanced value for our customers community.
This will equip our marketeers strategic alliance with Alibaba to explore and a return on their investment.
with best-in-class skills development uniting the digital and face-to-face trade and training programmes: enhanced buying experience.
We want to make it The first step we have taken is to improve processes and tools: peer-to-peer easier for our customers to do business the quality and consistency of the learning and engagement: and industry and improve the relationship throughout customer data we collect.
We are now thought leadership.
The alliance will begin with pilot collecting and analysing consistent global programmes to introduce Alibabas services for companies participating in select UBM customer metrics.
The key ones relate to Topics will include metrics and Asia tradeshows.
Cross-promotional net promoter score NPS and customer measurement, how to use share that marketing, match-making services and satisfaction CSAT scores.
This data insight, segmentation and personas, audience development present potential allows us to benchmark our performance digital marketing and content marketing.
It will also enable us to set meaningful targets to drive Exploring new innovations Looking forward performance improvement.
We are constantly exploring ways to In 2016 we will be focusing on using the improve how we serve our customers.
customer metric data more effectively, As well as developing initiatives to foster rolling out the MX programme and clarifying innovation, we are being more systematic the innovation roadmap particularly with about rolling these out across the business.
Sustainability case study Supporting social communities Knowledge about our sectors provide pro bono legal advice to Forum to award an additional 27 enables us to create meaningful researchers.
The funds were derived scholarships through our new Future sustainability initiatives.
through sales of our business passes.
At the event, we hosted a luncheon and For the second year, Black Hat USA, our We also ran an Academic Scholarship panel discussion entitled Beyond the global information security event, donated Programme which provided 153 students Gender Gap, supporting the empowerment $50,000 to the Electronic Frontier with complimentary passes, and we of women in the security industry.
Foundation to support their efforts to collaborated with the Executive Womens To find out more about our progress in sustainability please see pages 28 to 32 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement continued Operational excellence We are improving our ways of working and identifying common standard approaches in the business to enable us to become more efficient and effective The overall objective of this strategic priority training and coaching: sales support: process provides a detailed insight into is to drive operational improvement.
This reward and recognition and sales career what customers value and what they are will create the headroom to increase paths.
The SX training programme has prepared to pay for.
investment in innovation and insight and been accredited by the Institute of Sales offer the potential for upside in the margin & Marketing Management ISMM so that Procurement in the medium-term.
the skills and experience our people are This year we completed the roll-out of gaining have a positive impact on their a global finance system with standardised There are efficiency and effectiveness gains career prospects.
The enhanced visibility of standard to be made by applying best practice more data and reporting is enabling us to identify systematically and by leveraging the scale The SX training has been rolled out to all and access efficiency gains.
All this has to be achieved while EMEA and Asia and will extend to Americas identified 1.5m of procurement savings.
maintaining an unwavering focus on the in 2016. customer.
During the year we have made Venue review significant progress in a number of Pricing Direct venue and associated costs account key areas.
The Global Events Momentum GEM team for approximately one-third of events direct costs.
The contracting process is being have implemented Value Based Pricing reviewed to help ensure that the best value Sales Excellence SX VBP at another event during 2015.
This is delivered in this complex area and that The SX programme is about equipping and brings the total number of events using VBP our contractual liabilities are managed in the enabling all our sales people to be the best.
VBP creates value opportunities for most effective way.
Key focal areas include defining our best customers by differentiating exhibitor space practice sales processes: performance by location and booth layout, offering our Looking forward management: recruitment and on-boarding: customers more flexibility and customised In 2016 we will build upon the progress choice.
For UBM, in addition to the potential made already: yield enhancement, the implementation VBP will extend to further major events as appropriate Sustainability case study The global sales process, which is part of the global sales model, will be Supporting our customers embedded as the supporting CRM technology is rolled out in EMEA and We are starting to help our customers Exhibitors rallied in support, with 42 baby subsequently into Asia and the Americas to achieve their sustainability aims.
product suppliers donating their products SX implementation will continue, for a charity sale at the event.
Over 22,000 coordinated with the introduction of the CBME China, our leading child, baby and was raised from both exhibitor and visitor Global Sales Model maternity product event, developed a donations, which will be spent on publishing Further procurement savings will be partnership with a Chinese association and a book to aid teachers working with autistic delivered in line with the target of 5m school specialising in the care of autistic children: providing free educational sessions pa by 2017 children.
A charitable programme was set for parents: and free therapy sessions for up to raise awareness and funds.
To find out more about our progress in sustainability please see pages 28 to 32 22 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Living Events First My clients now have so many options for spending The Sales Excellence programme is about their marketing budget.
At UBM, we have been ensuring the way we sell is aligned to the working hard to develop our sales skills and build way our customers want to buy.
We have an infrastructure within our sales teams which researched and established a consistent set allows us to operate effectively in this new of UBM best practices which areintegrated with environment.
Other Events First priorities, such technology and supported by targeted training as Customer Insight and Innovation, are exploring and coaching.
This is making a real difference ways to improve what were selling but theres in ensuring we truly understand our customers still a big opportunity by improving how our teams and can respond to their evolving needs.
Helen Fan Sales Director, UBM Sinoexpo UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement continued Living Events First For Advanstar employees, being acquired by one integration of processes, people and of the worlds leading events organisers has been technology which produced the benefits.
There are opportunities for us to I am now leading the global CRM implementation.
learn from the wider organisation and also Whilst its not a straightforward task, given the opportunities for us to share.
At Advanstar, I was global nature of UBM and its complexity, I am responsible for the implementation of a wholly confident that a standard global sales operating integrated platform including CRM, Marketing model including re-engineered sales processes Automation, Oracle and audience registration aligned to a world class CRM platform and higher systems along with streamlining business quality data will enable us to serve our customers processes and restructuring the organisational and stakeholders more effectively and operate the design.
This move to an integrated solution business more efficiently.
realised tangible benefits with regard to efficiency, effectiveness and cycle times.
Though the Rebecca Evangelou systems were a critical component, it was the EVP Business Systems, Santa Monica 24 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Standardised technology and data We are adopting a phased approach to implementing common platforms and standards across the Group Closely connected to the previous three CORE finance platform Website CMS strategic priorities is the need to A global ERP finance, management UBM runs over 300 major digital properties standardise our technology and data: information and HR system has now been globally this includes events websites, It helps us to optimise our returns fully implemented.
It provides consistent directories and digital OMS activities.
from acquisitions and timely information to drive Through 2015 we have focussed on performance initiatives.
consolidating the UBM digital platforms, Harnessing data is critical for with 58% of sites now being on standard customer insight Business systems platforms.
The benefits include operational A strong technological backbone In 2015 our focus has been on evaluating efficiency, better mobile device support, enables us to roll out our platforms and and re-engineering our sales processes.
procurement opportunities, stronger tools more quickly Simultaneously we have been defining the behavioural analytics and increased The procurement benefits extracted scope and laying the foundations for CRM information security.
from quality data are already being seen technology which will support and enhance Providing better tools and quality data these processes.
Our aim is to have a Looking forward enables our people to be more efficient common global platform so we can derive Our priority will be on implementing the and effective scale benefits.
global sales model and the supporting The ways our customers are engaging is CRM technology in EMEA, and preparing changing we need to be in a position We have also begun the process of improving to roll out in the Americas and Asia.
to adapt with them the consistency and quality of the data which will be input into this new CRM system.
In parallel the development of the Global Marketing Model will commence during 2016.
Sustainability case study Managing our environmental impact Better data is enabling us to into carbon emissions immediately.
We can manage our environmental impact now also calculate emissions produced from more effectively.
employees travelling on business, as the environmental reporting tool is now linked to Energy usage, water, recycling and waste our travel expenses system.
This data allows data for over 70 offices is now accessible via us to manage our environmental impact the Oracle system and can be calculated more effectively.
To find out more about our progress in sustainability please see pages 28 to 32 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement continued High performance culture UBMs organisational and people capabilities will help drive our performance and enable our strategy Our framework for delivering high Engagement We intend to Looking forward performance culture is: accelerate our strategic objectives Our emphasis will be on: and drive performance through continuing to evolve our organisation Organisation Ensuring our structure engaged employees design to better serve our customers and the balance of our resources reflect our strategy and enable the right level our organisational skills transformation, In line with our strategy to standardise of agility enabling our sales people and marketers data and technology and drive meaningful Capability We are investing in the skills to be the very best in our industry insights, we developed a global needed for our future and are focused and beyond organisational and people dashboard on the amount of training spend directed continuing to recognise excellence in of KPIs to define and measure high to transformational themes under performance and tying our incentive performance.
These KPIs are tracked Events First programmes to this monthly and form the basis for quarterly, Leadership We upskill all levels of divisional and functional organisational enabling all levels of management to be management to lead engaged and high reviews and bi-annual global reviews.
the catalyst for change in the Company performing teams The KPIs are used to make informed embedding a culture of continuous evaluations of the returns generated by People Our employer brand is as improvement in all our work routines global People programmes and policies.
precious as our product brands and we aspire to make the employee experience The People section on page 29 describes as compelling as our Events experience the progress made in implementing a high performance culture in 2015.
Sustainability case study Inspiring future leaders This year six talented employees, selected Previous UBM participants returned from from across the global business, were given OYW and developed our successful global the unique opportunity to attend One Young volunteering programme.
We look forward to World OYW.
seeing how the 2015 cohort can further inspire UBM to be a powerful corporate citizen.
OYW is a global summit that gathers the brightest young people from around the world to debate the worlds most pressing issues and become agents for change.
To find out more about our progress in sustainability please see pages 28 to 32 26 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Living Events First Responding rapidly to customers changing in November, I took part in discussions with needs depends upon a high performance culture colleagues from EMEA and Asia designed to that emphasises strong leadership and process optimise our approach to event planning and improvement.
The opportunities made available acquisition sourcing.
In 2016 the journey goes to me at UBM in 2015 reflect these themes on my focus is driving organic and acquired perfectly.
I graduated from the Business Leaders growth in the Americas and rolling out the Programme, UBMs three module Executive Continuous Improvement programme.
Education course, which focused on leading in a fast-changing world.
During the summer, Tim Hart I implemented UBMs three-year event planning SVP, Strategy and Business Development, tool across the Americas as part of the Agile UBM Americas Growth priority.
At the E20 Leadership Summit UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
