239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 8 Strategic Overview The purpose of the Strategic Overview is to provide shareholders Management of Assets and Shareholder Value with details of the Companys strategy and business model, as well The Board has contractually delegated the management of the as the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
investment portfolio and other services to Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited.
Investment Strategy The Company invests in properties which the Investment Manager The Companys investment strategy is set out in its investment believes will generate a combination of long-term growth in objective and policy below.
income and capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based on analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary capital growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the strength, lease length and initial yield.
potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties to Investment risks to the Company and its subsidiaries the Group low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at 31 December are managed by investing in a diversified portfolio of freehold and 2015 is contained on page 22 and further analysis can be found in long leasehold UK commercial properties.
The Group invests in the Investment Manager Review.
At each Board meeting, the income producing assets in four commercial property sectors: Board receives a detailed portfolio, financial, risk and shareholder office, retail, industrial and leisure.
The Group has not set any presentation from the Investment Manager together with a maximum geographic exposures within the UK nor any maximum comprehensive analysis of the performance of the portfolio during weighting limits in the principal property sectors.
No single the reporting period.
property shall, however, exceed at the time of acquisition 15 per cent.
of the gross assets of the Group.
The Board and the Investment Manager recognise the importance of managing the premium discount of share price to net asset The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent.
of its value in enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves total assets in indirect property funds including in other listed appropriate communication to gauge investor sentiment.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, Investment Manager meets with current and potential new held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in shareholders, and with stockbroking analysts who cover the cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
investment company sector, on a regular basis.
In addition, At an EGM of the Company on 28 April 2011 the shareholders of communication of quarterly portfolio information is provided the Company approved a revised gearing policy of the Group through the Companys website, www.
co. uk, and the amended to read as follows: Gearing, calculated as borrowings as Company also utilises a public relations agency to enhance its a percentage of the Groups gross assets, may not exceed 65 per profile among investors.
The Board intends that borrowings of the Group at the time of draw down will not exceed 25 per cent.
of the Total Assets of Borrowings the Group.
The Board receives recommendations on gearing levels As at 31 December 2015 the Group had total borrowing facilities from the Investment Manager and is responsible for setting the drawn of 250 million, representing a gearing level of 18.2 per gearing range within which the Investment Manager may operate.
of the year end total assets with a blended fixed interest rate of 2.89% per annum.
The Groups performance in meeting its objective is measured against key performance indicators as set out on page 4.
A review In April 2015, the Company repaid its 80 million facility with of the Groups returns during the year, the position of the Group Lloyds and entered into a 100 million secured twelve year loan at the end of the year, and the outlook for the coming year is with Cornerstone Real Estate Advisors Europe LLP at an all-in rate contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment of 3.03%.
In addition, the Company obtained a 50 million Manager Review.
revolving credit facility from Barclays at a margin of 1.5% over 1 month LIBOR, maturing in April 2020, and extended its existing Board 150 million facility with Barclays to April 2020 with the margin The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of reduced to 1.5%.
the Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk management.
Key Performance Indicators Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are nonThe Companys benchmark is the MSCI Investment Property executive, can be found on page 23 and indicate their range of Databank IPD Monthly and Quarterly Funds.
This benchmark property, investment, commercial and professional experience.
incorporates all monthly and quarterly valued property funds and The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
the Board believes this is the most appropriate measure to 8 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 9 compare the performance of a quarterly valued property Company indebtedness The largest liabilities the Company investment Company with a balanced portfolio.
has are the loan facilities.
The Board recognises that being unable to service or indeed repay these debts would threaten The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the the future solvency and liquidity of the Group.
This risk is Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key performance mitigated by two factors.
First of all the Investment Policy of the indicators are as follows: Company limits gearing to 25 per cent.
of total assets at the time of draw down.
This low gearing limit means it is expected Net asset value and share price total return against the IPD that, barring any unforeseen circumstances, the Group will have benchmark and other selected comparators.
adequate assets to service and repay the debt if required.
Premium Discount of share price to net asset value.
Secondly, the underlying assets themselves are mainly invested in a diversified, prime UK commercial property portfolio Dividend per share and dividend yield.
underpinned by a strong tenant base.
This means that, even in Ongoing Charges.
a significant economic downturn, the Board is confident that the assets will still be of sufficient value and generate sufficient These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2015 are set out income to meet future liabilities.
Tenant failure or inability to let property which would impact In addition the Board considers specific property KPIs such as void future performance.
Due diligence work on potential tenants is rates, rent collection levels and weighted average lease length on undertaken before entering into new lease agreements.
These are reported on pages 20 to 21. addition, tenants are kept under constant review through regular contact and various reports both from managing Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties agents and from the Managers own reporting processes.
The Board confirms that it frequently carries out a robust Finally, contingency plans are put in place at units that have assessment of the principal risks facing the Company.
These risks tenants that are believed to be in financial trouble.
and how they are mitigated are set out below.
Taxation The Group is currently structured in a tax efficient The Companys assets consist of direct investments in UK method which results in rental income the Group generates commercial property.
Its principal risks are therefore related to the being offset by expenses and internal loan interest.
The terms commercial property market in general, but also to the particular on the internal loan notes, namely interest rates and loan to circumstances of the properties in which it is invested and their value ratios, are crucial in preserving the tax efficiency of the tenants.
The Manager seeks to mitigate these risks through group and any material change in these could pose a risk to continual review of the portfolio utilising research produced by the future performance.
To mitigate this risk the Group has agreed Managers in-house research team, detailed reports on the the terms of the vast majority of the loan notes in place with performance of the portfolio, setting of annual asset plans for HMRC and also goes through a rigorous process when setting each asset in the portfolio and also through asset management new loan notes to ensure they represent commercially available initiatives.
All of the properties in the portfolio are insured, terms.
The majority of these loan notes are due to expire in providing protection against risks to the properties and also September 2016 and sensitivity analysis has been performed on protection in case of injury to third parties in relation to the the impact on the Group should these terms materially change properties.
bearing in mind that the Company currently has over 33 million of unutilised tax losses.
The impact on the The Board has also identified a number of specific risks that are Companys performance will depend on the terms that these reviewed at each quarterly Board meeting.
These are as follows: internal loan notes can be re-financed.
Linked to this is the recently published OECD guidance relating to base erosion and The Company and its objectives become unattractive to profit shifting BEPS.
This subject may be relevant to the investors which may lead to a persistent discount and a Group as a result of the inter-company loans the Group has in continuation vote which may threaten the future solvency and place between subsidiaries.
With any UK legislation scheduled liquidity of the Group.
This is mitigated through regular for 2017, it is too early to be definitive as to the impact, if any, performance reviews of the Companys portfolio, contact with that BEPS will have on the Group but it should be noted as a shareholders, a regular review of share price performance and potential risk to future returns.
No deferred tax asset has been the level of discount at which the shares trade to NAV and recognised on the losses mentioned above as it is not certain regular meetings with the Companys broker to discuss these that these losses will be utilised.
points and address any issues that arise.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM held on 31 March 2015 shareholders Other risks faced by the Company include the following: approved the continuation of the Company by approving a Economic inflation or deflation, economic recessions and special resolution to amend the Companys Articles of movements in interest rates could affect property valuations, Association to replace the previous continuation vote with a and its bank borrowings.
vote in 2020 and at least seven yearly thereafter.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 9 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 10 Strategic Overview continued Strategic incorrect strategy, including sector and property and works hard to ensure that risks are kept to a minimum at all allocation and use of gearing, could lead to poor returns for times.
In assessing the Companys viability, the Board has carried out Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to thorough reviews of the following: suspension of the Companys London Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Detailed NAV, cash resources and income forecasts, prepared by the Companys Manager, for a five year period under both Management and control changes that cause the normal and stressed conditions: management and control of the Company to be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming The Companys ability to pay its operational expenses, bank liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
interest, tax and dividends over a five year period: Financial inadequate controls by the Investment Manager or Future debt repayment dates and debt covenants, in particular third party service providers could lead to misappropriation of those in relation to LTV and interest cover: assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to misreporting or Demand for the Companys shares and levels of premium or breaches of regulations.
discount at which the shares trade to NAV and: Operational failure of the Investment Managers accounting The valuation and liquidity of the Companys property portfolio, systems or disruption to the Investment Managers business, or the Managers portfolio strategy for the future and the market that of third party service providers, could lead to an inability to outlook.
provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders confidence.
Based on the results of the analysis outlined above, the Board has a reasonable expectation, assuming the continuation vote on The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through 2020 is passed, that the Company will be able to continue in continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment period of its assessment.
and the management of the Companys property portfolio and levels of gearing, and applies the principles detailed in the UK Environmental, Ethical & Bribery Policy Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the Companys internal The Investment Manager acquires, develops and manages controls are described in more detail in the Corporate Governance properties on behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these Report on page 29. activities have both direct and indirect environmental and social impacts.
The Board has adopted the Investment Managers own Viability Statement Sustainable Real Estate Investments Policy and associated The Board considers viability as part of its ongoing programme of Environmental Management Systems and are committed to monitoring risk.
The Board considers five years to be a reasonable environmental management in all phases of an assets cycle time horizon over which to review the continuing viability of the from acquisition through demolition, redevelopment and Company, although it does have regard to viability over the longer operational management to disposal.
The focus is on energy term, in particular to key points outside this time frame, such as conservation, mitigating greenhouse gases emissions, maximising the due dates for the repayment of long-term debt.
waste recycling and water conservation.
To facilitate this, the Manager works in partnership with contractors, suppliers, tenants The Board has considered the nature of the Companys assets and and consultants to minimise those impacts, seeking continuous liabilities and associated cash flows and has determined that five improvements in environmental performance and conducting years is the maximum timescale over which the performance of regular reviews.
the Company can be forecast with a material degree of accuracy and so is an appropriate period over which to consider the The Company was awarded a Green Star ranking from the Global Companys viability.
The Board has also carried out a robust assessment of the principal In conjunction with these environmental principles the Company risks faced by the Company, as detailed on page 9 including has a health and safety policy which demonstrates commitment to periodic continuation votes.
The main risks which the Board providing safe and secure buildings that promote a healthy consider will affect the business model, future performance, working customer experience that supports a healthy lifestyle.
The solvency, and liquidity are ongoing discounts leading to a Company, through the Manager, manages and controls health and continuation vote, company indebtedness, tenant failure and safety risks systematically as any other critical business activity taxation.
The Board takes any potential risks to the ongoing using technologically advanced systems and environmentally success of the Company, and its ability to perform, very seriously protective materials and equipment.
The aim is to achieve a health 10 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 11 and safety performance the Company can be proud of and allow the Company to earn the confidence and trust of tenants, customers, employees, shareholders and society at large.
In addition the Board has adopted an ethical policy which highlights the need for ethical considerations to be considered in the acquisition and management of both new and existing properties.
It is the Companys Policy to prohibit and expressly forbid the offering, giving or receiving of a bribe in any circumstances.
This includes those instances where it may be perceived that a payment, given or received, may be a bribe.
The Company has adopted this Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to ensure robust compliance with The UK Bribery Act 2010.
The Company has made relevant enquiries of its Manager and has received assurances that appropriate anti-bribery and corruption policies have been formulated and communicated to their employees.
Approval of Strategic Report The Strategic Report of the Company comprises the following on pages 3 to 22: Financial and Property Highlights, Performance Summary, Chairmans Statement, Strategic Overview, Investment Manager Review and Portfolio Information.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 20 April 2016.
Christopher M. W. Hill Director Ken McCullagh Director UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 11
