239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 11:56 Page 23 Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and, other than Mr Robertson, are independent of the Investment Manager, are responsible for the determination of the investment policy of the Group and its overall supervision.
The Directors are as follows: Christopher Hill Chairman Ken McCullagh Christopher Hill is a resident of Guernsey.
He is an Chairman of the Audit Committee Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and Ken McCullagh is a resident of Ireland.
Since was managing director of Guernsey International 2000 he has been Chief Executive Officer of Fund Managers Limited, part of the Baring LNC Property Group, a private real estate Financial Services Group, for 8 years prior to its investment company which held and managed sale in 2005 to Northern Trust.
He has over 40 years experience in 500 million of assets.
Previously he worked as a Director and the field of offshore banking and fund administration and is a past Partner of Corporate Finance for Farrell Grant Sparks, Chartered Chairman of the Guernsey Investment Funds Association.
Mr Hill has Accountants and was also a Financial Controller of Gunne Estate been a Director of the Company since launch in September 2006.
Agents now CBRE in Dublin.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
Mr McCullagh was appointed to Andrew Wilson Senior Independent Director the Board in February 2013.
Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as Chief Sandra Platts surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities as a Sandra Platts is a resident of Guernsey and is a director in 1987.
He was a founder director of non-executive director of Investec Bank C. I. Ltd Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and chief executive and Starwood European Finance Partners Ltd. officer through its official listing, move to the Alternative Investment Sandra was Managing Director of Kleinwort Market and subsequent fide-listing and sale.
He was a non-executive Benson in Guernsey and Chief Operating Officer director of Ipswich Building Society until July 2015 and is currently for Kleinwort Benson Private Banking Group UK and Channel non executive Chairman of a London West End property agency Islands.
She also held directorships of the Kleinwor t Benson Trust and of a Family Office.
Mr Wilson has Company and Operating Boards, retiring from Kleinwort Benson been a Director of the Company since launch in September 2006 boards in 2010.
Sandra holds a Masters in Business Administration and is Chairman of the Property Valuation Committee.
and The Certificate in Company Direction from the Institute of Directors.
Mrs Platts was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
John Robertson John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
Michael Ayre Mr Robertson spent his entire career in a range Michael Ayre is a resident of Guernsey.
He is of roles in investment management, retiring in currently a consultant to the Guernsey taxation 2012 from Ignis Asset Management as Director and private client business of Intertrust Group, Funds and Corporate Governance, in which Intertrust Reads Private Clients Limited.
Mr Ayre position he was a director of several fund companies.
He is a is also currently a Director of ABN Amro Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants.
Guernsey Limited and Brooks MacDonald Investment Funds plc Mr Robertson has been a Director of the Company since launch which is listed in Ireland.
Mr Ayre is member of the Chartered in September 2006.
Association of Certified Accountants and is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Mr Ayre was appointed to the Board in February 2016.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 23
