239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 2 Company Summary The Company The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner of the GLP.
The limited partnerships principal business is that of an UK Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is an investment and property entity.
authorised closed ended, Guernsey registered investment company which was launched on 22 September 2006.
Objectives The Company has a single class of share in issue, which is premium The investment objective of the Company is to provide ordinary listed on the official list and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a The Company has an indefinite life, subject to periodic diversified portfolio of UK commercial properties.
The investment continuation votes, and was incorporated on 24 August 2006. policy of the Company is set out on page 8.
The Group Management The Group consists of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Ignis Fund Managers Limited was the Investment Manager of the The subsidiaries are disclosed in note 9 to the audited financial Group up until 29 December 2015 when it was replaced by statements and include, UK Commercial Property Finance Holdings Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited.
Both Limited UKCPFH, UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited companies are wholly owned by Standard Life Investments UKCPH, UK Commercial Property GP Limited The GP, Limited.
UK Commercial Property Nominee Limited UKCPN, UK Further details of the management contract are provided in the Commercial Property Estates Holdings Limited UKCPEH and Notes to the Accounts.
UK Commercial Property Estates Limited UKCPEL are incorporated in Guernsey.
Brixton Radlett Property Limited BRPL ISA Status is a company incorporated in the UK.
The principal business of UKCPFH, UKCPEL, BRPL and the GP are that of an investment and The Companys shares are eligible for ISA investment.
The principal business of UKCPN is that of a nominee company.
The principal business of UKCPFH and UKCPEH Website are that of a holding company.
The Companys website address is: www.
co. uk The limited partnership, UKCPT Limited Partnership, the GLP is a Guernsey limited partnership.
UKCPH and the GP have a partnership interest of 99 and 1 per cent.
2 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
