239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 12 Investment Management Team Standard Life Investments Limited SLI is the ultimate Investment Manager of the Group.
SLI is a global asset manager and has approximately 253 billion of assets under management with 13.2 billion in real estate.
SLI has a long history of managing commercial property and over the years has built up a high level of knowledge and experience in this asset class.
SLI has the advantage of a strong and well-resourced team that is dedicated to searching out value actively in the property sector and in the portfolios that it manages and a strong culture to deal with internal conflict.
The Group is managed by a dedicated property investment, finance and administration team within Standard Life which is set out below.
WILL FULTON BLE MRICS Fund Manager Real Estate Will graduated from the University of Aberdeen in 1987 with a degree in Land Economy when he joined Standard Life, becoming a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors in 1990.
Throughout his 28 year career he has held a variety of commercial real estate positions gaining multi-disciplinary experience spanning investment, valuation, asset management, debt facility management, development and investor relations both in the UK and across continental Europe.
Most recently, from 2010, he oversaw a team managing the 2.3 billion Standard Life Heritage With Profits Real Estate Fund.
DAVID RODGER, BSc IPF MRICS BCSC Portfolio Manager Real Estate David graduated from the University of Paisley in 1996 with a BSc Hons degree in Land Economics.
He began his career with DTZ Debenham Tie Leung in 1996 and thereafter joined Jones Lang LaSalle where he became Department Head of the Investor Property Management team.
David joined Ignis Asset Management in 2010.
He is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and the British Council of Shopping Centres.
David transferred over to SLI in October 2014.
DAVID FLEETWOOD, BSc Hons, IPF MRICS Portfolio Manager Real Estate David graduated from Heriot Watt University in 1994 with a BSc Honours Degree in Estate Management becoming a chartered member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors in 1996.
David initially worked in private practice before joining Scottish Widows Investment Partnership in 2000 and Standard Life Investments in 2004 to develop his career in Fund Management.
David added value to Standard Life Investments 3.6 billion Pooled Pension Fund until September 2015 when he joined the team managing UKCPT.
During his 22 year career he has been involved primarily with acquisitions, disposals, leasing and asset management.
Other responsibilities have been in Fund analysis and formulating strategy and client presentations.
David qualified with the IMC and the Investment Property Forum IPF Diploma.
JAMIE HORTON BA Hons, MSc, MRICS Portfolio Manager Real Estate Jamie joined Ignis Asset Management as Asset Manager in January 2014 working on the UK Commercial Property Trust.
He joined from DTZ, where he was an Associate Director responsible for covering all aspects of real estate investment advice.
Jamie started his career in 2008 as a graduate in the Office Agency Team of Jones Lang LaSalle before moving to the Capital Markets Department post qualification.
Jamie graduated from the University of Strathclyde in 2005 and gained an MSc in Property at the University of Aberdeen in 2008.
He was elected a Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors in 2010.
Jamie transferred over to SLI in October 2014.
GRAEME MCDONALD, BA CA Finance Manager Real Estate Graeme graduated from the University of Strathclyde in 1995 with a BA degree in Accountancy and joined Hardie Caldwell Chartered Accountants in 1996 where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1999.
In 2001 Graeme joined Glasgow Investment Managers GIM as chief accountant focusing on the finance, administration and company secretarial work for three investment trusts.
Following GIMs takeover by Aberdeen Asset Managers in 2007, Graeme transferred to the investment trust secretarial team within Aberdeen working on both investment trusts and Venture Capital trusts.
In 2009 Graeme joined Scottish Widows Investment Partnership where he was a finance project manager before joining Ignis in January 2011 as a Fund Accounting Manager to provide a dedicated fund accounting and company secretarial service to the closed end clients within Ignis Asset Management.
Graeme transferred over to SLI in October 2014.
12 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
