239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 24 Report of the Directors The Directors present the report and accounts of UK Commercial Directors Property Trust Limited, the Company for the year ended The Directors who held office during the period and their interests 31 December 2015. in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2015 all of which are beneficial were: Results and Dividends As at As at The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
Date of 31 December 31 December The Company has paid interim dividends in the year ended Appointment 2015 2014 31 December 2015 as follows: Christopher Hill Sep 2006 20,000 20,000 Payment Date Rate per share p John Robertson Sep 2006 10,000 10,000 Fourth Interim for Andrew Wilson Sep 2006 75,000 75,000 prior period Feb 2015 0.92 Ken McCullagh Feb 2013 40,000 40,000 First interim May 2015 0.92 Sandra Platts Dec 2013 - - Second interim Aug 2015 0.92 There have been no changes in the above interests between Third interim Nov 2015 0.92 31 December 2015 and 31 March 2016.
On 24 February 2016 the Total 3.68 Board appointed Mr Michael Ayre as a Director.
On 29 January 2016 the Company declared a fourth Interim The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property dividend of 0.92 pence per Ordinary Share with an ex-dividend Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property GP Limited, UK date of 11 February 2016, which was paid on 26 February 2016.
Commercial Property Nominee limited, UK Commercial Property Estates Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property Estates Limited and UK Commercial Property Finance Holdings Limited which are Principal Activity and Status all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
In addition the Group The Company is a Guernsey company and during the year carried wholly owns Brixton Radlett Property Limited, a UK Limited on business as a property investment company.
The principal Company, the Directors of which are Mr Andrew Wilson and Mr activity and status of the Companys subsidiaries is set out in John Robertson.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of insurance in Listing Requirements respect of Directors & Officers liabilities in relation to work Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to undertaken on behalf of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
In continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property addition, Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
Share Capital As recommended by the AIC Code of Corporate Governance and The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2015 consisted the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companys policy is for all of 1,299,412,465 Ordinary shares of 25p each.
At 20 April 2016 Directors to retire and offer themselves for re-election at the these numbers were unchanged.
Each Ordinary share of the Annual General Meeting AGM immediately following their Company carries one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Accordingly, Mr K McCullagh, Save for the provision of the articles of association, there are no Mrs S Platts, Mr J Robertson and Mr A Wilson will retire and offer restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Mr M Ayre, having been other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will offer himself imposed by law for example, insider trading law.
Mr C Hill will retire at the AGM and will be replaced as Chairman by Mr A Wilson.
Following formal performance evaluations for each individual Director and the Board as a whole, as well as a review of the performance of the Chairman by the other members of the Board, the performance of all of the Directors continues to be effective with each making a positive contribution to the performance of the Company.
Therefore, the re-election and election of all the Directors who are being put forward is recommended to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
An external review of the Board was last carried out in 2014 and the action points arising from this 24 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 25 review have been addressed and, where appropriate, revised At both the Company and Group levels comprehensive going practices have been adopted.
concern assessments have been performed.
The Board has followed the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM when performing their going concern assessments and also Up until 29 December 2015, Ignis Fund Managers Limited considered the recommendations on Risk Management and registered in the United Kingdom was the appointed AIFM of the Control in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014.
Company undertaking the management of the Company in accordance with the requirements of the Alternative Investment The assessments performed include review of the valuation and Fund Managers Directors AIFMD.
On 29 December 2015, liquidity of investments as at the balance sheet date and forecasts Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited was of NAV, cash resources and income under both normal and appointed as the Companys AIFM.
Depositary Having thoroughly considered the going concern assessment the Board has concluded that there are no material uncertainties that In accordance with the requirements of AIFMD, the Board may cast significant doubt about the Company and Groups ability appointed Citibank International PLC as depositary to the Company to continue as a going concern over the next twelve months from on 18 July 2014.
On 29 December 2015 this changed to Citibank the date of the annual report, barring any unforeseen International Limited.
The only qualification to this statement is that the shares of the Company may trade at a discount to NAV of over 5% Substantial Interests in Share Capital for 90 consecutive dealing days, thereby leading to a continuation At 31 December 2015 the following holdings, representing more vote.
This risk is considered, and mitigating actions addressed, in the than 3 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital, had been Principal Risk and Risk Uncertainties Review on page 9.
The Directors notified to the Company.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group will be able to continue in operational existence and to have adequate Number of resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next twelve Ordinary Shares % months.
Therefore, the Board continue to adopt the going concern Held Held basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Phoenix Life Limited 649,952,011 50.02 Non-Mainstream Pooled investments Investec Wealth Limited 140,797,236 10.84 The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares Nestle Capital issued by the Company can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary Management Limited 56,137,385 4.32 retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to Brewin Dolphin Ltd 53,733,048 4.14 non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to Schroders Plc 39,970,707 3.08 do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment As at 31 March 2016 the Company had been notified that the products because the Company would qualify as an investment Phoenix Life Limited holding had been reduced to 48.86% and the trust if the Company were based in the UK.
Investec Wealth Limited holding had been reduced to 10%.
Annual General Meeting No other changes to these holdings had been notified to the Company as at 31 March 2016.
Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 15 June 2016, the following As at 31 December the Companys ultimate parent entity was resolutions will be proposed.
Phoenix Group Holdings and immediate parent company was Phoenix Life Limited.
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Resolution 11 gives the Directors, for the period until the Going Concern conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2016 or, if earlier, on The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to the expiry of 15 months from the passing of resolution 11, the affect its future development, performance and financial position necessary authority either to allot securities or sell shares held in are set out in the Strategic Overview on pages 8 to 11.
In addition, treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata Note 16 to the financial statements includes the Companys basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 32,485,312.
This is objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its equivalent to approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary financial risk management objectives: details of its financial share capital of the Company as at 20 April 2016.
There are no instruments: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
shares currently held in treasury.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 25 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 26 Report of the Directors continued The Directors will allot new shares pursuant to this authority only if within three months to consider an ordinary resolution for the they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to continuation of the Company.
If this continuation resolution is not do so and in no circumstances would this be done if it results in a passed, the Directors will convene a further extraordinary general dilution to the prevailing net asset value per share.
meeting to be held within six months of the first extraordinary meeting to consider the winding up of the Company or a reconstruction of the Company which offers all Shareholders the Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such continuation The current authority of the Board granted to it by shareholders at resolution is passed, this discount policy, save in respect of share the 2015 AGM to buy back shares in the Company expires at the buy backs, would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
The Board intends to renew such authority to buy back shares up to 14.99 per cent.
of the number At an EGM of the Company held on 31 March 2015 a resolution of Ordinary Shares in issue.
This special resolution, if approved, will was passed which effectively resulted in the following: enable the Company to buy back up to 194,781,928 shares based a The continuation vote required by the Companys Articles of on the current number of shares in issue excluding any treasury Association was brought forward from 2016 to 2015: shares.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within guidelines established from time to time b Approved the Continuation of the Company: by the Board, which will take into account the income and cash c Set the next continuation vote for 2020 and seven yearly flow requirements of the Company, and the making and timing of thereafter.
any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
The purpose of this change was to facilitate the new debt facilities Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the described earlier in the report.
It should be highlighted that the market for cash at prices below the prevailing published net asset buyback authority and discount management policy described value of an Ordinary Share as last calculated, adjusted downwards above, including the provision for continuation votes, will remain in for the amount of any dividend declared by the Company upon place and are not affected by the changes to the Companys the shares going ex-dividend, where the Directors believe such Articles of Association.
purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers the Takeover Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be Code more than the higher of i five per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five Under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code, any person who acquires an business days before the purchase is made and ii the higher of interest in shares which, taken together with shares in which he is the last independent trade and the highest current independent already interested and in which persons acting in concert with him bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum price exclusive are interested, carry 30% or more of the voting rights of a of expenses that may be paid is 25 pence a share.
company which is subject to the Takeover Code but less than 50%, is normally required to make a general offer to all the remaining The Company may retain any shares bought back as treasury shareholders to acquire their shares.
Under Rule 37 of the shares for future re-issue, or transfer, or may cancel any such Takeover Code, when a company purchases its own shares, any shares.
During the period when the Company holds shares as resulting increase in the percentage of shares carrying voting treasury shares, the rights and obligations in respect of those rights which a person or group of persons acting in concert is shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the interested will be treated as an acquisition for the purposes of Rule Company.
The maximum number of shares that can be held as 9 although a shareholder who is neither a Director nor acting in treasury shares by the Company is 10 per cent.
of the aggregate concert with a Director will not normally incur an obligation to nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held make an offer under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code.
Under Rule 37, as treasury shares will only be re-issued, or transferred at prices however, the holding of an investment manager of a company, which are not less than the published net asset value of an together with the holdings of its concert parties, will be treated in Ordinary Share.
the same way as a Director.
It is the intention of Directors that the share buy back authority Phoenix Life Limited notified the Company on 24 February 2016 may be used to purchase Ordinary Shares, subject to the income that following the sale of Ordinary Shares their holding in the and cash flow requirements of the Company, if the share price of Company had fallen below 50%.
If the Company were to utilise its an Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent.
below the published proposed share buy back authority and the Phoenix Concert net asset value for a continuous period of time.
In the event that Partys aggregate interest in the Ordinary Shares were to increase such discount is more than 5 per cent.
for 90 dealing days or between 30% and 50%, an obligation for the Phoenix Concert more, following the second anniversary of the Companys most Party to make a general offer to all shareholders in accordance recent continuation vote, 31 March 2015, the Directors will with Rule 9 of the Takeover Code may be triggered.
The Directors convene an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM to be held are aware that a waiver from the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers 26 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 27 may be required to allow the Company to utilise the share buy back authority and are in consultation with the Panel.
If a waiver is required, shareholders other than members of the Phoenix Concert Party will be asked to approve a waiver of the obligation on the Phoenix Concert Party to make a general offer for the entire issued share capital which may otherwise arise as a result of a buy back of shares by the Company.
A separate circular will be sent to shareholders setting out full details of the waiver if necessary.
Auditors As detailed in the Corporate Governance Report, the Board have decided to appoint Deloitte LLP as the auditors of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and a resolution proposing their appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and each has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to make themself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Recommendations The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of all their own beneficial shareholdings.
Statement Regarding the Annual Report and Accounts Following a detailed review of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Audit Committee and by any Directors who are not members of the Audit Committee, full details of which can be found in the Audit Committee Report, the Board consider that when taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Board welcomes views from shareholders and company analysts on the Annual Report and Accounts and, where practical, will incorporate any suggestions that will improve the document.
Approved by the Board on 20 April 2016.
Christopher M. W. Hill Director Ken McCullagh Director UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 27
