239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 13 Investment Manager Review Market Review Finally, after the year end and as a surprise to the market, the Government effectively reduced the value of commercial property The UK economic cycle continued to mature in 2015 with the in England and Wales by 1% when it raised the cost of purchase by economy recording reasonable GDP growth and at a level which, 1% through an increase in the rate of Stamp Duty Land Tax in the albeit marginally above trend, remains in a relatively strong March 2016 Budget.
position compared to many other developed countries.
However, increased uncertainty in the global economy has latterly slowed Market Performance Review the rate of GDP quarterly growth.
Despite the continuation of low interest rates, falling unemployment and reasonable wage growth, The IPD benchmark delivered an impressive total return of 12.7% the momentum of the recovery has softened due to the erosion in 2015.
Capital growth at 7.5%, driven by yield compression, was of spare capacity.
Weaker global growth is also impacting the UKs the principal component of return, with income adding a further export capability.
Households, however, have enjoyed the lower 4.9%.
inflation environment as well as having a stronger pound against In response to the improved economic outlook, rental value the Euro, with consumer spending up a significant 3% in 2015. growth gained momentum over the year, reaching a broad level of For UK real estate, despite the inward yield movement, pricing 3.7% and helping to fuel total returns.
As has been the case for remains favourable on a relative basis.
At 31 December 2015 the the last few years, Central London Office markets were the IPD initial yield for real estate was 4.8% which compared strongest performing sub-sector during 2015, delivering a 19.1% favourably to the yield on ten year government bonds of 2.0%, a total return 11.1% rental growth, followed by South East margin of 280 basis points against this proxy for a risk-free rate.
Industrials at 17.3% 5.9% rental growth, and South East Offices Recent sharpening of market pricing in gilts has widened this yield at 17.2% 6.9% rental growth.
Regionally, Office rental growth picked up at 3.1% for 2015, UK listed real estate investment trusts generated total returns of contributing to a total return of 12.2%.
Against a backdrop of 10.6% in 2015, significantly outperforming the FTSE All Share, increased demand and decreasing supply, rental growth in which barely returned 1% over the same period.
Despite the regional industrials was an encouraging 3.3% 15.0% total return.
heightened volatility emanating from the equity markets since last Ongoing structural change within the Retail sector is reflected in a year, the expectation that interest rates will remain lower for mixed picture for rental growth and total return.
Only South East longer is likely to ensure the relative margin remains at historically High Street Retail including Central London recorded any high levels for some time yet.
Our main concern would be if significant rental growth 2.9% but saw a total return of 11.5% as financial markets were signalling a downturn in economic activity, yields compressed: Retail Warehouses generated a total return of which would impact real estate tenant demand and ultimately, 7.5% whilst Shopping Centres and rest of UK High Street delivered therefore, income.
While we remain positive on the return 7.9% and 6.4% respectively, both experiencing marginally outlook, volatility is increasing.
The upward progression in rents negative rental growth.
has, however, continued, with rental growth picking up over the course of 2015.
Offices continue to lead, with Retail lagging at a Portfolio Performance broader sector level.
Industrial estates in London and Offices in non-core London locations experienced the most significant rental The Companys direct property portfolio provided a total return of growth in 2015.
Encouragingly though for good Retail locations 9.2% for the year 2015.
Whilst positive compared to many other where format is also important rents are improving.
asset classes it was somewhat disappointing when compared to its IPD benchmark total return of 12.7%.
The Companys income In a world of low yields on a range of assets, real estate remains return matched the benchmark at 4.9%, but capital growth very attractive.
This is reflected in 71 billion of transactions lagged at 4.1% versus 7.5%.
Significant portfolio repositioning and recorded in 2015 by Property Data, which is significantly above the ongoing asset management activity is underway aimed at level of 63 billion achieved in 2014.
Central London Offices improving performance as outlined below.
Projecting forward to a continued to be the main focus, attracting nearly 30% of money period of slowing capital growth across the whole market, the invested, although leisure and other alternative assets, more prime nature of the Companys portfolio should stand it in predominantly student accommodation, have increased their good stead to deliver sustainable income and capital appreciation share of the market with large portfolio transactions having taken through active asset management.
place over the course of the year.
Overseas investors and UK institutions remained the driving force in 2015, investing 35 billion and 15 billion respectively.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 13 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 14 Investment Manager Review continued All sectors of the portfolio increased in value.
The external growth tailed off, combined with a lower income component portfolio valuation as at 31 December 2015 was 1.32 billion from the London Office portfolio.
The Companys relatively We reduced the Companys Retail exposure throughout the year small exposure to High Street Retail outside the South East was its and, whilst this sector has lagged, the value of the assets retained highest performing sub-sector.
With more weight in the portfolio, has grown with a positive impact from active asset management the second best performers were the Companys clutch of South initiatives at, for example, St. Georges Retail Park, Leicester, and East Industrial assets, where the Company has benefited from its Market Street, Manchester.
strategy of increasing exposure to that sector over the past few years.
The table below sets out the components of total return of the Company and of the benchmark in each sector for the year to The Companys Office investments, previously its strongest 31 December 2015: performing sector, fell behind its Industrial exposure as capital Total Return Income Return Capital Growth Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark %%%%%% Industrials 12.8 16.3 5.1 5.3 7.4 10.5 Office 10.5 17.0 4.6 4.2 5.7 12.3 Retail 6.9 8.3 5.1 5.2 1.7 2.9 Other Commercial incl Leisure 6.6 12.2 4.6 5.2 2.0 6.7 Total 9.2 12.7 4.9 4.9 4.1 7.5 Source: IPD, assumes reinvestment of income in capital gain loss Industrial strongly compressed West End yields.
Business plans are in hand for 2016 aimed at redressing this position, particularly at Craven In common with the wider market, the Industrial sector was the House, Carnaby Street and 6 Arlington Street, opposite the Ritz.
For some time, we have recognised the strong income characteristics of the sector and, in Outside London and the South East, the Companys Office recent times, this view has been supported by other investors.
With an imbalance between strong demand and limited supply, both in the investment market and on the ground for tenants, Retail yields have compressed further.
Within occupier markets, strong Although the prospects for some elements of the Retail sector demand, particularly from online businesses, led to healthy rental remain uncertain, improving market sentiment and a far more growth as well as to the return, in certain locations, of speculative positive, yet still polarised, occupier environment was reflected in a development.
stabilisation of rents and reduction of voids within many principal The Company has a good mix of predominantly London focused locations in 2015.
This provided a platform for an improved big box distribution warehouses and multi-let industrial estates performance from the Companys Retail portfolio.
which experienced early-cycle capital growth given the prime This sector was again the greatest source of divergence across nature of the assets.
This helped to deliver a total return of 12.8%.
subsectors, with Standard Retail within the Rest of the UK However, this is lower than the benchmark figure of 16.3% which delivering the strongest total return of 23.0%, fuelled by asset was driven by significant yield compression over secondary assets.
management and capital growth of 15.9% and an income return There are a number of asset management initiatives, notably at of 6.1%.
South East Standard Retail also benefited from further Sunbury, Wembley Neasden and Lutterworth, which should yield compression, producing 2.4% capital growth and the next deliver value when completed.
best total return of 6.4% within the Retail portfolio.
Office The Companys Shopping Centre investments lagged the market, The Company has a well located portfolio of Office investments however we were able to dispose of the Sovereign Centre, but performance has been restrained by its lack of exposure to the Weston-super-Mare, at a price ahead of valuation earlier in the dynamic markets of the City of London and the South East and by year.
At Shrewsbury, we expect to improve Net Operating Income the performance of its London West End portfolio.
In the West with the delivery of Primark in early 2017 and are analysing wider End, capital growth significantly lagged the benchmark 6.3% v strategic options for the asset.
14.7% due to a lack of realised rental growth to which to apply 14 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 15 We were pleased to deliver a new H&M store and experience centre in Northampton for 31.0 million and a balancing payment improved footfall at The Parade, Swindon, but rental values for of 36.1 million from existing cash resources to complete the other units remain under pressure.
We have an exposure to a large acquisition of Ventura Park.
The Company benefited from a net BHS store 1.1% of annual portfolio rent, our only BHS exposure positive investment and the transfer from a lower yielding which we have been monitoring closely following the sale of that investment to a higher yield increased income.
After the year end, in March 2016, BHS received majority In December, the Company acquired the Central Square Office creditor approval to a Company Voluntary Arrangement CVA building in Newcastle upon Tyne for 21.6 million, a price based which it had filed.
The CVA procedure allows a retailer the off a yield of 6.4%.
The 72,389 square feet grade A Office is multiflexibility, with creditor backing, to close and cancel lease let to a range of corporate tenants, producing a combined contracts on stores it deems unprofitable, or adjust the rent contracted rent of 1.5 million per annum and an average downwards.
BHS categorised its stores into three pots profitable, unexpired lease term of 8.8 years.
Located in central Newcastles rent reduction required and unprofitable.
They deemed 26%, or new Stephenson Quarter, opposite Newcastle Central railway 46 of their 177 stores, as unprofitable which included UKCPTs station, it has a BREEAM excellent rating for sustainability and is Swindon unit these leases are now expected to terminate early, expected to provide the Company with a strong, secure income after 10 months of paying a reduced rent.
We are in discussion return.
with a number of retailers to relet the space if that becomes necessary or prudent.
This will regrettably have a negative impact Also in December, the Company acquired off-market a Cineworld on valuation although, in the medium term, there are plans for a leisure scheme in Glasgow for 29.2 million.
Located in Glasgows new large-scale Office development opposite The Parade which, if city centre, the complex is anchored by an 18 screen multiplex delivered, would bring many shoppers, improving retail demand.
Cineworld cinema on a long-term lease, with further leisure accommodation across three units.
Purchased at an initial yield of In the Retail Warehouse sector, investment yields remained 5.1%, the asset currently generates annual rent of 1.7 million relatively static during the year, resulting in the Retail Warehouse with scope for further income growth through a range of asset portfolio producing a total return of 7.4%, on a par with the management initiatives, including re-letting the vacant basement benchmark.
leisure unit and reconfiguring the first floor leisure unit.
Other Commercial Leisure Overall, these assets display good fundamental property attributes The Companys Leisure investments The Rotunda, Kingstonand support our strategy to reposition the portfolio for sustainable upon-Thames and Regent Circus, Swindon suffered some and growing income.
stubborn vacancies amongst the food units which, together with the supermarket component at Swindon and an ex-growth rent on Sales the Odeon cinema, Kingston, inhibited capital growth.
In line with the strategy to sell assets expected to underperform in the short to medium term or where non-accretive capital The acquisition of the Cineworld cinema and leisure complex in expenditure had the potential to undermine future performance, Glasgow increased the Companys exposure to the sector during the Company sold five assets for 164 million, ahead of valuation.
the year but, with strong fundamentals underlying that purchase, combined with an attractive appraisal yield, this should prove At the start of the year, the Company completed the sale of the Pall accretive to the Companys income profile.
Mall Court Office building in Manchester for 19.5 million and The Sovereign Shopping Centre, Weston-super-Mare for 29.9 million.
Investment Activity Both sales allowed the Company to crystallise valuation uplifts from Purchases recent asset management activity and reduce exposure to both the regional Office and Retail sectors, in-line with strategy, while During the year the Company purchased assets worth achieving an overall sale price ahead of valuation.
During the summer, terms were agreed for the sale of 176-206 Over the summer months, Eldon House in the City of London was Kensington High Street, London and also 134-138 North Street, acquired for 27.5 million in an off-market acquisition, based on Brighton in two separate transactions for a total consideration of an initial yield of 4.6% and an equivalent yield of 5.5%.
The asset 82.7 million, marginally ahead of their aggregate valuation as at will benefit from the opening of the Elizabeth Line, as Crossrail 1 31 March 2015.
The sale of Kensington High Street completed on has been named, with the Liverpool Street station access just 4 September 2015.
In addition a logistics warehouse at Brackmills, 150m away.
Northampton, was sold for 31.0 million as part of the swap In addition, the 67.1 million acquisition of Ventura Park, Radlett transaction mentioned above.
Ventura Park is a multi-let industrial estate in Hertfordshire on the M25 to the north of London.
The transaction comprised a property swap the sale of an Asda distribution UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 15 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 16 Investment Manager Review continued Asset Management Activity At The Parade, Swindon, contracts were satisfied with H&M and a new fashion anchor store created for them at the north eastern During the year we continued our drive to strengthen the entrance to the centre.
H&M is now committed to The Parade on Companys income streams, extend lease lengths and add value to a new 15 year lease at a rent of 325,000 per annum.
A total of 4.6 million of annual income was generated after rent free periods and incentives through 47 new The introduction of H&M helps improve The Parades position leases, fixed rental increases and rent reviews representing a net within the towns retail hierarchy which is already resulting in increase of 1.2 million per annum.
The refinancing carried out encouraging discussions with other retailers interested in taking earlier in the year, 250 million at an effective fixed rate of 2.89% further space in the Centre.
for a further 6.9 years from the year end, has also boosted net income by lowering the cost of debt.
It was good to witness the majority of the 21 open market rent reviews within the portfolio that were agreed during the year generate uplifts.
Notable increases took place with Furniture Village at Junction 27, Leeds, Fitness First on Great Marlborough Street, London and at the ASDA distribution warehouse in Northampton.
In total, rent reviews helped to improve annualised income by over 734,000 per annum.
In addition, there were 19 instances of stepped or fixed increases in rent across the portfolio during the year at Dolphin Industrial Estate, Sunbury, The Parade, Swindon, The Charles Darwin and Pride Hill Centres in Shrewsbury and Emerald Park, Bristol all of H&M, The Parade, Swindon which helped to improve rents by over 514,000 per annum.
In May 2015, the Company announced leasing a 30,300 square Taking into account the lease expiry profile and recognising the feet net sales area store over two levels at the Charles Darwin strategic sales activity, it was pleasing to see the Companys Shopping Centre, Shrewsbury, to international fashion retailer, continuing low void position at 31 December 2015 of 2.8% of Primark.
Also during the year, new leases were completed with ERV, compared to 2.6% at the end of 2014.
Allowing for tenant Claires Accessories, Timezone Inc. Dorothy Perkins, Alan Turner, failures through administrations, the void rate increases to 2.9% Burger King and Hawkins Bazaar.
These lettings continue our 2014 3.1% : both figures comfortably below the IPD benchmark strategy of rebuilding income and footfall in the shopping centres.
The Company is pleased to report that on average 98% of rent was collected within 28 days of each quarterly payment date and a modest 0.7% of annual rent was written off as bad debt for the year.
CGI Image of The Charles Darwin Centre, Shrewsbury 16 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 17 Within the Retail Warehouse portfolio, lease contracts were In St Jamess, London, we successfully negotiated a lease surrender completed with Iceland, Mattressman and Maplin on St Georges of the ground and basement floors at Arlington Street and Retail Park, Leicester.
The ongoing external cladding works subsequent re-let the unit to the Skarstedt Gallery at a rent of continue to improve the property and the lettings achieved full 350,000 per annum, significantly ahead of the former rental occupancy: this generated over 368,000 of additional rent per income for the unit.
annum after lease incentives and added 2.9 million of value over the year.
Arlington Street, London W1 Within the Industrial sector, lettings at Newtons Court, Dartford to St Georges Retail Park, Leicester Worldstores and Stienhoff helped to amplify income, secure 100% On Junction 27, Retail Park, Leeds a new restaurant unit was occupation and drive value during the year.
created for Azzurri Restaurants Ltd trading as Zizzi, securing them on a new 20 year lease at an average rent of over 140,000 per annum after lease incentives.
Newtons Court, Dartford Junction 27, Retail Park, Leeds UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 17 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 18 Investment Manager Review continued During the year we renewed for a further 10 years the Companys In Bristol, a sub-lease was granted to Ovo Energy at No.
1 Rivergate lease with Adidas at Market Street, Manchester.
The agreement which may be helpful for the continued future occupation of this secures a rent of 550,000 per annum and builds on the tenants prime building.
new sponsorship arrangement with Manchester United football club.
This piece of asset management delivered capital growth of 17% 1.2 million.
1 Rivergate, Bristol Market Outlook Market Street, Manchester With robust UK economic fundamentals, despite the heightened global uncertainty, our projections are for a reasonably strong UK At Tunbridge Wells we agreed to release DSG PC World Currys economic environment in 2016 with consumer spending expected from one of their two retail park units.
Simultaneously we relet the to provide the majority of the impetus, alongside a further unit to two new occupiers, Oak Furniture Land and Harveys, on improvement in business investment.
This provides a solid base for new 10 year leases at a combined rent of over 500,000 per real estate occupier demand, the driver of rental growth.
Key risks annum after rent free periods.
This also allowed the unit to be to our outlook are the forthcoming EU Referendum and weak reconfigured with the installation of a mezzanine floor.
global growth, particularly among Emerging Markets.
Rising interest rates will be a risk at some stage in the future although yield curves suggest that potential interest rate rises have been pushed out further, a sentiment which is supported by recent comments from the Bank of England.
Total returns for UK real estate look to have peaked for this cycle and it is anticipated that more normalised returns are in prospect for the next few years.
Income is likely to be the main component of returns, as opposed to the strong capital growth we have seen in the recent past, and it is the improvement in levels of rental growth, along with the ability of managers to work their direct property portfolio, which will provide upside for many investors.
Despite heightened global uncertainty, projections for UK economic growth remain firm and provide a reasonable backdrop Great Lodge Retail Park, Tunbridge Wells for the domestic real estate outlook.
Relative to longer term government bonds, the yield gap of 280 bps remains significant by historical standards.
The sector remains attractive from a fundamental point of view, with firm economic drivers and a limited pipeline of future developments we expect positive total returns for investors on a three year hold period due to real estates stable income profile and improving income growth prospects.
18 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 19 Portfolio Strategy For new and existing investment, we aim to improve income yield and dividend cover and to maintain or extend the average lease The Company is generally well positioned to enter this phase in the length within the portfolio.
In certain cases, given the Companys property market of modest capital growth with a greater focus on current low vacancy rate, in strong and improving locations we income and income-generating asset management: it plays to its may accept a degree of letting risk to enhance income yield in the strengths of diversification, low vacancy rates, internal investment longer term.
opportunities and low cheap gearing.
We will seek to dispose of assets which we believe will not meet Although higher yields can be achieved in the secondary market, in income or performance expectations, whether due to poor many cases these yields reflect the inherent risks within that sector.
income growth expectations or increasing need for non-accretive We believe that the Companys investment objective to pursue a capital expenditure.
Currently, the Company has an investment sustainable and growing income stream with the potential for programme to improve assets within its portfolio, mostly through capital growth is best achieved by continuing its focus towards the refurbishment upgrades designed to increase the rental potential prime end of the property spectrum.
Having deployed the bulk of of these assets.
There is an important distinction between nonits cash during 2015, the Company has a modest surplus available accretive capital expenditure, required to stand still, and capital for fresh investment with the ability to draw on additional revolving expenditure for growth.
This ability to self-invest to upgrade assets credit should a particular opportunity present itself.
Our House is an important and rewarding facet of property investment.
view, together with the existing portfolio structure, support the case for selective acquisition of: With this move away from yield compression to a market where the fundamental attributes of property reassert themselves and 1.
Offices in Greater London and the South East, particularly if let income and income growth are likely to take prominence, we to multiple tenants where rental growth prospects continue to believe that the Company is well positioned to meet its objective be strong: of providing shareholders with an attractive level of income, 2.
Selective Retail High Street shops, but only in a limited number together with the potential for capital and income growth for of the UKs best shopping towns and cities where supply is investment in a diversified portfolio of UK commercial property.
limited and retailer demand strong, driven by a good local economy and strong demographics supporting consumption growth: and 3.
Income dominated sectors, which might include a right-sized, Will Fulton and, importantly, repriced supermarket with an element of index-linking in a location with limited competition and good Fund Manager demand from a vibrant local economy with strong Standard Life Investments demographics.
20 April 2016 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 19
