34 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 World class performance Maritime Underwater Warfare & Land Maritime Land Revenue Profit Order book 293.8m 1.1% 50.9m -1.2% 274.7m -14.1% In Maritime & Land there was an increase Margins at 17.3% 2014: 17.7% reected The order book declined as a result of the in revenue from US and international the release of some contract risk reserve in trading of major contracts, including the prior year comparative, and the product Fatahillah and UK sonobuoy partnering.
sonobuoys and from the Sonar 2050 programme for the UK MoD.
This was mix within the sonobuoy businesses.
There was also a delay into 2016 of some large orders, including the 2017 UK offset by the impact of funding delays sonobuoy partnering contract extension and on the Torpedo Warning System in the India torpedo defence.
US and by a reduction in rail power management revenue.
The acquisition of 3 Phoenix in the prior year contributed to divisional revenues, as did foreign exchange.
Features of the divisions 2 performance in the year that will underpin future performance included: Award of 18m contract, by RollsRoyce, for the design and development of reactor control and cooling systems for Royal Navy submarines.
A $25m contract award for the procurement of engineering services for development, integration, testing and logistic support of the Torpedo Warning System.
Partnering with Mahindra Group in India to address significant opportunities Underwater Warfare equipment for the Indian Navy and high-capacity radios for the Indian Army.
Strategy in action In February 2015, Ultras Sonar Systems business was awarded an 18m contract to supply sonobuoys for the Royal Navys Merlin maritime patrol helicopter.
The contract will be executed over the next two years with options for a further two years.
The contract, between Ultra and the MoD, for sonobuoy engineering, manufacture, logistics and support, ensures the Royal Navy maintains a persistent Anti-Submarine Warfare surveillance capability against For further information on Ultras hostile submarines.
strategies see pages 10 and 11 see footnote on page 136 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In June 2015, Ultras PMES business was awarded an 18m contract by Rolls-Royce Nuclear to design and develop the rod control and main coolant pump systems for the next generation nuclear reactor on the Vanguard replacement programme.
Production deliveries for an advanced degaussing system for the Royal Navy continued with a contract in March 2015, maintaining PMESs position as the UK designated design authority for sub-surface signature management.
6 Sarah Wright, Materials Control Buyer.
8 Lawrie Boardman, Operations Support Manager.
7 8 9 Norma Sheard, Supply Chain Manager.
12 Iain Robertshaw, Head of Programmes 910 11 12 6.
