A BUSINESS MODEL THAT CREATES VALUE UNILEVER BELIEVES PROFITABLE GROWTH We work with governments, NGOs and other stakeholders SHOULD ALSO BE RESPONSIBLE GROWTH.
to drive change thats good for That approach lies at the heart of our business model, driven by sustainable living and the society and good for business, Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP.
It guides our approach to how we do business and and we work with partners in how we meet the growing consumer demand for brands that act responsibly in a world of our supply chain, through our finite resources.
Our business model begins with consumer insight that informs brand Partner to Win programme, innovation, often with partners in our supply chain, to create products we take to market to create innovations in supported by marketing and advertising across a range of distribution channels.
69% of our innovations are associated with suppliersourced technology, such as from Sonoco which provides reusable packaging for our Country Crock brand in the US.
There will be 2.36 billion millennials 18 to 34 year-olds by 2025 with diverse and very different preferences and shopping habits to other age groups.
We not only need CONSUMER INSIGHT COLLABORATION insight into these trends, through focus groups and quantitative studies, but also the ability to predict them using the latest digital research HOW WE DRIVE SUSTAINABLE VALUE technologies in order to maintain Unilever aims for a virtuous circle of growth with the USLP at its heart.
It creates profitable volume growth driven by investment in innovation and brands to deliver products to 2 billion people every day.
Our scale means we can spread fixed costs and improve profitability.
SALES MARKETING We generate consumer-led growth through a marketing 1 - 2 spend of about 8 billion a year.
The additional spend on Unilever We use multiple platforms to products in an e-commerce shop achieve cut-through in a highly versus the equivalent basket in a fragmented media.
digital marketing is essential and influences shopping at all stages of the decision-making process and through all We work closely with retailers channels.
We partner with many to win in the market place, digital start-ups through our making sure our brands are Unilever Foundry programme always available and properly to bring the most cutting edge displayed, in all channels from marketing to Unilever brands.
We have achieved supplier of choice status for 12% of WE PARTNER markets and are in the top three WITH CUSTOMERS suppliers for 24% of markets.
TO PIONEER NEW PRODUCTS AND CONCEPTS 14 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1 billion spent on R&D per year.
WE EMPLOY MORE THAN 6,000 R&D Our R&D mission is to PROFESSIONALS build brands through benefit-led innovation AROUND THE unlocked by science and WORLD technology.
We spend about 1 billion a year on research and development, employ more 60% than 6,000 R&D experts and have of agricultural raw materials six key R&D sites.
specific R&D is complemented by a Strategic Science Group We have a 35 billion annual working on long-term science procurement programme breakthroughs.
Both are including agricultural raw supported by capabilities such materials, 60% of which are as regulatory, safety and sustainably sourced.
rolling out a Responsible Sourcing Policy and 170 Partner to Win suppliers met the self-assessed criteria in INNOVATION SOURCING 2015.
We reached the landmark of 100% certified and traceable palm oil sourced for our European and Australian food businesses in 2015.
This allows us to invest further, growing free cash flow and investing back into the business through innovation and marketing, to create even stronger brands.
This drives profitable volume growth and the virtuous circle continues.
LOGISTICS MANUFACTURING Unilever has the worlds No.
1 FMCG supply chain according to Gartner.
We operate almost Delivering products to our 300 factories and have invested customers is the role of heavily in efficiency and logistics.
Sales per our operations with a network factory have increased by 30% of global UltraLogistik control since 2009 while costs avoided towers to improve customer through eco-production have service, cut costs and reduce exceeded 600 million since CO emissions which have fallen 2008.
In 2015, the total 2 by around 21% across 14 non-hazardous waste sent to No.
We landfill was 196 tonnes, which increasingly use hybrid vehicles is 0.14% of the 2008 baseline FMCG supply chain and rail rather than road.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 15
