42 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability making a difference to In the community: Ultras businesses remain active in their local Ultras Nuclear Control Systems business communities, building positive links by sponsored the Dorset Enterprise and Skills engaging with local people and local issues.
Many businesses form special relationships This is a local schools programme where with education establishments in the small teams of students set up and run a surrounding communities providing interview business over the course of four months to practice sessions, supporting lessons, careers help develop essential skills in business and events and school science fairs, as well as entrepreneurship in a practical, fun and offering work placements and visits to innovative way.
businesses as part of AS level courses.
Ultra Sonar Systems is supporting a local Code Making a difference also takes part in the nationwide initiatives on Club, which is a charity that was set up to STEM education at a national level and establish a nationwide scheme to teach Ultra recognises that the offers Arkwright scholarships, a scholarship children between the ages of 9 and 11 success and sustainability of that sponsors students looking for a career in how to write software.
Each Code Club engineering through their A-level education.
the business is enhanced by runs weekly for one-hour during term time Ensuring a long-term supply of talent to the and teaches programming by having the positive relationships with business is essential and Ultra dedicates itself children write games and create stakeholders and continues to developing the talent pipeline in schools animations and websites.
This is to focus on value creation for During 2015, Ultra CIS launched a exemplied by the PALS business winning a CIS in the community policy enabling ALL its stakeholders: local regional Partnerships with Education Award employees to take time out to work in as part of the EEF Future Manufacturing communities, shareholders, the local community and providing Awards 2015.
Sonar Systems was a runner up matched sponsorship for events.
customers, employees, the in the same category.
Each business manages its own charitable budget, that it directs to environment and suppliers.
maintain and grow connections with local communities.
Fundraising and voluntary work in the local community or at a national level is For more about securing the something the Group is keen to encourage talent pipeline, see page 46 and actively supports employees who undertake voluntary activities.
Some noteworthy examples in 2015 include: STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shareholders: Employees: the Environment: Ultra aims to extend its long track record of Ultra believes that the right people are its Ultra is committed to implementing and delivering above-average shareholder most important asset: the capabilities of its enforcing effective measures to minimise the returns.
The Groups primary objective is to employees allow the Group to innovate environmental impact of its activities.
All outperform the market by delivering abovecontinually and meet customer need.
Ultra businesses are audited biennially.
In the US in average increases in total shareholder return has a strong commitment to developing 2015 ProLogic, 3Phoenix, 3eTI, ATS, Flightline and by communicating effectively, through people and securing the talent pipeline, and NSPI all achieved 100% in the audit.
various means, with shareholders and the details of which can be found in the section Additionally in the UK, CIS, ID, Sonar Systems, financial community.
The Group believes PMES, PALS and Controls all maintained the that, to ensure its continuing growth and ISO14001 environmental standard.
Customers: success, these initiatives for talent Ultra continues its commitment to investing in Ultra aims to be an excellent, strategic development and people retention are manufacturing facilities to offer increased supplier to its customers.
However, ultimate responsibility for efficiencies and reduce energy consumption, Ultras businesses are focused on helping individual talent development and employee while improving productivity across the customers identify their true needs whilst retention resides within each of Ultras Company.
The Group also looks for its developing long-term relationships, based on businesses, a number of which have launched suppliers to reduce their environmental impact.
performance excellence and meeting its unique initiatives to ensure continuing commitments.
Ultras businesses have built Initiatives that have taken place within the employee development and engagement.
long-term, mutually beneficial relationships Group include: Examples include: with their customers and have become part 3eTI continued its Go Green Campaign of the customers extended enterprises.
In 2015, 3eTI rolled out its Making 3eTI a encompassing two separate recycling Great Place to Work initiative aimed at Examples from 2015 that highlight Ultras programmes and the use of sensor lighting.
helping employees enjoy happy and commitments to its broad customer base are: Controls introduced an Environmental healthy lifestyles while maintaining a good USSIs joint venture, ERAPSCO, has been Newsletter.
balance between life and work.
Programmes recognised by the US Navy as a Tier 1 included exible summer work weeks, Maritime Systems switched to reusable Superior Supplier.
This honour is awarded quarterly social hours and project-swap packaging for many of its plastic parts to the top DoD suppliers in the nation who education projects.
and installed variable frequency air provide the greatest overall value to the handling units and an air compressor to Forensic Technology continues its efforts Department in terms of cost, schedule, reduce its carbon footprint.
towards maintaining its status as an performance, quality and business relations.
employer of choice in Canada and NCS updated its personal development Ultras Controls business was complimented benchmarked its employee engagement review process to include a Health, Safety when one of its major customers, MITAC, related practices against those of other and Environment section to encourage recommended that its senior management Employers of Choice.
team visit the Controls production site in engagement is a significant part of the TCS installed charging stations for Greenford to observe what MITAC businesses overall business plan and it is electric cars.
considered to be best practice following currently revisiting the performance Ocean Systems constructed an the maiden ight of the Mitsubishi Regional management process and tools,  transducer and Jet MRJ.
incorporating feedback from both encapsulation room.
In Australia, Ultras Avalon business received a written statement of recognition Ultra Electronics US was presented with from the Royal Australian naval vessel the Gold Wellness Award by the Business To read more about the HMAS Melbourne for its support in the Council of Faireld County, Connecticut environment, see pages 50 to 51 preparations for its deployment for that recognised Ultra as a leading operation MANITOU.
company in promoting a healthy workplace for its employees.
to Suppliers: Ultra views its suppliers as an extension of the Ultra enterprise as many businesses rely To read more about Ultras To read more about Ultras people, on these suppliers for delivery of their customers, see page 2 see pages 44 to 48 products and services.
These are safetyor performance-critical in their end markets so working together is crucial.
Partnership with suppliers and customers generates innovative and differentiated solutions which are at the core of Ultras business model.
Many Ultra businesses work with their suppliers to enable them to operate more efficiently.
This year Ultras Ocean Systems business mentored a new supplier of energetics on a shared contract to enable them to full their commitments to the contract and deliver the product in time.
