30 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 World class performance Aerospace Aerospace & Infrastructure Infrastructure Nuclear Revenue Profit Order book 193.2m -2.7% 28.7m -3.0% 265.4m 4.9% Excluding the impact of Oman, the The division saw an increase in Aerospace lower margins during the engineering phases divisional revenue increased by 3.4% sales, in particular on the Mitsubishi Regional of projects.
There were also restructuring costs Jet MRJ and the Joint Strike Fighter JSF at the CEMS business.
This was partially offset compared to 2014, as the prior year included 11.7m of sales from the Oman programmes, and in revenues from Airport by higher margins as vehicle programmes Systems including the Orange County contract enter the production phase.
The acquisitions Airport IT programme, whereas no in the US.
Revenue from vehicle programmes, of Ice Corporation in 2014 and Furnace Parts revenue was recognised in 2015. including the Warrior, Scout and Middle East in 2015, provided a positive contribution to NIMR also increased.
As well as the impact of both revenue and profits as did the impact of the Oman contract, revenue from the A400M foreign exchange.
The resulting divisional Network Interface Module NIM was lower margin was 14.9% 2014: 14.9%.
The change in the order book reects Following the securing of a number of new increased orders for aerospace products and orders to develop products for the aerospace services, offset by the trading of the Lockheed sector, the divisions margins have been Martin Warrior contract.
impacted by increased R&D investment and Features of the divisions 2 performance in the year that will underpin future performance included: Awarded development contracts by the Xian Aircraft Corporation of China for the landing gear control unit and nose steering wheel system on the new MA700 twin-engine, medium-range turboprop airliner.
A strategic partnership with NuScale to develop a suite of reactor and plant instrumentation and control systems to support deployment of their Small Modular Reactor SMR fleet worldwide.
Part payment for this contract includes an equity stake in NuScale.
Selection by the Cessna Aircraft Strategy in action Company to provide a Power Transfer In October 2015, Ultras Precision Air & Land Systems business was awarded the next three Control Unit for its new Hemisphere Low Rate Production phases for the engine harnesses for the F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
contract, worth in excess of 10m, marks the end of Low Rate Production, with the aircraft scheduled to move towards Full Rate Production by 2020.
Ultra also supplies missile cooling and pneumatic stores ejection to the F35 Lightning II programme which in totality is forecast For further information on Ultras to be worth in excess of 500m to Ultra through its life.
strategies see pages 10 and 11 see footnote on page 136 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Throughout 2015 Ultra NSPI accelerated its win of new contracts across a number of nuclear reactor new build programmes around the world.
The projects included the design, qualication and manufacture of multiple new temperature and pressure sensor designs for Generation III and SMR reactors.
The resulting expansion in Ultras portfolio of sensors and the opening of a new sales ofce in Beijing during the year, positions the business well for the next wave of new build opportunities in that region.
2 3 12 3 1 Chris Brown, Director of Industrial Sales & Marketing.
4 Xavier Menchaca, Welder Machine Operator.
5 8 Greg Michalik, Nuclear Production Specialist.
