OUR SHAREHOLDERS OUR STRATEGY FOR LONG-TERM our markets, and core operating margin addition, more than 70% of our innovations grew by an average of 0.26 percentage are margin accretive.
We have also VALUE CREATION COMBINES points per year.
Over the same period core significantly increased the application CLEAR PORTFOLIO CHOICES earnings per share grew by 7% per year on of new technologies with more than 45% WITH INNOVATION, MARKET average at current exchange rates and 10% of the value of our innovation portfolio DEVELOPMENT AND per year at constant exchange rates.
We based on new technologies compared OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY.
have delivered an average free cash flow of with 35% in 2013.
3.8 billion and dividends have increased This strategy is built on the foundation of Our brands benefit from award-winning an average of 8% per year over this period.
our Purpose to make sustainable living marketing with an ever greater emphasis More detail on our financial growth model commonplace brought to life through on digital marketing that dovetails with can be found on page 34. the USLP.
This way, we deliver to our the growth in our e-commerce sales which shareholders growth that is consistent, To improve returns we have four category are benefiting from our improving expertise competitive, profitable and responsible.
strategies with distinct but complementary in executing through online channels.
objectives, each fulfilling a specific role However, a sustainable business requires Our broader customer development across the portfolio.
Personal Care a sustainable world and consumers are programmes are targeting new channels now accounts for 38% of turnover our increasingly demanding that business plays such as drug stores for Personal Care largest category and is growing its core its part.
More of our brands are meeting and out-of-home for Refreshment, while developing its premium range that demand and delivering stronger and and our Perfect Store programme has through acquisition see facing page faster growth.
Our Sustainable Living reached almost 10 million executions for more details.
brands detailed on page 27 accounted for across stores and categories in 2015 half our growth in 2014 and grew at twice Home Care is improving profitability and from 6.9 million executions in 2013. the rate of Unilevers other brands.
scaling its household cleaning business Our growth model is enabled by a leaner, while Refreshment is tasked with growing During the year we continued to improve more talented and efficient organisation.
ice cream cash flows and accelerating returns to shareholders with dividends Project Half for Growth has delivered top line growth in tea.
Foods objective rising 6% and our share price ending the around 500 million of annualised cost is to accelerate growth and sustain strong year up 23% for our NV shares and 11% savings and Unilever continues to benefit profitability and cash flows.
from savings of more than 1 billion per Innovation is key to driving growth and year in supply chain.
Over the longer term our approach margins.
Research and development is continues to deliver consistent results.
embedded in each category with a focused Between 2011 and 2015 underlying sales pipeline of innovations.
We are executing grew 4.9% per year, which was ahead of larger projects and since 2013 the average project size has increased by 25%.
In EMERGING MARKETS In 2015 emerging markets demonstrated A key element of our success is managing some recovery, with our underlying through volatility and a key reason is the 58% sales up 7% compared with 6% in 2014. development of our local management Turnover from emerging markets However, this is still below the 9% expertise.
Of our top 20 markets, 12 are average since 2011 and recent years have emerging markets and in those 12 markets 12% 11% highlighted the volatility of these markets.
more than 80% of the management is local.
Local understanding ensures the right 9% However, we firmly believe these decisions are taken for local customers 7% countries will deliver the best long-term 6% and consumers, which helps deliver our growth prospects as populations and per global strategy.
Emerging markets now account for 58% of Unilever turnover, up from 57% in 2014.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Our average emerging markets growth over the period was 9%.
32 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DEVELOPMENTS IN 2015 announced the acquisition of Kate market and has 60 stores in Italy and Somerville Skincare, a niche dermaaround the world.
It also shares Unilevers In previous years Unilever identified cosmetic business with a celebrity commitment to sustainable sourcing of premiumising its portfolio as a key driver following in Hollywood, which has made raw materials.
In Foods, we created of growth.
In 2015 we took further decisive inroads from the US into the fast-growing Baking, Cooking and Spreads to increase action to execute on that priority with the Asian beauty market.
agility and accelerate growth in Europe acquisition of several brands, most and North America.
All four are strong, differentiated brands notably in Personal Care.
in a large and growing market for prestige In line with our focus on Personal Care, We acquired four premium skin care skin care products, which remains highly Unilever was reclassified from Foods to businesses to create a Prestige business fragmented.
The brands will be run as part Personal Products by the Global Industry within Personal Care with annual turnover of the Prestige business within Personal Classification Standard GICS panel.
These deals are Care, to preserve the unique prestige followed similar reclassifications in 2014 accretive to growth, margins and earnings expertise, with dedicated marketing and applying to the FTSE and Stoxx indices.
However, the During 2015 we continued our bond brands will be able to leverage our The largest acquisition, announced in issuance programme to raise competitively consumer insight and research and June 2015, is Dermalogica.
With a strong priced debt capital through both the development resources.
international footprint, it is the number European and US capital markets.
In one salon skin care brand globally, rooted The acquisition of the Prestige skin care January 2015 we announced the pricing of in skin health treatments.
Murad, brands is a good example of how Unilever a 750 million bond at 0.5% due February announced in July, is the first modern uses merger and acquisition activity to help 2022.
In May we issued 1.25 billion in two doctor brand with a mission to provide reshape our portfolios towards more tranches due June 2018 and June 2023, proven, efficacious products.
Founded in attractive segments where we can most while in July we priced a dual tranche 1989 by Howard Murad, a dermatologist, effectively apply our global scale and local US$1 billion bond split equally between pharmacist and UCLA professor, it has a strengths.
We remain alert to opportunities a 2.1% fixed rate note due July 2020 and product range to address a wide variety that will progress our strategic priorities a 3.1% note due July 2025. of skin care concerns.
while always observing robust financial We also took the opportunity in 2015 disciplines in assessing these options.
Earlier, in March 2015, Unilever also to increase our equity stake in Unilever Elsewhere, we acquired Grom to announced the acquisition of REN, which Nigeria from 50.0% to 58.5%.
strengthen our ice cream portfolio in our pioneered a distinctive high-performance Refreshment category.
Grom enjoys a skin care product range now sold in strong position in the premium gelato around 50 countries through speciality stores and pharmacies.
In May we We have created a new Prestige business within Personal Care, through the acquisition of four brands, to execute the categorys strategic priority of building its premium product range.
WE ARE BUILDING A PRESTIGE BUSINESS A PREMIUM PORTFOLIO THROUGH THE BRANDS WE ACQUIRED WERE ACQUISITION DERMALOGICA, KATE SOMERVILLE, MURAD AND REN.
400 million The brands are a new growth platform and have combined turnover of approaching 400 million.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 33 OUR SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED OUR FINANCIAL GROWTH MODEL We continued to deliver shareholder value in 2015 helped by an improvement in our markets and by applying all levers of value creation.
VALUE DRIVERS UNDERLYING SALES GROWTH CORE OPERATING MARGIN CAPITAL EFFICIENCY Underlying sales grew 4.1% driven by a 2.1% Our core operating margin increased Working capital and fixed asset efficiency increase in underlying volume and a 1.9% 0.3 percentage points, largely driven by both improved further during the year.
This was ahead of our markets improvements in efficiency which saw cost Working capital as a percentage of sales is which grew at around 3%.
An improvement savings of more than 1 billion in supply negative which means that growth in the in emerging markets offset continued chain in 2015.
Brand and marketing business is intrinsically cash generative.
weakness in Europe which continued to investment has increased by more than The ratio of fixed assets to sales reduced suffer price deflation.
compared with the previous year as the business grew.
FINANCIAL RETURNS EARNINGS PER SHARE FREE CASH FLOW RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL As a result of our operations our core Free cash flow was 4.8 billion compared Return on invested capital increased as a earnings per share rose to 1.82, an with 3.1 billion in 2014.
Our cash result of improved core operating margin increase of 14%.
This result reflected a performance was underpinned by our and greater capital efficiency.
This was currency translation effect of 3%.
At continued focus on capital discipline.
Our net despite an increase in goodwill as a result constant exchange rates EPS grew 11%.
capital expenditure of 2.1 billion, or 3.9% of of acquisitions and currency movements.
turnover, reflects the investment in capacity to support our growing business and was consistent with 2014.
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS DIVIDENDS SHARE PRICE In April Unilever announced an increase in the quarterly Our NV share price closed 23% higher than the prior year dividend to 0.3020 giving a total payout during 2015 of 1.19 while PLC shares closed 11% higher.
Over the period per share.
Dividends increased by 6% in 2015 and have 2011-2015 our NV share price has grown 70% while our increased by an average of 8% per year in the last five years.
PLC share price has grown 48%.
Total shareholder return, which includes both share price and dividend increases, was 16% in 2015 and 108% over the last five years.
