08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Business model The value Ultra creates through its business model Portfolio Focus on strength customer enables it in achieving its primary objective: need To outperform the market in terms of annual value created increases in shareholder return.
profit profit reinvested reinvested World class performance Ultra faces the market Ultra constantly innovate with portfolio strength to meet customer need Eight distinct and wide-ranging Focus on tiers 2-4.
Ultra invests 5% of revenue into R&D to market segments.
develop new offerings and its customers Ultra has no strategic aim to be a tier 1, invest a further 15%.
Market segments are the natural evolution top-level platform provider.
The Group is, of Ultras business model, supporting a shift therefore, non-threatening to the tier 1 Ultra has consistently invested 5% or more of from individual products to allow more prime contractors such as BAE Systems or its revenue in innovation, new products and complex offerings.
This approach establishes Boeing and counts them amongst its key business development.
In addition, over 15% a framework that aligns resources to greater customers.
They can rely on Ultra to provide of Group revenue is customer-funded product effect across each market-facing segment.
the specialist capabilities at which the Group development.
In total over 20% of revenue This in turn supports the development of is expert.
Ultra concentrates on tiers 2, 3 spend is focused on augmenting the portfolio coherent strategies against particular end and 4, rather than aiming to be a tier 1 of capabilities and programme positions markets, based upon collective market platform provider.
The Ultras specialist capabilities are mainly at Funded by: market segment approach provides the tiers 3 and 4, supplying equipment and Group 25% Group with improved analysis at an components to support tier 1 and 2 appropriate level of fidelity.
This allows Ultra Customer 75% systems and programmes.
The Group does to better manage and prioritise the Groups undertake tier 2 system integration, but investments, including R&D alignment and does this mainly when integrating its own acquisition strategy.
Ultra, therefore, Acquisition and divestment to position understands the tier 3 detailed interfaces in growth markets.
and so is able to manage the risk inherent in system integration activities.
Ultra invest in targeted acquisitions to Where the Group has a number further strengthen its portfolio and will of complementary capabilities, it dispose of capabilities that no longer t. can also combine these to offer Ultra invests to develop and apply its domain expertise, capabilities and technical more comprehensive solutions.
synergies in common end markets.
In other words, Ultras products, Ultras deep understanding of the users Tier 1 capabilities and the associated domain, its enduring customer relationships and its outward-facing nature, domain expertise uniquely Tier 2 inform the Groups investment decisions.
position the Group to be able to Tier 3 Innovative solutions focused on meet more complex sub-system customer need.
Ultra creates value by generating innovative solutions from across its portfolio and by Tier 1.
Equipment supplier becoming a key partner in its customers Responsible for being the prime contractor Ultra has a large presence at this level of the design process.
of the platform in question, examples being supply chain, supplying equipment such as Ultra businesses innovate constantly to a naval or a terminal at an airport.
data links, cryptographic equipment and create solutions often through highly large electrical transformers.
Sub-system integrator specialised disruptive technological Responsible for integrating equipment or Tier 4.
Component supplier innovation to customer requirements components that will make up a functional Ultra also provides a broad range of smaller which are different from, and better than, element of the platform.
Examples of components for many programmes those of the Groups competitors.
system integration Ultra has completed worldwide, including sensors for measuring include integrated sonar systems and wing the performance of a nuclear reactor and ice protection systems.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We achieve world class performance BOARD RESPONSIBLE FOR: Form external partnerships to develop Agility through a devolved organisation.
LEADERSHIP doing the right thing the best solution for customers.
A key differentiator for Ultra is the agility GROWTH IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE REVIEWING GROUP STRATEGY Ultra has an established ability to partner and businesses in the Group exhibit in their RISK MANAGEMENT team internally and externally in order to dealings with customers.
STANDARDS OF ETHICS offer the best-of-breed technologies which AND BEHAVIOURS The Board provides effective leadership best meets customers requirements.
The and direction in delivering the key corporate Group is agnostic as to the source of EXEC TEAM objective of reliable and consistent growth technology which is required to deliver in shareholder value.
At the operational RESPONSIBLE FOR: solutions.
Where proven technology that level, the Executive Team has responsibility MANAGEMENT doing things right meets customers requirements exists outside DEVELOPING GROUP STRATEGY for running the Group and for delivery the Group, Ultra is happy to form external FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE of strategy, financial performance and TEAM DEVELOPMENT teaming partnerships to access it.
these teaming arrangements as a source of 24 Ultras individual businesses have a high competitive advantage, allowing it to deliver AUTONOMOUS degree of operational autonomy, so that differentiated solutions which meet customer BUSINESSES they provide the exceptionally agile and needs efficiently.
By working together, the responsive support to customers and team members are able to win opportunities RESPONSIBLE FOR: partners, normally associated with a smaller which would not be possible in isolation.
MANAGING THE INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS business.
These benefits of customer focus DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING Ultra is continually evolving its approach COMPETITIVE STRATEGIES and agility are augmented by the access to WINNING AND EXECUTING BUSINESS in response to: wider and complementary technologies and DEVELOPING PEOPLE changing customer demands WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP expertise that lie elsewhere in the Group anticipating the direction of travel of collaborative autonomy or with partners the markets and by Ultras strong financial position.
the Group striving to be the first to Ultra is an excellent and strategic Operational efficiency through engaged bring new solutions to market supplier to its customers.
To enable competent people with domain expertise.
In its specialist capability areas, Ultras this Ultras businesses are focused on understanding of the: Ultra believes that the right people, who helping customers identify their true embrace and sustain Ultras culture and customers domains needs whilst developing long-term who have the domain expertise, are its demanding operational environments relationships.
most important asset in successfully projected capability gaps which Ultras LAUNCH is a behaviour which the enabling the Group to deliver value to customers would like addressed Group has developed to facilitate customer its stakeholders.
This is a key differentiator for the Group.
In engagement and relationship building.
short, Ultras understanding of the customers LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to need allows it to get to the heart of the generate long-term customer relationships customers requirements and develop effective that leads to a better pipeline of and innovative solutions.
opportunities and ultimately, enables growth.
This approach ensures Ultra understands the real needs of its customers and encourages a long-term strategic Customer problem relationship where Ultras businesses statement become part of the customers extended Ultras business model is underpinned by: enterprises, to mutual benefit.
Page 42 Ultras people and culture.
Page 44 Ultras 3rd party solution technology Risk management.
