OUR CONSUMERS PERSONAL CARE Growing core brands was achieved through The category created a new Prestige innovations, geographical expansion of our business and in 2015 it acquired four PERSONAL CARE IS HOME TO global brands, and marketing campaigns.
businesses Dermalogica, Murad, Kate SOME OF UNILEVERS LARGEST In deodorants we launched Dry Spray Somerville and REN.
Their brands are products across our brands in North present in the high-growth premium AND BEST KNOWN BRANDS America.
In oral care we introduced skin care segment of the market.
INCLUDING DOVE, AXE, LUX, Zendium a premium toothpaste that Outside Prestige, we are taking steps REXONA AND SUNSILK, ALL OF boosts the mouths natural defences in to strengthen the performance of our WHICH ARE 1 BILLION BRANDS.
France and Italy, extending availability to core skin care brands further.
In hair we rolled out Dove It is Unilevers largest category with launched the Dove DermaSpa range in Advanced Hair Series globally, and turnover of 20.1 billion accounting for Europe, bringing spa experience and launched the TRESemm Perfectly 38% of Group turnover and it represents dermatological care together.
Personal Vaseline has also been the subject of a Cares strategic role is to deliver Our brands are supported by marketing major initiative through a partnership with competitive growth through our core initiatives that address the increasingly Direct Relief.
The Vaseline Healing Project brands and a newly created Prestige complex media channels that consumers embeds the USLP further into our brand business, enabled by enhanced use, with increased focus on digital.
activities and provides the medical profitability to fund further investment.
All Things Hair, an online video channel supplies and local health worker training that creates content in partnership with The category made strong progress to support people working in crisis and vloggers, is now live in nine markets towards these strategic goals in 2015.
and has had more than 125 million views focus on innovation and strong marketing since its launch in 2013.
We also have In addition to Vaseline, the category has communications drove core brands a partnership with Vice, the youth media several other Sustainable Living brands, growth, while the Prestige business company, through which several Unilever such as Dove, Lifebuoy and Signal, which has expanded through acquisitions and brands support the new womens meet consumers demand for responsible organic reach.
These priorities contributed channel Broadly.
business and enjoy stronger, sustainable to a 4.1% underlying sales growth for growth.
The Dove Self-Esteem Project has the category.
reached more than 19 million young people in 115 countries, encouraging women to develop a positive relationship with the way they look, and to make beauty a source of confidence rather than anxiety.
A major innovation in 2015 was the launch of Dry Spray deodorants across Dove, Degree Rexona globally and Axe.
Reinventing the benefits of the spray format, the innovation delivered on a true consumer need deodorant that goes on cleaner and drier.
IMPROVED CONSUMER EXPERIENCE TRANSFORMED BY THE SPRAY FORMAT.
Market shares of Unilever INTRODUCING DRY SPRAY deodorants are growing in both DEODORANTS IN NORTH AMERICA CONTINUED the US and Canada.
INNOVATIONS HELP DRIVE GROWTH IN CORE BRANDS 20 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 KNORR 100% NATURAL KNORR 100% NATURAL MEALMAKERS MEALMAKERS HAS A CLEAN LABEL WITH NATURAL INGREDIENTS THE LAUNCH IN GERMANY WAS FOLLOWED BY ROLL-OUTS ACROSS In July 2015 Knorr launched 100% natural OTHER COUNTRIES IN EUROPE.
Mealmakers in the biggest European market, Germany.
This innovation was in response to changing consumer preferences and growing demand for more authentic, fresh, natural and sustainably sourced foods.
Now consumers concerned with natural ingredients can cook their favourite dishes such as spaghetti bolognese more easily 1 million and faster, using Knorr Mealmakers.
Knorr Mealmakers grew well ahead of the market in Germany in 2015 and attracted 1 million new households to the brand.
FOODS Despite some market volatility, emerging market for margarine continued to suffer, markets delivered solid growth of 6.5%, influenced by an ongoing decline in the use FOODS IS A 12.9 BILLION driven by Latin America, India and South of spreads, compounded by a reduction CATEGORY ACCOUNTING FOR 24% East Asia.
Emerging markets now account in butter prices.
In order to respond to this for more than 40% of our sales, up from fast-changing market landscape, we have OF UNILEVERS TURNOVER AND 33% in 2012, fuelled by double-digit growth created the Baking, Cooking and Spreads 31% OF OPERATING PROFIT.
in 2015 in some of our local brands, such business aimed at accelerating the Our portfolio consists of Knorr, Hellmanns as Maizena in Brazil, Fruco in Colombia, turnaround of the business in Europe and Rama, our 1 billion brands, and other Kissan in India, Bango in Indonesia and and North America.
well-known global brands such as Becel Ladys Choice in the Philippines.
Feeding the world sustainably is a major and Maille.
Although markets in Europe and North challenge.
That is why sustainability The categorys strategic role is to America remain challenging overall, remains at the heart of our Foods business.
accelerate growth while maintaining savoury, Foods largest sub-category, Our main Sustainable Living brands strong profitability and cash flow.
In 2015, performed strongly, returning to growth Knorr, Hellmanns and Becel Flora focus has been on three priorities: to in Europe and continuing to grow sales combine a clear sustainable living accelerate growth in emerging markets: and market share in North America.
purpose with a long-term global growth to reignite growth in Europe and North opportunity through improving nutrition, Dressings has also experienced broadAmerica: and to adapt the portfolio to food safety and an ever more efficient based growth in Europe and gained address emerging consumer trends.
market share in the competitive US The strategy successfully delivered a return market.
We benefited from the launch In 2015, Hellmanns successfully to positive underlying sales growth of of new products including Hellmanns introduced an improved squeeze bottle 1.5% in 2015, with strong performances in with olive oil and Knorr 100% natural with new Easy Out technology, which savoury and dressings offsetting a further Mealmakers, responding to changing significantly reduces food waste, while decline in spreads.
We also saw continued consumer preferences and growing Knorr launched the Knorr Animal Welfare strong growth by the global Food Solutions demand for more authentic, fresh, programme designed to improve standards business, which services professional natural and sustainably sourced foods.
More than hotel, restaurant and catering customers.
90% of the vegetables most frequently The spreads business experienced another used in Knorr products are sustainably difficult year.
In mlange mix of margarine sourced, already putting us on target to and butter, we saw strong growth ahead reach 100% by 2020. of the market once more.
However, the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 21 OUR CONSUMERS CONTINUED OUR SUNLIGHT SUNLIGHT HELPING WOMEN WATER CENTRES TO COLLECT CLEAN WATER ARE IMPROVING ACCESS TO CLEAN WATER HOME CARE BRANDS ARE GROWING AHEAD OF TARGET AND AHEAD OF MARKETS.
4 0 b i ll io n Sunlight partnered with NextDrop to launch a branded text service in Mysore, working hours are lost each India, alerting women to when water will be year to water collection in available, saving time for earning a living Sub-Saharan Africa.
HOME CARE Firstly, developing innovations to reinforce The success of our brands is boosted by the core attributes that address consumer their role in delivering the USLP.
Through HOME CARE IS HOME TO POPULAR needs at a time of rapidly growing a partnership with UNICEF, for instance, BRANDS, SUCH AS OMO AND SURF, urbanisation and rising employment of Omo will help to provide 10 million women.
Omo had a global re-launch with disadvantaged children with access to OUR 1 BILLION BRANDS, AS an upgraded formulation delivering on quality education.
In Brazil, the category WELL AS SUNLIGHT, DOMESTOS, the brand promise of faster stain removal.
led a successful education programme COMFORT AND OUR WATER Sunlights proposition of five times faster to save water in laundry use during one PURIFICATION BRAND PUREIT.
degreasing was the catalyst for another of the countrys worst water shortages, year of consistent and profitable growth.
saving a potential 229 billion litres a year Home Care had a turnover of 10.2 billion see page 26. in 2015, accounting for 19% of Unilevers Secondly, anticipating future trends turnover and 10% of operating profit.
We saw Our Domestos brand continued its efforts The category generates more than 80% good success in the Omo range of pre to address the sanitation challenge.
of its sales in emerging markets and its and post-wash fabric cleaning additives It committed to finding ways to provide strategic role is to grow competitively and ancillaries launched in Brazil 25 million people with improved access and step up profitability, while scaling towards the end of 2014.
We also launched to toilets.
Comfort Intense in 2015, a superAlthough the category enjoyed considerable concentrated fabric conditioner where In 2015, consistent with its strategic success in 2015, we remain alert to the smaller doses result in improved role, the category delivered underlying future challenges on account of rapidly freshness.
The consumer reception sales growth of 5.9% and expanded its changing consumer habits and behaviours.
Continuing to deliver consumer-relevant Thirdly, an end-to-end management innovation and maintaining the sharp focus This performance was achieved as a of profitability.
This included a sharp on our cost and simplification agenda will result of sharp focus on three areas.
focus on driving internal efficiencies, be key to the category delivering on its dramatic simplification and trading up strategic role in 2016 and beyond.
consumers through premium offerings delivering better consumer value.
22 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REFRESHMENT Innovations included Magnum Pink & Black agreement at the Paris COP21 conference and the Ben & Jerrys Cookie Core range.
REFRESHMENT IS OUR BEVERAGE September 2015 we acquired Grom, a gelato Beverages had a more challenging AND ICE CREAM CATEGORY WHICH business with 60 stores in Italy and around year, witnessing modest growth in highly the world, strengthening our portfolio.
HAD A TURNOVER OF 10.1 BILLION competitive markets with South Asia IN 2015.
Our success came within the context as a bright spot, in particular India of considerable consolidation among and Pakistan.
Our largest brands are Magnum and rivals and the growth of local competition.
Heartbrand Walls and Lipton tea, all The second half of 2015 saw a number of But our strong portfolio of brands and of which are 1 billion brands.
premium innovations coming to market.
execution in markets helped us to secure These included the expansion of our T2 The category accounts for 19% of Group our position and grow competitively.
stores, the launch of tea capsules in turnover and 11% of operating profit and The year also saw campaigns around Europe and the launch in France of T. O. by its strategic role is to enhance the Groups sugar-related health issues and we are Lipton, our bespoke in-home tea machine.
profitable growth momentum through responding responsibly: 100% of our Another highlight was the launch of the sustained growth in ice cream and growing childrens brands have fewer than 110 Lipton Speciality Black range and Lipton faster in tea, while stepping up cash flows calories while, by the end of 2015, 90% of Green Tea.
and return on invested capital.
our packaged ice cream products did not Lipton continues its journey as a During 2015 the category was focused on exceed 250 calories per portion.
We are Sustainable Living brand and after eight growing its core with margin-enhancing also reducing sugar in our ready-to-drink years it has reached the milestone of all innovations and best-in-class retail tea, consistent with our USLP commitment the tea for its teabags being sourced from execution, both through customers stores to help people to achieve a healthier diet.
Rainforest Alliance certified estates at and through Unilevers own retail channels, The category strengthened its place in the the end of 2015. to deliver the ultimate brand experience.
premium end of the ice cream business Our retail operations across both ice cream This focus meant Refreshment grew through brands such as Talenti that offer and tea were strengthened by the formation underlying sales by 5.4% with a positive pure, real and authentic products, with of a global Unilever retail organisation performance across key geographies.
Early to improve our 1,100 stores from T2 to results for Talenti have been promising.
Ice cream delivered very strong growth, Ben & Jerrys Scoop shops.
Through our Meanwhile, established brands such as increasing its presence in a growing and retail customers we also continued with Ben & Jerrys continued to deliver strong dynamic sector and helped by successful our famous Aisles and Corners of Joy business performance while leading the innovations behind premium brands in in-store executions.
The brand Europe and North America.
Performance launched Save Our Swirled a global was also helped by good summer weather campaign attracting 300,000 followers in Europe.
to help win a strong climate change In 2015, Walls created 3 0% employment in South and South East Asia, which are our In 2015, the I Am Walls programme in India biggest markets for mobile grew 30%, generating turnover of 18 million vendors.
We also have I Am and contributing 20% to the Indian ice cream Walls micro-entrepreneurs business.
At any time during the year there were THE in Europe.
more than 4,000 self-employed vendors making their living through selling Walls ice cream I AM WALLS across major Indian cities.
PROGRAMME CREATES JOBS SELLING I AM WALLS OUR ICE CREAM AND PROVIDES TRAINING FOR MICROENTREPRENEURS The I Am Walls programme invests in building skills such as sales, customer service and problem solving.
Priorities include recruiting unskilled people who may be traditionally excluded from the workplace and providing young people with work experience as they step into the job market.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 23
