32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 World class performance Communications Communications & Security C2ISR Revenue Profit Order book 239.3m 6.6% 40.4m 9.2% 213.7m -0.4% Communications & Security saw the There were higher margins as the ECU RP The order book reected the trading of the benefit of the acquisition of Herley in programme completes its production phases ECU RP Crypto contract and the reduction and Herley improved the mix.
This more than in US contract placement over the last 2015, together with the prior year acquisition of Forensic Technology.
offset the impact of both the loss of high 12 months.
margin revenue and associated restructuring Against this, the division was impacted costs in the SoTech business and took by the repeal of the US Patriot Act which divisional margin to 16.9%.
signicantly reduced domestic legal intercept revenues in the SoTech business.
This was partially offset by an increase in revenue from security and surveillance products and from the ECU RP programme and a positive impact from foreign exchange.
Features of the divisions 2 performance in the year that will underpin future performance included: Orders worth over $30m for the protection of US Navy bases in the Washington, Southwest and Hawaii regions.
Award of a contract for Phase 1 of the US Reprogrammable Single Chip Universal Encryptor RESCUE KOV-21A replacement programmes.
This is the development phase of a long-awaited and much larger US softwareprogrammable crypto opportunity.
Selection by Inmarsat as a technology partner to develop micro satellite terminals for both government and commercial customers.
Strategy in action In November 2015, Ultras CIS business was awarded an initial contract to upgrade the radios on the RAFs Typhoon aircraft, with further orders to follow in 2016 and beyond.
Over the life of the programme this could be worth in excess of 20m.
For further information on Ultras strategies see pages 10 and 11 see footnote on page 136 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ultras Communication & Integrated Systems business has entered its production phase on the UK MOD End Cryptographic Replacement Programme ECU RP with many devices now successfully integrated and installed on a variety of naval platforms and land systems.
In 2015, Ultra received a significant contract amendment to make modications in order to meet future air platform requirements.
In 2016, Ultra is working with the Authority to put in place a sizeable five-year support contract for the programme alongside several development upgrades to provide the customer with continued interoperability with its allies as communications and security standards evolve.
2 12 3 1 Graham Housby, Contractor Logistics Support Manager.
2 Nicky Tabram, Business Unit Director, IA.
4 3 Marlon Brown, Principal Systems Engineer.
6 Rawindar Chana, Senior Software Engineer.
5 7 James Lovell, Business Unit Director, AEP and EWST.
