52 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Board of Directors Douglas Caster1 Rakesh Sharma 2 Mary Waldner 3 Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: 27 years 2 months 4 years 8 months 26 years 2 months 4 years 8 months 2 years 6 months 2 years 6 months Mark Anderson 4 Sir Robert Walmsley 5 Martin Broadhurst 6 Group Marketing Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time in position: Time in position: 4 years 7 months 3 years 8 months 6 years 11 months 3 years 5 months John Hirst 7 Sharon Harris 8 Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: 1 year 4 years 1 month 3 years 8 months Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member Nomination Committee member NOTE: All details correct as at 31 December 2015 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1.
Douglas Caster CBE BSc MIET 2.
Rakesh Sharma BSc MBA MInstP FRAeS CPhys 3.
Mary Waldner MA FCA Douglas is a highly experienced engineer and Rakesh has managed businesses and divisions Mary has a broad range of experience in a manager of electronics businesses.
He has a long across the full range of Ultras wide portfolio, variety of sectors and an excellent track record track record of driving growth through effective with consistent success in driving growth in the of delivery throughout a number of senior acquisition and superior financial performance in Group.
Combining business and technical financial roles with major public limited companies.
insight, he ensures Ultra businesses maintain a After graduating from Oxford University with competitive advantage in the Groups specialist Douglas started his career as an electronics an MA in Physics, Mary started her career at market sectors.
design engineer with the Racal Electronics Group Coopers & Lybrand Management Consultancy in 1975, before moving to Schlumberger in 1986 Rakesh started his career as an electronic Services, before working for Vauxhall Motors Ltd. and then to Dowty as Engineering Director of design engineer at Marconi in 1983, before From 1998 to 2008, she held a number of senior Sonar & Communication Systems in 1988.
In moving to Dowty as Chief Engineer of roles at British Airways plc, including Financial 1992, he became Managing Director of that Sonar & Communication Systems in 1989.
Controller Commercial and Manager, Corporate business and, after participating in the He was appointed Marketing Director of that Planning and Reporting.
Following this, she management buy-out which formed Ultra business in 1993, when Ultra Electronics was moved to 3i Group plc, where she was Group Electronics, joined the Board in October 1993.
From 1997 to 1999, he worked in the Financial Controller.
In 2011, Mary joined QinetiQ April 2000, he was promoted to the position of US as Ultras Operations Director, North Group plc as Director, Group Finance.
She joined Managing Director of Ultras Information America.
After returning to the UK, he was Ultra as Group Finance Director and was & Power Systems division.
In April 2004, he was Managing Director of PMES and then of Sonar appointed to the Board in July 2013.
In February appointed Chief Operating officer and became & Communication Systems, before taking his 2016, Mary was appointed a Non-Executive Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed first divisional role in 2005 as Managing Director of Oxford Instruments plc.
deputy Chairman in April 2010 and became Director, Tactical & Sonar Systems.
In 2008, he Chairman of Ultra in April 2011. moved to run the Groups Information & Power Systems division, before being appointed Chief Douglas is a Non-Executive Director of Morgan Operating officer in January 2010.
He was Advanced Materials plc and was appointed appointed to the Board in April 2010 and Chairman of Metalysis Limited in January 2015. became Chief Executive in April 2011.
Sir Robert Walmsley KCB, FREng 6.
Martin Broadhurst OBE MA C. Dir FIoD FRAeS Mark brings a broad customer perspective, Sir Robert brings to Ultras Board solid experience Martin has a wealth of valuable experience in operational experience from recent conicts and in the defence, security, energy and transport the defence and aerospace markets, having run collaboration with close allies.
He has a deep knowledge of all of Ultras a large engineering organisation within the Ultras strategic process benets from this broad main geographic markets and a substantial sector for fifteen years.
He has demonstrable understanding of the customer need.
expertise and skill in growing international business and in expanding capabilities.
Mark Anderson joined the Royal Navy in 1974 as Sir Robert was Chief of Defence Procurement at a weapon system engineer, before switching the UK Ministry of Defence MoD, a post which Martin joined Marshall Aerospace as a career path to achieve both nuclear submarine he held from 1996 until his retirement from public management trainee in 1975 and, following a and ship command.
His MoD staff appointments service in 2003.
Prior to his MoD appointment, number of roles with the company, including include policy roles in two Strategic Defence Sir Robert had a distinguished career in the Royal Production Director and Director of Reviews and equipment customer responsibility Navy, where he rose to the rank of Vice Admiral in Programmes, was appointed as Chief Executive for all underwater programmes.
He has worked 1994 and served for two years as Controller of in February 1996.
During his time as Chief closely with the US throughout his career, the Navy.
Sir Robert is a Non-Executive Director of Executive, he served on the Group Holdings including sensitive roles within the US Joint Staff.
He was appointed to the Board in Board and was Chairman of a number of Promoted to Rear Admiral, he commanded all January 2009. subsidiary companies.
Martin is a Non-Executive Fleet Operations and headed the UK submarine Director of Beagle Technology Group and Centre service up to the end of his 36 years service in for Engineering Excellence: and a trustee of the June 2011.
He then joined Ultra in a divisional Royal Aeronautical Society.
He was appointed to strategy role, before being selected to join the the Board in July 2012.
John Hirst CBE BA DSc FCA MCT CCMI 8.
Sharon Harris LLB John is a highly experienced leader of large of Marsh UK, Jelf Plc, SME Insurance Services, Sharon brings corporate legal expertise to the global organisations, in both the private and Anglian Water, IMIS Global Ltd and White Square Board role, together with plc experience in public sector.
He has a wealth of knowledge and Chemical Inc. John was appointed to the Board in corporate governance, with a strong knowledge expertise which he brings to Ultras Board.
January 2015. of the management and protection of intellectual property.
John was Chief Executive of the Met Ofce, a post he held from 2005 to 2014.
Prior to this, Sharon graduated from Kings College, London John was CEO of Premier Farnell.
Before this, he with a Law degree.
She started her career at spent 19 years with ICI Plc, during which he was Norton Rose and has international plc experience Chief Executive of two of ICIs Global gained in the FMCG, pharmaceutical, media and businesses, ICI Performance Chemicals and ICI electronics sectors.
She joined Ultra in November Autocolor, and was Group Treasurer.
He was 2011 and was appointed Company Secretary in awarded a CBE in the 2014 New Years Honours April 2012.
List for his national and international services to Meteorology.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, a Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and a companion of the Chartered British Institute of Management.
