OUR MARKETS UNILEVER OPERATES IN THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS SECTOR A SECTOR WHICH IS SUBJECT TO AN ARRAY OF GLOBAL PRESSURES AND VOLATILITY.
The top 25 FMCG companies have In response to devaluations, interest rates Innovation, particularly in marketing, combined sales of about 530 billion, in many countries remained relatively high, is a primary concern as peoples media competing against each other and an further squeezing incomes.
Brazil, in consumption habits change.
Digital increasingly sophisticated set of local recession, and Russia were particularly hit.
marketing now drives sales through all competitors.
Stalling economic growth in China undermined the performance of many of its E-commerce now commands 2% of CONSUMER CONFIDENCE South East Asian trading partners, further industry sales, while in China it is already Demand for FMCG products is affected weakening local currencies.
However, the 5%, driven by the growth in companies by consumer confidence which reflects Chinese fide-stocking of 2014 in our markets such as Alibabas Taobao and T-Mall.
In levels of economic growth.
was not repeated and growth was seen in the US e-commerce is 2% of sales and In broad terms, consumer demand e-commerce and secondary cities.
remained weak in 2015, with market European markets were characterised by Changing digital habits reflect the adoption growth continuing to be subdued in small amounts of volume growth cancelled of consumer technology.
In 2000 there emerging markets while showing out by price deflation.
North America were 750 million mobile phones compared some signs of low-level growth in achieved modest overall growth of 1%-2% with 7 billion today.
By 2020 there will be North America and Europe.
Many emerging markets were hit by local The boom in video over 400 hours worth currency devaluations versus the US dollar, DIGITAL AND E-COMMERCE of video content is uploaded to YouTube driving up the cost of consumer goods The impact of digital technology continues every minute is vitally important in FMCG faster than wage growth.
A number of these and has now become a mainstream factor marketing.
Content is shared through economies export commodities and have determining success in everything from social media networks and this forces also been hit by slowing global demand.
The industry greater transparency from corporations.
is rapidly adjusting to consumers operating in a mobile, connected world, albeit through fragmented media from basic mobile phones and PCs to smartphones, tablets and TVs.
Grow With Us a digital campaign that opened a Hellmanns ketchup tomato farm MORE THAN to consumers via an interactive live streaming platform so they could follow 80 MILLION and participate in the next harvest, proving INTERACTIONS THE HELLMANNS GROW the brands natural qualities.
WITH US DIGITAL CAMPAIGN WITH CONSUMERS IN ONLY TWO WEEKS IN MORE THAN 3,500 CITIES 47% increase in people who know that Hellmanns ketchup comes from natural sources.
10 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 HOUSEHOLDS ARE CHANGING For companies operating in the and identities of principal income earners growth in educational attainment by FMCG industry the question of what change.
The number of households is also women where, in many countries, they a household is in todays society is a increasing rapidly as more people live on make up more than 50% of graduates.
Our products are household their own or in smaller family units.
Single This has not yet, however, translated goods so changes in what households occupant households have risen to 17.5% into greater labour market participation, demand, and why, have an important worldwide and 33% in Western Europe.
better pay or more executive roles.
We are seeing However, the trends in our markets The change in the nature of households rapid change in the concept of the suggest this is changing and will do is linked to the changing role that women household, which has become more so at an increasing pace.
are playing in societies around the world.
diverse and unconventional over the For many large FMCG companies, women past 50 years.
constitute the majority of the customer 1 7.5% This is reflected in more fluid family base and their purchasing decisions are roles and responsibilities within therefore critical to the industrys Single occupant households households as the working patterns development.
There has been rapid have risen to 17.5% worldwide.
EMERGING SOCIAL TRENDS At the same time, younger generations of COMPETITION FMCG companies are among the first millennials 18 to 34 year-olds have new The FMCG industry is characterised to experience and be affected by todays expectations, from authenticity and quality by global competition between large rapidly changing tastes, social norms, of products to standards of corporate multinational corporations seeking to population shifts and wealth distribution.
Their work, shopping, leisure differentiate themselves in the eyes of and media habits are radically different.
consumers while accessing markets The worlds economic centre of gravity through similar channels.
Some of the is moving to the southern and eastern Such change mirrors social upheaval largest FMCG companies competing hemispheres.
By 2025 almost half of with societies becoming more complex, alongside Unilever include: Nestl, Fortune 500 global companies will be accommodating rapidly changing ways of Procter & Gamble, LOral, Danone, from emerging markets.
In London, 300 languages are spoken KraftHeinz and Colgate-Palmolive.
and, in the UK as a whole, almost a third of These trends drive urbanisation.
In 2010 Many have identified emerging markets households are single occupancy.
Forced there were 27 cities of more than 10 million as a major growth opportunity in the and voluntary migration is happening on people.
By 2030 it is expected that there will years to come.
a scale not seen since World War II.
In turn, emerging market consumers Competition continues unabated.
In 2015 are increasingly demanding product Other new economic forces are emerging.
one notable trend in certain parts of the standards common in the West where By 2030, 27% of the worlds 8.3 billion FMCG sector, mainly in foods in the premiumisation is a dominant trend.
population will be Muslim compared with slower-growth developed markets, was 23% in 2010.
Women are an increasing The West retains strong economic consolidation often driven by private force for change.
In Latin America the opportunities but wage growth is equity investment activity.
labour participation rate for working-age stubbornly low and unemployment high, females climbed from 53% in 1992 to 65% There has also been significant reaching 20% among Eurozone youth.
deconstruction and refocusing with Although bilateral trade deals continue, competitors selling brand portfolios these conflicting pressures are leading But pressures remain.
Inequality is to achieve efficiency gains.
to some signs of protectionism.
widening, with the 80 richest people having a combined wealth equal to the poorest Local competitors remain a vibrant The world is getting older with dependency 3.5 billion.
The environment is under presence with innovations and consumer rates rising.
Between 2015 and 2050, the increasing stress, demanding a greater offers to rival those of global players.
proportion of the worlds population aged response from people and companies.
The Among customers, the relative decline of over 60 will nearly double from 12% to 22% World Health Organization estimates that supermarkets continues in favour of local and in China alone there will be 330 million 7 million people die from air pollution each and convenience stores, discount chains people over the age of 65 by 2050 compared year.
Ice caps are melting at 12% a decade, often with own label offers and with 110 million today.
which means global warming and drought e-commerce.
with profound implications for the FMCG sector.
With the existing climate change scenario, almost half the worlds population will be living in areas of high water-stress by 2030.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 11
