12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Market-facing segment strategies Ultra has introduced eight segments to provide a framework within which the Group can more effectively utilise its portfolio of capabilities and target opportunities in specic markets without losing the autonomy of its individual businesses.
This better allows the Group to exploit its domain expertise and the synergies between the technologies in its businesses that face the same end markets.
Market segment denition The design, manufacture, production, operation, support and maintenance of commercial, Aerospace military, manned and unmanned aircraft.
Airport and airline information systems, rail transit power conversion and control, as well as Infrastructure non-nuclear civil energy related capabilities.
Nuclear reactor control for UK submarines and civil power power stations.
Radiation monitoring Nuclear at national and tactical platform levels.
Secure communication and timely exchange of voice, data and video information.
Communications As well as communication platforms and products, this segment also encompasses architectures, system integration, cryptographic systems and information assurance capabilities.
Command & Control C2 and surveillance solutions in military and civil domains, Electronic C2ISR Warfare reconnaissance and targeting systems, and forensic solutions for law enforcement.
Anti-submarine warfare, sonobuoys, sonobuoy receivers for ships and aircraft, surface ship Underwater warfare mounted sonars, towed arrays, submarine sonars, sensors and acoustic countermeasures.
Signal and power management, operating, controlling, supporting and maintaining maritime Maritime surface and sub-surface military platforms, both manned and unmanned.
Operating, controlling, supporting and maintaining land military platforms, both manned Land and unmanned, including the dismounted soldiers power management, situational awareness and information distribution.
Ultras Cyber capabilities sit primarily in C2ISR and Communications, but run across all eight segments Ultra Electronics is now making its internal Security Operations Centres SOCs.
sophisticated cyber defence capability see CORVID focuses on reducing an attackers page 38 available to customers on a window of opportunity and articulating commercial basis under the trading name exactly what impact a security incident has of CORVID.
Increasing recognition of the to a business, in order to assess damage growing threat from internet enabled and restore operations promptly.
CORVID cyber-attacks is driving new market operates remotely through bespoke and demands that lie well beyond the realms of commercial off the shelf COTS software normal IT security techniques.
Managed to allow specialist forensic analysis at a security from CORVID provides advanced central location, supported by a uniquely prevention, detection and incident analysis generated intelligence base.
beyond that which is achieved by typical Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 revenue % 5% 6% 18% 4% 24% 6% 14% 23% The pie chart above shows Group revenue by market segment.
More information about each market facing segment can be found on pages 14 to 21 6.
Introduction 14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Aerospace Revenue by segment Across the civil and military aerospace sectors, demand for innovative Aerospace technologies to reduce cost, improve efficiency and increase safety play well to Ultras established strengths in controls systems and niche aviation technologies, allowing inclusion in a growing number of positions on long-term aerospace programmes.
18% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength Commercial aerospace remains a vibrant In the civil aerospace sector the twin aisle sector with predictions of worldwide market continues to grow and will remain Ultras CORE capabilities include: passenger growth doubling over the next dominated by Airbus and Boeing for the Ice Protection and Detection 15 years.
Large aircraft manufacturers are foreseeable future.
Ultra provides unique Position Sensing and Control buoyed by record order backlogs that exceed electrical wing ice protection systems and 12,000 aircraft.
This growth in platform position sensing electronics to the Boeing 787 Active Noise & Vibration Control numbers is driven by the demand for new and provides specialist harnessing, landing Health & Usage Monitoring aircraft in the developing regions while the gear service panels and a new Electrical Fuel System Solutions more established markets need new aircraft Ground Door Opening system to the new Ground Handling Equipment to replace ageing aircraft as well as to capture Airbus A350.
The single aisle market is also in the greater efficiencies in fuel, emissions and growth and, while currently dominated by Pilot Controls system reliability.
The military aerospace Boeing and Airbus, is seeing new entrants Data and Power Transfer market continues to see growth driven from China and Canada.
The regional aircraft Stores and Gas Management predominantly by the production ramp up of market is highly competitive and in this sector the existing major military aircraft Ultra has secured content on the Japanese programmes.
There are few new military Mitsubishi Regional Jet and also the new aircraft programmes, with the market focused Chinese MA700 regional turboprop.
Growth on technical insertion and capability upgrades in the business jet market is focused on larger of existing airframes.
aircraft, where Ultra has secured business on the new Gulfstream G650, G600 and G500 as well as the Cessna Citation Longitude.
In the rotary wing market the large reduction in energy prices is reducing orders from the oil and gas rig servicing businesses and key requirements in this market are minimising aircraft through-life costs.
In the military aerospace sector, the fixed wing combat aircraft market will be dominated for the next 20 years by the increasing build rate and entry-into-service of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and its F-135 engine.
Ultra provides significant content to this aircraft engine combination including precision pneumatics HiPPAG for weapons ejection and the engine inlet ice protection system controller.
The air transport market is seeing a number of competitors looking to fill the niches left by C-17 and C-130.
In this sector Ultra has secured positions on the Embraer KC-390 and 2 3 on the Airbus A400M.
The UAV market remains attractive however, it is still crowded and relatively immature.
Strategy in action In 2015, Ultras ICE business in Kansas, which joined the Group in 2014, was awarded the largest contract in its history by Cessna Aircraft in Wichita, to provide it with a novel Power Transfer Control Unit for its new Citation Longitude business jet.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Infrastructure Revenue by segment Ultra is a trusted international provider and integrator of critical Infrastructure systems and software to operate and secure today and tomorrows transport and energy infrastructure.
4% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength Transportation, including airport systems and In the airport sector, the market for Airport rail, remains an area of strong investment Master Systems Integration continues to Ultras CORE capabilities include: worldwide.
The increase in global air traffic experience growth, especially in the demand Broad suite of integrated and national prestige projects is driving for tier 2 airports.
This is particularly so in infrastructure offerings spanning investment in airport infrastructure, although South America, the Middle East and Asia, Airports, Rail and Energy competition in this sector is also growing.
Rail where there are number of key capital Reputation for functionality infrastructure, globally, is also growing rapidly projects.
The Airport & Airline Information and capability as a key commercial and national enabler in Management market is also forecast to see both established and emerging economies.
investment grow, although many of the Flexible delivery models: outstanding In established economies infrastructure operational systems are becoming increasingly service reputation investment is focused on upgrading existing commoditised.
There is growing polarisation Integration capability and domain capabilities and driving economic recovery.
In between global commoditised offerings and expertise at both technology and emerging economies, such investment is those with more localised niche expertise, so programme levels being used to secure growth and build Ultra has continued to focus upon market Growing credibility at national and national capacity.
Increasing global demand intimacy, customer relationships and regional government levels for energy has led to the power generation, comprehensive solutions over individual Secure localised network power distribution, secure power products.
The Rail Transit Power Conversion & communications for measurement management and renewables markets also Control market is also anticipated to see and control witnessing increased investment.
However, with the dominates the global trend in smart exception of the Rail Control sector and the infrastructure, with Smart Grid and secure drive toward Smart Digital solutions, the energy management lying at the heart of market is becoming increasingly price-sensitive.
Smart Cities and Critical National In the Power Management & Renewables Infrastructure.
Whilst global infrastructure sector, the growing need for compact, power demand is largely being driven by China, dense solutions plays to Ultra capabilities with India and the Middle East and North Africa power resilience, energy storage and fast region, at least 50% of the global market for switching all being key drivers for growth.
The smart solutions lies in Europe and the US.
Secure Energy Management sector is forecast to see substantial investment, particularly in areas related to secure monitoring, analysis and control.
The emergent Smart Grid market relies on the ability to securely identify each connected device and, in September, Ultra launched a cyber-hardened critical infrastructure management system to improve site management and performance without the need to replace legacy equipment.
Whilst the Smart Grid market is likely to remain fragmented until the appropriate regulatory 3 frameworks are established, Ultras broader secure communication and data portfolio places it in a strong position with the Group Strategy in action able to offer the highest level of assurance In September 2015 Ultras Infrastructure that can be gained for the storage of unique segment combined expertise with UK digital keys and identifiers of devices.
start-up, PowerOasis, to integrate and launch a cyber-secure, intelligent remote management solution for critical national infrastructure.
Introduction 16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Nuclear Revenue by segment Through its established relationships with Original Equipment Nuclear Manufacturers OEMs, the domain knowledge of its Suitably Qualified and Experienced Personnel SQEP, and its broad range of qualified safety systems and sensors, Ultra is well positioned to support the growing market in the licensing, delivery and safe operation of reactors and associated systems via a full defence 6% in depth approach to reactor operations and safety.
Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength There are over 440 commercial nuclear power Although the nuclear market is a long cycle reactors operating in 31 countries.
They one, with plants taking several years to come Ultras CORE capabilities include: provide over 11% of the worlds electricity as to completion, the outlook is positive.
Much Extensive pool of suitably qualified continuous, reliable base-load power and of the current global fleet of plants will need experienced personnel SQEP remain an important part of the low carbon life extensions and upgrades.
These plants Nuclear safety system expertise energy mix.
In addition 56 countries operate are largely older analogue Instrumentation around 240 civil research reactors, with many and Control I&C designs, with the biggest Qualified reactor instrumentation control of these in developing countries.
Globally market by far being the US.
The new build, Radiation detection sensors there are over 65 new reactors under digital I&C market that is currently dominated Nuclear energy management systems construction.
Many of the new builds are by China, India and Russia, is of a similar Nuclear operational support proceeding within emerging economies and order of magnitude.
Ultra has invested in those countries where there is substantial significantly in new facilities for the test, state backing.
The emphasis in established development and manufacture of sensors.
western markets has, however, largely shifted This has shown its value through further to a shorter-term focus on safety system contract wins with EDF for the provision of upgrades, life extensions and emergency specialist sensors and with the Strategic management and plant sustainment Partnership announcement with NuScale to programmes.
In addition to this, the UK is develop a suite of reactor and plant proceeding with a new commercial model it instrumentation and control systems pioneered in support of new nuclear build for their Small Modular Reactor SMR.
The nuclear market is generally Group currently provides equipment to over very conservative and supported through 190 reactors across 16 countries, plus large multinational organisations: however, another 32 reactors currently under there remain several complex niches served by construction.
Furthermore Ultra is uniquely smaller specialist companies.
It is a highly qualified on eight new types as well as many regulated market, with high barriers to entry, legacy plants, meaning that it is well and as such is dominated by a number of positioned for the future.
The The Fukushima accident prompted further qualification of sensors and products across growth in the nuclear emergency multiple standards and platforms is extremely management market, where there has been a expensive and offers further barriers to entry global reassessment of post-accident once established.
Plant safety is now increasingly reliant on secure data and, as such, cyber security is now a key part of meeting the formal safety requirements.
Security concerns around proliferation and the threat of terrorism are also driving the growth in new deployable security and surveillance systems for nuclear plants and 1 4 enhanced border security.
Ultras domain knowledge, through its suitably qualified and experienced personnel SQEP, coupled with Strategy in action its extensive security and surveillance Ultra NSPI was awarded in excess of capabilities as described in C2ISR segment $8m of contracts to design, qualify, and on page 18, position Ultra well in this sector.
manufacture new temperature and pressure sensors for a variety of nuclear power plant customers around the world.
These have resulted in multiple new products which broaden the scope, capability and international reach of Ultras offering.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Communications Revenue by segment Ultra is well positioned as one of the most trusted and respected Communications providers of secure communication systems in the world offering advanced, interoperable solutions that are scalable and low risk.
14% Market overview Market outlook The military and security communications In general, the demand to deliver secure Ultras portfolio strength market is seeing a greater demand for voice, data and video communications will Ultras CORE capabilities include: interoperability, mobility and rapid increase, driving the requirement for faster Encryption solutions deployment solutions, alongside an increased performance using lower cost platforms.
Data link systems desire for smaller, faster, easier to use More specifically, the data link market, in technology that is less complex to configure.
which Ultra is well placed with its wide range High performance, high reliability radio Many nations have a plethora of of advanced data link and airborne gateway and wireless systems communications systems in service and there solutions, will see a growing demand for Secure voice, video and data is a drive to streamline these to achieve secure full motion video and C2 links to communication platforms coherency and cost-effectiveness, which is deliver real time situational awareness to the Secure wireless mesh networking translating into the gradual modernisation of smallest platforms at the tactical edge.
This, in Fixed, mobile and transportable satellite legacy equipment and systems.
The turn, will continue to drive the demand for customers desire to maintain interoperability more bandwidth and broader connectivity, earth stations throughout these modernisation programmes and thus for higher performance tactical Airborne communication exchange is resulting in small evolutionary changes, as communication systems such as the Ultra Personal protective gear opposed to step changes, an approach that Orion multi-mission radio.
In the satellite communications allows customers to exploit commercial and earth station market, the move to smaller, Acoustic hailing devices modified commercial off the shelf COTS more portable and mobile solutions that technology.
In particular, there is a shift deliver higher bandwidth X and Ka band Through the earth communications towards using software defined solutions that solutions will accelerate over the next five enable fast cycle upgrades to capability and years, driven by the rapid expansion of High the use of open and commercial standards.
Throughput Satellite HTS capacity and the migration of users to Ka band services.
Ultra The other key factor driving the market in the has a strong pedigree in this sector and is exploitation of COTS technology is the positioning to capitalise on this development.
reduced funding that military customers have to develop bespoke solutions.
Many nations Looking at the encryption market, there is a wish to procure low risk and proven systems, general move to smaller form factor products rather than being the first adopters or having and from link to Internet Protocol IPbased to fund the development.
Additionally, cryptographic solutions, coupled with a shift overseas customers want the ability to from paper-based key to electronic key implement their own waveforms and distribution and management systems.
Globally, there is a with its proven next generation of end growing reliance on Machine-to-Machine cryptographic products and strong position in M2M communications, especially in critical both UK and US cryptographic programmes, national infrastructure.
With the rising allied to the Groups electronic key prevalence of connected devices and the distribution and management solutions, is growth in the Internet of Things IoT, the well positioned in this sector.
Finally, with the secure low power communication market is vulnerabilities of M2M communications also experiencing a considerable increase.
becoming increasingly apparent and a 2 growing recognition of the need for solutions to secure such systems, the secure M2M market will continue to grow.
Here again Strategy in action Ultras proven certified security solutions, that In December, Ultras Communication & are tailored to meet critical national Integrated Systems business was awarded infrastructure and industrial needs, position an initial contract to upgrade the radios the Group well.
Similarly, the increasing on the Royal Air Forces Typhoon aircraft, secure low power communication market will with further orders to follow in 2016 and enable Ultra to build on its reputation as a beyond.
Over the life of the programme trusted supplier of wireless network solutions.
this could be worth in excess of 20m.
Introduction Co nd & Con ol In llig n u ill n nd R onn iss n 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Portfolio strength focused on customer need C2ISR Revenue by segment As a trusted supplier of innovative surveillance and security C2ISR solutions to government and commercial customers, Ultra is well positioned to exploit this growing market.
23% Market overview Market Outlook Ultras portfolio strength Budgets for security remain ring-fenced or In the civil security market, political, are growing substantially in the face of economic and social factors will continue to Ultras CORE capabilities include: terrorism, organised crime and drug drive growth in the border surveillance and Surveillance solutions for critical national trafficking.
Border security and Critical security market.
This is seeing a move from infrastructure, coastal and border National Infrastructure CNI protection more traditional approaches to high tech security needs opportunities are increasing, driving the networked solutions, and Ultra has all the Covert surveillance solutions requirement for surveillance and security necessary elements to deliver these for solutions.
The market is seeing a growing multiple applications.
The CNI protection Command and control systems demand for interoperable and mobile market is also expected to see significant Communications surveillance networks that deliver a single integrated growth and here Ultra is well positioned to and analysis picture for timely situational awareness.
With provide complete cyber-physical security Airborne surveillance and targeting a growing number of devices capable of solution drawing on its advanced secure Ballistics and crime scene analysis collecting sensor data operating across communications and surveillance capabilities.
multiple communications networks, integrated The communications and intelligence Secure identification systems surveillance systems continue to increase in surveillance market will also continue to see Document examination systems complexity and scale.
Solutions need to be demand, but remains politically sensitive in Electronic warfare solutions, tailored to customer need, comprehensive and some countries.
electronic warfare simulators and radar able to draw onbest-of-breed, established In the defence market, the demand for test systems and clearly differentiated technologies.
precision strike, reduced collateral damage The reliance on air power as the principal and extended stand-off ranges will continue.
mechanism for early or urgent delivery of There will also be more emphasis on military effect is driving the demand for intelligence and surveillance assets, together airborne intelligence, surveillance, target with the ability to fuse or correlate these data acquisition and reconnaissance ISTAR.
In this streams into a single real time integrated regard, there has been a significant growth in picture that can be disseminated down to the the use of unmanned air vehicles and the lowest level.
This will continue to drive the associated intelligence, surveillance and growth in real time ISTAR for both manned reconnaissance payloads.
The challenge and unmanned platforms and the connectivity remains to be the timely and secure between assets in the battlespace.
Ultras dissemination of such data, typically video, leading data fusion, situational awareness and around the battlespace.
visualisation systems play well to this growing need.
Electronic Warfare EW is also gaining in prominence.
The worldwide EW market is forecast to grow significantly over the next few years and Ultra, with the acquisition of Herley last summer, is well placed to strengthen and widen its EW offerings and grow its share of the EW market.
2 Strategy in action Last year, Ultras 3eTI business secured orders worth over $30m for the protection of US Navy bases in the Washington, Southwest and Hawaii regions.
mma tr, te e ce S rve a ce a ec a a ce Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Underwater Warfare Revenue by segment Ultras world-leading domain knowledge, acoustic technical expertise Underwater and ability to provide leading technology Anti-Submarine Warfare Warfare ASW performance through rapidly delivered, scalable, affordable and reliable solutions means that it is well positioned to exploit this growing market.
24% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength The proliferation of the modern submarine The US continues its strategic rebalancing threat is driving increased opportunity in the towards Asia the pivot to the Pacific.
As a Ultras CORE capabilities include: underwater warfare market.
Submarines are result, despite the wider US government Full understanding of acoustic strategic assets, fulfilling a range of roles from funding pressures, ASW and submarines performance in the maritime domain intelligence gathering to area denial operations.
remain areas of preferential spend with Multi-Static Active processing The growth in the number of submarine increased budget allocation.
Specifically, the platforms, coupled with the increasingly US Secretary of Defense has directed the Acoustic countermeasure techniques capable Russian submarine force and the Navy to adjust their budget to prioritise for torpedo defence growing threats in the Middle and Far East, is acceleration of submarine combat system Recognised integrator for complex seen to be challenging the traditional upgrades, torpedo production and next acoustic systems both towed and western underwater technological superiority.
Ultras hull-mounted Investment in ASW is growing rapidly as Underwater Warfare segment has leadership Design and cost-effective manufacturing nations react to counter these threats.
positions for these specific areas in and of acoustic components and systems beyond the US market, particularly with Global financial pressures coupled with torpedo warning systems, torpedo increased capital platform costs mean that countermeausres and small arrays.
More nations can typically no longer afford broadly in the addressable Asia-Pacific platforms dedicated to a specific role.
market, spend related to ASW systems, Instead, they are generally moving to use of including towed torpedo defence solutions, is more, smaller multi-role platforms, of frigate projected to rise to almost 0.5bn.
India or offshore patrol vessel size.
As a result, intends to award three major ASW-related ASW solutions now need to be modular with programmes totalling in excess of 100m reduced footprints to fit on these smaller 1 2 3 4 over the next five years.
Ultra is well placed vessels.
Other key factors in this growing to address these needs based on its ASW market are the desire for short to no continued investment in integrated sonar development times, requiring investment in Strategy in action systems and surface ship torpedo defence advance of contract awards.
Ultra has In December, Ultra was selected by the system technologies, both of which have positioned itself well in both of these areas, Indian Navy for delivery of the New enabled recent contract wins in the UK and with continued investment in ASW Torpedo Defence System NTDS.
Ultra New Zealand patrol aircraft requirements.
technologies including multi-static active partnered with Mahindra Defence Naval systems and sonobuoys for use with Systems MDNS to provide the Indian Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAV.
A key Navy with the winning solution based on export market driver is the increasing the Sea Sentor Torpedo Defence System requirement for indigenous technology in use by the Royal Navy.
The NTDS transfer to overseas customers, another area success was achieved through a winning where Ultra has a strong pedigree with combination of Ultras extensive recent export contracts.
experience and innovation in torpedo defence systems, alongside MDNS understanding of the unique customer requirements.
The combined strengths of this team led to an optimised, affordable offering for the Indian Navy.
The offering builds off of Sea Sentors architecture which enables efficient design tailoring to incorporate only those capabilities meeting operational requirements.
This down selection is the first major Indian Navy programme win for the Ultra-MDNS strategic collaboration, culminating after many months of intensive customer industry exchanges and rigorous at-sea demonstrations.
Introduction 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Portfolio strength focused on customer need Maritime systems Revenue by segment Combining open architectures and niche electronic solutions, Maritime Ultra provides affordable, reliable solutions to meet customer systems needs in power and electronics for maritime platforms.
6% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength In Ultras established defence markets The power products segment in the US customers are now generally looking to market remains stable with Virginia Class Ultras CORE capabilities include: re-establish balanced force presence and Submarine VCS production funding well Customised command and control intervention capabilities without the risk protected.
Longer-term growth opportunities systems for smaller ships exposure of a forced land footprint.
As such, for Ultra specialist power products will come Weapons interfaces after a decade of land-based operations, the with the Ohio Replacement Programme ORP, focus on spending has now moved towards projected to provide 12 new hulls beginning Stable positioning for precise maritime, air and Special Forces.
The use of common subsystems with Electro-Optic EO tracking on budget pressures mean new build maritime VCS will help lower the cost growth risk that moving platforms programmes have generally reduced either in currently exists on ORP.
The US Navy is Power conversion and control number or scale.
As a result, existing investing in technical refresh of Arleigh management platforms are typically now being extended Burkeclass guided missile destroyers DDGPlatform signature management beyond their original service lives and 51, Ohio class submarines, landing platform Specialist motor drives and customers are seeking more cost-effective dock LPD-17 and replenishment naval vessel power converters ways of increasing the capabilities of their T-AKE class that provides further navies.
Consequently the demand for opportunities for growth of the Groups Degaussing systems system sensor upgrades and technology advanced power management and signature insertion programmes on existing hulls is management products.
growing, particularly for navies in emerging With the protection of maritime resources nations.
For the export market in general, rising in importance in areas such as the new build maritime platform programmes are South China Sea, there are increasing often dominated by the industrial politics of requirements for submarines with extended the nation concerned, especially if they have patrol times.
The advent of air independent indigenous capabilities.
As a result, propulsion capability is expected to increase technology transfer is an increasingly demand for power conversion and important factor enabling business in the degaussing products.
Incumbent positions on export market.
the UK Successor submarine development programme will enable the high probability of production follow on for main static converters, electric cruise propulsion and signature management.
Clean Power requirements of DoD and aerospace specifications will continue to drive the need for Ultras specialty components highlighted by power filters and multi-phase transformers.
The Groups specialist signature 1 2 management capabilities will see growth opportunities in the next five years through the US Navys Ohio Replacement Programme, Strategy in action replacement new fleet oilers TAO-X and Ultra PMES was awarded a contract in June DDG-51 upgrades.
There is also increased for continued design work on the UKs Next focus on electric field signature management Generation Nuclear Power and Propulsion due to the growing awareness of influence NGNPP programme.
The award leverages mine threat.
Ultras established niche expertise in power management and control designs More broadly, the continuing demand for and products present on todays nuclear surface platform system and sensor upgrades submarines.
This award puts Ultra in a plays well to Ultras strengths in naval combat systems and electro-optics and the Groups strong position for contributing product on the UKs follow-on submarine programmes, pedigree in partnering with local industry.
Successor and Maritime Future Underwater Capability MFUC.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Land systems Revenue by segment With defined open architectures and niche electronic solutions, Land systems Ultra has a growing position in the provision of innovative, affordable and reliable solutions to meet customer needs in power and electronics for the land environment.
5% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength In general the focus of military forces is to In the UK and European markets the reset away from the hold and build reduction in the number of new vehicle Ultras CORE capabilities include: operations of the last decade, back to programmes has been partially offset by a Power Systems building more balanced and full spectrum significant increase in the number of platform Information Systems capable forces.
This has seen a shift in life-extension and technical insertion spending away from the Land sector, which programmes.
Further, there are also upgrade Control Systems has resulted in a reduction in the number of programmes as a number of platforms Mission Systems new land vehicle programmes in Ultras procured to meet urgent operational Electronic Architectures established markets.
Instead there has been a requirements over the last decade of Soldier Systems significant growth in the number of major operations, are now being absorbed back into capability enhancements and life extension core service.
Ultra, as a provider of specialist Operating Base Solutions programmes for land platforms.
This plays to capabilities, is well positioned to be able to Ultras strengths in electronic vehicle support such upgrade programmes.
Land platforms are now UK, the Group has teamed with Morgan increasingly complex, with multiple sensors, Advanced Materials to provide the through weapons and communication systems.
These life support of the UK Mastiff platforms.
In complex electronics are driving the increased the US, despite the budgetary pressures that electrical generation capacity and led to the cancellation of several large new management within the platform.
vehicle programmes, the DoD has funds for a number of platform upgrade programmes, that offer opportunities for Ultra given the Groups electronic architecture capabilities.
More broadly, the export market place is growing with a number of prospective new vehicle and upgrade programmes being initiated.
This includes the established markets of India and Australia and the emerging markets in the Middle and Far East.
In the Middle East, Ultra is working in partnership with an indigenous platform provider to support the upgrade of the existing vehicle fleet.
Combined, these potential programmes 1 2 offer significant opportunities and volumes.
Military forces are beginning to look at how they can integrate soldiers and their associated Strategy in action systems into the wider land battlespace.
Ultra Ultra EMS was awarded a contract in is actively exploring opportunities with a December for Battery Monitoring System number of customers regarding how it can BMS delivery for use on the Armys apply its advanced power management Warfighter Information Network-Tactical technologies to the soldier.
Specifically, Ultras BMS allows the Army to provide its tactical vehicles with a lighter, more collaborative, maintenance and crew-reduced Network and Communications capability.
The Ultra BMS is now designed into the Armys Tactical Communications Node Lite TCN-L and Network Operations and Security Center Lite NOSC-L architectures that drive the electronic architecture of their tactical vehicles.
