STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION MOST TRUSTED BRAND WITH OVER 46,000 BEDS, UNITE STUDENTS LEADS THEWAYIN CREATING SAFE, GOOD QUALITY HOMES FORSTUDENTS AND IS THE LARGEST PROVIDER OF PURPOSEBUILT STUDENT ACCOMMODATION IN THE UK.
WEAIM TO PROVIDE A HOME FOR SUCCESS.
20 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information In order to maintain our position and achieve We have partnered with John Smiths, the long-term success, our aim is to become the UKs leading student services provider, to give most trusted brand with students and our students access to a bespoke online shop, Universities, through our actions, performance packed with highly competitive products to and properties.
support them through their time at University.
The tailor made Unite Student store offers In 2014, Unite Students launched a new access to over four million books and eBooks, purpose, Home for Success: a significant a wide range of student essentials and step change designed to positively impact exclusive offers on everything from bikes all students living with us.
Home for Success to cutting edge technology.
was introduced with an initial investment commitment of 40m, which has enabled The Student Life Hub aims to engage with us to provide students with a home that students with content that is relevant, helps them achieve more from their time interesting and useful.
Everyday basics from logging a This investment has been channelled into maintenance request to accessing four key areas of the business: physical, digital, out-of-hours support to how to advice service and people, and since launch we Wellbeing advice on alcohol, drugs, have made significant progress in delivering mental and sexual health on our purpose.
Life skills such as how to negotiate with PROGRESS flatmates and manage finances We have committed 21m to installing LED lighting in all of our properties, which is resulting Lifestyle content, including student-created in lower carbon emissions and significant blogs and features energy savings: in fact it should reduce our Students are directed to the hub when they energy consumption by 15%.
By the end of log into the Wi-Fi in their property and they 2015 we had completed the installation of can also access it on mobile devices.
ENCOURAGING ENDORSEMENTS The new lighting will provide a far better Over the last year we have received extremely quality of light that is more conducive to positive endorsements across the board for study and sleep and has a positive impact not just our performance, but the way in which on students and employees.
Highlights have included: We have also instigated noise management Our highest ever independent customer improvements in our cities, and a programme satisfaction score of refurbishment works, with 115 common rooms updated with study and social Our highest ever trust score received from spaces to improve the student experience.
our University partners All common rooms and reception areas Another strong employee effectiveness will be completed by summer 2016. survey score, showing further year-on-year A GROWING DIGITAL WORLD improvement Digital engagement is central to most We were also named as the Student students lives and so in addition to continuing Accommodation Operator of the Year at the to make progress with our My Unite app and RESI Awards for the second time in three years, our social media engagement with students, received the Education Investor Award for we have also introduced an online shop offer Student Accommodation Fund, and received and an additional digital platform, called 12 Bronze NUS Green Impact Awards for our Student Life Hub.
This is in addition to the other environment achievements that are referenced in the CR&S report on page 44.
UNIVERSITY ENGAGEMENT ANDPARTNERSHIP We have a dedicated University Partnership team that is committed to working with our 60 University partners for the benefit of our students.
By working closely together we share our understanding and expertise to jointly provide a supportive environment to help our students achieve their potential.
In the last year this dedication to working in partnership has resulted in our highest ever University trust score of 79%.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION HIGHEST QUALITY PORTFOLIO WE AIM TO OPERATE THE HIGHEST QUALITY PORTFOLIO THROUGH CONSISTENT INVESTMENT IN AND IMPROVEMENT TO OUR OPERATING PLATFORM, HIGHLY SELECTIVE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY, ASSET MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES AND PORTFOLIO RECYCLING.
ANGEL LANE, STRATFORD ANGEL LANE FACTS We extended our growing partnership with Angel Lane was built with a large common Kings College London, who we already provide room and shared spaces as feedback from over 1,000 beds to, with the opening of a new our students has put real importance on these landmark property in the heart of this exciting, spaces offering opportunities to make friends rejuvenated area of London.
The Angel Lane and making the most of University life.
opening provides a 759-bed solution to a key Fully occupied Angel Lane has a mass of challenge facing Kings: a need for more about 34,000 tonnes equivalent to over purpose-built student accommodation to 100 jumbo jets support growing student numbers.
2 The floor area of the building is 24,000m Angel Lane is a further example of Unite around five football pitches delivering a complex project on time and to budget in a sought-after location.
Our There are 6,707 bulbs partnership approach meant that we could This building is 41 metres high again demonstrate our ability to successfully put students needs at the centre of what we do, and delivering a further property in this exciting area of London gives students another accommodation option, ensuring they get ANGEL LANE IS A FURTHER value for money and the best environment to succeed.
EXAMPLE OF UNITE DELIVERING A COMPLEX PROJECT ON TIME AND TOBUDGET IN A SOUGHTAFTER LOCATION.
22 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information Over 3,400 of Bristols students around 10% ORCHARD HEIGHTS, BRISTOL of the citys total make Unite their home in Orchard Heights is our first new property in our 15 properties in the city.
Bristol since we opened Phoenix Court in 2007, and our first co-branded property in the city.
At Unite Students, we source the best Working in partnership with the University of development opportunities, in the strongest Bristol, Orchard Heights is fully occupied for locations, and carefully manage our existing the 2015 16 academic year.
However before estate in order to benefit our students and a bedroom could be sold, pioneering business.
We regularly review the quality of our engineering skills were required, as the existing buildings to make sure they provide 484-bed property is built above a popular the best accommodation for our students music venue, the O2 Academy Bristol, and and are operationally efficient.
there was a clear requirement to prevent students being disturbed by noise caused 2016 PIPELINE by concerts hosted at the venue.
862 beds in Stapleton House, London The construction required the creation of a 699 in Olympic Way, Wembley transfer deck a 45-metre slab of special 836 beds in Greetham Street, Portsmouth concrete sitting above the arena carrying the 25,000 tonnes of weight to the ground 399 beds in Causewayend, Aberdeen and foundations.
286 in Far Gosford, Coventry The property incorporates a music room, kitchen, breakout rooms and over 800 square metres of social and study space.
Orchard Heights is co-branded with the University of Bristol logo and artwork, and houses University residents making it our first property to operationally and physically reflect the close relationships we build and sustain with our Universities.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION STRONGEST CAPITAL STRUCTURE THIS YEAR OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE STRENGTHENED FURTHER, VIA AN INCREASE IN CAPITAL GROWTH IN OUR PORTFOLIO AND THE RAISING OF NEW EQUITY CAPITAL.
24 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information The year has seen high levels of investor A modest increase in net debt in contrast to demand for student accommodation assets our markedly increased portfolio value saw with over 5 billion of transactions completed our loan-to-value ratio fall sharply from 43% in 2015.
This level of activity has resulted in to 35% on a see through basis.
Net debt is upward pressure on asset prices.
now equivalent to 6.9 times EBITDA and we intend to maintain our debt ratios at around Our property portfolio increased value from current levels.
This increase was driven by rental growth, yield compression new openings and acquisitions.
In April 2015, we raised 115 million before fees of new equity via a placing.
Approximately half of the proceeds were invested in acquiring new USAF units, in which our stake is now 23%, as part of a wider 306 million capital raise by the fund.
The remainder of the proceeds was used to progress our 2018 development pipeline in targeted regional locations.
In May 2015, USAF raised 306 million of equity which was used to complete the purchase of the Ahli United Bank Portfolio on 30 June for 271 million.
The eight assets, comprising 2,100 beds, are located in strong student markets and complement the existing USAF portfolio.
As part of the fund raise, USAF broadened and diversified its investor base with Allianz Real Estate acting as a cornerstone investor, investing 100 million and a further 14 million from other new institutional investors.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
