STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY MAKING A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION We also further improved our score on the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB, earning coveted GreenStar status for the second year running.
All of this reflects and recognises our commitment to continually improving our environmental, social and governance performance.
ENVIRONMENT Our environmental strategy is focused on three core objectives: environmental management, sustainable behaviour and sustainable buildings.
These help us to manage and reduce our most significant environmental impacts: energy consumption, carbon emissions, water use and waste generation.
During 2015 we achieved further improvements, achieving a place on the CDPs Climate Disclosure Leaders Index with a Climate Change Disclosure score of 99 out of 100 and a performance rating of C on an A to E scale.
RICHARD SMITH, MANAGING DIRECTOR, OPERATIONS This reflects our comprehensive strategy to reduce our most important environmental impact, our carbon emissions.
As a successful company we recognise that we are in the The table on page 47 summarises our energy consumption and privileged position of being able to make choices that have a carbon emissions.
As we strive to provide a Home for Success for our students, we realise the importance of operating We have achieved an absolute reduction in our combined responsibly and sustainably at all times and making a positive scope 1 2 emissions of 5.1% compared to 2014, despite an difference to our stakeholders as well as wider society.
overall increase in bed numbers of 10% comparing carbon contributing bed numbers see below for details.
This equates As chair of the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S to a 7% reduction in scope 1 2 emissions per bed.
This has been Committee, I am accountable to the board for CR&S within Unite.
largely driven by a 1.5% reduction in absolute grid electricity Communications Director James Puxty chairs the CR&S Working consumption compared to 2014, combined with a 6% reduction Group, with responsibility for the day-to-day development and in the grid electricity emissions factor.
implementation of our CR&S strategy.
Again, further details of our environmental strategy will be Our strategy is based on four areas where we are best able published later in the year in a stand-alone CR&S Report.
to make a positive contribution to wider society: Responsible Business, Environment, Developing People and Building Our employee and student sustainability engagement Communities.
programme Up to uS has also gone from strength to strength, with 12 teams earning NUS Green Impact Bronze awards in OVERVIEW May 2015.
This year our city teams are working with over 60 In 2014 we introduced our new business purpose, Home for student volunteers to hopefully achieve Green Impact Bronze Success, and with that our four key themes.
Since then weve for every site.
been working with stakeholders to develop a more detailed strategy including a range of targets to help drive further improvements across these areas.
More details will be unveiled later this year 2016 in a stand-alone CR&S Report.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS In our efforts to create an environment that benefits future generations of students, we will strive to improve the transparency, Over 2015 we completed Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme completeness and accuracy of our CR&S reporting.
ESOS audits and updated energy performance certificates EPCs for all of our sites.
Weve also installed energy efficient LED We will ensure that all relative metrics are available to view lighting in over half of our sites to date as part of our ongoing LED online, holding the company to account and showing the lighting project, due to complete in 2016.
Well also be installing progress made, and will further align appropriate reporting a range of energy efficiency measures including air source heat frameworks to achieve this.
pumps and solar photovoltaics PV.
During 2015 we retained our listing on the FTSE4Good Index, significantly improving our score and earning a place in the top three percent of Real Estate companies.
44 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
