01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information 2015 HIGHLIGHTS HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2015: Mobilisation of 23 Enactus Business Advisors to offer support First four graduates of the scholarship scheme.
and advice to the University teams for the social enterprise Launch of the New Starts research report.
Knowledge sharing event with our ten University partners.
Established a network of 24 food banks nationally to donate unwanted food to on behalf of our students.
20% of our employees took part in our national I cannot thank Unite Students enough for the volunteering scheme.
I am the CEO of aninternational development charity, Concern Overall the experience was absolutely fantastic Universal.
I believe in getting every penny wecan and I feel that I have learned loads from it.
toour projects, which means we only spend 6p Moreover, I am still in touch with some of my in the 1on administration.
That doesnt leave colleagues at Philips, and may apply for one of much room to bring in support from experts when their graduate schemes when I finish my final year.
Unite Students has given uspro-bono Even if I choose not to do this, I have been support from two incredibly experienced directors.
assured that I am more than welcome to contact The time I have spent with these Directors has them for any career advice once I graduate, since helped hugely in dealing with some of the issues they had all been through a similar experience, ourorganisation was facing.
If Ihad bought which is invaluable.
in thissupport, it would have cost at least 15,000 inleadership training, HR support Anonymous, Unite Foundation Scholar and brand development.
Thank you so much Unite Students, the professional support you have given has beenpriceless!
Kathryn Llewellyn, Concern Universal THE UNITE FOUNDATION In 2012, Unite Students set up the Unite Foundation, in order to offer support to those students who faced the most challenging circumstances in getting to University.
The scheme offers scholarships comprising yearround accommodation and a living allowance for the duration of the students University course, targeting those students for whom having a stable Our 2015 strategic report from page 1 to page 49 has home environment is of the most importance, focusing on been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors those students from a care background, or those estranged on 23 February 2016. from their parents.
This year has seen the Foundation continue to grow, taking on a further three new partners: University College London, Portsmouth University and Plymouth University.
With the addition of these new partners, the Foundation now works with ten Universities across the UK, and following Septembers intake, the Foundation has 117 active scholars.
The Foundation also looked to add value with the scholarship through the addition of an exclusive summer internship for one Foundation Scholar.
This was done with the partnership support of Philips Lighting, and the launch of an employability initiative with Kings College London.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
