CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT Our focus for 2016 is on continuous improvement and accordingly we plan to implement the HSG65 safety management framework detailed further below.
We will look to further embed a safety culture throughout the organisation, recognising that consistency on safety is key, especially with our number of beds and construction schemes increasing.
SIR TIM WILSON Chair Health & Safety Committee 23 February 2016 COMMITTEE OVERVIEW Composition Sir Tim Wilson Chair Elizabeth McMeikan Mark Allan Richard Simpson Managing Director, Property, Richard Smith Managing Director, Operations, Steve Batley Estates Director, SIR TIM WILSON, CHAIR HEALTH & SAFETY Julie Jarvey Head of Health & Safety and Anthony Arnold Construction Director regularly attend meetings of COMMITTEE the Committee.
HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE CHAIRS OVERVIEW ROLE Unite Students is home to over 46,000 students, often for the first The role of the Health & Safety Committee is to: time they have lived away from their parents, and their safety, Ensure that the Groups policies, procedures and working welfare and security is critical not only to us but also our other practices regarding health and safety meet or exceed key stakeholders, such as parents and Universities as well as the legal obligations police and fire services.
Annually review the Groups health & safety policy The Health & Safety Committee ensures the governance of health & safety, recognising that safety is fundamental to the Ensure that the Board is kept up to date on regulatory changes businesss reputation and to becoming the most trusted brand relating to health and safety and environmental issues and the in the sector.
impact such changes may have on the business of the Group During the year, the Group rolled out Keep uS Safe, a To receive reports as to business unit health and safety and campaign to embed further the importance of our safety environmental performance, policies and arrangements culture.
We also implemented a new process for internal and and any major health and safety incidents so as to ensure external city audits to help improve and ensure consistent that management identifies and implements any corrective nationwide safety compliance.
Fire is the biggest safety risk action considered appropriate in our operating properties and we delivered a successful fire safety campaign to students living with us.
ACTIVITIES IN 2015 Operations As we continue the roll out of our development pipeline, we We rolled out Keep uS Safe.
This campaign included crisis have more schemes under construction where the health management guides and student fire safety awareness content.
and safety risks are at their highest and safety governance Safety support services team led the city teams on monthly becomes even more critical.
After more than 1.1m man hours site internal audits coordinated with external safety audits in 2015 across our seven schemes, I am pleased to report zero undertaken by Quantum Compliance.
reportable accidents and a KPI of 2.06 against an industry benchmark of 5.0 for non-reportable accidents further details We continued successful embedding of our electronic incident of the KPI are below.
Also, I am pleased to report our scores reporting system AIMS and the introduction of a fire risk from the Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS remain high, assessment portal.
AIMS provides easy access to detailed data with our sites ranking in the top 10% in the country in terms of across our properties, informing our targeted investment in safety safety, community, appearance, environment and employee critical systems for fire, gas, water hygiene as well as expanding wellbeing.
CCS has invited Unite Students to become a our planned preventative maintenance.
client partner in order to promote best practice at client level.
68 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information To improve contractor management, we set up a safe During the year, we have also successfully implemented the contractor system, which included a Managing Contractors Construction Design and Management Regulations 2015 e-learning course and robust procedures for managing CDM 2015 Regulations, which will help us identify and reduce contractors at a local level.
risk further at design stage.
We expanded our job specific safety training with safety PRIORITIES FOR 2016 development plans and a job related training matrix.
During 2016, we plan to develop and implement a health and Senior executives attended an Institution of Occupational safety management system based on HSG65, a Health and Safety and Health IOSH course to refresh director responsibilities Safety Executive HSE approach to safety management which on health and safety compliance.
takes a plan, do, check, act approach.
This helps ensure safety management is an integral part of good management generally, Our number of reportable injuries under the Reporting of rather than a stand-alone item.
We will also refresh the Group H&S Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations policy to identify areas for improvement.
Particular attention will 2013 RIDDOR has remained low with four in 2015, comprising be on policies for student security, safeguarding and emergency three employees and one visitor being injured.
Development construction We are also looking to develop further engagement with the fire In our development and construction activity, our performance is authorities across the country, conscious that fire is our biggest within our Unite Students internal benchmarks 0.3 for reportable safety risk in our operating properties.
and 5.0 for non-reportable, beating the industry standard.
Our KPI formula is calculated as No.
of accidents x 100,000 man In our property development and construction activity, 2016s hours.
After 1,167,608 man hours in 2015, we had zero reportable focus will be on continuous improvement.
In particular, a focus accidents across our seven schemes and a KPI of 2.06 for on construction site housekeeping and tidiness.
This was the main non-reportable accidents.
cause of slips and trips during 2015 leading to the non-reportable accidents mentioned above and we will introduce a specific KPI TOTAL REPORTABLE INCIDENTS IN 2015 for site housekeeping to drive improvement in performance.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
