CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT As at 23 February 2016 the Company had received notifications CHANGE OF CONTROL from the following companies and institutions of the voting All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating interests of themselves and their clients in 3% or more of the to a change of control.
Outstanding rewards and options would issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, Percentage of subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Other Shareholder share capital than certain of the Groups banking facilities, there are no other 1.
BlackRock Inc 7.74 significant agreements to which the Company is a party that affect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the 2.
FMR LLC 6.73 Company following a takeover bid.
APG Asset Management NV 5.75 agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 4.
Old Mutual Plc 5.32 employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Aberdeen Asset Management Group 4.61 Following a change of control of the Company, the convertible 6.
Principal Financial Group 4.20 bonds issued by Unite Jersey Issuer Limited and announced on 7.
Franklin Resources Inc 3.92 3 October 2014 become redeemable and or convertible into ordinary shares of the Company at the option of the holder.
Royal London Asset Management 3.18 The Directors have no authority to buy-back the Companys 9.
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd UK 2.96 Details of proposals to be put to the annual general meeting in relation to the powers of Directors to allot shares in the Company SHARE CAPITAL are set out under the heading Annual General Meeting.
At the date of this report, there are 221,940,849 ordinary shares of 25p each in issue, all of which are fully paid-up and quoted GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT on the London Stock Exchange.
The going concern statement and viability statement is set out During the year and through to the date of this report, a total on pages 62 and 30 respectively and is incorporated into this of 53,995 ordinary shares of 25p each were allotted and issued Directors Report by reference.
pursuant to the exercise of options under The UNITE Group plc DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS savings related share option scheme and a total of 207,725 The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the ordinary shares of 25p each were allotted and issued pursuant Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, to the exercise of options under the approved scheme.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself Companys articles of association.
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or voting rights of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST may be imposed by law from time to time or as set out in the The Company has procedures in place for managing conflicts Companys articles of association.
A Director is to notify the Chairman and the Chairman notify the Chief Executive if they become aware that they, or any The Company is not aware of any agreements between of their connected parties, may have an interest in an existing or shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of proposed transaction with the Company or the Group.
Directors securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in have a continuing duty to update any changes to these conflicts.
the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary, POLITICAL DONATIONS the Companys articles of association may be amended by No political donations were made during the year ending special resolution of the shareholders.
90 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information Resolution 14 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to OTHER INFORMATION INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE approve the appointment of Mr Patrick Dempsey as a Director The following information in the Strategic Report is incorporated of the Company.
From March 2004 until February 2015, Patrick into this Directors Report by reference: was managing director of Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants.
He also sat as an executive director on the Board of Whitbread PLC, Results and dividend Page 1 a FTSE50 company and the UKs largest hospitality company, Post balance sheet events Page 102 between January 2009 and February 2015.
During his time with Whitbread, he oversaw the rapid growth of Premier Inn to an Greenhouse gas emissions Page 45 estate of approximately 700 hotels and 60,000 rooms.
Including Financial instruments and his time at Whitbread, he has worked for more than 30 years in financial risk management Page 34 the hotel and restaurant business, and has held posts including Chief Executive of Macdonald Hotels, managing director of Forte Employment relations Hotels UK and Chief Executive of Restaurant Associates, part of and equal opportunities Page 48 Compass Group plc.
Patrick was awarded an OBE in the 2012 Employment of disabled Queens Honours list for his services to the hospitality industry.
His persons Employee involvement Page 48 experience and knowledge of running and growing large service orientated brands will strengthen the expertise of the Board.
The The Corporate Governance statement on pages 50 to 89 Board determined him to be independent on appointment for and the statement of directors responsibilities on page 93 the purposes of the Corporate Governance Code and has are incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
approved the resolution to appoint Patrick as Director of the Company with effect from 1 March 2016.
The Board considers MANAGEMENT REPORT his appointment to be in the best interests of the Company This Directors report together with the strategic report and other and its shareholders as a whole and therefore unanimously sections from the annual report form the Management Report recommends his election.
8 R. Resolution 19 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the Directors authority to allot shares in the Company, and grant The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 am on 12 May Company, up to an aggregate of nominal value of 18,495,071 2016.
Formal notice of the meeting is given on pages 154 to 159. representing approximately one-third of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report.
In accordance In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, Resolution 2 with guidelines issued by the Investment Association, this will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to approve a new resolution also grants the Directors authority to allot further Directors remuneration policy as set out on pages 72 to 79 equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 18,495,071, inclusive.
The rationale for this is explained in the annual again representing approximately one-third of the nominal value statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the pages 70 to 71.
Related to this, Resolutions 17 and 18 propose date of this report.
This additional authority may only be applied ordinary resolutions to amend the rules of the Unite Group plc to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
2011 performance share plan the PSP and the Unite Group plc 2011 approved employee share option scheme the ESOS, Resolution 20 will be proposed as a Special Resolution to authorise each of which was approved by shareholders at the Annual the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other than in General Meeting on 19 May 2011.
As explained in the letter from accordance with statutory pre-emption rights which require the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on pages 70 to 71, a company to offer all allotments for cash first to existing the Remuneration Committee has, during 2015, consulted with shareholders in proportion to their holdings, in respect of the shareholders on changes to the Companys remuneration policy.
allotment of shares in connection with any rights issue or other Consequently, in addition to seeking an extension to the term of issue by way of rights and otherwise up to an aggregate nominal the PSP and the ESOS for an additional period of ten years from amount of 2,774,261 representing approximately 5% of the the date of the AGM, the Committee proposes to make the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report following amendments: for general purposes plus an additional 2,774,261 representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company to increase the individual limit under the PSP to provide for as at the date of this report in connection with an acquisition awards in any financial year of up to 200% of annual base or specified capital investment.
salary, or where the Committee determines that there are exceptional circumstances, up to 300% of annual base salary to introduce into both the PSP and ESOS the ability to impose a holding period on options and awards during which options may not be exercised or shares be sold following vesting to allow the Committee to apply claw-back to an option or award under the PSP and ESOS in the case of a misstatement of financial results, an error in calculating the awards vesting outcome or in the event of the participants misconduct.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED This disapplication authority is in line with institutional shareholder guidance, and in particular with the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles the Pre-emption Principles.
The Pre-emption Principles were revised in 2015 to allow the authority for an issue of shares for cash otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer to be increased from 5% to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, provided that the Company confirms that it intends to use the additional 5% authority only in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
The Board confirms, in accordance with the Pre-emption Principles, that to the extent that this authority is used for an issue of ordinary shares with a nominal value in excess of 2,774,261 that is 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this report it intends that it will only be used in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with the issue, or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue.
The Board also confirms, in accordance with the Pre-emption Principles, that it does not intend to issue shares for cash representing more than 7.5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital in any rolling three-year period other than to existing shareholders, save as permitted in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment as described above, without prior consultation with shareholders.
The Board has no current intention of exercising either of the authorities conferred by the above resolutions.
Unless revoked, varied or extended, those authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date following 15 months from the passing of the resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations, increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2014, shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Resolution 21 seeks the approval of shareholders to renew the authority to be able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
The flexibility offered by Resolution 21 will be used where, taking into account the circumstances, the Directors consider this appropriate in relation to the business of the meeting and in the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
The Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholders Rights Regulations before calling a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
By order of the Board CHRISTOPHER SZPOJNAROWICZ Company Secretary 23 February 2016 92 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
