STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED DEVELOPING PEOPLE GENDER DIVERSITY We are focused on creating an engaging environment that All employees enables our people and the organisation to perform to their 643 n Male best.
We aim to help our employees reach their potential in a fair, safe and rewarding environment whilst acknowledging n Female 610 and supporting them through any life changes.
This means complying with all relevant legislation, respecting employees human rights and any protected characteristics including disability, encouraging a diverse yet inclusive workforce, providing fair pay and remuneration and opportunities Senior managers to develop.
Operations and Property boards and their direct reports We are proud to have achieved Investors in People IIP Gold n Male 36 accreditation, recognising our commitment to supporting and developing our employees.
n Female 10 UNITE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION POLICY Unite values diversity and it is our aim that Unite Students will be Group Board recognised as one of the best places to work in the UK, through Chairman, Executive and the creation of a truly diverse, inclusive and representative Non-Executive Directors workforce.
We recognise that all conditions of employment should primarily meet the needs of the business, but also that 7 n Male those who work in it, regardless of any protected characteristics, n Female 2 including disability, should have the right to be free from harassment and bullying of any description, or any other form of unwanted behaviour described in the Equality Act 2010.
BUILDING COMMUNITIES We aim to ensure equality of opportunity in all of our activities This year Unite Students has focused its attention on developing including recruitment and promotion, as Unite opposes and the great foundation that has already been established around will challenge all forms of discrimination.
its community work through further investment and support in HUMAN RIGHTS this area.
Unite believes that human rights are universal and recognises CHARITY SUPPORT that the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights set In addition to providing ongoing support to the Unite Foundation a standard of conduct expected of companies.
We do our best and three further charitable organisations: Into University: Enactus to ensure that everyone involved or associated with our business UK and LandAid, we have also launched a Charity of the Year is protected, treated fairly and subject to our Anti Bribery and scheme which has seen the nomination of a national partner, Corruption Policies, Health and Safety Policy, and various HR Sport Relief, and in addition 22 City Charities of the Year which policies including those covering data protection, disciplinary, our local teams fundraise for.
We also continue to support Cancer performance management, flexible working, grievance, leave, Research UK as our stock donation partner, and are delighted equality and diversity.
that for the academic year 2015 16 we were able to donate more LIVING WAGE than 120,000s worth of stock to the charity.
Combined with our In March 2015 we delivered our commitment to paying all our other charitable giving activity, this has helped us achieve an employees the Living Wage or above, and in November 2015 overall fundraising figure of over 300,000 for 2015.
Unite became an accredited Living Wage employer.
As a VOLUNTEERING responsible employer, its important to us that we pay our In addition to this activity, this year also saw the launch of our employees fairly, and by making this commitment, were not first ever volunteering scheme.
Following a successful trial in April, just investing in our own people, but were also taking an active the initiative was rolled out nationally.
This allowed all employees role in helping to raise living standards across the UK.
to have the opportunity to take a day out of the business to volunteer with a local organisation during the month of November.
34 charities hosted more than 200 Unite Student employees across a host of opportunities, including some skills matched volunteering equating to a value of over 35,000 worth of time volunteered for the organisations we worked with.
48 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
