Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 76 Corporate governance and Directors reports Board of Directors L-R Geoffrey Green Navin Agarwal Anil Agarwal Tom Albanese Euan Macdonald Deepak Parekh Aman Mehta Katya Zotova Committee membership key Audit Committee Nominations Committee Sustainability Committee Remuneration Committee Anil Agarwal, 62 Navin Agarwal, 54 Tom Albanese, 57 Aman Mehta, 68 Executive Chairman Executive Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience and Non-Executive Director MrAgarwal founded the Group MrAgarwal has over 25 MrAlbanese is the Companys Background and experience in 1976 and has over three years of senior management Chief Executive Officer, Chairman MrMehta is currently a Nondecades of entrepreneurial experience within the Group and of the Executive Committee, Executive Director of Jet Airways and mining experience.
He is currently the Chairman of the Chief Executive Officer of India Limited, Tata Consultancy has helped to shape the Companys principal subsidiary Vedanta Limited and Chairman Services Limited, PCCW Limited, Groups strategic vision and Vedanta Limited and Cairn India of Konkola Copper Mines plc.
He Wockhardt Limited, Max India under his leadership, Vedanta Limited.
He is the Chairman of is responsible for implementing Limited, Godrej Consumer has grown from an Indian the Groups Human Resources the strategy set by the Board to Products Limited and Cairn India domestic miner into a global Advisory Committee and has deliver growth of the business Limited.
He is also a member of natural resources group with a championed personnel training through sustained operational the Board of Governors of the world class portfolio of large, and development initiatives excellence within a safe, zero Indian School of Business in diversified, structurally low-cost to grow the talent pipeline for harm environment.
MrMehta had assets which are capable of senior management succession is also a non-executive director an long career spanning over generating strong cash flow.
He of Franco-Nevada Corporation, three decades at Hong Kong and has also been instrumental a Toronto-based gold and Shanghai Banking Corporation MrAgarwal is also a director of in promoting a culture of metal streaming company.
HSBC where he held a number Sterlite Technologies Limited, continuous improvement of executive positions such as Conclave PTC Limited and the in business processes and Prior to joining Vedanta, chairman and chief executive Anil Agarwal Foundation.
nurtured the Management MrAlbanese was chief executive officer of HSBC USA Inc, deputy Assurance practice across the officer of Rio Tinto plc from 2007- chairman of HSBC Bank, Middle Date of appointment Group.
He is a member of the 2013, having joined Rio Tinto East and chief executive officer MrAgarwal was appointed to the Procurement, Marketing and in 1993 on its acquisition of US of HSBC Asia Pacific, a position Board in May 2003 and became Sustainable Development and energy company, Nerco Minerals, he held until his retirement.
He the Executive Chairman in March Communications Advisory where he was chief operating was also previously a non- 2005.
MrAgarwal is Chairman of Committees.
At Rio executive director of MGF Emaar the Nominations Committee.
was formerly the Chairman Tinto plc, he held a series of Limited, ING Group N. V. and a of the Executive Committee management positions including director of the Indian Council until 31 August 2013. overseeing the acquisition and for research on international integration of North Limited economic relations.
MrMehta Date of appointment into the groups operations, has a degree in economics MrAgarwal was appointed to chief executive of the Industrial from Delhi University.
His strong the Board in November 2004 Minerals group in 2000, and chief financial background and global and became the Executive executive of the copper group executive experience have Vice Chairman in June 2005. and head of exploration in 2004. been beneficial in providing MrAlbanese has also previously effective oversight through served on the Boards of Ivanhoe rigorous challenge to the Board Mines Limited, Palabora Mining and the Audit Committee.
Company and Turquoise Hill Resources Limited.
He holds a Date of appointment bachelors degree in mineral MrMehta was appointed economics and a masters to the Board in November degree in mining engineering 2004 and is Chairman of from the University of Alaska.
Date of appointment MrAlbanese was appointed to the Board in April 2014.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 77 Euan Macdonald, 75 Geoffrey Green, 65 Deepak Parekh, 71 Ekaterina Katya Zotova, 37 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience MrMacdonald has extensive MrGreen was a partner of a MrParekh is the chairman of Ms Zotova has a wide range of corporate and financial leading international law firm, Housing Development Finance commercial experience in the oil knowledge having previously Ashurst LLP from 1983 to 2013 Corporation, Indias leading & gas industry including strategy, spent over 20 years with and served as Ashursts senior financial services conglomerate portfolio management, finance SG Warburg, specialising in partner and chairman of its with a presence in banking, asset and mergers and acquisitions.
From management board for 10 years management, life insurance, She is currently a Principal at 1995 to 1999, MrMacdonald until 2008.
He was subsequently general insurance, real estate, L1 Energy LLP, previously called was chairman of SBC Warburg appointed as head of the firms venture funds and education Pamplona Global Energy Fund.
India, responsible for the banks expanding Asian practice from loans.
He is the non-executive Prior to this, Ms Zotova was Head activities in India, and from 1999 2009 to 2013, based in Hong chairman of GlaxoSmithkline of International Acquisitions to 2001 he was executive vice Kong.
MrGreen is currently also Pharmaceuticals and Siemens, and Divestments for Citigroups chairman of HSBC Securities the non-executive chairman of in India.
MrParekh also oil and gas division focusing and Capital Markets, India.
As the Financial Reporting Review serves as a director on the on oil majors and national Chairman of the Remuneration Panel, one of the main subsidiary Boards of Exide, Mahindra & oil companies.
She has also Committee, MrMacdonald led bodies of the Financial Reporting Mahindra, Indian Hotels and previously held a variety of the successful consultation Council.
MrGreen has a wealth the international Board of DP upstream commercial roles with the Companys major of knowledge in respect of World in the UAE.
In addition, during a 14 year career at Royal shareholders on executive the UK corporate governance, he is on the advisory boards of Dutch Shell including Head remuneration to better regulatory and strategic several Indian and multinational of Portfolio Management for understand and address matters, having been a legal corporations.
He has adviser to several major UK listed was the first international has a summa cum laude degree a degree in economics from companies and their boards on recipient of the Institute of in finance and management Cambridge University and a a wide variety of corporate and Chartered Accounts in England from the Academy of National masters degree in finance and governance issues.
He has a and Wales outstanding Economy in Moscow and international business from degree in law from Cambridge achievement award in 2010. an MBA from Rotterdam Columbia Business School.
University and qualified as School of Management a solicitor at Ashurst LLP.
Date of appointment Columbia Business School.
Date of appointment MrParekh joined the MrMacdonald was appointed to Date of appointment Board in June 2013.
Date of appointment the Board in March 2005 and is MrGreen joined the Ms Zotova joined the Chairman of the Sustainability Board in August 2012.
Board in August 2014. and Remuneration Committees.
