Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 78 Corporate governance and Directors reports Executive Committee Tarun Jain Roma Balwani The Executive Committee Director of Finance and Whole Time President-Group Communications, oversees the Groups operations Director, Vedanta Limited formerly Sesa Sustainability and Corporate Sterlite Limited SocialResponsibility and implementation of the MrJain joined the Group in 1984 and has Ms Balwani was appointed as Presidentstrategic initiatives which are over 30 years of executive experience in Group Communications, Sustainability and set by the Board.
It is led by finance, accountancy, audit, taxation and Corporate Social Responsibility in April 2014. corporate governance.
He is responsible for She has a rich and diverse experience with a MrAlbanese and comprises of corporate finance, business development career spanning over 30 years at Mahindra the Executive Vice Chairman and mergers and acquisitions at Vedanta & Mahindra and Aptech.
MrJain is a graduate of the the Group, she was Chief Communications and the following members of Institute of Cost and Works Accountants Officer at Mahindra & Mahindra Limited.
Ms senior management: of India and a fellow of the Institute of Balwani has received several prestigious Chartered Accountants of India and the communications related accolades and was Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
the first Indian to receive the SABRE Award for outstanding individual achievement.
DD Jalan She is a member of the global advisory Chief Financial Officer and Whole Time committee of the World Communication Director, Vedanta Limited Forum at Davos, the PR Committee of MrJalan has over 36 years of senior the Bombay Chamber of Commerce management experience covering and Industry and the Association of business improvement, corporate finance, Business Communicators of India.
accountancy, audit, taxation, corporate governance andlegal matters.
Prior to Mukesh Bhavnani joining the Group in 2001, he was Executive Group Legal Counsel and Chief Joint President of Birla Copper at the Aditya ComplianceOfficer Birla Group.
He is a fellow of the Institute MrBhavnani was appointed as Group of Chartered Accountants of India.
Legal Counsel and Head of Compliance in April 2015.
Prior to joining the Group, he Mayank Ashar was Group General Counsel and Company Managing Director and Chief Executive Secretary at Bharti Enterprises.
He has over Officer of Cairn India Limited Cairn India 37 years of senior management experience MrAshar was appointed as the Managing in legal, compliance, company secretarial Director and Chief Executive Officer of and corporate affairs within organisations Cairn India in November 2014.
He has including Essar Group, Sony Entertainment, a wealth of experience spanning over Max New York Life and Coca Cola India.
36 years in the international oil & gas industry.
He has previously held various Steven Din senior management and top leadership Chief Executive Officer and Whole Time roles in global organisations such as British Director, Konkola Copper Mines KCM Petroleum, Petro-Canada and Suncor MrDin was appointed Chief Executive Officer Energy and was formerly President of Irving of KCM in May 2014.
He has over 20 years of Oil Limited.
During his career, MrAshar has experience in the natural resources industry, helped to deliver industry-leading business with over 15 years of African mining and results and demonstrated expertise oil & gas experience.
Prior to joining the in driving strategic growth, delivering Group, MrDin was chief executive officer of operational efficiency and executing large, minerals for Essar in Zimbabwe.
He was also complex capital intensive projects.
In previously managing director of Strategic recognition of his operational excellence Projects for Rio Tinto in Senegal, chief and large scale project management financial officer of Palabora Copper Mines leadership in the oil sands with Suncor in South Africa and managing director and Energy, MrAshar was named as the president of Rio Tinto Simandou in Guinea.
Operations Executive of the Year by the Canadian Business Magazine in 2003.
He has a masters in engineering and an MBA from the University of Toronto, Canada.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 79 Dilip Golani Rajesh Padmanabhan M Siddiqi Director, Management Assurance President and Group Chief Human Group Director, Projects MrGolani currently heads the Groups Resources Officer MrSiddiqi joined the Group in 1991 Management Assurance function, a position MrPadmanabhan was appointed in June and rising through several operational he had also previously held from April 2000 2014 to spearhead the Groups human roles, he led the set-up of the Groups to July 2004.
MrGolani has over 25 years of resources function.
His responsibilities large aluminium and power projects experience and previously headed the Sales include driving the Groups people including BALCO smelters and captive and Marketing function at Hindustan Zinc strategy and transformation, leadership power plants.
He also played a key role in and the Group Performance Management building, talent management, capability setting up the copper smelter at Tuticorin function from August 2004 to November building, total rewards and performance and copper refinery at Silvassa.
Prior to joining the Group in April 2000, management.
Prior to joining the Group, his appointment as Group Director of MrGolani was responsible for managing he was the Chief Human Resources Projects he was chief executive officer of the Operations and Marketing functions for Officer for Capgemini India since 2010. the Groups Aluminium division.
Prior to one of the export businesses of Unilever MrPadmanabhan has over three decades joining the Group, MrSiddiqi held senior India.
MrGolani has a degree in mechanical of global industry experience in finance, positions in Hindustan Copper Limited.
He engineering and a post graduate degree in systems and human resources in has over 38 years of industry experience.
companies like Patni Computer Systems, MrSiddiqi has a mechanical engineering The Oberoi Group, Essel Propack, and the degree from the Indian Institute of Akhilesh Joshi ICICI group in a variety of roles.
He has Technology, New Delhi and a PG Diploma Chief Executive Officer and Whole Time a double masters in finance and human in Management from AIMA, New Delhi.
Director, Hindustan Zinc Limited HZL resources from the University of Mumbai.
MrJoshi joined Hindustan Zinc Ltd in 1976 and was appointed as Chief Executive Abhijit Pati Officer and Whole Time Director of HZL in Chief Executive Officer, Aluminium February 2012.
In October 2008, he became MrPati was appointed as Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer and Whole Time Officer of the Groups aluminum business Director of HZL.
Prior to this, he was the in March 2015 and is responsible for the Senior Vice President Mines, responsible Jharsuguda Smelters, Lanjigarh Alumina for the overall operations at all mining units.
He joined the Group in MrJoshi has a Mining Engineering degree 2008 and, with his wealth of knowledge from MBM Engineering College, Jodhpur over 26 years in the industry, has been and a Post Graduate Diploma in Economic a significant driver of Jharsugudas Evaluation of Mining Projects from School growth.
MrPati is a graduate chemical of Mines, Paris.
He also has a first class engineer from the University of Calcutta Mine Managers Certificate of Competency.
and holds an MBA from IMI Delhi.
He has received several prestigious awards for his outstanding contribution Sushil Kumar Roongta in the field of mining technology and Managing Director of Aluminium & Power non-ferrous metal sector in India.
MrRoongta is currently responsible for Vedantas aluminium and power business.
Rajagopal Kishore Kumar Prior to joining the Group, MrRoongta Chief Executive Officer, Iron Ore worked with the Steel Authority of MrKumar joined the Group in April 2003 India for almost four decades, before and has held various executive roles being appointed as its Commercial including Chief Executive Officer of Sterlite Director in 2004 and later as chairman Copper from 2007 to 2008, Chief Executive of its board in August 2006.
He is also an Officer of KCM from 2008 to 2011, Chief independent director on the Boards of ACC Executive Officer of Zinc International from Limited, Jubilant Industries Limited and 2011-2013 and Chief Executive Officer, chairperson of the Board of Governors, IIT, Africa Base Metals from 2013 to 2015.
MrRoongta has a bachelors He was appointed as Chief Executive degree in engineering and a post graduate Officer of the Groups Iron Ore businesses diploma in business management in with effect from February 2015 and is International Trade.
MrRoongta is due leading the revival of profitable, low cost to retire from the Group in June 2015 iron ore mining operations in Goa and following a long and successful career.
Karnataka as well as developing the Liberian Project.
MrKumar has nearly 30 years of experience and expertise in accountancy, commerce, marketing, supply chain management, mergers and acquisitions and human capital development.
Prior to joining the Group, MrKumar worked at Hindustan Lever Limited for 12 years.
