Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 06 Strategic report We are Vedanta Essential to transforming India In 2014, the Indian Government launched a major national campaign, Make in India, to encourage companies to manufacture in India.
The initiative is focused on 25 sectors of the economy and aims to create jobs and enhance skills.
Aluminium Iron Ore Due to aluminiums light weight and low cost, the metal is increasingly used in residences, buildings, automobiles and appliances.
Aluminium demand is increasing Iron ore, a key ingredient in steel in India, boosted by increased making, is expected to benefit investment in infrastructure, power from increased demand in India and transportation.
In addition to as a result of higher consumption aluminium ingots, Vedanta also of consumer durables and the produces a wide range of valueGovernments target to increase added products and aluminium steel production to 300mt by alloys with huge potential in 2025 to match Indias growing aerospace and defence industries.
Vedanta has large iron ore mines in Goa and see page 68 Karnataka and a pig iron plant in Goa.
It is a major supplier to the domestic market with the Goa iron ore mine also serving the Chinese and Japanese export markets.
mt see page 60 0.9 Aluminium produced by Vedantas aluminium smelters mt 3 91 Iron ore reserves & resources atVedantas mines Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 07 Power The availability of power in India is increasing, but demand outstrips supply leading to a substantial power shortage.
Around 280 million people in India do not have basic electricity connections and the Government aims to supply power to all homes by 2019.
Vedanta is one of Indias largest private power generators.
see page 72 GW 8.7 Power generation capacity at Vedanta http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 08 Strategic report We are Vedanta Essential to transforming India The new Indian Government has a mandate for economic growth and job creation.
As a local resources company Vedanta can play a key role in supporting these Government initiatives.
Zinc Galvanising accounts for more than 75% of zinc demand in India.
The Indian Governments focus on infrastructure projects such as upgrading railway stations, building new airports and roads: developing 100 smart cities: rural electrification projects and investment in transmission corridors will all boost the countrys zinc requirements.
Vedanta is the leading producer of zinc in India with a 78% share in the domestic market.
see page 54 % 78 Vedantas share in Indias domestic zinc market Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 09 Oil & Gas Copper Oil & Gas contributes to approximately 37% of Indias primary energy consumption and the demand continues to rise, with 77% of requirement being imported.
Vedanta produced 27% of Indias domestic crude oil in FY2015 and is well-positioned to reduce the countrys energy import burden.
Copper demand in India is expected see page 50 to grow at 9%10%, ahead of economic growth in India.
Vedanta can contribute by ensuring availability of the right quality of copper to the manufacturing % sector.
Currently Vedanta not only serves over 800 small and 27 medium enterprises SMEs in the downstream industry for the Indias domestic crude oil produced byVedanta critical electrical sector, but is also the major supplier of copper to the countrys defence sector.
see page 64 80 0 SMEs in India are supplied copper by Vedanta http: .
