Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 20 Strategic report We are Vedanta Business model What we do and how we add value Vedanta operates across the value chain, We focus on maximising returns from our undertaking exploration, asset development, long-life, low cost, scalable assets where we extraction, processing and value addition with are now delivering strong free cash flows from a primary focus on upstream operations.
We are committed capitalise on our strategic capabilities to create to sustainable development in all aspects of our value for all our stakeholders: our shareholders: business with a well-developed sustainability our employees: our customers: our lenders and framework which underpins everything that we do.
the communities where we operate.
Vedanta develops We develop world class We invest in growing our Value and operates world existing assets and have assets, investing in the latest technology, productivity an excellent track record class assets, Generation of extending mine and and focusing on continuous generating and improvement to optimise reservoir life wherever sharing sustainable, possible.
costs and enhance access to market.
long-term value for all its stakeholders across the resource lifecycle.
Exploration and appraisal Asset development We invest in local Growing our assets Licence to infrastructure and water generates direct and indirect supplies to the benefit of employment through operate local businesses and sourcing of local labour, communities.
see page 38 see page 42 Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 21 We operate low cost We focus on operational We manage our long-life mines and oil & gas fields, excellence and high asset mines and assets to deliver capitalising on our diverse utilisation to deliver top value across the life cycle portfolio to optimise quartile cost performance and return them back to a production across and strong cash flow, natural state after the end of commodity cycles, and selectively converting some their useful life.
capitalise on our strong of our primary metals into position in India and our higher margin products proximity to emerging such as sheets, rods, bars, markets.
and rolled products in our aluminium, copper and zinc businesses.
Extraction Processing and End of life value addition restoration Moving into full production generates value for all stakeholders: We work closely with local communities and regional We provide personal development, training and healthcare governments to rehabilitate for employees our mines and restore the We invest in community initiatives around our assets natural habitat.
We initiate environmental projects to minimise the impact see page 40 of our operations and increase bio-diversity We develop close relationships with customers and suppliers We generate a consistent dividend stream for shareholders and significant tax contributions to host governments http: .
