Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 116 Corporate governance and Directors reports The Directors report Purpose of the Directors report Total The Directors are pleased to present their annual report on the FY2014-15 GHG GHG Emission Revenue Intensity business of the Group, together with the financial statements and Sector Scope 1 and 2 US$ million Ratio auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Zinc India 4,935,029 2,357 2,093.78 Zinc International 751,974 587 1,281.05 The purpose of the Directors report is to provide shareholders with certain statutory information about the Company, its Directors and Copper India Australia 1,295,307 3,701 349.99 operations.
The strategic report informs shareholders and helps Copper Zambia 113,057 1,077 104.97 them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to Aluminium 20,033,927 2,082 9,622.44 promote the success of the Company.
In addition, as a company Power 8,995,487 672 13,386.14 listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is required to provide Oil & Gas 1,287,700 2,398 536.99 information which includes amongst other things, details of the Iron Ore 2,443,977 327 7,473.94 Companys share capital, voting rights, rules on Directors appointments and significant agreements that alter on change of Total 39,856,457 13,201 3,019.20 control.
Dividends Strategic report The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 The strategic report has been prepared in accordance with the March 2015 of 40.0 US cents per ordinary share 2014: 39.0 US cents Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to set out a fair per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholders approving this review of the business of the Group during the financial year, recommendation at the Annual General Meeting on 3 August 2015, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the the final dividend will be paid on 12 August 2015 to shareholders on financial year and the trends and factors likely to affect the future the register of members as at 10 July 2015. development, performance and position of the business.
The strategic report can be found on pages 1 to 75.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 23 US cents per ordinary share paid to shareholders on 22 December 2014, the total dividend Corporate governance for the year is 63.0 US cents per ordinary share 2014: 61.0 US cents In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and per ordinary share.
7 may be found in the Corporate Governance Directors Report on pages 80 to 115.
The Corporate Governance Report is The names, date of appointment, specific responsibilities and incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
Information biographical details of the Companys current Board of Directors are referred to in DTR7.2.
6 is located in this Directors report.
shown on pages 76 to 77 and details of the Directors who held office during the year ended 31 March 2015 are shown in the Corporate The strategic report and other sections of this annual report contain Governance Report on page 87.
Details of the remuneration of the forward looking statements.
By their nature, forward looking Directors, their interests in the shares of the Company and service statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to contracts are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in pages 103 to 115. the future and may be beyond the Companys ability to control or predict.
Forward looking statements and past performance are Appointment and replacement of Directors therefore not guarantees of future performance.
The information The Companys Articles of Association the Articles specify that the contained in the strategic report has been prepared on the basis of minimum number of Directors of the Company, unless determined information and knowledge available to the Directors at the date of by ordinary resolution, shall be two.
There is no limit on the preparation and the Company does not undertake to update or maximum number of Directors.
The Company or the Board may revise the content during the year ahead.
appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next general meeting and is Review of business, future developments and important post then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Articles specify balance sheet events that at least one-third of the Directors, or if their number is not three A review of the business and future developments of the Group is or multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third, shall retire presented in the strategic report.
Events since the balance sheet from office at every Annual General Meeting.
The Directors to retire date are summarised in Note 43 on page 198 of the financial by rotation are those who have been longest in office since statements.
However, in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and Disclosures required in respect carbon dioxide emissions may also being eligible will offer themselves for re-election.
be found in the strategic report on page 39.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is to be managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 117 Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnities Amendments to the Articles The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance for its The Companys Articles may be amended only by special resolution Directors and officers and those of the subsidiaries of the Group, as passed by the Companys shareholders.
permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or Share capital dishonestly.
The Company believes that it is appropriate to provide As at 31 March 2015 the issued share capital of the Company was such cover to protect Directors from innocent error as the Directors comprised of 299,868,180 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each and carry significant liability under criminal and civil law and under the 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each.
UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and deferred In addition the Companys Articles contain an indemnity provision in shares are set out in the Articles.
Details of the authorised and favour of the Directors against proceedings brought by third parties, issued share capital together with movements in the Companys subject to the Companies Act 2006, to allow the Company to pay issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 35 of the legal defence costs for the Director where the Director is exonerated.
Employees 6,904,995 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each were issued on the Information on the Groups employees and its policies with respect conversion of certain convertible bonds issued by one of the to employees can be found in the Sustainable Development Report Companys subsidiaries.
These 6,904,995 ordinary shares are held on page 42. through a global depository receipt and carry no voting rights.
Apart from the above, each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at Political donations general meetings of the Company.
Holders of deferred shares are It is the Boards policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its subsidiary not entitled to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting of the companies outside India may, under any circumstances, make Company, nor are they entitled to the payment of any dividend or to donations or contributions to political organisations.
Subsidiaries in receive notice of general meetings.
India may make political donations or contributions as this is customary in India and permitted under local legislation.
In Further details of the rights attaching to the deferred shares are set exceptional circumstances, if political donations or contributions are out in the Articles and summarised in Note 35 of the financial deemed necessary in the United Kingdom and European Union for statements.
legitimate business reasons, they will not be made without the approval of the Board and shareholders at a general meeting.
Any Variation of rights political donations made in India will be disclosed in the Companys Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to any class annual report.
The Company and its subsidiaries did not make any may be varied with the consent of the holders of three-quarters in political donations during the financial year ended 31 March 2015 nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction 2014: US$3.7 million.
of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
Research and development The Groups business units carry out research and development Deadlines for exercising voting rights activities necessary to further their operations.
Votes may be exercised at general meetings in relation to the business being transacted either in person, by proxy or, in relation to Material shareholdings corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles As at 31 March 2015 and 3 June 2015, the Company had received provide that forms of proxy shall be submitted not less than 48 notifications of control of 3% or more over the Companys total hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or voting rights and capital in issue as set out below: adjourned meeting.
Number Percentage Restrictions on voting and the transfer of shares of ordinary of total No member shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at a Nature of shares of voting 1 Name of holder holding US$0.10 each rights separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share Volcan Investments Limited Indirect 187,488,102 69.76% held by him unless all monies payable by him in respect of that Standard Life Investments share have been fully paid.
Furthermore, no shareholder shall be Holdings Limited Indirect 21,555,376 8.02% entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of that class of 1 The voting rights at 31 March 2015 were 268,756,369 ordinary shares net of treasury shares or on a poll if he has been served with a notice after failing to shares and shares held in Global Depositary Receipt.
provide the Company with information concerning interests in his shares that is required to be provided under the Act.
Articles of Association, share capital and voting rights The following description summarises certain provisions in the Companys articles of association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Act or the Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
Copies of the Companys current Articles are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
They are also available from Companies House and the Companys website at www.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 118 Corporate governance and Directors reports The Directors report continued With the exception of restrictions on the transfer of unpaid shares Purchase of the Companys own shares and ordinary shares held under the Companys employee share The Directors had authority, under a shareholders resolution dated incentive plans whilst the shares are subject to the rules of the 1 August 2014, to make market purchases of up to approximately plans, there are no restrictions on the transfer rights attaching 10% of the Companys ordinary shares.
tothe Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in theCompany.
The authority expires at the conclusion of the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting or on 1 October 2015, whichever is the No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights earlier.
A resolution to obtain a further authority will be proposed at with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
During the year the Company did any agreements between holders of securities that may result in not purchase any shares under its previously announced share restrictions in the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Issue of shares As at 31 March 2015, the Company held a total of 24,206,816 The powers of the Companys Directors are subject to relevant ordinary shares in treasury equivalent to 8.07% 2014: 8.12% of the legislation and, in certain circumstances including in relation to the issued share capital.
issue or buying back by the Company of its shares, are subject to authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general Agreements: change of control meeting.
At the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting, There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or shareholders will be asked to renew the Directors authority to allot terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as new securities.
Details are contained in the 2015 Notice of Annual commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, and capital market General Meeting Notice of AGM.
The following are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole: Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company has authority 1 The US$1.25 billion 5.50% guaranteed convertible bonds current under its Articles to allot new shares in the Company.
Such authority outstanding US$1,134.5 million issued in July 2009 and the would be exercised having regard to the Statement of Principles US$883 million 4.0% guaranteed convertible bonds current published by the Pre-emption Group.
outstanding US$8.1 million issued in March 2010, where a change of control gives investors the option to require the issuer to Shares held in uncertificated form redeem their bonds at the principal amount, together with any Subject to the provisions of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations accrued and unpaid interest, or convert their bonds at an 2001, the Board may permit the holding of shares in any class of adjusted exchange price for a certain period following the shares in uncertificated form and the transfer of title to shares in relevant event.
that class by means of a relevant system and may determine that 2 The US$750m 6.75% bonds due in 2016, US$750 million 9.5% any class of shares shall cease to be a participating security.
bonds due 2018, US$1,200 million 6% bonds due in 2019, US$900 million 8.25% bonds due in 2021, US$500 million 7.125% bonds Dividends and distributions due in 2023 where a change of control requires the Company to Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by ordinary make an offer to purchase all of the outstanding bonds at 101% resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the principal amount together with any accrued and unpaid of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount interest with a rating decline.
The Board may pay interim dividends if 3 In the financing arrangements for the acquisition of Cairn India it appears to the Board that they are justified by the profits of the Limited and various other financing facilities entered into by the Company available for distribution.
The treasury shares directly held Group where a change of control gives the majority lenders the by the Company are not entitled to receive a dividend.
right to declare the loans immediately payable.
Dividends may be declared and paid in any currency or currencies All of the Companys employee share incentive plans contain that the Board shall determine.
The Board may also determine the provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and exchange rate and the relevant date for determining the value of options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of the dividend in any currency.
control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions and pro rata reduction as may be applicable under the rules of the Dividend waiver employee share incentive plans.
There have been no arrangements applicable under which a shareholder agreed to waive future dividends during the year ended There are no agreements between the Company and any of its 31 March 2015.
Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 119 Disclosure of information to auditors Going concern In accordance with section 418 of the Act, each Director who held The Group has a strong balance sheet that gives sufficient office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that: headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch are BB, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of Ba1 and BB respectively, with Negative outlook from Standard and which the Companys auditor is unaware: and poors and Stable outlook from both Moodys and Fitch.
These he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as ratings support the necessary financial leverage and access to debt a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit or equity markets at competitive terms, taking into consideration information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware current market conditions.
The Group generally maintains a healthy of that information.
liquidity, gearing ratio and retains flexibility in the financing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
As a consequence, Reappointment of auditors the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its A resolution to reappoint the auditor, Deloitte LLP, will be proposed financing risks.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The reappointment of Deloitte LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee, which will After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation also be responsible for determining the auditors remuneration on that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to behalf of the Board, subject to the approval of shareholders at the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In order to ensure good Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in corporate governance and that the services of the external auditor preparing the annual report and accounts.
remained of the highest quality, the Audit Committee has recommended that the provision of external audit services be put to Annual General Meeting tender in 2015 in respect of the provision of external audit services The 12th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on for the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
As Deloitte LLP has 3August 2015 at 3pm at Ironmongers Hall, Shaftesbury Place, served as the Companys external auditor for over 10 years, in London EC2Y 8AA.
The Notice convening the Annual General accordance with transition provisions of the Competition and Meeting accompanies this annual report and sets out details of the Markets Authority CMA order, Deloitte LLP will resign as the business to be considered thereof.
Companys external auditor following the completion of the external audit of the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2016.
By order of the Board Policy on derivatives and financial instruments Signed on behalf of the Board An explanation of the Groups financial management objectives and policies together with details of the Groups exposure to price risk, Deepak Kumar credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk and foreign currency risk Company Secretary appears in Note 29 to the financial statements.
13 May 2015 Interest capitalisation Vedanta Resources plc The interest capitalised by the Group during the year and treatment 5th Floor, 6 St Andrew Street, of any related tax relief are found in Note 7.
London, EC4A 3AE Share allotments Registered in England Number 4740415 During the year, there have been not been any allotment for cash of equity securities otherwise than to holders of the Companys equity shares and which has not been authorised by the Companys shareholders.
Share placing The Company has not participated in any share placing during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Directors emoluments Details of the Directors emoluments and any waiver is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 110.
Long term incentive scheme Details of the long-term incentive scheme operated by the Company are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 115.
Relationship Agreement with the Companys controlling shareholder Details of the Relationship Agreement between the Company and its controlling shareholder, Volcan Investments Limited are provided on page 88.
During the year, there have been no contracts of significance between the Company or one of its subsidiaries and the controlling shareholder.
