58 Vesuvius plc Section Three Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Responsibility Safety Vesuvius remains strongly committed to protecting employees, contractors and visitors in all areas of activities.
Our goal is: No lost No repeat No harm to our time injuries injuries people or contractors Health and Safety We have extended and intensified our Safety Breakthrough initiative to raise health and safety performance to best-in-class levels throughout the Vesuvius business, with a specific focus on employees based at customer locations.
Our Safety Breakthrough initiative set a goal of: Training employees to work safely More than 30 Turbo.
S training sessions were performed in 2015, involving more than 400 employees from senior executive management to shop floor team management.
S training integrates all Vesuvius good management practices in the workplace, and enables all Vesuvius members to work in a safe environment.
Permit to Work training was launched in the second half of 2015 in Europe with the training of more than 200 managers from maintenance and operations, as well as shop floor group leaders.
This training shares and extends recognised best practices throughout the Group.
Initially the training is being deployed in Europe, before being implemented during the first half of 2016 in all Group facilities including customer locations.
Working safely Ongoing deployment of standardised work has contributed to improved workstation safety.
Daily safety audits have become a pillar of our Safety Breakthrough initiative.
In 2015, more than 75% of our working population has performed safety audits, generating more than 8 improvement opportunities per person, resulting in an improvement in worker safety.
The audit programme involves employees at all levels from the Group Executive Committee and safety specialists through to local site management, employees and contractors.
In addition, the Take 2 initiative has been further applied in 2015 in order to ensure employees think before performing any unusual activity.
For new contracts in customer locations, Vesuvius has developed a formal risk assessment which aims to identify significant risks to our employees and contractors, to enable appropriate control measures to be agreed and implemented with the support of our customer in advance of work commencing.
Lost time injuries per million hours worked 10 8 6 4 2 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 LTIFR target LTIFR 12 month rolling Our Responsibility 59 Working in tidy plants Extended 5S implementation and activities are a major contributor to workplace improvement.
The added support of Vesuvius Lean specialists has been key to improving plant safety by removing hazards for employees and offering a clear, bright and safe working environment.
The daily 5S audit led by team leaders ensures continuous improvement of working conditions and promotes a safer workplace.
Involving accountable management for safety performance Site Safety Improvement Plans have been developed for all production sites with deployment being the direct responsibility of local managers.
Poorly performing sites are expected to share their incident investigation and action plans and formally present their improvement plans to the Group Executive Committee.
Such an approach has proved highly successful in 2015 with the worst performing sites seeing their safety records improving through the year.
All injuries and dangerous occurrences continue to be analysed locally, with a formal presentation of findings, root causes and improvement actions cascaded through management.
In addition, executive safety tours at customer locations have been a new focus during 2015.
Accident and incident reporting and analysis A significant investment in time and resources has been made over recent years to develop robust, comprehensive and timely reporting of incidents including all fires, explosions and any major spill or other chemical releases.
Vesuvius is using more stringent definitions for Lost Time Injuries and severe accidents than the definitions used by the US regulator, the Occupational Health and Safety Administration.
For all Lost Time Injuries and Recordable Incidents Vesuvius has implemented a full investigation based on the 8D problem solving tool to identify the true root causes in order to prevent repeat incidents.
As part of management reporting, the Board receives a monthly update on all Lost Time Injuries and Recordable Incidents.
Safety Performance in 2015 Sadly, in October one of our employees was killed as a result of a road traffic collision when returning to the site of our recently acquired company ECIL, in Brazil.
Our local management and his work colleagues are providing support to his family and colleagues and our sympathies remain with them through these difficult times.
As a consequence we are reviewing our approach to road vehicle safety as driving, particularly in developing countries, is a major risk area.
We continue to work hard at reducing incident severity and develop robust standards and practices aimed at improving the safety and health of our people in all that they do.
External recognition in 2015 of our continued safety focus includes: MASE Certification Manuel dAmlioration Scurit Sant Environnement des Entreprises, a French accreditation for health and safety improvement systems for the Fos sur Mer customer location: Tata Steel Award an award measured against multiple safety parameters and given to the Best Contract Partner in 2015 at Tata Steels iron-making plant at Jamshedpur, India: and OHSAS 18001 recertification for 11 sites.
