Governance 97 Selection of Performance Measures Measures for the Annual Incentive are selected to reflect key strategic aims and the need for a rigorous focus on working capital management.
Each year the Committee will agree challenging targets to ensure that underperformance is not rewarded.
For the Vesuvius Share Plan, at the demerger, Vesuvius stated that the performance measures would be similar to those for the Cookson LTIP, to focus Executive Directors on the execution of long-term strategy and also align their rewards with value created for shareholders.
On this basis, the performance conditions for the Vesuvius performance share awards are based half on TSR performance and half on EPS performance.
The comparator for the TSR performance condition will be reviewed annually to ensure its continuing relevance for the Group.
In 2016 the Committee agreed the continuation of comparison to the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
In respect of the EPS measure, the Committee wished to align the target with the Companys ambitions to grow ahead of end-markets.
As an international company, a global metric was deemed important by the Committee, and in 2013 an EPS target, based upon out-performing global Gross Domestic Product GDP growth was adopted.
This was continued into 2015 with the EPS performance metric being simplified and amended for 2016, as set out on page 88.
Within the policy period, the Committee will continually review the performance conditions used, including EPS and other financial measures, to ensure that awards are made on the basis of challenging targets that clearly support the achievement of the Groups strategic aims.
Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy for 2016 The charts below show the total remuneration for Executive Directors for minimum, on-target and maximum performance.
The fixed elements of remuneration comprise base salary, pension and other benefits, using 2016 salary data.
The assumptions on which they are calculated are as follows: Minimum: Fixed remuneration only.
On-target: Fixed remuneration plus on-target Annual Incentive and threshold vesting i. e. median performance for TSR and threshold for EPS for performance share awards made at 200% of base salary for Franois Wanecq and 125% of base salary for Guy Young under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
Maximum: Fixed remuneration plus maximum Annual Incentive being full achievement of financial and personal targets and 100% vesting for performance share awards made at 200% of base salary for Franois Wanecq and 125% of base salary for Guy Young under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
Remuneration Illustrations 000 Franois Wanecq, Chief Executive Guy Young, CFO Minimum Minimum 100% 803 100% 423 On-target On-target 15% 55% 25% 20% 1,466 61% 687 24% Maximum Maximum 30% 27% 43% 2,720 37% 28% 35% 1,155 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 Fixed elements Annual variable elements Long-term variable elements 98 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Policy continued Recruitment Policy On appointment or promotion of a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically use the above policy to determine ongoing remuneration.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet specific circumstances.
Base salary levels will generally be set in accordance with the policy taking into account the experience and calibre of the appointee.
If it is appropriate to appoint an individual on a base salary initially below what is adjudged to be market positioning, contingent on individual performance, the Committee retains the discretion to realign base salary over the one to three years following appointment, which may result in a higher rate of annualised increase than might otherwise be awarded under the policy.
If the Committee intends to rely on this discretion, it will be noted in the first Annual Directors Remuneration Report following an individuals appointment.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, other elements of annual remuneration will, typically, be set in line with this policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to make the following exceptions: In the event that an internal appointment is made, the Committee may continue with existing remuneration provisions where appropriate If necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment from an international pool of candidates, the Committee may make additional payments linked to relocation, above those outlined in the policy table and would authorise the payment of a relocation allowance and repatriation, as well as other associated international mobility terms.
Such benefits would be set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate for the role and the individuals circumstances: and In order to provide an immediate interest in the Companys performance, the Committee may grant, on recruitment, an award of Performance Shares with a market value of up to 200% of salary under the Vesuvius Share Plan and or an individual award agreement under Listing Rule 9.4.
Performance conditions for any such award will be set in line with the policy and the Committee will determine the vesting period that will apply to such awards at the time of award, taking into account the strategy and business circumstances of Vesuvius.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those for the existing Executive Directors, summarised in the Service contract section below.
In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, the Committee may consider buying out incentive awards that an individual forfeits in accepting an appointment with Vesuvius.
The Committee will have the authority to rely on Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 or to apply the existing limits within the Vesuvius Share Plan to make Restricted Share awards on recruitment.
In making any such awards, the Committee will review the terms of any forfeited awards, including, but not limited to, vesting periods, the expected value of such awards on vesting and the likelihood of the performance targets applicable to such awards being met, while retaining the discretion to make any buyout award the Committee determines is necessary and appropriate.
The Committee may also require the appointee to purchase shares in Vesuvius to a pre-agreed level prior to vesting of any such awards.
The value of any buyout award will be capped, to ensure its maximum value is no higher than the value of the awards that the individual forfeited on joining Vesuvius.
Any such awards will be subject to clawback.
With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, appointment terms will be consistent with those currently adopted.
Variable pay will not be considered.
With respect to Non-executive Directors, fees will be consistent with the policy at the time of appointment.
Governance 99 Exit Payment Policy Vesuvius has the option to make a payment in lieu of part or all of the required notice period for Executive Directors.
Any such payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of benefits to which the Director would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of statutory deductions in each case.
Half of any payments in lieu of notice would be made in a lump sum, the remainder in equal monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the midpoint of their forgone notice period falls and are reduced or extinguished by salary from any role undertaken by the departing Executive in this time.
Executive Directors are subject to certain non-compete covenants for a period of nine months, and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months, following the termination of their employment.
Their service agreements are governed by English law.
Neither of the Executive Directors contracts contains any change of control provisions and they both contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and Vesuvius Share Plan are typically treated in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control.
Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining good leaver status, it typically defines a good leaver in circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be part of the Group.
Final treatment is subject to the Committees discretion.
Event Timing Calculation of vesting payment Annual Incentive Plan Good leaver Paid at the same time as to Annual bonus is paid only to the extent continuing employees that any performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro rated for the proportion of the financial year worked before cessation of employment Bad leaver Not applicable Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus Change of control Paid on the effective date of Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that change of control any performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro rated for the proportion of the financial year worked Vesuvius Share Plan Good leaver On normal vesting date or earlier Unvested awards vest to the extent that any at the Committees discretion performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro rata reduction applies to the value of the awards to take into account the proportion of vesting period not served Bad leaver Unvested awards lapse Unvested awards lapse on cessation of employment 1 Change of control On the date of the event Unvested awards vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not served Note: 1.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that unvested awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan will not vest on a change of control but will instead be replaced by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the Committee retains discretion to settle amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and where the individual must seek independent legal advice.
The Company would pay any amounts to which the departing Director was legally entitled.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
This would only be used where the Committee believed it was in the best interests of the Company to do so.
100 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Policy continued Service Contracts The Committee will periodically review the contractual terms for new Executive Directors to ensure these reflect best practice.
Service contracts currently operate on a rolling basis and are limited to a 12-month notice period.
Franois Wanecq is employed as Chief Executive of Vesuvius pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Cookson Group plc dated 17 October 2012, which was assigned to Vesuvius upon completion of the demerger on 19 December 2012.
Guy Young is employed as Chief Financial Officer pursuant to the terms of a service agreement with Vesuvius plc dated 16 September 2015.
Each Executive Directors appointment is terminable by Vesuvius on not less than 12 months written notice, and by each Executive Director on not less than six months written notice.
Considerations of Conditions elsewhere in the Group in developing policy The Company does not consult directly with employees on Executive Directors remuneration arrangements.
However, the Remuneration Committee will take into account the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees when determining Executive Directors remuneration, particularly when determining base salary increases.
The Remuneration Committee will also obtain information on the remuneration paid for comparable roles at other relevant companies to provide a point of reference for determining Remuneration Policy.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors compared to other employees The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy set out at the beginning of this report which also underpins remuneration for the wider Group.
Remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors draw on the same elements as those for other employees base salary, fixed benefits, and retirement benefits with performance-related pay extending down into the management cadres and beyond.
However, given that remuneration structures for other employees need to reflect both seniority and local market practice, they differ from the policy for Executive Directors.
In particular, Executive Directors receive a higher proportion of their remuneration in performance-related pay and share-based payments and individual percentages of fixed versus variable remuneration and participation in share-based structures decline with seniority.
The process for delivering salary increases on a two to three-year cycle for Executive Directors is also applied to members of the Group Executive Committee and their direct managerial reports.
While all employees receive an annual performance appraisal, other employees continue to receive salary reviews on an annual basis.
As with Executive Directors, middle and senior managers participate in the Annual Incentive Plan.
For operational employees, any potential award is based upon achieving three measures relating to Group performance, business unit performance, and individual achievement of personal objectives.
For functional employees, the award is predominantly based on Group performance, with the remainder awarded against achievement of personal objectives.
The awards for middle and senior managers are also adjusted to reflect the level of performance by the business with regard to its working capital management.
For certain senior and middle managers awards are made under the Vesuvius Medium Term Plan MTP.
Awards under the MTP are based on the same measures and targets as the Annual Incentive Plan for those managers.
Middle managers participate in the MTP at varying percentage levels, with awards being made in cash.
Senior managers have their MTP awards made over Vesuvius shares.
In each case, awards are granted following the end of the relevant financial year.
The MTP share awards vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continuing employment.
From 2014 onwards members of the Group Executive Committee who in 2013 were included in the above MTP in shares will instead participate in the Vesuvius Share Plan and receive awards of Performance Shares, which will vest in accordance with the same measures and targets as those for Executive Directors.
Levels of awards will differ from those of Executive Directors.
Consideration of Shareholder Views Vesuvius is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance matters.
As Chairman of the Committee, Jane Hinkley welcomes shareholder engagement and is available for any discussions investors wish to have on remuneration matters.
During 2015, remuneration matters were discussed at a number of meetings with investors.
The feedback from such meetings is always shared with the Committee and taken into consideration when decisions are made about future remuneration strategy and arrangements.
Governance 101 Shareholding Policy The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least 1x salary.
To this end, Executive Directors will normally be expected to retain at least 50% measured as the value after tax of any Performance Share awards vesting under the Vesuvius Share Plan, until this criterion has been met.
New Executive Directors will be allowed four years in which to acquire this shareholding.
Clawback Arrangements The Executive Directors are subject to clawback arrangements.
In the event that a misstatement is identified in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements which requires the restatement of a prior years accounts in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards or any applicable law, then such portion as the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate of any variable executive remuneration being all Annual Incentive and Performance Share awards made under the Vesuvius Share Plan resulting from a measure of financial performance affected by the misstatement will be subject to clawback provisions.
The misstatement must be identified and notified to the individual in writing within three years after the end of the relevant performance period.
External Appointments Whilst neither of the Executive Directors serves as a Non-executive Director of any other quoted company, subject always to consent being granted by the Company for them to take up such an appointment, were they to so serve, the Company would allow them to retain any fees they received for the performance of their duties.
Policy for Non-executive Directors The Company seeks to appoint Non-executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge, and have gained experience in a relevant industry and geographical sectors, to support diversity of expertise at the Board and match the wide geographic spread of the Companys activities.
Non-executive Directors attend Board, Committee and other meetings, held mainly in the UK, together with an annual strategy review to debate the Companys strategic direction.
All Non-executive Directors are expected to familiarise themselves with the scale and scope of the Companys business and to maintain their specific technical skills and knowledge.
The Board sets the level of fees paid to the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies of a similar size and international complexity.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
No variable remuneration is available to Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors receive reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in attending the Board, Committee and other ad hoc meetings.
Alignment Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Fees To attract and retain Fees are reviewed bi-annually Non-executive Directors and None.
Non-executive Directors by the Board.
the Chairman will be paid market of the necessary skill and appropriate fees, with any increase Non-executive Directors are experience by offering reflecting changes in the market paid a base fee for the market competitive fees.
or adjustments to a specific performance of their role, Non-executive Directors role.
No eligibility for participation payable in cash, plus additional in incentive schemes, bonus fees for Committee chairmanship No eligibility for bonuses, schemes or retirement plans.
or acting as the Senior retirement benefits or to Independent Director.
participate in the Groups employee share plans.
The Chairman is paid a single fee and receives administrative Overall fees paid to Non-executive support from the Company.
Directors will remain within the aggregate limit stated in our Articles, currently 500,000.
102 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Policy continued Terms of Service The terms of service of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed subject to their election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and re-election at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
None of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
During the first year of his her appointment the Chairman is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company: thereafter, he she is entitled to six months notice from the Company.
All Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for a maximum of nine years, with review at the end of the three and six years, subject always to mutual agreement and annual performance evaluation.
The Board retains discretion to extend the tenure of Non-executive Directors beyond this time, subject to the requirements of Board balance and independence being satisfied.
The table below shows the date of appointment for each of the Non-executive Directors: Non-executive Director Date of appointment John McDonough CBE 31 October 2012 Nelda Connors 1 March 2013 Christer Gardell 31 October 2012 Hock Goh 2 April 2015 Jane Hinkley 3 December 2012 Douglas Hurt 2 April 2015 Governance 103 Directors Report Directors Report Research and Development The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the audited The Groups investment in research and development R&D during accounts of the Group and of the Company, Vesuvius plc, registered the year under review amounted to 25.8m representing 2.0% of in England and Wales No.
8217766, for the year ended 31 December Group revenue 2014: 1.8%.
Further details of the Groups R&D 2015. activities can be found throughout the Strategic Report.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to provide a Dividends Directors Report for Vesuvius plc for the year ended 31 December An interim dividend of 5.15 pence 2014: 5.0 pence per Vesuvius 2015.
The information that fulfils this requirement and which is ordinary share was paid on 25 September 2015 to Vesuvius incorporated by reference into, and forms part of, this report is shareholders.
The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect included in the following sections of the Annual Report: of 2015 of 11.125 pence 2014: 11.125 pence per ordinary share the Our Responsibility section which, if approved, will be paid on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on the Governance section the register at 8 April 2016.
Financial Instruments: the information on financial risk Accountability and Audit management objectives and policies contained in Notes 21 and 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 107 This Directors Report and the Strategic Report contained in pages 2 and 110 to 112 respectively.
The Directors fulfil the responsibilities to 63 together represent the management report for the purpose of set out in their statement within the context of an overall control compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure environment of central strategic direction and delegated operating and Transparency Rules.
The Company does not have any overseas responsibility.
As at the date of this report, so far as each Director branches within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006. of the Company is aware, there is no relevant audit information Going Concern of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director hereby confirms that they have taken all the steps that they ought Information on the business environment in which the Group to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of operates, including the factors that are likely to impact the future any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys prospects of the Group, is included in the Strategic Report.
The auditor is aware of that information.
principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces throughout its global operations are shown on pages 26 and 27.
The financial Auditor Reappointment position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and debt KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as facilities are also described in the Strategic Report.
In addition, the auditor of the Company, and consequently, resolutions for the Groups viability statement is set out within the Strategic Report on reappointment of KPMG as auditor of the Company and to authorise page 25.
Notes 21 and 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements the Directors to determine its remuneration are to be proposed at the set out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing AGM.
its capital: financial risks: financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit, market both currency and interest Directors rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups cash The Directors of the Company are Nelda Connors, Christer Gardell, balances and borrowings are included in Notes 14, 15 and 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hock Goh, Jane Hinkley, Douglas Hurt, John McDonough CBE, Franois Wanecq and Guy Young.
Jeff Hewitt retired and Chris The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for OShea resigned as Directors of the Company during the year.
All the a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the Directors will retire at the AGM and offer themselves for re-election 2015 financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment with the exception of Guy Young, who will stand for election as a of current and future end-market conditions and their impact on Director for the first time at the AGM.
Biographical information for the Groups future trading performance.
The forecasts show that the current Directors is given on page 68.
Further information on the Group will be able to operate within the current committed the remuneration of, and contractual arrangements for, the current debt facilities and show continued compliance with the Companys Executive and Non-executive Directors is given on pages 82 to 102 in financial covenants.
On the basis of the exercise described above and the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Non-executive Directors do the Groups available committed debt facilities, the Directors consider not have service agreements.
that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of 12 months from the date of Directors Indemnities signing these accounts.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going The Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and Provisions by the Company and the Directors of the Groups UK the Company.
Pension Plan Trustee Board none of whom are Directors of Vesuvius plc have been granted Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity 104 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Directors Report continued Provisions by Vesuvius Pension Plans Trustees Ltd.
The indemnities At the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2015, the Directors were for Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in force since the date of authorised to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal their appointment.
The Pension Trustee indemnities were in force amount of 18,080,926 and empowered to allot equity securities for throughout the last financial year and remain in force.
cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,712,138, at any time up to the earlier of the date of the 2016 Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting or 30 June 2016.
The Directors propose to renew these authorities at the 2016 Annual General Meeting for The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The a further year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect of Vesuvius Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on ability to satisfy rights granted to employees under its various Thursday 12 May 2016 at 11.00 am.
share-based incentive arrangements, the Directors have no present Amendment of Articles of Association intention of issuing any share capital of Vesuvius plc.
The Company may make amendments to the Articles by way of Authority for Purchase of Own Shares special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
Subject to the provisions of Company law and any other applicable Greenhouse Gas Emissions regulations, the Company may purchase its own shares.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 14 May 2015 Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, and the Vesuvius shareholders gave authority to the Company to make methodology used to record these, is set out on page 60 of the market purchases of up to 27,121,389 Vesuvius ordinary shares, Strategic Report.
representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital Donations as at the latest practicable day prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
This authority expires on 30 June 2016 or the date of the In accordance with Company policy, no political donations were AGM to be held in 2016, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will made in 2015 2014: nil.
seek renewal of this authority at the forthcoming AGM.
Change of Control Provisions In 2013 the Company acquired 7,271,174 ordinary shares, representing a nominal value of 727,117 and 2.6% of the entire The terms of the Groups committed bank facility and US Private called-up share capital of the Company prior to the purchase.
These Placement Loan Notes contain provisions entitling the counterparties shares were purchased pursuant to the Boards commitment to to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of return the majority of the net proceeds of the disposal of the Precious control on takeover of the Company.
A number of the arrangements Metals Processing division to shareholders.
These shares are currently to which the Company and its subsidiaries are party, such as other held as Treasury shares.
The Company has not subsequently disposed debt arrangements and share incentive plans, may also alter or of any of the repurchased shares.
During the year, the Company terminate on a change of control in the event of a takeover.
In the did not make any further acquisitions of shares, any acquisitions by context of the Group as a whole, these other arrangements are not nominee, nor did it dispose of any shares previously acquired.
The considered to be significant.
Company does not have a lien over any of its shares.
Share Capital Share Plans As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share Vesuvius operates a number of share-based incentive plans.
For the capital of 278,485,071 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
7,271,174 majority of these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements by the of these ordinary shares are held in Treasury.
Therefore, the total acquisition of existing shares, the transfer of Treasury shares or by the number of Vesuvius plc shares with voting rights is 271,213,897. issue of new shares.
Existing shares are held in an employee share Further information relating to the Companys issued share capital ownership trust ESOP.
The trustee of the ESOP purchases shares in can be found in Note 7 to the Company financial statements.
the open market as required to enable the Group to meet liabilities for the issue of shares to satisfy awards that vest.
The trustee does The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the authorisation not register votes in respect of these shares and has waived the right of an appropriate resolution passed at a General Meeting of the to receive any dividends.
Company, Directors can allot relevant securities under Section 551 of the Companies Act up to the aggregate nominal amount specified In 2015 the trustee of the ESOP purchased 1,170,115 ordinary shares by the relevant resolution.
In addition, the Articles state that the of 10 pence each in Vesuvius plc with a nominal value of 117,011 Directors can seek the authority of shareholders in General Meeting at an average price, including transaction costs of 447.4 pence per to allot equity securities for cash, without first being required to share.
See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for offer such shares to existing ordinary shareholders in proportion to further information.
their existing holdings under Section 561 of the Companies Act, in connection with a rights issue and in other circumstances up to the aggregate nominal amount specified by the relevant resolution.
Governance 105 point of contact for employees on employment and workplace Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Voting matters, operating with an open door policy and advising employees The Companys Articles of Association Articles do not contain of any local legal, tax, pension or other employment changes.
any specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer There are numerous employee sponsored and led representative of shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between bodies within Vesuvius which differ with respect to jurisdiction and holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the geography.
Senior management, supported and facilitated by the HR transfer of securities or voting rights.
department, encourages open dialogue and seeks opportunities to consult with employee representative bodies as appropriate.
No person has any special rights with regard to the control of the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
This is a Pensions summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
In each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good Interests in the Companys shares employment practice in that particular area.
Independent advisers are used to ensure that the plans are operated in accordance with local The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the legislation and the rules of each plan.
Group policy prohibits direct Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3%, investment of pension fund assets in the Companys shares.
Outside or more, of its issued ordinary shares: the UK, the US, Germany and Belgium, the majority of pension plans 31 Dec 3 Mar in the Group are of a defined contribution nature.
2015 2016 Cevian Capital 21.11 21.11 The Groups UK defined benefits plan the UK Plan and the main US defined benefits plan are closed to new entrants and have Artisan Partners 13.04 14.05 ceased providing future benefits accrual, with all eligible employees Franklin Templeton 12.4 12.4 instead being provided with benefits through defined contribution Deutsche Bank 6.01 arrangements.
A German defined benefit plan was closed to Pelham Capital Management CfD 5.9 5.9 new entrants on 31 December 2015 and replaced by a defined Phoenix Asset Management 3.1 contribution plan for new joiners.
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary For the Groups closed UK Plan a Trustee Board exists comprising shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with the Listing employees, former employees and an independent trustee.
The Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on page 91 of the Board currently comprises six trustee Directors, of whom two are Directors Remuneration Report and details of the Directors longmember-nominated.
The administration of the plan is outsourced.
term incentive awards are set out on pages 89 and 90.
The Company is mindful of its obligations under the Pensions Act Equal opportunities employment 2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance issued by the Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained between the Vesuvius plc is an equal opportunities employer and decisions Company and the Trustee Board of the UK Plan to ensure that both on recruitment, development, training and promotion and other Company and Trustee are apprised of the same financial and other employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of information about the Group and the UK Plan.
This is pertinent to individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These each being able to contribute to the effective functioning of the principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without regard UK Plan.
to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, belief, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not The latest full valuation of the UK Plan showed a funding surplus, related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
In cases as a result of which Company contributions ceased in July 2013. where employees are injured or disabled during employment with However, the Company has agreed to make voluntary contributions the Group, support is provided to those employees and workplace of 2.0m per annum at least until the next valuation date in adjustments are made as appropriate in respect of their duties recognition of the potential funding strain resulting from the ongoing and working environment, supporting recovery and continued derisking initiatives likely to be undertaken in the short-term.
The Groups worldwide net pension deficit at 31 December 2015 was 35.3m 31 December 2014: 51.1m.
The increase in discount Employee communication rates across the UK, US and Germany reduced pension liabilities by Vesuvius adopts an open and honest approach to employee 25m.
However, this was offset by actuarial losses on plan assets also communications, supported by regular updates from senior totalling 25m, largely occurring in the UK and US.
The reduction management across all businesses and operations within the Group.
in the net deficit of 15.8m was driven by decreasing long-term Regular communications include email updates on the financial inflation expectations in the UK, greater numbers of deferred performance of the Company and the industry environment in pensioners transferring out of the UK scheme and continued which Vesuvius operates, an employee intranet which distributes voluntary Company contributions to fund the UK and US pension company news and events, as well as local initiatives for employee plans.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in Note 29 engagement on a site-by-site basis.
The HR department is the primary to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
