60 Vesuvius plc Section Three Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Responsibility Sustainability Vesuvius remains committed to improving its environmental impact by reducing, reusing and recycling waste and improving energy efficiency wherever economically viable.
Vesuvius and its Processes The Board recognises that good environmental management is aligned with our focus on cost optimisation and operational excellence.
The majority of our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive and do not produce large quantities of waste and emissions.
Total energy costs are less than 3% of revenue, with only 2% of the total energy requirements across the Group consumed in the UK.
Greenhouse Gas Reporting In reporting GHG emissions, we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition methodology to identify our greenhouse gas inventory of Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect CO e. Notably, through the development and implementation of innovative 2 improved combustion systems in South Africa, normalised coal consumption was reduced, leading to a reduction of 26.6m kg of CO.
However, while total emissions have reduced in 2015, as has 2 production, due to some elements of energy consumption being fixed, our normalised emissions figure has increased.
We report in kg of CO equivalent CO e. 2 2 Global GHG emissions 2015 2014 Emissions source Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 362m 386m Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 99m 109m Total GHG emissions 461m 494m -6.8% Vesuvius chosen intensity measurement: 529.8 520.1 Emissions reported above, normalised to per tonne of product output Methodology We have reported to the Scope 1 covers emissions from fuels used data gathered to fulfil our extent reasonably practicable on all the used in our factories and offices.
requirements under the CRC Energy emission sources required under Part 7 of Efficiency scheme and emission factors Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions the Accounting Regulations which fall within from UK Governments GHG Conversion resulting from the generation of electricity, our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Factors for Company Reporting 2015 in heat, steam and hot water we purchase the calculation of our GHG.
to supply our offices and factories.
We have Environmental Monitoring All our factory emissions are proactively managed in accordance with local regulations.
Regular analysis of our operations enables us to take appropriate action to reduce our emissions and operate more efficiently.
The Group monitors its energy consumption, worldwide CO e emissions and usage of water.
2 The Group also meets all of its obligations in relation to the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, the Producer Responsibility Packaging Waste regulations and the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme by which the UK has implemented the EU Energy Efficiency Directive.
Energy Conservation Plan The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan was launched in 2011 with the objective of reducing our normalised energy consumption by 10% over the following three years.
We did not fully achieve this target, and in June 2015 we reset our focus and set the objective of a 10% improvement using 2014 as our base year by 2018.
Managing our energy intensity is part of enhancing our cost competitiveness.
It also contributes to improving the total environmental impact of our customers.
Our Responsibility 61 Our Customers and their Processes Under the Vesuvius and Foseco brands, we deliver a large range of solutions that help our customers improve the productivity of their operations.
These solutions also improve the quality of our customers products and reduce the environmental footprint of their processes.
Thermal optimisation and reject reduction are key factors in the processes for which we supply solutions.
Vesuvius contributes to the reduction of its customers energy usage and subsequent carbon dioxide CO emissions through insulating materials, flow management, facilitating extended manufacturing 2 sequences and reduced downtime.
The iron and steel industry accounts for approximately 6.7% of total world CO emissions and 2 18% of industrial CO emissions, with, on average, 1.8 tonnes of CO being emitted for every tonne 2 2 of steel produced.
With around 10 kg of refractory material required per tonne of steel produced, careful selection of energy saving refractories can beneficially impact on the net emission of CO. 2 In the foundry process, the average quantity of molten metal employed is, as a worldwide average, 2.5 kg per 1.0 kg of finished castings.
The solutions offered by Foseco can reduce this ratio significantly below 2.0 kg of molten metal per 1.0 kg of finished castings, driving a considerable saving of CO emissions.
Since 2011 we have used a CO impact stamp to highlight the most energy efficient solutions in our 2 portfolio of products and services and to support the deployment of energy efficient and sustainable solutions engineered by our technology departments.
Benefits are realised by: Enabling lighter, thinner and stronger components, leading to lighter vehicles and less energy consumption Improving customer processes through the supply of innovative consumables to reduce energy intensity and the CO e intensity ratio 2 Reducing customers refractory usage per tonne of steel produced through higher quality, longer service life products Increasing the level of sound castings produced per tonne of metal melted through improved mould design and the application of molten metal filtration and feeding systems.
Our Solutions in Practice The Challenge Our Solution The Benefits One of our customers was Vesuvius field installation Not only did our solution reduce experiencing a severe reduction technicians developed an refractory consumption per ton in iron carrying capacity and improved ladle preparation of hot metal by 20%: it also resulted refractory service life in their blast practice, drafted standardised in improved ladle availability, furnace torpedo ladle fleet, causing work procedures to support with 12 fewer repairs a year and pressure on ladle availability and that and designed a specialised a 50% improvement in ladle increasing refractory consumption monolithic refractory material service life.
per tonne of hot metal, driving up and delivery equipment.
