PERFORMANCE REVIEW MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORTS CONTINUED CLINICAL BENEFIT focused on delivering clinical benefit processability compared to metal Invibio Biomaterial and enhanced patient experience, benefiting us.
We have now secured Solutions which positions us well over the over 20 distribution agreements and Invibio was impacted by the medium term.
Our in-house regulatory are focused on extending reach consolidation in the US spine market expertise and proven experience outside ofEurope.
Revenue of50.5m withregulators globally will enable In Trauma, we will start investing in was 5% down on the prioryear 2014: usto drive our existing programmes specific downstream manufacturing 53.4m principally in the US, with and new business.
facilities during 2016 and we are sales in Europe remaining broadly particularly encouraged by the steady and further growth inAsia.
Spine opportunity in this market.
Downstream Although medium-term growth Invibios PEEK-OPTIMA HA-Enhanced manufacturing capability will enhance opportunities remain attractive, we was approved by the US FDA in our offering within the Trauma plate remain cautious offurther potential November 2014 and implanted in the and nail market, enabling us to have industry consolidation within Spine first human patient in March 2015. the ability to meet initial demand.
Gross profit was InFY15 we had twelve regulatory Committed collaborations with several 44.3m 2014: 47.1m and margins submissions 18 in total, including partners have now been agreed and remained strong at 87.7% 2014: 88.2%.
those submissions made in FY14 continue to progress inmultiple Withcontinued future high value andthis programme offers device application areas.
We continue to programmes and the opportunity companies the simplest and most cost focus on key opinion leaders to drive ofalarger overall share of each effective method of delivering bone-on adoption.
Our Trauma plate programme downstream application for example growth to their surgeons, without offers 50x better fatigue resistance in medical devices and components sacrificing any of PEEKs benefits.
compared to metal, x-ray translucency rather than simply materials we We are encouraged that the rate to facilitate improved bone alignment remain focused on enhancing our ofapproval for PEEK-OPTIMA and mechanical properties that allow overall profitability inthe years ahead HA-ENHANCED, based on US FDA micro-motion vital to aid the healing as our mega-programmes progress 510k approvals during 2015, is twice process andaddress the sizeable towards meaningful revenue.
as fast as Titanium coated offerings cases ofpoor healing that occur atthe same stage of the product inmetal-based solutions.
Targeting key opinion leaders Invibio is the proven market leader Knee, as our longer term opportunity, and surgeons, in addition to spine inproviding versatile and high remains an attractive 50m annual companies, will help to drive adoption.
performance PEEK based polymer peak revenue opportunity.
Following a This mega-programme remains on plan solutions to the implantable medical partner agreement signed last year, we and is anticipated todeliver meaningful device market, with over 5 million anticipate that this programme will start revenue within two years.
Spine remains a clinical trial during 2016.
Meaningful ourcore market, but with typically Opportunities also exist in Spinal rods revenue for this opportunity is more two thirds of Invibio sales in the mature where PEEK is being used to replace than five years away.
Beyond our new US market and around three quarters titanium.
Seven new PEEK rod systems product platforms, we are also at an of our medical business in Spine, our were introduced in Europe this year early stage of assessing the potential for challenge is todrive medium-term and we are also engaged with the PEEK in other areas of Orthopaedics.
growth from incremental innovation, USFDA.
emerging markets and our new productplatforms.
New product platforms Early stage Dental sales doubled this For the medium to longer term, we year, although they remain below a believe Invibio is well placed in the US meaningful level, with more than and in other geographic markets, with 2,000 patients having JUVORA-based the trend towards an enhanced need implant frames.
Patient comfort, fit, as for proven clinical benefit where the well as low thermal shock compared payer driven by the reimbursement to metal, are key selling points for regime in the US hasincreasingly oursolutions.
CAD CAM techniques more power and influence, compared and digital scanning of patients have to the medical device companies.
also helped in this area, with PEEKs Allof our mega-programmes are Victrex plc 18 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report FIRST ACQUISITION We acquired Kleiss Gears thisyear: M&A and partnerships are set to be part ofour future growthplans.
PEEK-OPTIMA HA-ENHANCED Our megaprogramme secured further regulatory approvals, first implants and firstrevenues.
TRAUMA PROGRAMME We are investing indownstream manufacturing tounderpin our Trauma medical programme.
