Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Enterprise As businesses increasingly look for more than just mobile services, and make mobility a central part of their strategies, we are becoming a leading total communications provider.
Our portfolio includes a range of mobile, fixed, unified communications, Cloud and Hosting and M2M services.
27% 4 of service revenue from Enterprise Moving to Total M2M Context Communications M2M is driving the Internet of Things by connecting people, places and things to the a Businesses of every size are facing the While the majority of our revenue comes from Internet, turning them into intelligent assets same challenges and opportunities as the mobile, we are increasingly moving to total that communicate.
boundary between mobile and fixed communications providing many services communications and IT blurs beyond mobile.
Our M2M business serves customers globally, a They and their employees expect across all sectors, with a focus on the high Vodafone One Net, our flagship converged to be confidently connected to people, growth areas of automotive, utilities and fixed and mobile communications offer, customers, data and applications consumer electronics.
We have expanded the is available for both large and multinational wherever they are and whenever number of connections to 21.5 million from companies and for small and mediumthey want 16.2 million a year ago.
In August 2014 we acquired Cobra Automotive Vodafones IP-VPN network provides private to move up the M2M value chain in the Wide Area Network capability to connect our automotive industry and create a world customers sites, assets and people together leading Connected Car services provider.
The Vodafone IP-VPN network Where we are going is extensive, connecting 62 countries directly.
We also offer national fixed networks in many Cloud and Hosting a We are building a comprehensive total countries around the world.
communications portfolio, rooted in our By combining our secure mobile and fixed core strength in mobile connectivity strength with our Cloud and The majority of our Enterprise business Hosting services, we help organisations move a Our strategy is focused around three is managed in our country operations, with their data and applications to the Cloud and market segments small and mediumthe remainder managed by units that operate transform the way they do business, reducing sized enterprises, large and multinational across geographies VGE, M2M and Cloud costs and increasing flexibility.
corporates and carriers and Hosting.
These account for 26% of all Enterprise service revenue.
a Investment is concentrated Our Cloud and Hosting business serves more on three high-growth markets unified than 1,200 public sector and enterprise Vodafone Global Enterprise communications, Cloud and Hosting customers globally using our 18 data centres and M2M in the UK, Ireland, Germany and Africa, Vodafone Global Enterprise VGE delivers complemented by a partner network of data Total Communications services to around centre facilities.
1,700 of the worlds largest multinational companies in over 100 countries.
VGE simplifies operations for our customers Carrier Services by providing them with a single account Our Carrier Services division manages the and service team, a single multi-country commercial relationships with around 1,000 contract, single pricing structures and communication service providers globally and a single portfolio of products and services.
offers a broad portfolio of fixed and mobile These are underpinned by our fully integrated connectivity and other services.
We are the fixed and mobile networks, cloud-based worlds largest international voice carrier hosting platforms, M2M capability and other and one of the worlds largest investors business services.
in submarine cables that reach more than 100 countries.
Project Spring achievements a Extending our global IP-VPN footprint to 62 countries via 256 points Fixed as a percentage of % Split of enterprise service % of presence enterprise service revenue revenue 2015 a Launching our Cloud and Hosting 30 VGE M2M services in Germany Cloud 25 Managed 23 and Hosting in our a Securing a US mobile virtual network 20 country 26% operator partner operations 12 10 a Expanding our M2M footprint to a further 74% four markets 27 0 2013 2014 2015
