Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Chief Financial Officers review Our financial performance The increased commercial investments we began to make in the prior year have translated into better performance with revenue trends improving in each of the last three quarters.
My priorities When I became CFO last April, I highlighted three clear priorities which I believe will have a significant impact on our future financial performance: the execution of Project Spring according to the financial plan: the integration of acquisitions, most notably KDG and Ono: and a continued focus on cost efficiency.
On all three, we are on track to deliver, but there is still much more to do.
Our results are reviewed in more detail on pages 40 to 48 of this report, but overall I am satisfied that we have made important progress in stabilising the financial performance of the business.
Project Spring execution Our 19 billion, two-year investment programme began in earnest early in 2014.
From both a logistical and financial perspective, we believe this is the biggest and most intensive programme ever undertaken by any telecoms operator.
Vittorio has covered many aspects of the execution in his review on page 16, demonstrating the clear progress we have made to date.
I am satisfied overall with deployment against plan.
We are a little ahead on our network rollout in AMAP, particularly India, and we are in line in Europe, with a couple of exceptions.
Our 4G build and network modernisation in the UK is slightly behind schedule, hampered by the complexity of site access and planning restrictions.
In Italy, our fibre to the cabinet FTTC roll-out started late, as a result of negotiations with other operators in the market which were eventually aborted.
However, we are now making very rapid progress.
Capital spend is on target, with total capex for the year of 9.2 billion up 46% year-onyear.
Cash flow generation was, as expected, depressed by the level of spending.
I remain very confident that, once Project Spring is completed, we will return to a more normal level of capital intensity and generate strong and growing cash flows.
