Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Directors statement of responsibility The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations and keeping proper accounting records.
Detailed below are statements made by the Directors in relation to their responsibilities, disclosure of information to the Companys auditors, going concern and managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Financial statements and accounting records in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having taken advice Company law of England and Wales requires the Directors to prepare from the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board considers the report and financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair accounts, taken as a whole, as fair, balanced and understandable and view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any a select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that a make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading a present information, including accounting policies, statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 90A and schedule 10A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. understandable information: a state whether the consolidated financial statements have been Disclosure of information to the auditor prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and Article 4 of the there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The Directors also ensure that the consolidated Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware and financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS the Directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
a state for the Company financial statements whether applicable UKaccounting standards have been followed: and Going concern a prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless The Groups business activities, performance, position and principal risks it isinappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will and uncertainties and how these are managed or mitigated are set out continue in business.
in the strategic report on pages 1 to 48.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records In addition, the financial position of the Group is included within liquidity which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial and capital resources on pages 148 to 150, Borrowings, Liquidity and position of the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure capital resources and Capital and financial risk management in notes that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 21, 22 and 23 respectively to the consolidated financial statements, andfor the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the EU IAS which include disclosure in relation to the Groups objectives, policies Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group believes it adequately manages or mitigates its solvency and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the liquidity risks through two primary processes, described below.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Business planning process and performance management preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from The Groups forecasting and planning cycle consists of three in-year legislation in other jurisdictions.
forecasts, a budget and a long-range plan.
These generate income statement, cash flow and net debt projections for assessment by Group Directors responsibility statement management and the Board.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages Each forecast is compared with prior forecasts and actual results 52 and 53 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: so as to identify variances and understand the drivers of the changes a the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with and their future impact so as to allow management to take action where IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true appropriate.
Additional analysis is undertaken to review and sense check and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit the key assumptions underpinning the forecasts.
of the Group: a the parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and a the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
94 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Cash flow and liquidity reviews Any internal control framework, no matter how well designed, The business planning process provides outputs for detailed cash flow has inherent limitations including the possibility of human error and and liquidity reviews, to ensure that the Group maintains adequate the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures, liquidity throughout the forecast periods.
The prime output is a two year and maynot prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections liquidity forecast which is prepared and updated on a daily basis which of any evaluationof effectiveness to future periods are subject to the highlights the extent of the Groups liquidity based on controlled cash riskthatcontrols may become inadequate because of changes flows and the headroom under the Groups undrawn revolving credit in conditions or because the degree of compliance with the policies facility RCF.
The key inputs into this forecast are: Management has assessed the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting at 31 March 2015 based on the updated a free cash flow forecasts, with the first three months inputs being Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee sourced directly from the operating companies analysed on a of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO daily basis, with information beyond this taken from the latest in 2013.
Based on managements assessment, management has forecast budget cycle: concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective a bond and other debt maturities: and at 31 March 2015. a expectations for shareholder returns, spectrum auctions and The updated Internal Control Integrated Framework superseded M&A activity.
the original framework from 15 December 2014.
Accordingly, the new framework has been implemented during the year ended 31 March The liquidity forecast shows two scenarios assuming either maturing 2015.
The Groups existing controls have been mapped to the five commercial paper is refinanced or no new commercial paper issuance.
components and 17 principles in the updated Internal Control The liquidity forecast is reviewed by the Group Chief Financial Officer Integrated Framework.
All gaps were evaluated and, where required, and included in each of his reports to the Board.
additional controls identified, or existing controls enhanced.
In addition, the Group continues to manage its foreign exchange and The assessment excluded the internal controls over financial reporting interest rate risks within the framework of policies and guidelines relating to Grupo Corporativo Ono, S. A. Ono because it became authorised and reviewed by the Board, with oversight provided by the a subsidiary during the year, as described in note 28 Acquisitions and Treasury Risk Committee.
Ono will be included in the Groups assessment at 31 March 2016.
Key amounts consolidated for Ono at 31 March 2015 are total Conclusion assets of 5,473 million, net assets of 2,410 million, 691 million The Group has considerable financial resources, and the Directors of revenue and a loss of 313 million to the profit attributable to the believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks owners of the parent.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources During the period covered by this document, there were no changes to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that have Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting at 31 March 2015 Managements report on internal control has been audited by  LLP, an independent over financial reporting registered public accounting firm who also audit the Groups As required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management consolidated financial statements.
Their audit report on internal is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control control over financial reporting is on page 96. over financial reporting for the Group.
The Groups internal control over By Order of the Board financial reporting includes policies and procedures that: a pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: a are designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions arerecorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial Rosemary Martin statements in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU and IFRS Company Secretary as issued by the IASB, and that receipts and expenditures are being 19 May 2015 made only in accordance with authorisation of management and the Directors of the Company: and a provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Groups assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
