Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Report of independent registered public accounting firm A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process To the Board of directors and designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability shareholders of Vodafone Group Plc of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated statement of financial for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted position and the related consolidated income statement, consolidated accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows present to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Vodafone Group and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Plc and its subsidiaries at 31 March 2015, and the results of their company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are operations and their cash flows for the period ended 31 March 2015 recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Also in our opinion, receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal in accordance with authorizations of management and Directors of the control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2015, based on criteria company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention established in Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the Commission COSO.
The Companys management is responsible for these financial Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the over financial reporting, included in managements report on internal risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies on these financial statements and on the Companys internal control or procedures may deteriorate.
over financial reporting based on our integrated audit.
As described in Managements report on internal control over financial We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public reporting, management has excluded Grupo Corporativo Ono, S. A.
Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards Ono from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable as of 31 March 2015 as the combination with Ono occurred during assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material 2015.
We have also excluded Ono from our audit of internal control misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial over financial reporting.
As of 31 March 2015, the Company owned reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit of the 100% of Onos outstanding shares: Onos total segment assets and financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence total revenues represent 4.5% and 1.6%, respectively, of the related supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, consolidated total assets and consolidated revenues as of and for the assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates year ended 31 March 2015. made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting We also have audited the adjustments to the 2014 and 2013 financial included obtaining an understanding of internal control over statements to retrospectively reflect the change in presentation of the financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, segment information, as described in note 2.
Our audit procedures and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness that were applied to the restated disclosures for comparative 2014 and of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included 2013 reportable segments included: i agreeing the adjusted amounts performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the of each segment to the underlying records obtained from management, circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis and ii determining the mathematical accuracy of the reconciliations forour opinion.
of segment amounts to the consolidated financial statements.
In our opinion, such adjustments are appropriate and have been properly applied.
We were not engaged to audit, review, or apply any procedures to the 2014 and 2013 financial statements of the Company other than with respect to the adjustments and, accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on the 2014 and 2013 financial statements taken as a whole.
 LLP London, United Kingdom 19 May 2015 Note: The report set out above is included for the purposes of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2015 only and does not form part of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report 96 for 2015.
