Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Our strategy Consumer Europe While voice and messaging remain crucial to our customers, the demand for data continues to grow, both through mobile and through fixed.
This growth provides a great opportunity for Vodafone and for our customers as we work towards providing the best data experience to more and more customers.
1 41% of service revenue from consumers in Europe We have 15.9 million 4G customers across Growing data penetration Context Europe, compared to only 3.3 million Voice and messaging remain crucial to all a year ago.
of our customers and we have improved voice a More and more of our customers are quality dramatically, with only around 1 in 170 using data, increasingly on 4G 4G is driving an increase in data usage, both calls dropped on average compared with in absolute and per-user terms.
On average our a Average smartphone data usage 1in 110 in September 2013.
However, the rise 4G customers use twice as much data as our is accelerating, increasing 60% over of smartphones and other connected devices 3G customers and that has helped average the year is leading more and more of our customers smartphone usage increase from 473MB a Customers want simplicity and worryto use data on the move.
Already over to 755MB during the year.
This is supported free bills half of our customers use data, with 52% by the large increase in video streaming, which smartphone penetration across our base, a We are now a major fixed broadband and now accounts for 48% of data traffic.
and we have a great opportunity to extend TV provider Bundling content with our 4G plans is also this further.
helping to increase data usage, as discussed To help data reach more and more people on page 23. we provide low-priced entry level plans with small allowances, and combine these with Monetising increased usage Where we are going affordable handsets, such as our Vodafone As customers use more and more data branded devices.
During the year, we sold over a We are encouraging more customers it is important that we monetise this.
3.4 million Vodafone branded smartphones to switch to data and to use more data Higher usage has helped drive higher revenues across Europe.
per customer in some markets, especially a We are expanding our 4G network to over in the UK where 4G data usage trends are 90% population coverage by March 2016 4G driving increased usage particularly strong.
In some markets, average a We continue to enable worry-free The arrival of 4G in Europe has had revenue per user ARPU has continued to fall usage through our Vodafone Red and a significant impact both on our business as the benefit of increased data usage has not roaming plans and on the experience our customers enjoy.
offset the fall in market prices.
a We are stimulating data usage through 4G is attractive because it offers much faster bundling content speeds and a more reliable experience, enabling customers to watch videos, stream a We are increasingly providing mobile and music and enjoy the internet better than fixed services together ever before.
a We are improving the experience we offer customers through modernising European smartphone penetration % 3G vs. 4G average monthly GB our stores and investing in better 1 data usage customer service 60 2.0 1.9 1.6 1.5 52 50 45 1.0 0.9 0.7 40 38 0.5 30 2013 2014 2015 0 Netherlands Spain Video as a % of data traffic % Roamers registered million on Daily offer Project Spring achievements 60 30 a Taking 4G coverage to 72% 48 a Reducing dropped calls to 0.6% 40 20 20.0 37 37 a Increasing average smartphone data 14.2 usage to 755MB 20 10 a Modernising around 3,250 retail stores 3.0 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 Note: 22 1 Based on 3G to 4G cohort analysis Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Our unified communications strategy Expanding our Expanding worry-free roaming is discussed in detail on the next two pages.
worry-free propositions We have continued to take the concern out of roaming for our customers with our A crucial part of our strategy to encourage Customer experience daily offer, which allows customers to take greater data usage is to remove the concern While our strategy across Europe is focused their home tariff abroad for a small fee.
many customers have about using data.
on providing a great data experience, We now have 20 million customers who The main way we have done this is through it is important that we work on our everyday have registered for this offer compared with ourVodafone Red plans.
14 million a year ago, accounting for 33% Vodafone Red offers unlimited calls and texts of consumer roamers.
As part of Project Spring we are upgrading with generous data allowances letting our around 8,000 of our stores to enhance the We now also offer 4G roaming in all our 4G customers use their phones without worrying experience we offer customers.
We have markets, letting our customers enjoy 4G about their bill.
We now have 16.4 million Red upgraded around 3,250 so far.
abroad in up to 54 countries.
Customers using customers across all our European markets, our daily offer typically use their phone more improving customer satisfaction and reducing We are also upgrading our customer service, and generate higher roaming ARPU than those the level of customers deciding to leave us.
with 24 7 telephone support available in all on standard tariffs.
We have extended worry-free usage even markets and significant increases in the use further for some customers with integrated of our mobile and online based care products.
European roaming, Secure Net our mobile A major fixed operator We now have 12.5 million My Vodafone security software and cloud storage offered The story is not just about mobile data.
App users who can check their balance and with many high-value plans.
As a result of recent acquisitions and our usage, and access help and support, wherever organic strategy, we now have 11.3 million they are.
Vodafone Red also helps protect our business fixed broadband customers and 9.1 million against over-the-top voice and messaging TV customers across Europe.
services that let customers use their data allowance rather than their voice and As we become a larger fixed operator, messaging allowances.
We now have 62% we are increasingly providing customers of our mobile service revenue in Europe with both mobile and fixed services.
coming from customers committed bundles, Consumers increasingly want one plan that up from 58% a year ago.
includes their fixed, mobile and TV packages and we are making progress towards providing this across our markets.
Bundling content encouraging data usage We have also increased average data usage by offering customers content packages as part of their price plans.
We include services such as Netflix, Spotify and Napster within selected plans across eight European markets.
Customers who sign up to these content packages typically use at least twice as much data as similar customers who do not have bundled content.
Mobile customers with bundled price plans in Europe 23
