Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Luc Vandevelde Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Performance during 2015 Remuneration outcomes Dear fellow shareholder As noted above, and illustrated elsewhere during 2015 During a year in which we celebrated the in this report, 2015 saw us make strong Under our annual bonus plan GSTIP 30th anniversary of our network carrying progress on the operational improvement performance against the four equally Britains first ever mobile phone call, it is with phase of Project Spring.
As a result of the weighted measures of service revenue, great perspective on how far both our hard work demonstrated by our colleagues EBITDA, adjusted free cash flow and Company and our industry have come that throughout the Company, we have continued competitive performance assessment I am pleased to present Vodafones 2015 to expand our 4G coverage in Europe whilst resulted in a payout equivalent to 56.0% remuneration report.
simultaneously accelerating our growth of maximum.
This reflected a stronger EBITDA It is fitting that during a year in which in data traffic across all of our markets.
and cash flow performance against target we celebrated such a historic milestone which was partially offset by below target Further strengthening and expanding for both Vodafone and the wider industry, competitive performance.
our network is pivotal to our aim of being the backdrop for this years report is our a market leader, and the first choice for data, In line with our commitment to the disclosure progress on Project Spring which represents in our targeted emerging markets whilst also of annual bonus targets, further details of the the largest capital investment programme maintaining our position as a leading provider targets for the 2015 GSTIP are provided in our history.
In 2013 this project saw in Europe.
on page 84. us commit around 19 billion over two years to expand our networks and services across It is in this context that I am pleased to reflect The 2013 GLTI award granted in July 2012 our major markets in Europe, Asia and Africa.
on the following strategic and operational was based on a combination of adjusted free This programme is testament to our objective headlines from the year: cash flow and TSR performance measured of being an innovative market leader and our over the three financial years ending a the continued progression of our Project continued dedication to providing excellent 31 March 2015.
Despite TSR performance Spring investment programme, illustrated customer experience.
of 6.5% above the median of the comparator through 9.2 billion of capital expenditure group, the adjusted free cash flow target Crucial to this continued success are the during the year: was not met, and therefore the award lapsed behaviours and values demonstrated a the expansion of our 4G coverage which in full.
by our management team, which we seek now reaches over 20 million customers to drive through the appropriate application Looking forward across 18 markets.
Our European coverage of our remuneration policy.
I was therefore strategic focus for 2016 now stands at 72% and is set to reach over pleased to see shareholders display The strong progress made in 2015 in respect 90% next year: overwhelming support for our Policy of the operational improvement phase Report, which was approved with a vote a the increasing take-up of 3G amongst our of Project Spring has laid the foundations of 96% at the 2014 annual general meeting.
customers in emerging markets: and required to implement the customer Notwithstanding such strong support, experience phase of the programme.
a the growth in our fixed broadband base the Committee continues to review our by 2.8 million customers both through Key areas of focus during this phase policy on an annual basis so as to ensure organic growth and the acquisition of Ono include customer care, our retail and it remains aligned with our Company and Hellas Online.
digital platforms, the roaming experience, strategy and the views of our shareholders.
and the simplification of our tariff and Following our latest review, no changes to our More on Project Spring progress: product offerings.
By further strengthening policy are proposed for 2016.
Pages 22 to 27 these areas and combining them with the significant investment made in our network, we aim to deliver a best in class experience to all Vodafone customers.
Contents of the remuneration report As discussed below, this particular strategic Remuneration policy Page 77 focus for 2016 is reflected in the measures The remuneration policy table Page 78 that will be used to determine performance Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Page 82 for the 2016 GSTIP, helping to ensure appropriate alignment between our shortAnnual Report on remuneration Page 83 term variable incentive and immediate Remuneration Committee Page 83 strategic priorities.
2015 remuneration Page 84 2016 remuneration Page 90 Further remuneration information Page 91 75 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration continued Application of policy in 2016 It is for this purpose that the Committee a we offer competitive and fair rates of pay At the time of presenting our Policy Report retains the discretion to alter final and benefits to attract and retain the to shareholders for approval at the 2014 outcomes under our annual bonus plan best people: annual general meeting, it was envisaged where the formulaic payout is deemed a our policy and practices aim to drive that the policy would remain unchanged to be inappropriate.
This includes the behaviours that support our Company for three years.
Following a review during potential to reduce any payout under the strategy and business objectives: the year, the Committee agreed that the strategic element of the bonus, if such policy continues to remain both appropriate a formulaic payout is deemed inappropriate a our pay for performance approach and effective, and therefore no changes are in light of wider financial performance.
means that our incentive plans only deliver proposed for the coming year.
significant rewards if and when they are Whilst we will not be seeking approval of our justified by performance: and However in order to ensure our arrangements remuneration policy at the 2015 annual are focused on driving our latest strategic general meeting, the full policy report has a our approach to share ownership is priorities, a number of changes to the GSTIP been included in this report for reference.
designed to help maintain commitment that remain within our policy framework have over the long term, and to ensure that the Corporate governance been made.
These changes are outlined interests of our senior management team Vodafone continues to set demanding share below and follow on from consultation with are aligned with those of shareholders.
ownership goals for our Executive Directors.
a number of our largest shareholders earlier The Committee is pleased to see that all this year: Finally, following the conclusion of the 2015 three Executive Directors have voluntarily annual general meeting which is to be held a the balance of performance measures exceeded these guidelines by a significant on 28 July 2015, I will be stepping down both for the 2016 GSTIP will be weighted margin, including Nick Read who only joined as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 60% in respect of the financial the Board this year.
I would therefore like measures, and 40% in respect of the During the year, the UK Corporate to thank you, our shareholders, for the strategic measures.
Governance Code was updated to include, continued support and engagement that you a in light of this increase in weighting, on a comply or explain basis, a requirement have displayed throughout my tenure, as well the Competitive Performance assessment to include malus and clawback provisions as the other members of the Committee measure previously used under the in respect of all variable elements of executive for ensuring debate has always remained GSTIP will be replaced with Customer remuneration.
The Committee determined challenging, thought-provoking and, above Appreciation KPIs.
This will see brand that the current malus provisions, which allow all, focused on the needs of our stakeholders.
consideration metrics added to the unvested awards to be lapsed either wholly I will be succeeded by Valerie Gooding who strategic element of the GSTIP, with net or in part, will be retained for 2016.
Further, I look forward to introducing at our 2015 promoter score NPS also retained as the Committee has agreed to introduce annual general meeting.
Other relevant indicators an appropriate clawback provision to our of strategic performance will also be remuneration policy on the next occasion considered in assessing final outcomes.
that the policy report is put forward for Further information on how these shareholder approval.
measures will be assessed is provided on Conclusion page 90.
Luc Vandevelde This is an exciting time to be a shareholder Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Vodafone, with the maturity of Project The above changes remain in line with our 19 May 2015 Spring set to lay the foundations for the next shareholder approved remuneration policy step in our Companys history.
Whilst our which allows up to 50% of GSTIP opportunity remuneration policy remains an important to be based on strategic measures.
tool in driving these goals, the Committee The Committee is however aware of wider remains aware of external concerns regarding market concerns regarding the formulaic executive compensation and will continue calculation of annual bonus payouts, to work within the principles which underpin and the potential for such arrangements our approach to executive remuneration to deliver value regardless of wider to ensure our arrangements remain effective Company performance.
These principles, which remain unchanged from last year, are as follows: 76
