PERFORMANCE REVIEW MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORTS SHAPING FUTURE PERFORMANCE Victrex Polymer Solutions 2015 2014 m m Change Revenue 213.0 199.2 7% Gross profit 123.9 116.1 7% TIM COOPER Managing Director Victrex Polymer Solutions Invibio Biomaterial Solutions 2015 2014 m m Change Revenue 50.5 53.4 -5% Gross profit 44.3 47.1 -6% MARTIN COURT Managing Director Invibio comparatives and the lag from the VPS market overview Victrex Polymer Solutions lower oil price translating to weaker Whilst we remain a market-led business, VPS saw another year of good growth, sales in Oil & Gas coming through in geographic trends remain important.
with our ability to offset headwinds in the second half year.
Onalong-term Europe performed steadily this year, the Oil & Gas market underlining the basis, megatrends across allof our end with Asia-Pacific strong and the importance of our balanced portfolio.
Sales volume in Europe The division generated revenue of to further enhance our differentiated of1,852 tonnes was 4% ahead of the 213.0m 2014:199.2m, 7% ahead products, through focusing on new prior year 2014:1,778 tonnes driven ofthe prior year, reflecting growth grades orIP-protectable technology predominantly bygrowth in Automotive, inAutomotive, Aerospace, General that isaligned with our transition Aerospace and General Industrial.
Industrial and Electronics, offset frommaterials manufacturer to Inthe US, sales volume of739 tonnes byaweaker performance in Energy solutionsprovider.
was 16% lower than theprior year Industrial, where volumes were down 2014: 878 tonnes, reflecting weaker 10% over the year, with a good VPS gross profit was 7% ahead Energy sales.
InAsia, sales volume of performance in General Industrial oftheprior year, with gross 1,626 tonnes was 82% ahead of the offsetting weakness in Oil & Gas.
marginremaining strong at 58.2% prior year 895tonnes with good Oil&Gas volumes were down 22% 2014: 58.3%, highlighting our growth inElectronics, Industrial forthe full year.
The second half continued manufacturing efficiency, .
yearin VPS saw a steadier overall despite aslightly softer sales mix.
performance compared to the prior year period, which reflected tougher Victrex plc 16 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report DOWNSTREAM INVESTMENT Our investment forgrowth continues, focused on downstream manufacturing to support our pipeline programmes.
Energy Industrial Victrex made its first downstream Electronics Energy Industrial sales volume at acquisition during the year by Electronics sales increased markedly 1,081tonnes was 10% down on last purchasing Kleiss Gears, a US based to 1,680 tonnes 2014: 1,031 tonnes, year 1,196 tonnes, with Oil & Gas polymer and industrial gears business, with a good performance in sales down 22%.
The lower oil price for approximately $6m.
Kleiss already Semi-conductor, including further has, inline with most suppliers to has small scale commercialisation of penetration of global players, and theOil & Gas industry, impacted PEEK based gears, with Victrex able salesbeing supplemented by a performance this year.
Victrexs totranslate this opportunity globally.
fullyear of growth in Consumer exposure to Oil & Gas is mixed, Non-metal gears reflect the demand Electronics.
We continue to explore because we typically supply more forlower noise vibration and harshness medium-term opportunities in stable chemical processing industries NVH, where PEEK can offer a 50% Consumer Electronics across OEMs, and production-led business, as well performance benefit compared to including new and unique product asthe exploration linked applications metalgears, as well as the trend for development opportunities, and which have been more affected by fuelefficiency and light-weighting.
value-add opportunities, in addition thelower oil price.
Megatrends tothe current large order.
In Aerospace, build rates are forecast inOil& Gas continue tobestrong to steadily increase, with the main As mobile devices continue to get however, with harder toextract airframe manufacturers seeking to thinner, smaller and smarter, the design reserves, higher pressure andmore reduce the backlog of orders, with pathway is increasingly leading to the extreme temperatures demanding PEEKs processability and ability use of high performance polymers better performance frommaterials, tolower manufacturing time and likePEEK.
Securing specification which plays well withVICTREX PEEK enhance efficiency being a key selling fromcustomers for next-generation and its unique combination of properties.
point, beyond light-weighting and up products remains key and Victrexs The Oil &Gas industry has responded to 60% weight savings.
We continue innovation and intensive testing tothe current oil price by focusing to work on a number of opportunities capability makes us well placed for oncost efficiency.
With a number to translate the existing level of thelonger term in this market.
oforders secured in 2015 and a Joint ourmaterials across the aircraft Development Agreement signed Whilst Victrex has benefited from strong including in new and differentiated byour partners Magma Global, volumes this year, we are mindful of the grades within the PAEK family of BPandSubsea 7, we anticipate this historic volatility in order patterns within polymers as well as some emerging mega-programme will move close to this market, although we anticipate a retrofitting opportunities for existing meaningful revenue by the end of 2016. continuation of volumes through 2016. aircraft.
Victrex also launched PEEK This remains a good-sized opportunity Our General Industrial business composites during 2015, blending PEEK and at this early stage, although we performed well this year, with sales with carbon-fibre unidirectional UD anticipate slightly lower volumes in 2016, into heavy machinery and capital tape, which offers faster manufacturing.
compared to 2015, we will continue equipment helping to offsetsome Brackets and fasteners remain the key toupdate the market once visibility ofthe decline from Oil& Gas.
product areas in focus, as well as film.
improves as we move through the year.
The next generation of loaded brackets Beyond 2016 and for the medium Transport also offer us significant potential, with term, we continue to work hard to Transport sales volume increased Airbus Helicopters utilising a VICTREX deliver differentiated opportunities 15%to 1,104 tonnes 2014: 962 tonnes, PEEK and carbon-fibre reinforced inthis attractive and growing market.
with a good performance in Automotive bracket for commercial use.
InAutomotive, we set successful substitution of metal out our strategy to double the amount hasresulted in a 40% reduction in of PEEK volume in cars over the medium application weight and costs, thanks term, from the current 6 grams average.
toPEEKs processability and ability We will do this through further tosupport efficient manufacturing.
penetration of our current applications where PEEK has a significant play ABSbraking systems, transmission applications, clutch systems alongside development of newer applications such as PEEK gears and other critical components which align with the trend towards highly durable and weight-saving materials.
