Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Our strategy continued Unified Communications Our customers increasingly expect to connect to friends, information and entertainment wherever they are, irrespective of the underlying technology.
We are growing our next-generation fixed capability to meet their needs.
2 20% of service revenue from fixed services During the year our competitors launched What is unified Context new convergent offers in several key European communications?
markets and we started to respond with a Customers increasingly want access More and more customers are consuming our own offers.
Therefore, it is critical for to their content photos, videos, bundled fixed and mobile services which us to continue to develop fixed broadband music, internet wherever they are, often provide better value for money, services alongside our established mobile and on whatever device they are using and increasingly, one single bill and one single assets so that we can compete in this phone, tablet, laptop or TV screen point of contact.
To meet this evolving demand growing segment.
requires seamless high speed connectivity a Customers are agnostic about using fixed through the integration of multiple or mobile networks the most important Our fixed strategy technologies such as 3G, 4G, WiFi, cable and requirement is a reliable connection Our goal is to secure access to high speed fibre which we call unified communications.
a We are seeing a growing demand for both fixed broadband infrastructure in all our combined fixed and mobile bundles and major European markets.
We will continue The market opportunity pay TV and broadband packages to do this either through building our own We are well established in mobile, with fibre, wholesaling renting from incumbent a The growing demand for data requires a market share in Europe of over 20%.
We decide a strong backhaul network with high In the fixed market, where we are building which approach to adopt on a market-byspeed fixed fibre or microwave capability our presence, our share is currently around market basis, taking into account the cost linked to the mobile radio network 10%, giving us a real opportunity to grow of building our own fibre, the economics of the in this space.
wholesale terms on offer, the speed of market development, and the availability of good The bundling of fixed and mobile services has quality businesses to acquire.
been a feature of the enterprise market for several years and it is becoming increasingly Where we are going We have made good progress on our strategy.
In a number During the year we completed the purchase a We expect fixed revenue to become of key European markets, a large share of two fixed companies Ono, Spains largest more important to us over time as we aim of households already take combined fixed cable company, and Hellas Online, a leading to increase our market share and mobile bundles including 50% in Spain provider of fixed telecom services in Greece.
and 25% in Portugal and we see clear signs a We aim to increase the number of fixed We are progressing well on the building of our of this expanding to other countries.
broadband users own fibre networks in Italy, Spain and Portugal, with preparations underway in Ireland.
a We expect to pass more households with high speed fibre or cable a We aim to have the best in class converged services including TV and all services on one single bill Project Spring achievements Fixed service revenue % Fixed broadband and million a Increasing our next-generation fixed line percentage of total service revenue TV customers infrastructure to 28 million households 20 20 15 a Increasing fixed broadband customers 16 12.1 15 10 to 12 million 9.2 9.1 12 8.3 10 6.9 a Providing five million customers with 5 high speed fibre or cable broadband 5 0.2 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 0 0 24 Fixed broadband customers TV customers Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 In the coming weeks we will launch residential In India we laid around 16,000 kilometres During the year our fixed broadband base broadband services in the UK, using the of fibre to business areas during the year taking in Europe increased by nearly 2.8 million infrastructure acquired with Cable & Wireless the total to nearly 150,000 kilometres.
including acquisitions to 11.3 million making Worldwide CWW.
Over 2,200 mobile base us one of the largest providers of fixed Our subsidiary, Vodacom, is awaiting regulatory station sites in the UK have been connected broadband services in Europe.
The number approval to acquire Neotel, the second largest to the CWW network, which significantly of customers taking our high speed fibre provider of fixed telecommunications services increases both the amount and speed of data or cable broadband increased to five million.
We remain on track to achieve Our ambition is to expand our broadband 1 the financial synergy targets we set when According to external estimates an increasing coverage further.
number of households in Europe take Our converged solution for business bundles of pay TV and broadband packages.
We have made good progress on the customers, Vodafone One Net, combines To ensure we can offer the best in class integration of both Ono in Spain and KDG fixed and mobile services and a full suite unified communications solutions we also in Germany, combining our fixed and of cloud-based unified communications and provide TV services.
We already have nine mobile networks and beginning to migrate collaboration services in one easy to use million TV customers in six markets through Vodafone broadband customers to our new package.
During the year we expanded the wholesale arrangements, and we aim infrastructure.
For example, in Germany service to more markets and the number to expand this to several new markets this year.
we have created one national backbone and of users increased by 400,000 to 3.9 million.
70% of all traffic has already been migrated Our fixed broadband assets onto a single network.
Read more about the and performance integration process on page 39.
The successful execution of our strategy has In emerging markets we are also building high given us a strong unified communications speed fibre capability to serve targeted urban footprint in Europe.
We now pass 28 million areas.
In South Africa we have launched fibre households with our own high speed fixed to business services and begun to trial fibre fibre or cable infrastructure.
we can reach a further 22 million households via wholesale agreements with fixed operators.
This strategy is supporting good commercial performance.
Ono acquisition We spent 7.2 billion 5.8 billion during the year acquiring Ono in Spain, a leading provider of telecommunications services including fixed telephony, broadband, pay-TV, and mobile services.
Ono has the largest cable network in Spain with 7.4 million homes passed around 40% of Spanish households.
It serves 1.9 million customers and is the market leader in ultrafast broadband, offering superior speeds in excess of 200 Mbps.
In April 2015 we launched our fully converged offer, Vodafone One, which utilises the best of Vodafone and Ono to give customers in Spain the nextgeneration converged service with the fastest 4G mobile network, landline fixed, internet and TV.
