Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and Accounts to shareholders fortheyear ended 30 September 2015.
Principal activity Post balance sheet events restrictions on voting rights except The Company is a public limited There have been no such balance that a shareholder has no right to vote company, incorporated in England, sheet events that either require in respect of a share unless all sums due registration number 2793780.
The adjustment to the financial statements in respect of that share are fully paid principal activity of the Company or are important in the understanding and except also where the Company isthat of a holding company.
The of the Companys current position.
suspends voting rights as referred to principal activity of the Group is above in the event of non-disclosure themanufacture and sale of high Related party transactions ofan interest as permitted by the performance polymers.
The Company did not have any Articles of Association.
There are no material transactions or transactions known agreements between holders Strategic Report of an unusual nature with, and did not of securities that may result in restrictions The Strategic Report required by the make loans to related parties in which on the transfer of securities or on voting Companies Act 2006 can be found on any Director has or had a material rights and no known arrangements pages 8 to 35.
This report sets outthe interest in.
under which financial rights are held Companys business model and strategy, by a person other than the holder contains a review ofthebusiness Share capital ofthe shares.
anddescribes the development and Details of the Companys share capital Shares acquired by employees under performance of the Groups business and reserve for own shares are given employee share schemes rank equally during the financial year and the position in note 18.
During the year 249,522 with the other shares in issue and at the end of the year.
It also contains shares were issued in respect of have no special rights.
a description of the principal risks options exercised under employee anduncertainties facing the Group.
Details of these Own shares held schemes are summarised in note 17.
Details of own shares held are given Research and development The information in notes 17 and 18 innote 18 to the financial statements.
The Groups spend on research and isincorporated into this Directors A summary of the Directors powers development is disclosed in note 9.
Report by reference and is deemed in relation to buying back shares is set Such information is incorporated into toform part of this report.
out below in the paragraph entitled this Directors Report by reference Powers of the Directors in relation and is deemed to form part of Rights and obligations attaching toshare capital.
toshares The holders of ordinary shares are No market purchases of the Companys Results and dividends entitled to receive dividends when own shares were made during the year.
Group profit after tax for the year declared, to receive the Companys was83.5m 2014: 80.2m.
Annual Report, to attend and speak AGM at general meetings of the Company, The notice of the 2016 AGM of the The Directors recommend the to appoint proxies and to exercise Company and explanatory notes are payment of a final dividend of 35.09p voting rights.
given on pages 98 to 104. per ordinary share that, subject to shareholder approval at the Companys There are no restrictions on transfer or Directors annual general meeting, will be paid limitations on the holding of ordinary The following served as Directors on 19 February 2016 toallshareholders shares and no requirements to obtain during the financial year: on the register ofmembers as at 6.00 pm prior approval to any transfer except on 5February 2016.
This makes a total where the Company has exercised its Larry Pentz u regular dividend of 46.82p per ordinary right to suspend their voting rights, Louisa Burdett u share for the year 2014: 45.15p per withhold a dividend or prohibit their ordinary share.
transfer following failure by the member Tim Cooper u or any other person appearing to be The Company has established Martin Court appointed 1 April u interested in the shares to provide the employee benefit trusts EBTs in Company with information requested Patrick fide Smedt u connection with the obligation to under section 793 of the Companies satisfy future share awards under Andrew Dougal appointed 1 March u Act 2006.
The Directors may, in certain employee share incentive schemes.
circumstances, also refuse to register David Hummel u The trustees of the EBTs have waived the transfer of a share in certified form their rights to receive dividends on Giles Kerr resigned 30 September u which is not fully paid up, where the certain ordinary shares of the instrument of transfer does not comply Pamela Kirby u Company held in the EBTs.
Such with the requirements of the Articles waivers represent less than 1 per cent Jane Toogood appointed u of Association, or if entitled to do so of the total dividend payable on the 1September under the Uncertificated Securities Companys Ordinary Shares.
No shares carry any special rights with regard to control ofthe Company and there are no Victrex plc 65 Annual Report 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Major interests in shares The following information has been disclosed to the Company under the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR5 in respect of notifiable interests in the voting rights in the Companys issuedshare capital as at 30 September 2015: Number of ordinary sharesheld Percentage BlackRock Inc. 8,486,881 9.93% Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 4,311,735 5.05% T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. 4,300,353 5.03% Schroders Plc 4,250,938 4.98% David Hummel 3,014,895 3.53% Royal London Asset Management Limited 2,596,493 3.04% Montanaro Asset Management Limited 2,589,800 3.03% Since 1 October 2015, the Company has received further notification advising that Royal London Asset Management Limiteds interest is now 2,508,313 which represents 2.94% of the issued share capital at the date of notification and that BlackRock Inc. interest is now 6,732,803 which represents 7.87% of the issued share capital at the date of notification.
Directors continued ii any non-executive Director who has Amendment of Articles Details of the Directors of the been in office for a continuous period ofAssociation Company are given on pages 36 and of nine years or more.
Notwithstanding The Companys Articles of 37.
Details of Directors interests in the retirement provisions in the Association may only be amended by shares are provided in the Directors Companys Articles of Association, Special Resolution of the Company at Remuneration Report on page 61. itis the Companys current practice a general meeting of its shareholders.
that all Directors retire from office At the forthcoming Annual General ateach AGM in accordance with the Powers of the Directors in relation Meeting, resolutions will be proposed recommendations of the UK Corporate to share capital for the election or re-election of all Governance Code.
The powers of the Directors are members of the Board in compliance determined by the Companys Articles with the Companys Articles of In addition to the statutory power, a of Association, the Companies Act 2006 Association and as recommended by Director may be removed by Special and any directions given by the Company the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Companys must also automatically cease to be a Directors were granted authority at Appointment and replacement Director if i he is removed from office the annual general meeting in 2015 ofDirectors under the Articles or he ceases to be toallot shares in the Company or to The Articles of Association of the a Director by virtue of any law or he grant rights to subscribe for or to Company provide that the number becomes prohibited by law from being convert any securities into shares in ofDirectors shall be not more than a Director, or ii he becomes bankrupt or the Company up to a a maximum ten and not fewer than two, unless makes any arrangement or composition aggregate nominal amount of otherwise determined by the with his creditors generally: or iii he 283,992 being approximately Company by Ordinary Resolution.
is suffering from mental or physical ill one-third of the issued share capital Directors may be appointed by an health and Directors resolve to remove prior to that AGM and b a further Ordinary Resolution of the members him from office, or iv he resigns from maximum aggregate nominal amount or by a resolution of the Directors.
his office by notice in writing to the of 283,992 being approximately Company, or in the case of an executive A Director appointed by the Board one-third of the issued share capital Director, his appointment is terminated during the year must retire at the first prior to the AGM in connection with or expires and the Directors resolve AGM following his appointment and such a rights issue only.
This authority is that his office be vacated: or v he is Director is eligible to offer himself for due to lapse at the annual general absent for more than six consecutive election by the Companys shareholders.
At the 2016 AGM, months without permission of the Additionally, the Companys Articles shareholders will be asked to grant Directors from meetings of the Directors of Association require the retirement asimilar allotment authority.
and the Directors resolve that his office at each AGM of i any Director who be vacated or vi he is requested in The Directors were empowered at has held office at the time of the two writing, or by electronic form, by all the2015 annual general meeting preceding annual general meetings the other Directors to resign.
tomake non pre-emptive issues for and who did not retire at either: and cashup to a maximum aggregate Victrex plc 66 Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements nominal amount of 42,598 being available at the Companys AGM from FCAs Disclosure approximately 5% of the issued share at least 15 minutes before the meeting andTransparencyRules capital prior to that AGM.
For the purposes of the Financial is also due to lapse at the annual Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and general meeting in 2016 and Change of control Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
5R 2 shareholders will be asked to None of the Directors or employees and DTR 4.1.
8R, this Directors Report grantasimilar power.
service contracts contain provisions and Strategic Report on pages 65 providing for compensation for loss to68 and pages 8 to 35 together The Directors were also authorised at ofoffice or employment that occurs comprise the management report.
the 2015 annual general meeting tomake because of a takeover bid.
The rules market purchases of the Companys of the Companys employee share Information required by LR 9.8.
4R own ordinary shares uptoa maximum plans set out the consequences of a There is no information required to aggregate number of 8,519,758 shares change in control of the Company on bedisclosed under LR 9.8.
4R save in being approximately 10% of the issued participants rights under the plans.
respect of allotments of equity securities share capital prior to that AGM and for cash and dividend waivers, which subject to the conditions as to pricing Generally such rights will vest and can be found on pages 66 and 65 set out in the authority.
This authority become exercisable on a change of respectively of this Annual Report.
is also due tolapse at the annual control subject to the satisfaction general meeting in 2016 when it is ofperformance conditions.
Going concern proposed that shareholders grant The Directors have performed a asimilar authority.
Employment policies robust assessment, including review The Groups policies as regards the of the budget for the year ending Conflict of interest duties employment of disabled persons and 30September 2016 and longer term Procedures are in place to ensure a description of actions the Group has strategic forecasts and plans, including compliance with the Directors taken to encourage greater employee consideration of the principal risks conflictof interest duties set out involvement in the business are set faced by the Company, as detailed on inthe Companies Act 2006.
The out on pages 32 and 35 respectively.
Following this review Company has complied with these Such information is incorporated into the Directors are satisfied that the procedures during the year and the this Directors Report by reference and Company and the Group have adequate Board believes that these procedures is deemed to form part of this report.
resources to continue to operate operate effectively.
During the year, andmeet its liabilities as they fall due details of any new conflicts or potential UK Corporate Governance Code for the foreseeable future, a period conflict matters were submitted to the The Companys statement on considered to be at least 12 months Board for consideration and, where corporate governance can be found from the date of signing these financial appropriate, these were approved.
inthe Corporate Governance Report statements.
For this reason they Authorised conflict or potential conflict on pages 38 to 48.
The Corporate continue to adopt the going concern matters will continue to be reviewed Governance Report forms part of this basis for preparing the financial by the Board on an annual basis.
Directors Report and is incorporated statements.
Details of the Groups into it by cross-reference.
policy on liquidity risk and capital Environmental matters management are included in note 14 Information on our greenhouse gas Financial instruments tothe financial statements.
emissions required to be disclosed Information on the Groups financial risk inthis Directors Report is set out inthe management objectives and policies Viability statement Sustainability Report on pages24 to and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity In accordance with the provision of 35.
Such information isincorporated risk, interest rate risk and foreign section C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of into this Directors Report by reference currency risk can be found in note 14. the Code, the Directors have assessed and is deemed toform part of this report.
Such information is incorporated into the viability of the Group over a this Directors Report by reference and five-year period to September 2020, Directors indemnities is deemed to form part of this report.
being the period covered by the The Company has granted indemnities Groups board-approved strategic in favour of all of its Directors under Branches plan.
The strategic plan, which is Deeds of Indemnity.
These Deeds The Company and its subsidiaries updated annually, includes analysis werein force during the year ended have established branches in a ofprofit performance including our 30September 2015 and remain in number of different countries in which core business and the adoption of forceas at the date of this report.
ourHorizon programmes, cash flow, TheDeeds and the Companys investment programmes and returns Articles of Association are available Donations to shareholders.
for inspection during normal business No political donations were made hours on Monday to Friday excluding 2014: nil during the year.
public holidays at the Companys Registered Office and will also be Victrex plc 67 Annual Report 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Viability statement continued The mitigation assessment also The board consider five years to be considered the Groups ability to raise anappropriate time horizon for our new finance and the possibility of strategic plan, being the period over delaying capital programmes and or which the Group actively focuses restricting shareholder returns over onits development pipeline.
Whilst the viability period if required.
there areprojects within the portfolio Based on the results of this analysis, whichwill take longer to reach this the Directors have a reasonable point, a period greater than five years expectation, predicated on the is considered too long given the assumption that an unforeseen event inherent uncertainties involved.
outside of the Groups control for In making their assessment, the example, an event of nature or terror Directors have considered the Groups does not inhibit the Companys ability current strong financial position and to manufacture for a sustained period, undertaken a comprehensive sensitivity that the Group will be able to continue analysis over the key trading assumptions in operation and meet its liabilities as combined with the potential impact they fall due over the five year period.
ofcrystallisation of one or more of the principal risks detailed on pages 22 to Disclosure of information to auditor 23 over the five year period.
The risks The Directors in office at the date of have been assessed for their potential approval of this Directors Report each impact on the Groups business model confirm that, so far as they are aware, future trading and funding structure.
there is no relevant audit information The range of scenarios tested was of which the Companys auditor is carefully considered by the Directors, unaware and that they have taken all factoring in the potential impact, the steps that they ought to have taken probability of occurrence and the as a Director to make themselves aware effectiveness of the mitigating actions.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor Whilst each of the risks outlined on is aware of that information.
pages 22 to 23 has a potential impact, the sensitivity analysis has been focused Auditor on the economic environment, business The Board has decided to recommend continuity and supply chain, regulatory KPMG LLP be appointed as external compliance and technological change.
auditor to the Company and a resolution In addition to the risk mitigation plans, concerning its appointment will be the Groups two distinct segments, both proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
with diverse geographic markets, assist in reducing the risk of regional economic By order of the Board challenges and sector specific issues.
The strategy of partnering closely with customers to develop the right applications and our existing and Muireann Jacobs growing list of specified products Company Secretary arealso important mitigants.
8 December 2015 Victrex plc 68 Annual Report 2015
