FINANCIAL REVIEW BALANCED PORTFOLIO DRIVING GROWTH Group financial results Broadly stable margins Victrex delivered a good overall Group gross margins of 63.8% performance in 2015, with our balanced 2014:64.6% were broadly stable, portfolio allowing us to fully overcome with continued manufacturing the significant headwinds we faced efficiency during the year.
Currency from foreign currency, theweaker Oil and a weaker mix impacted gross & Gas market and USmedical industry margin for the second half H2 2015: consolidation.
We also saw leadership strategy, which is transitioning additional costs from our third PEEK us from our historic position of materials manufacturing plant come through manufacturer tosolutions provider, inthe second half year, and will continues to deliver.
Our world-leading continue to do so in 2016 as these position in high performance polymer costs fully annualise.
Our medium-term solutions reflects not only our capacity, aspirations are unchanged, seeking but ourtechnical excellence, materials toretain strong margins and deliver know-how and IP, application quality earnings.
We believe that development expertise and increased absolute gross profit is also a good LOUISA BURDETT downstream focus.
indicator of our future performance, Finance Director rather than solely the gross margin Revenue 4% ahead percentage.
This reflects our Group revenue for the period on mega-programmes potentially areported basis was 263.5m, 4% offering alarger share of the Our world-leading ahead of the prior year 2014: 252.6m.
position in high Whilst pricing in the core business remains broadly stable, the impact Currency impact fully overcome performance polymer ofcurrency, lower sales in our higher Victrex faced a foreign currency solutions reflects not priced Invibio medical business and impact of approximately 7m at only our capacity, but higher year on year sales from our PBTlevel this year as the strength Consumer Electronics opportunity ofSterling moved against our major our technical excellence, meant a lower reported average selling trading currencies during 2014. materials know-how price of 62.5 kg 2014: 71.1 kg.
Ourhedging policy deferred most Excluding Consumer Electronics ofthe impact to our 2015 financial andIP, application volumes and the impact of foreign year.
We were able to fully overcome development expertise currency, our average selling price these currency headwinds, which and downstream focus.
remained broadly stable year on reflect all of our manufacturing being yearat72 kg, which also reflects inthe UK and 97% of our sales being alower proportion of our higher global.
Looking forward, we continue pricedInvibio business.
tomonitor the potential impact of currency, which is slightly adverse Group salesvolumes remained strong, toour profits for FY 2016, based on 19% ahead of last year at 4,217tonnes current rates and hedging in place.
Our stronger first half year performance was balanced by a flat second half year, with tougher year onyear comparatives, new plant costscoming through and the impactof Oil & Gas weakness duringthe second half.
2015 2014 Group revenue 263.5m 252.6m Group profit before tax 106.4m 102.7m Cash 53.8m 89.6m Earnings per share 98.1p 94.6p Read our financial statements Dividend per share 46.82p 45.15p onpages 72 to 96 Victrex plc 12 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE Our technical excellence and application development know-how helps differentiate Victrex.
Profit before tax and EPS 4% ahead In Consumer Electronics, this market collaborations signed in our Trauma Group profit before tax at a reported remains attractive over the medium term, programme and a clinical trial on level of 106.4m was 4% ahead although there will be sales volatility Knee approaching.
based on year-to-year market Although short-term growth challenges Recognising the currency impact, acceptance and the success of end remain and we are mindful of other profit grew 10% in constant currency.
We continued to potential short-term consolidation within Basic earnings per share of 98.1p enjoy strong volumes through 2015 the US Spine market, for the medium pershare 2014: 94.6p per share also and anticipate a continuation of this term, Invibio continues to be well placed reflects the lower effective tax rate PEEK resin opportunity through 2016. with four mega-programmes three of21.5% 2014: 21.9% resulting from Although this remains a good-sized outside of Spine aligning with the need the lower UK corporation taxrate.
opportunity, at this early stage we for enhanced clinical benefit.
An ageing anticipate slightly lower volumes in global population is also a supportive Operating performance 2016, compared to 2015.
However, megatrend for our medical business.
Good performance in VPS wewill update the market after the Clinical benefit compared to metal VPS saw another year of good important Christmas selling period, solutions will become increasingly growth, reflecting broad-based once visibility improves.
Beyond 2016 important to the US healthcare system, performance across Automotive, and for the medium term, we continue and other geographic markets, as we Aerospace, Electronics and General to work hard to deliver differentiated seek to deliver proven value from Industrial, offsetting the impact of opportunities in this market and use medical solutions.
VPS revenue the current opportunity as a platform of213.0m 2014: 199.2m was 7% to future business.
New capacity fully on stream: ahead of the prior year.
Long-term further downstream investment Weaker Invibio: medium and megatrends across all of our markets inFY16 long-term opportunities intact remain strong.
In Automotive and We successfully commissioned both In our Invibio business, sales declined by Aerospace fuel efficiency, cost production streams of our third PEEK 5% to 50.5m 2014: 53.4m, reflecting efficiency, durability and the ability to plant and our second Aptiv film the impact of industry consolidation in deliver faster manufacturing, thanks facility during the year.
Our three the US spine market Spine is around to PEEKs processability, remain key: PEEK manufacturing plants, which three quarters of our medical business yield and reliability is a priority in can operate independently, enable during the year, although Europe Oil&Gas, with a demand for higher usto manufacture a range of grades remained steady and Asia remained performance materials in Electronics.
ahead of demand remains key to Oil & Gas volumes were down 22% PEEK continues to have a large share ourmarket-leading position and during the year, although we were ofspinal interbody fusion devices: ourability to underpin application able to offset the impact through the however, this part of the market has development with global OEMs rest of our portfolio.
Our sales into nowremained flat since 2011.
Our PEEK powder this market comprise traditionally typically two thirds of Invibio sales manufacturing capacity utilisation at more stable chemical processing and inthemature US market and around year end was 87% 2014:78%, based operational applications, together three quarters ofour medical business on our nameplate capacity of 5,000 with exploration applications.
Whilst inSpine, our challenge is to drive tonnes in the year.
Commissioning of we remain cautious on this market medium-term growth from incremental the second stream of our third PEEK looking forward, the opportunity of innovation, emerging markets and our plant was completed at the end of cost reduction by Oil & Gas majors new product platforms.
We continue to ourfinancial year, providing us with means that our Magma flexible pipe make progress in all of these areas, with our current total nameplate capacity mega-programme, which offers a our PEEK-OPTIMA HA-ENHANCED of7,150 tonnes.
Whilst incremental more efficient solution compared to Spine product having twelve regulatory capacity adds some moderate metal, sold a number of test orders submissions in FY15 18 in total, which operating cost, as volumes fill up into the market during 2015.
With includes those submissions made weanticipate being able to improve further orders of flexible pipes, inFY14, strong emerging market operating efficiency further.
Capacity is including a Joint Development growth including 8% growth in Asia only one part of our solutions capability, Agreement announced by Magma and our new product platforms alongside our technical excellence and Global and BP, we anticipate the progressing well.
Progress includes application development know-how.
Magma programme could move adoubling ofearly stage sales to the The manufacturing process for closeto meaningful revenue by Dental market, although sales remain VICTREX PEEK also remains technically theend of 2016. below ameaningful level, committed different, enabling us to differentiate ourpolymers versus competitors.
