Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report The Directors of the Company present their Directors indemnities Important events since the report together with the audited consolidated end of the financial year In accordance with our articles of association financial statements for the year ended and to the extent permitted by law, Directors Details of those important events affecting 31 March 2015. are granted an indemnity from the Company the Group which have occurred since the end in respect of liability incurred as a result of their This report has been prepared in accordance of the financial year are set out in the strategic office.
In addition, we maintained a Directors with requirements outlined within The Large report and note 34 to the consolidated and officers liability insurance policy and Medium-sized Companies and Groups financial statements.
Neither our indemnity Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 nor the insurance provides cover in the and forms part of the management report Future developments event that a Director is proven to have acted as required under Disclosure & Transparency within the Group dishonestly or fraudulently.
Certain information that fulfils The strategic report contains details of likely the requirements of the Directors report future developments within the Group.
can be found elsewhere in this document Disclosures required and is referred to below.
This information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Research and development is incorporated into this Directors report The information on the amount of interest Details of the Groups activities relating by reference.
capitalised and the treatment of tax relief to research and development are can be found in notes 5 and 6 to the contained in note 3 to the consolidated Responsibility statement consolidated financial statements respectively.
As required under the DTR a statement made The remaining disclosures required by Listing by the Board regarding the preparation of the Rule 9.8.
4 are not applicable to Vodafone.
Group policy compliance financial statements is set out on pages 94 and Each Group policy is owned by a member 95 which also provides details regarding the Capital structure and rights of the Executive Committee so that there disclosure of information to the Companys attaching to shares is clear accountability and authority for auditor and managements report on internal All information relating to the Companys ensuring the associated business risk control over financial information.
capital structure, rights attaching to shares, is adequately managed.
Regional chief dividends, the policy to repurchase the executives and the senior leadership team Going concern Companys own shares and other shareholder member responsible for each Group function The going concern statement required information is contained on pages 186 to 193. have primary accountability for ensuring by the Listing Rules and the Code is set out compliance with all Group policies by all our in the Directors statement of responsibility Dividends markets and entities.
Our Group compliance on page 94.
Full details of the Companys dividend policy team and policy champions support the policy and proposed final dividend payment for the owners and local markets in implementing Corporate governance year ended 31 March 2015, is set out in the policies and monitoring compliance.
statement Chief Executives strategic review on pages The information required by DTR 7.2.
6R can 14 to 17 and note 9 to the consolidated Code of Conduct be found in the shareholder information financial statements.
All of the key Group policies have been section on pages 186 to 193. consolidated into the Vodafone Code Sustainability of Conduct.
This is a policy document Strategic Report Information about the Companys approach applicable to all employees and those who The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to sustainability risks and opportunities work for or on behalf of Vodafone.
It sets out to 48 and is incorporated into this Directors is set out on pages 30 and 31.
Also included the standards of behaviour expected in relation report by reference.
on these pages are details of our greenhouse to areas such as insider dealing, bribery and gas emissions.
raising concerns through the whistle-blowing process known internally as Speak Up.
Directors and their interests Political donations Directors of the Company who served Branches during the financial year ended 31 March No political donations under the Companies 2015 and up to the date of signing the Act 2006 have been made during the The Group, through various subsidiaries, financial statements are as follows: Gerard financial year.
The Group policy is that has branches in a number of different Kleisterlee, Vittorio Colao, Stephen Pusey, no political donations be made or political jurisdictions in which the business operates.
Nick Read, Sir Crispin Davis, Mathias Dpfner, expenditure incurred.
Dame Clara Furse, ValerieGooding, Renee Employee disclosures James, Alan Jebson, Samuel Jonah, Omid Financial risk management Our disclosures relating to the employment Kordestani, Nick Land, Anne Lauvergeon, objectives and policies of disabled persons, the number of women Luc Vandevelde, Anthony Watson and Philip in senior management roles, employee Disclosures relating to financial risk Yea.
Details of Directors interests in the engagement and policies are included in Our management objectives and policies, including Companys ordinary shares, options held over people on pages 28 and 29. our policy for hedging are set out in note 23 ordinary shares, interests in share options and to the consolidated financial statements and By Order of the Board long-term incentive plans are set out on pages disclosures relating to exposure to price risk, 84 to 90. credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are outlined in note 23.
Directors conflicts of interest Established within the Company is a procedure for managing and monitoring conflicts Rosemary Martin of interest for Directors.
Full details of this Company Secretary 92 procedure is set out on page 72.
