Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Remuneration policy In this forward-looking section we describe our remuneration policy for the Board.
This includes our considerations when determining policy, a description of the elements of the reward package and an indication of the potential future value of this package for each of the Executive Directors.
In addition we describe our policy applied to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Our remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting, and took effect from this point.
Whilst we do not envisage making any changes to our policy prior to the 2017 annual general meeting, we conduct annual reviews to ensure that it continues to support our Company strategy.
If we feel it is necessary to make a change to our policy prior to the end of this three year period, we will seek shareholder approval.
No changes have been made to our policy since its approval at the 2014 annual general meeting which was held on 29 July 2014.
Our approved Policy Report is available on our website at vodafone.
com, and has been included in full below as set out in the 2014 Annual Report.
Considerations when determining remuneration policy Our remuneration principles which are outlined on page 76 are the context for our policy.
Our principal consideration when determining remuneration policy is to ensure that it supports our Company strategy and business objectives.
The views of our shareholders are also taken into account when determining executive pay.
In advance of asking for approval for the remuneration policy we have consulted with our major shareholders.
We invited our top 20 shareholders to comment on remuneration at Vodafone and several meetings between shareholders and the Remuneration Committee Chairman took place.
The main topics of consultation were as follows: a new share plan rules for which we will seek shareholder approval at the 2014 annual general meeting: a changes to executive remuneration arrangements reduction of maximum long-term incentive vesting levels and pension provision : and a impact of Project Spring on Free Cash Flow performance under the global long-term incentive plan GLTI.
We have not consulted with employees on the executive remuneration policy nor is any fixed remuneration comparison measurement used.
However, when determining the policy for Executive Directors, we have been mindful of the pay and employment conditions of employees in Vodafone Group as a whole, with particular reference to the market in which the executive is based.
Further information on our remuneration policy for other employees is given on page 80.
Performance measures and targets Our Company strategy and business objectives are the primary consideration when we are selecting performance measures for our incentive plans.
The targets within our incentive plans that are related to internal financial measures such as revenue, profit and cash flow are typically determined based on our budgets.
Targets for strategic and external measures such as competitive performance and Total Shareholder Return TSR are set based on Company objectives and in light of the competitive marketplace.
The threshold and maximum levels of performance are set to reflect minimum acceptable levels at threshold and very stretching but achievable levels at maximum.
As in previous remuneration reports we will disclose the details of our performance targets for our short and long-term incentive plans.
However, our annual bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore we will only disclose our targets in the remuneration report following the completion of the financial year.
We will disclose the targets for each long-term award in the remuneration report for the financial year preceding thestart of the performance period.
At the end of each performance period we review performance against the targets, using judgement to account for items such as but not limited to mergers, acquisitions, disposals, foreign exchange rate movements, changes in accounting treatment, material one-off tax settlements etc.
The application of judgement is important to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair and appropriate.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee reviews the incentive plan results before any payments are made to executives or any shares vest and has full discretion to adjust the final payment or vesting downwards if they believe circumstances warrant it.
In particular, the Committee may use discretion to clawback any unvested share award or vested but unexercised options as it sees appropriate, in which case the award may lapse wholly or in part, may vest to a lesser extent than it would otherwise have vested or vesting may be delayed.
77 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration continued Remuneration policy continued The remuneration policy table The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary a To attract and retain the best talent.
a Salaries are usually reviewed annually and fixed for a Average salary increases for existing Executive Committee members including Executive None.
Decision is influenced by: Directors will not normally exceed average increases for employees in other appropriate parts of the Group.
Increases above this level may be made in specific situations.
These situations a level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities couldinclude but are not limited to internal promotions, changes to role, material changes ofindividual: to the business and exceptional company performance.
a business performance, scarcity of talent, economic climate and market conditions: a increases elsewhere within the Group: and a external comparator groups which are used for reference purposes only made up of companies ofsimilar size and complexity to Vodafone.
Pension a To remain competitive within the marketplace.
a Executive Directors may choose to participate in the a The pension contribution or cash payment is equal to 30% of annual gross salary.
defined contribution pension scheme or to receive a cash of pension levels elsewhere in the Group we have decided to reduce the pension benefits level allowance inlieu of pension.
from 30% to no more than 24% from November 2015.
Benefits a To aid retention and remain competitive within a Travel related benefits.
This may include but is not limited a Benefits will be provided in line with appropriate levels indicated by local market practice in the None.
to company car or cash allowance, fuel and access country of employment.
a We expect to maintain benefits at the current level but the value of benefit may fluctuate a Private medical, death and disability insurance and annual depending on, amongst other things, personal situation, insurance premiums and other health checks.
a In the event that we ask an individual to relocate we would offer them support in line with Vodafones relocation or international assignment policies.
This may cover but is not limited to relocation, cost of living allowance, housing, home leave, education support, tax equalisation and advice.
a Other benefits are also offered in line with the benefits offered to other employees for example, all-employee share plans, mobile phone discounts, maternity paternity benefits, sick leave, paid holiday, etc.
Annual Bonus a To drive behaviour and communicate the key priorities for a Bonus levels and the appropriateness of measures and a Bonuses can range from 0200% of base salary, with 100% paidfor on-target performance.
a Performance over each financial year Global Shortthe year.
weightings are reviewed annually to ensure they continue Maximum is only paid out for exceptional performance.
is measured against stretching targets set Term Incentive to support our strategy.
at the beginning of the year.
a To motivate employees and incentivise delivery Plan GSTIP of performance over the one year operating cycle.
a Performance over the financial year is measured against a The performance measures normally stretching financial and non-financial performance targets comprise of a mix of financial and a The financial metrics are designed to both drive our set at the start of the financial year.
Financial measures growth strategies whilst also focusing on improving may include but are not limited to profit, operating efficiencies.
Measuring competitive a The annual bonus is usually paid in cash in June each year revenue and cash flow with a weighting performance with its heavy reliance on net promoter for performance over the previous year.
Strategic measures score NPS means providing a great customer may include but are not limited to experience remains at the heart of what we do.
competitive performance metrics such as net promoter score and market share.
Long-Term a To motivate and incentivise delivery ofsustained a Award levels and the framework for determining vesting a The basic target award level is 137.5% of base salary for the Chief Executive 110% for other a Performance is measured against Incentive Global performance over the long term.
are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support Executive Directors.
stretching targets set at the beginning Long-Term our strategy.
a To support and encourage greater shareholder alignment a The target award level may increase up to 237.5% of base salary for the Chief Executive Incentive Plan through a high level ofpersonal financial commitment.
a Long-term incentive base awards consist of performance or 210% for others ifthe individual commits to a co-investment in shares equal in value to their a Vesting is determined based on a matrix GLTI base shares which are granted each year.
of two measures: awards and a The use of free cash flow as the principal performance co-investment measure ensures we apply prudent cash management a Individuals must co-invest in Vodafone shares and hold a Minimum vesting is 0% of target award level, threshold vesting is 50% and maximum vesting a adjusted free cash flow as our awards further and rigorous capital discipline to our investment them in trust for at least three years in order to receive the is250% of the target award level.
operational performance measure: details can be decisions, whilst the use of TSR along with a performance full target award.
and a Maximum long-term incentive face value at award of 594% of base salary for the Chief Executive found in the period of not less than three years means that we are a All awards vest not less than three years after the award 237.5% x 250% and 525% for others.
a relative TSR against a peer group notes that follow focused on the long-term interests of our shareholders.
based on Group operational and external performance.
of companies as our external this table a The awards that vest accrue cash dividend equivalents over the three year vesting period.
a Dividend equivalents are paid in cash after the a Awards vest to the extent performance conditions are satisfied.
There is a mandatory holding vestingdate.
period where 50% of the post-tax shares are released after vesting, a further 25% after the first anniversary of vesting, and the remaining 25% will bereleased after the second anniversary.
78 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Remuneration policy continued The remuneration policy table The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for Executive Directors.
79 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration continued Remuneration policy continued Notes to the remuneration policy table Existing arrangements We will honour existing awards to Executive Directors, and incentives, benefits and contractual arrangements made to individuals prior to their promotion to the Board.
This will last until the existing incentives vest or lapse or the benefits or contractual arrangements no longer apply.
Long-Term Incentive GLTI When referring to our long-term incentive awards we use the financial year end in which the award was made.
For example, the 2013 award was made in the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
The awards are usually made in the first half of the financial year the 2013 award was made in July 2012.
The extent to which awards vest depends on two performance conditions: a underlying operational performance as measured by adjusted free cash flow: and a relative Total Shareholder Return TSR against a peer group median.
Adjusted free cash flow The free cash flow performance is based on the cumulative adjusted free cash flow figure over the performance period.
The detailed targets and the definition ofadjusted free cash flow are determined each year as appropriate.
The target adjusted free cash flow level is set by reference to our long-range plan and market expectations.
We consider the targets to be critical to the Companys long-term success and its ability to maximise shareholder value, and to be in line with the strategic goals of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee sets these targets to be sufficiently demanding with significant stretch where only outstanding performance will be rewarded with a maximum payout.
The cumulative adjusted free cash flow vesting levels as a percentage of target are shown in the table below with linear interpolation between points : Performance Vesting percentage Below threshold 0% Threshold 50% Target 100% Maximum 125% TSR outperformance of a peer group median We have a limited number of appropriate peers and this makes the measurement of a relative ranking system volatile.
As such, the outperformance of the median of a peer group is felt to be the most appropriate TSR measure.
The peer group for the performance condition is reviewed each year and amended as appropriate.
The relative TSR position determines the performance multiplier.
Thiswill beapplied to the adjusted free cash flow vesting percentage.
There will be no multiplier until TSR performance exceeds median.
Above median, thefollowing table will apply with linear interpolation between points : Multiplier Median No increase Percentage outperformance of the peer group median equivalent to 65th percentile 1.5 times Percentage outperformance of the peer group median equivalent to 80th percentile 2.0 times In order to determine the percentages for the equivalent outperformance levels above median, the Remuneration Committee seeks independent external advice.
Combined vesting matrix The combination of the two performance measures gives a combined vesting matrix as follows with linear interpolation between points : TSR outperformance Up to 65th percentile 80th percentile Adjusted free cash flow measure Median equivalent equivalent Below threshold 0% 0% 0% Threshold 50% 75% 100% Target 100% 150% 200% Maximum 125% 187.5% 250% The combined vesting percentages are applied to the target number of shares granted.
Outstanding awards For the awards made in the 2013 and 2014 financial years vesting in July 2015 and June 2016 respectively the award structure is as set out above, except that the maximum vesting percentage for cumulative adjusted free cash flow was 150% leading to an overall maximum of 300% of target award.
Remuneration policy for other employees While our remuneration policy follows the same fundamental principles across the Group, packages offered to employees reflect differences in market practice in the different countries, role and seniority.
For example, the remuneration package elements for our Executive Directors are essentially the same as for the other Executive Committee members, with some small differences, for example higher levels of share awards.
The remuneration for the next level of management, our senior leadership team, again follows the same principles but with differences such as local and individual performance aspects in the annual bonus targets and performance share awards.
They also receive lower levels of share awards which are partly delivered in restricted shares.
80 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Estimates of total future potential remuneration from 2015 pay packages The tables below provide estimates of the potential future remuneration for each of the Executive Directors based on the remuneration opportunity granted in the 2015 financial year and therefore do not reflect the latest remuneration information.
Potential outcomes based on different performance scenarios are provided for each Executive Director.
The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below.
Fixed Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Benefits are valued using the figures in the total remuneration for the 2014 financial year table on page 78 of the 2014 report and on a similar basis for Nick Read promoted to the Board on 1 April 2014.
Pensions are valued by applying cash allowance rate of 30% of base salary at 1 July 2014.
Base Benefits Pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 Chief Executive 1,150 38 345 1,533 Chief Financial Officer 675 23 203 901 Chief Technology Officer 600 21 180 801 On target Based on what a Director would receive if performance was in line with plan.
The target award opportunity for the annual bonus GSTIP is 100% of base salary.
The target award opportunity for the long-term incentive GLTI is 237.5% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 210% for others.
Weassumed that TSR performance was at median.
Maximum Two times the target award opportunity is payable under the annual bonus GSTIP.
The maximum levels of performance for the long-term incentive GLTI are 250% of target award opportunity.
We assumed that TSR performance was at or above the 80th percentile equivalent.
All scenarios Each executive is assumed to co-invest the maximum allowed under the long-term incentive GLTI, 100% of salary, and the long-term incentive GLTI award reflects this.
Long-term incentives consist of share awards only which are measured at face value i. e. no assumption for increase in share price or cash dividend equivalents payable.
Vittorio Colao, Chief Executive 000 Nick Read, Chief Financial officer appointed 1 April 2014 000 12,000 10,661 12,000 64% 10,000 10,000 8,000 8,000 5,795 5,414 61% 6,000 6,000 51% 2,994 22% 4,000 4,000 47% 21% 1,533 23% 901 2,000 28% 2,000 23% 14% 30% 16% 0 0 Fixed On target Maximum Fixed On target Maximum Salary and benets Annual bonus Long-term incentive Salary and benets Annual bonus Long-term incentive Stephen Pusey, Chief Technology officer 000 12,000 10,000 8,000 5,151 6,000 61% 2,661 4,000 47% 23% 801 2,000 23% 30% 16% 0 Fixed On target Maximum Salary and benets Annual bonus Long-term incentive Recruitment remuneration Our approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary and appropriate to attract the right talent to the role.
The remuneration policy table pages 78 and 79 sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements, and be subject to the same constraints, as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles.
This means a potential maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of base salary and long-term incentive maximum face value of opportunity at award of 594% of base salary.
When considering the remuneration arrangements of individuals recruited from external roles to the Board, we will take into account the remuneration package of that individual in their prior role.
We only provide additional compensation to individuals for awards foregone.
If necessary we will seek to replicate, as far as practicable, the level and timing of such remuneration, taking into account also any remaining performance requirements applying to it.
This will be achieved by granting awards of cash or shares that vest over a timeframe similar to those forfeited and if appropriate based on performance conditions.
A commensurate reduction in quantum will be applied where it is determined that the new awards 81 are either not subject to performance conditions or subject to performance conditions that are not as stretching as those of the awards forfeited.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration continued Remuneration policy continued Service contracts of Executive Directors After an initial termof up to two years Executive Directors contracts have rolling terms and are terminable on no more than 12months notice.
The key elements of the service contract for executives relate to remuneration, payments on loss of office see below, and restrictions during active employment and for 12 months thereafter.
These restrictions include non-competition, non-solicitation of customers and employees etc.
Additionally, all of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied and pro-rated to reflect the acceleration of vesting.
Payments for departing executives In the table below we summarise the key elements of our policy on payment for loss of office.
We will of course, always comply both with the relevant plan rules and local employment legislation.
Provision Policy Notice period and a 12 months notice from the Company to the Executive Director.
compensation for a Up to 12 months base salary in line with the notice period.
Notice period payments will either be made as normal loss ofoffice in iftheexecutive continues to work during the notice period or is on gardening leave or they will be made servicecontracts as monthly payments in lieu of notice subject to mitigation if alternative employment is obtained.
Treatment of annual bonus a The annual bonus will be pro-rated for the period of service during the financial year and will reflect the extent GSTIP on termination to which Company performance has been achieved.
under plan rules a The Remuneration Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement to an annual bonus to reflect the individuals performance and the circumstances of the termination.
Treatment of unvested a An Executive Directors award will vest in accordance with the terms of the plan and satisfaction of performance long-term incentive awards conditions measured at the normal completion of the performance period, with the award pro-rated for the GLTI and co-investment proportion of the vesting period that had elapsed at the date of cessation of employment.
awards on termination a The Remuneration Committee has discretion to vary the level of vesting as deemed appropriate, and in particular underplanrules to determine that awards should not vest in the case of a bad leaver which may include, at their absolute discretion, departure in case of poor performance, departure without the agreement of the Board, or detrimental competitive activity.
Pension and benefits a Generally pension and benefit provisions will continue to apply until the termination date.
a Where appropriate other benefits may be receivable, such as but not limited to payments in lieu of accrued holiday and legal fees or tax advice costs in relation to the termination.
a Benefits of relative small value may continue after termination where appropriate, such as but not limited to mobile phone provision.
In exceptional circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate the exit of a particular individual albeit that any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Group.
We will only take such a course of action in exceptional circumstances and where it is considered to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Our policy is for the Chairman to review the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors annually following consultation with the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Fees for the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee.
Element Policy Fees a We aim to pay competitively for the role including consideration of the time commitment required.
We benchmark the fees against an appropriate external comparator group.
We pay fees to our Chairman and Senior Independent Director that include fees for chairmanship of any committees.
We pay a fee to each of our other Non-Executive Directors and they receive an additional fee if they chair a committee.
Non-executive fee levels are set within the maximum level as approved by shareholders as part of our articles of association.
Allowances a An allowance is payable each time a non-Europe-based Non-Executive Director is required to travel to attend Board and committee meetings to reflect the additional time commitment involved.
Incentives a Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive plans.
Benefits a Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any benefit plans.
The Company does not provide any contribution to their pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to the use of a car and a driver whenever and wherever he is providing his services to or representing theCompany.
We have been advised that for Non-Executive Directors, certain travel and accommodation expenses in relation to attending Board meetings should be treated as a taxable benefit therefore we also cover the tax liability for these expenses.
Non-Executive Director service contracts Non-Executive Directors are engaged on letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
Theappointment of Non-Executive Directors may be terminated without compensation.
Non-Executive Directors are generally not expected toserve for a period exceeding nine years.
For further information refer to the Nomination and Governance Committee section of the Annual Report pages 69 to 70.
