Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Our business model What we offer We provide a wide range of services including voice, messaging and data across mobile and fixed networks.
The services we provide Mobile 1 Group service revenue 2015 Mobile services 2 Mobile customers million Other We provide a range of mobile services to our andactive data users % 4% Fixed customers, enabling them to call, text, access 500 the internet, stream music and watch videos 445.8 20% 430.8 407.3 400 wherever they are at home, on the move or even abroad with our roaming services.
300 38.5bn 200 40% 36% 30% 100 Mobile 0 2013 2014 2015 40% of our customers now use mobile data Mobile customers Active data users 76% Notes: 1 Excludes 3.7 billion of other revenue that mainly Mobile network population coverage Our mobile assets relates to the sale of equipment.
2 Other service revenue includes revenue from We provide these services through our mobilevirtual network operators MVNOs and network of over 283,000 base station sites fromour partner markets.
providing near nationwide voice coverage and extensive data coverage across Europe and extensive coverage across our AMAP region.
72% 94% 100% 82% 97% We have over 283,000 base station sites across our markets Europe Europe Europe AMAP AMAP 3 3 4G 3G 2G 3G 4G 2G Note: 3 Excludes India.
Over 1.2 trillion minutes of voice calls carried over Fixed our network last year Fixed services Our fixed line assets We provide a range of fixed services in We provide these services through a mostof our major markets including voice, combination of owned and leased copper, broadband and TV services to consumers cable and fibre assets.
Our focus is on Over 290 billion text messages sent and received by our network last year and a wider range of services to our enterprise next-generation networks fibre or cable customers, including Cloud and Hosting and we cover 28 million homes with our own and IP-VPN.
infrastructure and 50 million homes including wholesale arrangements.
We are also one of the worlds largest carrier 982 petabytes of data were sent across our mobile services business, providing voice and data network alone last year, nearly double the amount services to other operators using our network handled in the previous year of cable and fibre assets across the world.
We have over nine million TV customers across six markets Fixed broadband customers million High-speed broadband coverage 15 12.0 10 9.2 6.9 5 50 million households passed with cable More on Strategy: or fibre across Europe owned or leased 08 Page 14 0 2013 2014 2015 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Where we operate Our business is split across two geographic regions Europe, and Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific AMAP, which includes our emerging markets.
Our reach and scale Group revenue 2015 Europe AMAP 66% 32% Vodacom Germany India AMAP Other 42.2bn Our markets AMAP UK Partner markets Joint ventures Europe and associates Other Italy Europe Spain Our markets Joint ventures Partner markets Other includes partner markets and and associates We provide mobile services These are the 55 markets 1 common functions We also provide mobile in these 24countries and where we hold no equity 2% services in Australia and fixed services in 17 of these.
interest but have partnership Note: Kenya, taking our total Together they account for agreements with local mobile 1 Common functions includes revenue from services provided centrally or offered outside our operating markets to 26.
operators for them to use our company footprint, including some markets where part-own the tower company products and services and we have a licensed network operation, for example offering IP-VPN services in Singapore.
Europe We are the number one or two mobile Our main markets operator in most of our countries with market shares ranging from around 20% Germany UK to over 40%.
We are typically smaller in fixed line, with market shares ranging 8.5bn 33% 6.4bn 24% 3 3 revenue mobile market share revenue mobile market share from low single-digit up to 20%.
# Albania Malta 30.9m 20% 18.4m 4% # # 3 3 Czech Republic Netherlands mobile customers fixed market share mobile customers fixed market share # # Germany Portugal # # Greece Romania # Hungary Spain Italy Spain # # Ireland UK # Italy 4.6bn 32% 3.7bn 30% 3 3 revenue mobile market share revenue mobile market share AMAP We are the number one or two mobile 25.2m 6% 14.2m 11% operator in most of our countries with 3 3 mobile customers fixed market share mobile customers fixed market share market shares ranging from around 20% to over 50%.
We have a small but growing share in fixed line.
Vodacom Group India # Australia joint venture New Zealand # # 4.3bn 53% 4.3bn 23% Egypt Qatar 3 4 revenue mobile market share revenue mobile market share # # Ghana Turkey South Africa #2 India Vodacom Group 68.5m 183.8m Kenya associate mobile customers mobile customers Notes: # Fixed broadband markets.
Notes: 2 Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, Lesotho, 3 Vodafone estimates for the quarter ended 31 March 2015.
Mozambique, South Africa and Tanzania.
09 4 Source: Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, December 2014.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Our business model continued How we make money We invest in superior telecommunications networks so that we can sustain high levels of cash generation, reward shareholders and reinvest in the business thus creating a virtuous circle of investment, revenue, strong cash conversion and reinvestment.
We also have strong local market share Spectrum, network positions as we are typically the first and IT infrastructure or second largest mobile operator in each We use our spectrum licences to provide of our markets with a share of more than 20%.
the radio frequencies needed to deliver This provides in-market scale efficiencies communications services.
We combine our to support our EBITDA margin, which in turn base station sites and our expertise in network provides healthy cash flow.
management to transmit signals for mobile services.
Through our fixed broadband assets Reinvestment cable, fibre and copper and wholesale Our cash flow helps us to maintain a high agreements with other operators, we provide level of investment to give our customers broadband, voice and TV services.
Our IT estate a superior network experience, which over provides our data centres, customer time should enable us to secure a premium relationship capability, customer billing positioning in most of our markets.
We also services and online resources.
continue to participate in spectrum auctions to secure a strong portfolio of spectrum.
Revenue The majority of our revenue comes Over the last three years we have committed from selling mobile voice, text and data.
21 billion in capital investment in networks, Mobile users pay either monthly via fixed IT and distribution, a further 4 billion term contracts typically up to two years on the renewal and acquisition of spectrum Beyond financial in length or prepay by topping up their airtime and 13 billion on acquiring new fixed value towards a in advance of usage.
sustainable business are typically on contracts that last between Our core business is founded on a powerful two to three years.
Over 90% of our mobile Shareholder returns social good: we help millions of customers customers are individual consumers and The cash generated from operations allows communicate, share, create, learn and the rest are enterprise customers.
A growing us to sustain generous shareholder returns grow, and the rapid expansion of our share of mobile revenue arises from monthly while also investing in the future prosperity networks is having a profound impact fees rather than metered access, which of the business.
on the way people manage their daily lives.
is much more vulnerable to competitive and In the 2014 calendar year we were the economic pressures.
Everyone we deal with, from our fifth largest dividend payer in the customers, shareholders, partners and Fixed customers typically pay via one to two FTSE 100.
Over the last three years we have suppliers, to our employees, regulators year contracts, and as a result fixed revenue returned almost 13 billion to shareholders, and NGOs, rightly expect everyone streams are more stable than mobile.
in the form of ordinary dividends, excluding at Vodafone to act responsibly and with share buy backs and the Verizon Wireless integrity at all times.
The beliefs, aspirations Cash flow Return of Value.
In addition we have increased and concerns of thisdiverse range the dividend per share every year for more Our track record of converting revenue of stakeholders consequently shape our than 15 years.
into cash flow is strong with some performance and success, influencing the 11.2 billion generated over the last three way we make decisions.
We achieve this by operating efficient We know that financial results alone are networks where we seek to minimise costs, not enough: the societies and communities thus supporting our gross margin.
within which we operate want companies to focus on enhancing lives and livelihoods and overlooking that expectation would risk undermining our prospects for longterm value creation.
More on Sustainable business: 10 Page 30 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 How we set ourselves apart We aim to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by offering a leading network, leveraging the benefits of our large scale, global reach and international brand: by our leading position in enterprise: and by training and developing the best people.
The transition towards unified Network quality Key differentiators: communications is changing how we reach We aim to have the best mobile network a We are typically either number one customers and our fixed line businesses use in each of our markets, combined with or number two in mobile enterprise door-to-door selling and more telesales than competitive fixed networks in our main in most of our markets our other services.
This means giving our customers a We have a comprehensive portfolio broad coverage, a reliable connection, Our mobile money service M-Pesa, of total communication services including and increasing speeds and data capacity.
enables users to top up their airtime as well mobile, fixed, Cloud and Hosting, and M2M as providing access to financial services.
Key differentiators: business solutions Read more about M-Pesa on pages 26 and 30. a We are one of the worlds largest mobile Key differentiators: operators with 283,000 base station sites Branding and marketing a We have over 16,000 exclusive branded a We have the best or co-best mobile data We communicate our services to customers shops across the globe 1 networks in 16 out of 20 markets through clear and effective branding and marketing.
The strength of our brand is a major a In India, we supplement our branded a We have a leading holding of spectrum driver of purchasing decisions for consumers stores with 1.8 million small-scale outlets in most of our key markets and enterprise customers alike.
For example, for top-ups, significantly more than our a We own the largest cable companies in only 30 months, Vodafone Red, our globally nearest competitor in Germany and Spain branded pricing plan providing bundles a In our established M-Pesa markets of unlimited voice, text and generous data a Project Spring, our 19 billion investment of Kenya and Tanzania we are the market allowances has over 20 million customers.
programme, aims to strengthen further leaders for mobile money services Key differentiators: our network and service differentiation a Vodafone is the UKs most valuable brand Customer service 2 Service design with an attributed worth of US$27 billion We have over 17,000 employees dedicated The mobile services we provide are carefully to providing customer service, supported designed to meet the needs of targeted by contractors and third parties.
All call centres Sales customer segments.
For example, SIM-only are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week We sell our mobile services through a plans which do not include a handset for in all our European markets, and this is now variety of distribution channels.
Our shops customers focused on value, shared data plans being rolled out across our remaining markets comprise exclusive branded stores, for families, and bundles including generous outside Europe.
In an increasingly digital age distribution partners and third party retailers.
data allowances, content, roaming, cloud we also offer live webchat capability, and selfOur branded stores enable customers storage and internet security for those wanting care, either via a handset, tablet or laptop, to test our products and services before worry-free solutions.
We can also design to enable customers to self-diagnose and they buy, obtain advice from sales advisors, bespoke solutions to meet the needs of our resolve their own queries.
and top-up their price plans.
Online channels, business customers, whatever their size.
whether accessed through a mobile device Key differentiators: or PC, are becoming much more important The majority of our fixed revenue is from a We are both a multinational and and we are upgrading our IT estate to meet this home and office broadband solutions, a multicultural company, and our diverse growing demand.
Branded channels including including TV and calls over a landline.
workforce helps us better understand and online and telesales account for around 60% The remainder arises from carrying other meet the needs of our customers of new consumer contract customers and operators international traffic across sub-sea around 90% of contract renewals in Europe.
a We employ people from over 130 cable systems.
Third party channels account for around countries, with 24 nationalities among 40% of acquisitions.
For more information on our people see page 28 Our large corporate customers are served by a direct sales team: small and medium-sized companies are managed through a network of around 2,000 indirect partners, and sole traders are serviced via our retail stores and telesales capabilities.
