OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL FOCUSED STRATEGY Victrexs strategy is to be the world leader in value creation through PEEK and other enabling high performance polymer solutions.
Becoming an effective solutions provider Selling a solution, notjust materials will help to enhance the value that we deliver to both our customers and shareholders.
Our market-led innovation means that we focus on theunmet needs of our customers and our VICTREX HISTORIC VICTREX TODAY markets.
As future thinkers, weare not content to simply sell materials for today.
Materials manufacturer Solutions provider Application development We are focused on the opportunities of tomorrow to shape future performance for our customers and our markets.
Developing the market for our polymers, whether through new forms, new grades or new applications, which are protectable through know-how or IP, will help todeliver on our product leadershipstrategy.
How we differentiate Our strategy is supported by our significant investment in new production capacity, which came online in 2015, at a time when the diversity and breadth of new business opportunities remained attractive.
Whilst capacity gives us the ability to meet large-scale future opportunities, it is only one piece of the jigsaw.
It needs to be aligned with superior technical, marketing and innovation strengths.
Blending these together, our capacity of more than 7,000 tonnes which excludes our withour strategy as we assess how know-how, and our ability to shape downstream manufacturing capability wecapture these opportunities.
Victrex future performance offers another in film, pipe, coatings and medical will focus on the areas where we can barrier toentry in its own right.
components will act as an enabler create value, and where R&D, innovation, We believe that our differentiation for larger business opportunities IP and know-how are essential to create canhelp to maintain our margin andopens the door to commercial genuine barriers to entry see diagram, strength over the medium term and, discussions with a wider range of right.
At a technical level, it is important more importantly, enhance our overall potential customers, helping to to note that not all PEEK is the same profitability as we work to fill our new differentiate us from our competitors.
andthe characteristics, quality and capacity with a diverse mix of more repeatability of our product, which impactful and large-scale business.
Moving downstream hasbeen specified by OEMs over many Rather than simply manufacturing years in critical applications, can provide By helping our customers and aproduct, Victrex stands out as a genuine barrier to entry in certain ourmarkets to shape their future thecompany which will pioneer the markets.
Being able to modify the performance, we will continue to provide development of the market for PEEK chemistry and manufacture different a clear point of difference for Victrex.
Our analysis suggests grades and different forms through The Strategic Report on pages 8 the market in the future based on metal ourknow-how puts Victrex in a strong to35 signed on behalf of the Board or polymer replacement in our current position to keep developing the PEEK addressable markets could total over market through new applications.
80,000 tonnes, compared to current With over 700 people waking up market capacity of around 10,000 everyday focusing on how we can tonnes.
The market opportunities David Hummel further develop the markets for PEEK, therefore remain significant.
We are Chief Executive we believe our focused approach, alsomore closely linking our risks 8 December 2015 ourmaterials knowledge and Read about our key performance indicators on page 11 Victrex plc 08 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Barriers to entry Victrex continues to transform into an integrated andfocused solutions partner.
OUR DIFFERENTIATION u MARKET-LED u TECHNICAL u APPLICATION INNOVATION EXCELLENCE DEVELOPMENT MATERIALS KNOWLEDGE AND KNOW-HOW PROVEN CAPACITY FOCUSED R&D DOWNSTREAM ANDAPPLICATION MANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENT CAPABILITYAND KNOW-HOW Protectable IP.
P rotectable downstream components, devices and semi-finished products, e. g. Knee, Dental, tape, pipe and film.
Victrex plc 09 Annual Report 2015 Barriers to entry OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED FURTHER DIFFERENTIATION Victrex will drive growth and capture value by moving further downstream, closer to our customers.
Moving downstream requires greater focus, capability, IP, investment, moreintensive R&D, more innovation, Our plan and commercial scale with OEMs.
forgrowth: Industrial PROVEN CAPACITY Focus on polyaryletherketones PAEK in Automotive, Aerospace, Electronics and Energy, exploiting new technologies, downstream integration PRODUCT FORM ORGRADE opportunities and extending into other proven markets.
Medical SEMI-FINISHED PRODUCT COMPONENT Focus on spine, trauma, dental and orthopaedics, delivering value-creating solutions based on PEEK and other enabling polymers.
Reputation and employee FINISHED PRODUCT care MEDICAL DEVICE Providing a safe and rewarding environment for our employees and operating our assets to appropriate environmental standards.
