Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 About us We have come a long way 30 years ago, the first mobile phone call on our UK network was made.
Since then weve grown from a UK mobile company to a multinational telecommunications leader.
How have we become one of the worlds largest telecommunications companies, creating one of the worlds most powerful brands in the process?
By a relentless focus on providing high-quality services that allow our customers to get the most out of an increasingly connected world.
The first mobile call The UKs first-ever mobile phone call was made 30 years ago on the newly-launched Vodafone network.
Michael Harrison, the son of former Vodafone Chairman Sir Ernest Harrison, was the first to test the system, calling his father at midnight on 1 January, 1985.
04 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 How we are changing In recent years we have successfully evolved our business to address new growth opportunities.
We now do much more than mobile.
How we are changing Over the last few years we have seen a rapid transition in the telecoms industry, towards new areas of growth data, emerging markets, unified communications and total communications services for enterprise customers.
As a result we now do much more than provide mobile to 446 million customers.
With 12 million fixed broadband users, 9 million TV customers, 22 million M2M connections, and 20 million M-Pesa mobile money users we are unifying communications.
Consumer Europe Unified Communications Drivers of change Actions Drivers of change Actions a Increasing smartphone a Vodafone Red plans with a Competitors offering fixed a Grow fixed access via penetration generous data allowances and mobile bundles acquisition, investment or wholesale arrangements a High speed 3G and a Provide content a Fixed and mobile 4Gtechnology  a Launch bundles with fixed a Invest in 4G networks and mobile services Impact: percentage of customers in Europe using mobile data Impact: percentage of service revenue from fixed line 8% 35% 20% 52% 2012 2012 2015 2015 Consumer Emerging Markets Enterprise Drivers of change Actions Drivers of change Actions a Rapid population and a Increase 3G 4G network a Mobility becoming strategic a Invest in total economic growth capability communications solutions a Companies wanting including Vodafone One Net, a Growing demand for a Improve distribution a single source for all Cloud and Hosting, and M2M data and lack of fixed communication services a Expand M-Pesa infrastructure a Higher demand for mobile money services Impact: percentage of customers from emerging markets Impact: percentage of service revenue from enterprise 66% 25% 27% 72% 2012 2012 2015 2015 05
