SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED RESOURCE EFFICIENCY Resource efficiency and our clear targets page 25 demonstrate our vision tomaximise efficiency across our own operations and across the value chain.
Resource efficiency Principal environmental impacts We recorded one environmental Resource efficiency includes a The Groups operations and notifiable event during the year.
focuson our products, which enhance environmental impact are set out in Atour Hillhouse manufacturing plant sustainability and efficiency in many the charts on page 31 and are different in the UK, during the commissioning applications, or in our own operations, from the Groups overall GHG emissions of our new polymer production plant, as a manufacturing-backed global see right.
These show energy use, water we measured marginally elevated company.
Our products help our use and waste from our UK activities, acetone levels in our effluent, though customers to make a sustainable which include all of our manufacturing these were still below the maximum difference by reducing their impact operations.
The impact from our levels that could be discharged and on the environment: for example, overseas technical and office facilities there was no potential for an Victrex polymers help our Aerospace isnot material and is not included.
and Automotive customers to reduce We have reported data per unit of There were no other environmental the weight of their aircraft and vehicles revenue to best align our indicators notifiable events at any of our other toimprove fuel efficiency and reduce with our business strategy along with UK manufacturing sites.
Our bold target of 2 absolute data to demonstrate our total pleased to have recorded another reducing CO emissions in Aerospace by 2 impact.
In addition, we have seen year with no prosecutions, fines 5 million tonnes shows the commitment improvements in data per unit of orenforcement action from we have in this area.
In Medical, the PEEK and downstream product this environmental or health and wear characteristics of PEEK polymer year it is these operations which have safetylegislation.
is helping spinal fusion patients, whilstin the biggest impact on CO emissions.
2 the emerging area of polymer knees, During the year we successfully CO emissions are reportedseparately, 2 our devices can be injection moulded maintained ISO 14001:2004 right, as part of ourgreenhouse gas to reduce surgery time.
accreditation for the environmental emissions report under the Companies management system on our At the same time, we have an impact on Act 2006 Directors Report compounded pellets production plant, the environment through the resources Regulations 2013. validating our high level commitment that we use to make our products toenvironmental improvement.
andthe processes that we operate.
Compliance We continue to control these impacts Proactively staying well ahead and, as we grow, we are committed to ofenvironmental standards is part continual improvement.
Our priorities ofVictrexs philosophy across remain the efficient use of energy ouroperations.
andwaste minimisation, and we are Our manufacturing plants are regulated proactively delivering continual under Environmental Permitting improvement to address these areas.
Regulations and, as such, are subject Victrex continues to be recognised as to close regulatory review by the UK both a leader and innovator in this area.
In 2015, our We made the final of the prestigious routine environmental emissions Royal Academy of engineering monitoring demonstrated that all our MacRobert Award for engineering this UK manufacturing plants were being year, which recognised the innovation operated within agreed consent limits.
delivered globally in smartphones We work closely with the agency on andAerospace by our Aptiv film.
new projects to ensure that best available techniques are adopted during new plant design.
Victrex plc 28 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Scope 1 Scope 2 VICTREX GREENHOUSE Direct emissions resulting Indirect emissions resulting from combustion of fuels from electricity purchased GASEMISSIONS 2015 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 15 21,97515 16,728 Tonnes of CO equivalent 2015 from PEEK 2 14 16,594 14 13,738 manufacture and downstream products 13 14,400 13 12,809 12 16,296 12 12,806 11 15,964 11 12,166 Scope 3 Scope 3 Intensity measurement Other indirect emissions Scope 1 and 2 from related activities such Scope 1 as transport of goods Scope 2 andemployees Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 2 15 3,87615 147 14 3,025 14 120 13 1,523 13 123 52 39 912 1,936 12 132 11 2,645 11 130 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Agreements on two of our through shared product distribution Whilst our overall emissions have manufacturing sites we operate under and improved manufacturing increased this year principally as a tenancy agreement at our Seal Sands efficiency remains a continual aresult of increased volumes through facility.
Emission factors are from UK themein ourbusiness.
our manufacturing plant pleasingly, government conversion factor guidance.
One of our interim targets was our emissions per unit ofproduction have Whilst not a mandatory requirement, we toestablish an R&D programme to reduced because ofcost of manufacture have included Scope 3emissions in our consider waste reduction and process efficiencies inourmanufacturing report for greater transparency, these yield improvements.
Theincreased revenue include indirect emissions from employee some positive progress this year, with intensity measurement reflects the travel and distribution of goods.
over 20 individual projects established impact ofour softer sales mix and Further to the acquisition of the Kleiss in this area.
One example is in steam significant adverse currency in 2015, Gears facility in the US in June 2015, heat recovery where we are focusing in addition to the increased level we have taken the opportunity to on maximising our resources and ofinventory.
include their energy consumption in reducing waste as part of our Our emissions have been calculated our GHG submission for transparency manufacturing process.
We are also based on the GHG Protocol Corporate and completeness.
looking at how our technical excellence Standard.
Emissions reported can support us in yield improvements.
Our emissions are predominantly correspond with our financial year.
fromgas and oil combustion and Victrex also continues to participate Wehave included emissions from electricity use on our manufacturing inthe Carbon Disclosure Project, both our owned and leased assets plants in the UK.
Emissions from our where our performance ranking was forwhich we are responsible in the overseas technical facilities and offices improved this year, building on the UKand overseas.
This includes our are relatively immaterial to those from continual improvement every year manufacturing plant, technical centres our UK activities, which explains our since our participation started in 2013. and offices.
No material Scope 1 or focus on UK reporting metrics.
Emissions have been calculated using Our cost of manufacture programme data gathered to fulfil our reporting yielded further savings this year.
requirements under Climate Change Moreefficient distribution for example, Victrex plc 29 Annual Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED RESOURCE EFFICIENCY CONTINUED REACH REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals Regulations is a well established regime for the chemical industry and Victrex has well established processes in place to ensure adherence to legislation.
Wemonitor and review to ensure thatraw materials involved in our manufacturing process are compliant and that REACH will not adversely impact on the security of supply, which is important both for Victrex and for our customers, who are focusing on long-term demand.
Therehas not been, and we do not anticipate, any disruption to the supply of products arising from theregulations.
ourselves against other chemical The occupational health and safety of manufacturing companies and to contractors working on our sites is of Health and safety help identify where we could make equal importance as our employees.
Protecting the occupational safety further improvements.
Pleasingly we With our major investment in new and health of all our employees, along achieved the top, fivestar, excellent PEEK production capacity seeing with contractors and visitors to our rating clearly demonstrating the major construction activity this year, sites, remains the highest priority for organisations strong commitment there has been a significant number Victrex.
We continue to have a strong toexcellent health and safety and ofcontractors on major projects, track record and have won several environmental performance.
withover 350,000 contractor hours accolades to mark our success in worked.
We recorded only one Whilst we have a strong track record, thisarea.
contractor reportable injury: a we set targets to drive continual contractor injured his thumb whilst We received the Royal Society for the safety, health and environment making up a pipe connection.
This Prevention of Accidents RoSPA SHE performance improvement.
result has been achieved by working Order of Distinction award this year.
During the year, well over 1.2 million closely alongside project principal Itis the 18th consecutive year that we employee hours were worked with contractors to ensure that robust have received an award and the fourth noemployee reportable injuries project health and safety procedures year running that we have received an andno cases ofreportable ill health.
are in place and that they are actively Order of Distinction award, a great This has beenachieved by establishing monitored, audited andreviewed.
achievement and one which underlines and maintaining a strong health and our significant commitment to health safetyculture throughout the business This year the principal contractor, and safety.
from the Executive team tothe shop building our new polymer manufacturing floor.
We have a strong business risk plant at our Hillhouse site in the UK, In 2015 we took the opportunity to management culture andbelieve that K-Home, again received a RoSPA gold commission an independent audit of good health and safety management award for its occupational health our SHE management system by the is just one partofit.
The purpose of the audit was to benchmark ZERO REPORTABLE INJURIES and cases of reportable ill health during the year.
Victrex plc 30 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report This year, our environmental indicators have been impacted by increased sales volumes.
The increased revenue intensity metrics reflect the impact of a softer sales mix, adverse currency on our revenues and higher inventory.
Absolute indicators increased, however, pleasingly the impact per unit of PEEK production decreased, thanks to manufacturing efficiency.
Primary energy Primary energy per Energy use UK operations unitrevenue In line with previous reporting, energyuse is reported for our UK Thousands GJ Thousands GJ m manufacturing sites.
Energy per 15 731 15 2.8 unitrevenue has increased this year, 14 574 14 2.3 however, energy per unit of production 13 518 13 2.3 has reduced due to the stronger 12 591 12 2.7 production performance.
This is 11 568 11 2.6 primarily because of resource efficiencies from the way we have beenable to operate our manufacturing plants to meet demand.
Energy is a priority sustainability target for us as part of our resource efficiency focus.
Water usage Water usage per unitrevenue Water UK operations Water use is reported for our UK 3 3 operations.
Our overseas water usage Thousands m Thousands m m isnot material.
Our manufacturing 15 602 15 2.3 operations are not in regions which 14 499 14 2.0 experience water shortages.
Total 13 377 13 1.7 water use and usage per unit revenue 12 474 12 2.2 increased, driven by higher volumes 11 439 11 2.0 manufactured and the impact of a softer sales mix and adverse currency on our revenues.
Water use per unit ofproduction has reduced.
Hazardous waste produced Hazardous waste produced Waste UK operations per unitrevenue Whilst our manufacturing process generates hazardous waste, we work Tonnes Tonnes m closely with licensed waste service 15 60,908 15 231 providers to ensure that it is recovered, 14 55,072 14 218 recycled or disposed ofwith minimal 13 47,254 13 213 environmental impact.
12 49,106 12 223 11 45,781 11 212 We have invested in improving and optimising the production process toreduce waste, but we are already striving to reduce it further.
This is a priority sustainability objective and there is an ongoing programme of work to examine how we can further minimise Hazardous waste disposed Hazardous waste disposed generation of waste at source and how to landfill after treatment to landfill after treatment we can also recover value from waste per unitrevenue generated over the medium term.
Pleasingly, waste per unit of production Tonnes Tonnes m reduced this year, following reductions 15 12 15 0.05 in previous years.
As per our other 14 14 14 0.06 metrics, higher volumes but lower 13 15 13 0.07 resulting revenues impacted our 12 13 12 0.06 metrics per unit of revenue.
