BOARD OF DIRECTORS N A N R Larry Pentz David Hummel Pamela Kirby Chairman BS ChE MBA Chief Executive BSc Non-executive Director BSc PhD Larry Pentz was appointed as a David Hummel was appointed to the Pamela Kirby joined the Board in 2011 and non-executive Director in 2008 and as was appointed Senior Independent Director Board in 1993 following the successful Chairman from October2014.
He has MBO of Victrex from ICI and has more effective from November 2014.
Pamela has over 30 years service in a variety of detailed knowledge of the international than 25 years of experience of the global operational and general management high performance polymer industry.
He pharmaceutical industry, and was formerly positions.
He has extensive experience in CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corporation has served as CEO of Victrex since 1993, developing strategy for and successfully overseeing strategic decision making and based in NorthCarolina, USA.
Pamela has leading international growth businesses.
also held a number of other senior positions day to day management and leadership Larry has been instrumental in the of the business.
Prior to joining Victrex in the international pharmaceutical industry, acquisition and integration of multiple including AstraZeneca plc, where she was David held a number ofsenior roles with catalyst andchemical companies for Diamond Shamrock, GE Plastics and ICI.
aRegional Director, and F. Hoffmann-La Johnson Matthey plc, and was formerly Roche Ltd. where she was their Director the executive Director responsible for of strategic marketing and business emission control technologies.
Pamela was previously Chairman of Scynexis Inc, non-executive Larry is an executive Director of Johnson Chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited Matthey Plc, holding board level andnon-executive Director of Novo responsibility forits process Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
Pamela is a non-executive Director of DCC plc, Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc andReckitt Benckiser Group.
Louisa Burdett Tim Cooper Martin Court Group Finance Director BSc ACA Executive Director BA Executive Director BSc Eng, PhD Louisa Burdett was appointed as Group Tim Cooper was appointed to the Board in Martin was appointed to the Board in Finance Directoron1 February 2014.
Louisa October2012 and continues in the position April 2015, and continues in the position also has overall responsibility forthe Group of Managing Director of VPS, a position Tim of Managing Director of Invibio, Victrexs Legal function, as well as the Company has held since joining Victrex in January medical business, a position Martin has Secretarial function.
Tim has overall responsibility for the held since joining Victrex in February 2013.
Chief Financial Officer and anexecutive Groups sales and operations functions.
Tim Martin also has overall responsibility for Director at Optosplc.
Priorto this, Louisa has over 30 years of international business the Groups marketing and technical was Chief Financial Officer atthe Financial management and commercial experience, functions, including our new product Times Group.
She has also held roles at having held senior leadership positions pipeline.
Martin has significant proven Chep Europe: a division of Brambles Ltd, inanumber of industries.
Priorto joining international experience in the medical the Australian-listed pallet distribution Victrex, Tim was with Umeco Plc, initially as and high performance materials and company: GE Healthcare formerly Managing Director of Aerovac Systems Ltd, chemicals industries, including with Amersham plc : and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
later as Group Managing Director of Umeco Cytec Industries, and in a number of Louisa has also worked as an M&A Composites Process Materials.
He was senior roles at both ICI and UCB.
He is Consultant at Charterhouse Bank and alsoappointed Managing Director of anINSEAD alumni, holds a doctorate spent four years at KPMG in London.
She Tellermate Plc andof Avery Berkel Ltd. inthe field of surface chemistry and has a first class degree in biochemistry Tims international career was developed fracture mechanics and a BSc Eng from Imperial College London and is through a number of roles held with GEC, degree in mineral technology from Imperial amember of the Institute ofChartered BP and Land Rover.
College of Science and Technology.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Victrex plc 36 Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Key to Committees A Audit Committee N Nominations Committee R Remuneration Committee A N A N Patrick fide Smedt R R Andrew Dougal Chairman of the Committee Non-executive Director BSc MSc Non-executive Director B Acc, CA Patrick fide Smedt was appointed to Andrew Dougal was appointed to the theBoard in 2008 and is Chairman Board in March 2015 and was appointed ofthe Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee Chair effective from Hiscareer includes over 23years with October 2015.
Andrew is a Chartered Microsoft Corporation, culminating in his Accountant and brings a wealth of appointment as Chairman of Microsoft experience to the Board, from a lengthy Europe, Middle East and Africa in 2003. executive and non-executive career of Patrick has previously worked with early over 35 years in industrial, manufacturing stage ventures in addition to large, and services companies.
He has an previously a non-executive Director and in-depth knowledge of international Audit Committee Chair of both Taylor markets, technology and diverse Woodrow Plc and Taylor Wimpey Plc and industry sectors.
a non-executive Director of BPB Plc and Premier Farnell plc.
Formerly, Andrew Patrick is Senior Independent Director served as Chief Executive of Hanson plc atMorgan Sindall plc.
He is also a following its demerger from Hanson, the non-executive Director of Kodak Anglo-American conglomerate, where AlarisHoldings Limited, Michael Page hewas Finance Director and previously International Plc and Nexinto held a number of senior roles in general HoldingsLimited.
He is a member of the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland ICAS and Chair of its technical policy board.
Andrew is a non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee at Carillion plc and Creston plc.
A N R Jane Toogood Non-executive Director MA Hons Jane Toogood was appointed to the Board in September 2015.
Jane has a wealth of experience across a number ofsenior marketing, sales and business development roles within the global chemical industry, including at ICI and Uniqema.
She commenced her career in marketing with ICI Colours and Fine Chemicals in 1987, before progressing into operational and manufacturing roles both in the US and Europe and held a non-executive Director role with NHS Harrogate and District Foundation Trust.
Jane holds an MA in natural sciences chemistry from the University of Oxford.
Jane is Senior Vice President marketing and new business development, polyolefins, for Borealis.
