Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Market overview The telecommunications industry today The telecommunications industry is a large one, generating around US$1.5trillion of revenue annually, from sevenbillion mobile phone customers and one billion fixed line customers.
Most of the increase in users has been from The global mobile market The global fixed market emerging markets due to favourable growth The fixed communications market generates Scale and structure drivers young and expanding populations, around US$500 billion of revenue annually.
The mobile industry has 7.2 billion users, faster economic growth, low but rising mobile Over the last three years, revenue from generating around one trillion US dollars penetration, and less fixed line infrastructure.
voice services has declined as the demand of annual service revenue every year.
The other key area of growth is data, which for traditional fixed line calls has remained Around 60% of revenue comes from is being driven by increasing smartphone and static at around one billion users.
However, over the last few tablet penetration, better mobile networks, revenue from fixed broadband or internet years the demand for mobile data services, and an increased choice of internet content usage is growing with an estimated 690 million such as watching videos and internet browsing and applications apps.
customers worldwide an increase of 21% on a smartphone, has accelerated, and today over the last three years.
This growth has Competition around 40% of revenue is from data, up from been spread across all forms of broadband The mobile industry is highly competitive, around 30% in 2011. copper, cable and fibre and within this, there with many alternative providers.
In each The majority of mobile users, around 76%, is a growing preference for the high speed country there are typically at least three are in emerging markets, such as India and capability provided by cable and fibre.
to four mobile network operators MNOs Africa.
This reflects the typical combination such as Vodafone.
Across Europe there are of large populations and the lack of fixed more than 100 MNOs.
In addition, there can line infrastructure, which means that the be numerous mobile virtual network operators mobile internet is often the only connection MVNOs suppliers that rent capacity to the internet for people in these regions.
from mobile operators to sell on to their It is estimated that in 2014 over half of the 3 customers.
There is also competition from Telecommunications revenue US$bn worlds mobile internet users came from other communication providers using internet- 1 emerging markets.
In contrast, the reported based rather than cellular services such as WiFi 1,500 983 940 959 903 864 proportion of the population with a phone calling or instant messaging.
or mobile penetration tends to be high 1,000 Regulation in mature markets usually over 100% The mobile industry is heavily regulated as some people have more than one 340 319 297 277 500 258 by national and regional authorities.
Mobile penetration is usually lower 209 217 225 Regulators continue to lower mobile 184 196 in emerging markets, particularly in rural 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 termination rates MTRs which are the fees areas, due mainly to lower incomes and less Fixed broadband Fixed voice Mobile mobile companies charge for calls received network coverage.
from other companies networks, and to limit 3 Growth Mobile customers by market the amount that operators can charge for The demand for mobile services continues mobile roaming services.
These two areas North America: 6% to grow strongly.
In the last three years the China: 19% represent around 11% of service revenue number of users increased by 20%.
See page 195 for more global mobile penetration was only 87%, 2014: on regulation.
7.3 billion and by 2014 it had risen to 101%.
Mature India: 13% 2013: Asia: 4% Revenue trends 6.8 billion In an environment of intense competition and South America: 10% significant regulatory pressures, the average Emerging Asia: 15% global price per minute of a mobile call has Africa: 12% Middle East: 5% fallen by over a third in the last three years 2 to five US cents.
However, with both more mobile phone users, and more usage of mobile Mobile phone penetration % 3 services, global mobile revenue remains by market on a positive trend and expanded by 9% over 150 143 138 the same period.
101 100 75 76 50 0 World Germany UK India Kenya 12 Mature markets Emerging markets Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Where the industry is heading The pace of change in the industry is expected to remain significant the demand for data is accelerating, there is an ongoing shift towards fixed and mobile bundles, networks are improving, and the market environment is becoming more positive.
The demand for bundled services has Internet-based providers often offer free Growing importance of been a feature of the enterprise market for calls and texts services, so mobile operators data, emerging markets and several years and is becoming more visible increasingly sell unlimited voice and text other new revenue areas in the consumer market.
We believe that bundles, and combine this with a fixed fee Traditional revenue sources mobile voice this demand, combined with technological for data usage.
While we expect the level and texts have reached maturity in a number advances delivering easier connection of competition to remain robust, we have seen of markets.
Therefore, to deliver future growth of multiple data devices, will support strong some encouraging signs of consolidation opportunities, we are investing in newer data growth in the future.
Therefore this will among European telecoms operators which revenue areas such as data.
It is estimated need to be managed by access to nextis supportive of further investment.
that between 2014 and 2018 mobile data generation fixed networks, principally cable revenue will grow by 18%, compared to a 7% or fibre, to support increased speed and meet Improving business decline in voice revenue over the same capacity requirements.
The demand for data will continue As Europe represents the majority of our to be driven by rising smartphone and tablet Continued network innovation revenue, the environment is important to us.
penetration and usage, and improvements The pace of innovation and development The economic recession in Europe over the in mobile network capability.
Already 95% in the networks is increasing.
For example, last few years has been a key driver of the of the worlds total traffic on mobile networks 4G, which we only launched in 2010 already declining revenue trends in the region for is data.
The data services most used are video accounts for 30% of data traffic on Vodafones many operators.
However, the return to GDP streaming and internet browsing which require European networks.
Standard 4G provides growth in 2014 bodes well for the future.
Therefore, operators speeds of up to 150 Mbps, which is more than The regulatory environment in Europe are investing more in 4G in European markets three times the highest 3G speeds.
The next remains challenging, as a result of ongoing and a combination of 4G and 3G in emerging stage of 4G development is 4G, which bonds cuts to regulated revenues such as roaming markets to provide much faster data speeds.
together multiple spectrum blocks to provide and MTRs.
The European Commission has Emerging markets have significant potential typical peak speeds of up to 450 Mbps.
recently announced a new Digital Single for customer and revenue growth driven High-Definition voice is another new mobile Market package of legislative measures.
by rising populations, strong economic technology which provides customers with While this emphasises the need to improve growth, lower mobile penetration and a lack crystal clear call quality.
In the fixed broadband the investment climate, it still needs of alternative fixed line infrastructure.
By 2018 sector operators are investing more in to translate into specific legislative measures it is expected that there will be 1.5 billion new fibre which provides data speeds typically which if rapidly adopted would have mobile users in emerging markets, taking their up to 300 Mbps to 1 Gbps, compared with a positive impact.
up to 24 Mbps on copper broadband.
Other new revenue streams are being pursued Continued high level Share of industry % which extend the use of mobile beyond 3 of competition mobile service revenue everyday communication.
These include money transfers and payments using The high level of competitive intensity 58 56 54 53 52 100 a handset, and M2M services such as smart in the communications industry is expected 80 metering and the location monitoring to continue between established MNOs, 60 of vehicles, through a SIM card embedded MVNOs, fixed operators and internetbased 48 47 46 44 42 40 in the vehicle.
MVNOs and smaller mobile operators are often attractive to value seekers.
20 Convergence of fixed However, the high level of investment in 4G 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and mobile into unified and unified communications by larger MNOs, Data Text Voice such as Vodafone, enables differentiation communications 3 Share of industry mobile users % through higher network and service quality.
We expect a continued trend towards unified Fixed operators often bundle their services communications or bundled mobile, fixed and with mobile, leading Vodafone to acquire fixed 100 76 77 78 78 79 TV services so that customers can use data capability to bundle with mobile, through services wherever they are and on whatever 80 investment in fibre networks, acquisitions and device they want.
40 24 23 22 22 21 20 Notes: 1 ITU Telecommunication Development Bureau.
13 Mature markets Emerging markets 3 Strategy analytics.
