Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Directors report The directors present their Report and Accounts for Appointment and replacement of directors the year ended 26 February 2015 Directors shall be no less than two and no more than Certain information required for disclosure in this Report is 20 in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company, provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report by ordinary resolution or by the Board of Directors.
These include the corporate governance and remuneration reports and the Group financial statements In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and Notes to those financial statements and accordingly all directors will stand for annual reelection at each AGM.
these are incorporated into the report by reference.
The Company may, by special resolution, remove any Results and dividends directors before the expiration of his her term of office.
Group underlying profit before tax 488.1 million Directors automatically stop being directors if: Group profit before tax 463.8 million i. they give the Company a written notice of resignation Interim dividend paid on 9 January 2015 25.20p per share at the date such notice expires : Recommended final dividend 56.95p per share ii.
they give the Company a written notice in which they offer to resign and the other directors decide to accept Total dividend for the year 82.15p per share the offer: Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM, iii.
all of the other directors who must comprise at least three the final dividend will be payable on 3 July 2015 to the people pass a resolution or sign a written notice requiring shareholders on the register at the close of business on the director to resign: 29 May 2015. iv.
they are or have been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the directors pass a resolution removing the Board of Directors director from office: The directors at the date of this Report are listed on pages 50 and 51.
All these directors served throughout the year.
v. they have missed directors meetings whether or not On 1 September 2014, Anthony Habgood resigned as an alternate director appointed attends those meetings Chairman of the Company and Richard Baker was appointed for a continuous period of six months without permission Chairman of the Company.
Patrick Dempsey resigned as a from the directors and the directors pass a resolution director of the Company with effect from 28 February 2015. removing the director from office: vi.
a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make Details of the directors service contracts are given in the any arrangement or composition with their creditors remuneration report on page 70.
None of the nonexecutive generally: directors has a service contract.
they are prohibited from being a director under any Details of directors training are given in the corporate applicable legislation: or governance report on pages 53 and 54. viii.
they cease to be a director under any applicable legislation or are removed from office under the Companys Articles Powers of directors of Association.
The business of the Company is managed by the directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to Directors indemnity the Companys Articles of Association, any relevant legislation A qualifying thirdparty indemnity provision as defined and any directions given by the Company by passing a special in Section 236 1 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors for the benefit of the directors.
may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors and Compensation for loss of office recommend and declare dividends.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
Directors share interests Details regarding the share interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares, are set out in the remuneration report on pages 71 to 74.
Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 report 77 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Directors report continued Restrictions on transfer of shares Share capital There are the following restrictions on the transfer of Details of the issued share capital can be found in Note 27 shares in the Company: to the accounts.
certain restrictions which may from time to time be Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one trading laws : or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives to attend general meetings and to exercise pursuant to the Companys share dealing code, the voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a directors and senior executives of the Company require dividend and on a liquidation, may share in the assets of the approval to deal in the Companys shares: Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive where a person with at least a 0.25% interest in a class the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
Subject to of shares has been served with a disclosure notice and meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares has failed to provide the Company with information may requisition a general meeting of the Company or the concerning interests in those shares: proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
the subscriber ordinary shares may not be transferred Voting rights without the prior written consent of the directors: On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, the directors can, without giving any reason, refuse to every holder of ordinary shares present, in person or by register the transfer of any shares which are not fully paid: proxy and entitled to vote, has one vote unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been holders: and instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an and by one or more members to vote against the resolution uncertificated share in the circumstances set out in the and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Companys and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share Articles of Association.
Voting rights for any ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special The Company is not aware of any agreements between rights with regard to control of the Company.
Electronic and shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be of shares or on voting rights.
received by the Companys registrars not later than i 48 hours before a meeting or adjourned meeting excluding B shares and C shares nonworking days, or ii 24 hours before a poll is taken, Holders of B shares and C shares are entitled to receive an if the poll is not taken on the same day as the meeting or annual noncumulative preferential dividend calculated at a adjourned meeting.
rate of 75% of six month LIBOR on a value of 155p per B share and 159p per C share respectively, but are not entitled to any Unless the directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot further right of participation in the profits of the Company.
attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company or at They are also entitled to payment of 155p per B share and any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of 159p per C share respectively on a return of capital on shares in the Company or upon a poll or exercise any other windingup excluding any intragroup reorganisation on right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings a solvent basis.
or polls if he or she has not paid all amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the meeting.
Except in limited circumstances, the holders of the B shares and C shares are not entitled in their capacity as holders of Where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in a class such shares, to receive notice of any general meeting of the of shares has been served with a disclosure notice in relation Company nor to attend, speak or vote at any such general to a particular holding of shares and has failed to provide the meeting.
Company with information concerning those shares, those shares will no longer give that shareholder any right to vote at a shareholders meeting.
Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 report 78 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Directors report continued Purchase of own shares Employee involvement The Company is authorised to purchase its own shares The importance of good relations and communications with in the market.
Approval to renew this authority will be sought employees is fundamental to the continued success of our from the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Each of the Groups operating businesses maintains employee relations and consults employees as appropriate The Company did not purchase any of its own shares to its own particular needs.
In addition, our employee opinion during the year.
13.3 million shares are held as treasury survey, Your Say, is conducted twice a year to provide insight shares 27 February 2014: 13.3 million.
The Company did into the views of employees.
not transfer any shares from treasury to the Employee Share Ownership Trust during the year.
Our employees are actively encouraged to take part in our Sharesave scheme, which is available to all employees and offers an option price discounted by 20%.
Employee share schemes Whitbread does not have any employee share schemes with Regular internal communications are made to all employees shares which have rights with regard to the control of the to ensure that they are kept well informed of the performance Company that are not exercisable directly by the employees.
of the Group and of financial and economic factors that may affect the Companys performance.
Major interests As at the end of the financial year, the Company had received Further information on employee involvement can be formal notification, under the Disclosure and Transparency found in the Winning Teams sections on pages 14 to 16 and Rules, of the following material holdings in its shares the 26 and 27. percentages shown are the percentages at the time of the disclosure and have not been recalculated based on the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas GHG reporting issued share capital at the yearend : Our environmental reporting complies with the requirements Number % of issued of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report ofshares share capital Regulations 2013.
FMR LLC 9,177,791 5.05 We have considered the six main GHGs and report in CO e 2 The Company was informed on 31 March 2015 that BlackRock for our Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect CO emissions.
2 Inc. had increased its holding to 9,206,796 of voting rights, We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and being 5.07% of the total voting rights.
No other changes to the Reporting Standard methodology to calculate our emissions above have been disclosed to the Company in accordance and DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
with rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules between the end of the financial year and 27 April 2015.
Scope 1 includes emissions from the fuels we use in our hotels, restaurants, offices and coffee shops such as natural gas Employment policies and liquid petroleum gas.
It also includes CO e from owned 2 Whitbread has a range of employment policies covering vehicles which include company cars but excludes logistics such issues as diversity, employee wellbeing and equal as this is an outsourced operation.
losses are captured for UK operations only due to reporting capabilities.
The Company takes its responsibilities to the disabled seriously and seeks not to discriminate under any Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions associated with circumstances including in relation to training, career the generation of the electricity consumed in our sites.
development and promotion against current or prospective employees because of any disability.
Fair and full When defining the scope of our data we do not report on consideration is given to applications for employment made operations under Joint Venture agreements where we do not by disabled persons, having regard to their aptitudes and have operational control such as Costa Beijing and Premier abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their Inn UAE.
For reasons of materiality, small, one man offices career at Whitbread will be retained in employment wherever in Australasia and the Far East have been excluded.
All other possible and given help with rehabilitation and training.
sites throughout the world are included.
Where possible we have reported billed or AMR data which now represents 88% of our total global emissions.
For those operations which are currently beyond our reporting capabilities, such as Costa Shanghai, we have used an estimation approach using known sales data and local conversion factors.
For further information about our estimation techniques and the number and location of Whitbread sites please view the Corporate Responsibility pages on our website.
Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 report 79 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Directors report continued Political donations Tonnes Tonnes The Company has not made any political donations during of CO e of CO e Change 2 2 the year and intends to continue its policy of not doing so Source of emissions 2013 14 2014 15 % for the foreseeable future.
Direct Scope 1 Natural Gas 53,857 52,993 1.60 emissions Auditor Fuel Oil 400 197 50.70 In March 2015, the Company announced that Deloitte LLP LPG 3,245 3,175 2.16 will be appointed as the Companys statutory auditor, subject Fgas 7,573 5,033 33.54 to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 16 June 2015.
Owned Transport 1,864 1,534 17.70 The Audit Committee has considered what work should not be carried out by the external auditor and has concluded Indirect Scope 2 Electricity 187,733 211,733 12.78 emissions that certain services will not be carried out by Deloitte LLP, as outlined in the Committees terms of reference.
Further Gross 254,673 274,665 7.85 details on the tender process conducted by the Company emissions can be found on page 59.
Turnover m 2,294.30 2,608.10 13.68 Tonnes CO e per Disclosure of information to auditor 2 1 million turnover 111.00 105.31 5.13 The directors have taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of relevant audit information and to Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
The Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the directors are not aware of any relevant audit information Company may be made in accordance with the provisions which has not been disclosed to the auditor.
of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Going concern Significant agreements The Groups business activities, together with the factors The Companys facility agreements and the private likely to affect its future development, performance and placement loan notes agreement, details of which can position are set out in the strategic report on pages 4 to 47. be found in Note 21 to the accounts, contain provisions The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, net debt entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other and borrowing facilities and the maturity of those facilities rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
are set out in the Finance Directors review on pages 42 to 45.
In addition there are further details in the financial Contractual arrangements statements on the Groups financial risk management, The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous objectives and policies Note 24 and on financial instruments thirdparties in support of its business activities, none Note 25. of which are considered individually to be essential to its business and, accordingly, it has not been considered A combination of the strong operating cash flows generated necessary for an understanding of the development, by the business and the significant headroom on its credit performance or position of the Groups business to disclose facilities supports the directors view that the Group has information about any of those third parties.
sufficient funds available for it to meet its forseeable working capital requirements.
The directors have concluded that the Financial instruments going concern basis remains appropriate.
Information on the Companys use of financial instruments, financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure is given in Note 24 and Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 report 80 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Directors report continued Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 2pm on 16 June 2015 at Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
The Notice of Meeting is enclosed with this report for shareholders receiving hard copy documents, and is available at www.
co. uk for those who elected to receive documents electronically.
At the 2015 AGM, all voting will be by poll.
Electronic handsets will be utilised and results will be displayed on the screen at the meeting.
Approved by the Board on 27 April 2015 and signed.
Simon Barratt General Counsel and Company Secretary Registered Office: Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Porz Avenue Dunstable Bedfordshire LU5 5XE Registered in England: No.
4120344 The directors report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in connection with this Report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain statements about the future outlook for the Group.
Although the Company believes that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
Whitbread Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 report 81 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 84 Directors responsibility statement 85 Independent auditors report 88 Consolidated income statement 89 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 90 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 91 Consolidated balance sheet 92 Consolidated cash flow statement 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 accounts 2014 15 83
