STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and the audited consolidated PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS financial statements for the financial year ended 31 August 2015.
The Group profit before taxation for the financial year ended The Company is the ultimate parent company of the WH Smith 31 August 2015 was 121m 2014: 112m.
The directors group of companies the Group.
recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year of 27.3p per ordinary share on 4 February 2016 to members on the Register at The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414C 11 the close of business on 15 January 2016.
This final dividend and of the Companies Act 2006, to include certain information in the the interim dividend of 12.1p per ordinary share paid on 6 August Strategic report that would otherwise be required to be disclosed 2015 make a total dividend of 39.4p per ordinary share for the year in this Directors report, as follows: ended 31 August 2015 2014: 35.0p.
Information Page number Likely future developments in the business 8 to 17 SHARE CAPITAL Branches outside the UK 13 The issued share capital of the Company, together with details of Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 23 shares issued during the year, is shown in Note 24 on page 91 to the accounts.
Employment of disabled persons 25 Employee involvement 25 The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 August 2015 was 6 115,681,111 ordinary shares of 22 67p each.
These shares are listed Other information, which forms part of this Directors report, can on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certicated or be found in the following sections of the Annual report: uncerticated form.
Section Page number The Company is not aware of any agreements between Corporate governance report 26 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Directors biographies 34 securities and voting rights.
Statement of directors responsibilities 56 There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in Information on use of financial instruments 88 the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws and market requirements This Directors report including information specified above relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules as forming part of this report fulls the requirements of the and the Companys Share Dealing Code whereby directors and Corporate governance statement for the purposes of DTR 7.2. certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed on the following pages of this Annual report: The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Subject matter Page number shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a Allotment of shares for 40 Directors remuneration copy of which can be obtained from the Companys website, cash pursuant to the WHSmith report Note 24 on page employee share incentive plans 91 to the consolidated www.
The holders of ordinary shares are financial statements entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies Arrangement under which the 51 Directors remuneration and to exercise voting rights, and to receive a dividend, if declared, WH Smith Employee benefit Trust has report subject to the deduction of any sums due from the holder of waived or agreed to waive dividends ordinary shares to the Company on account of calls or otherwise.
future dividends Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be approved by special resolution of the Company.
The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee benefit Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the beneciaries of the Trust, who are the employees and former employees of the Group.
If any offer is made to the holders of ordinary shares to acquire their shares, the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to the interests of the option holders and can consult them to obtain their views on the offer, and subject to the foregoing, the Trustee will take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
indd 53 26 11 2015 15:09 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED think this is appropriate.
Any Situational Conicts considered by PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES the Board, and any authorisations given, are recorded in the Board At the 2015 AGM, authority was given for the Company to purchase, minutes and in a register of conicts which is reviewed regularly by 6 in the market, up to 11,808,035 ordinary shares of 22 67p each, the Board.
renewing the authority granted at the 2014 AGM.
The Company used this authority to facilitate its ongoing strategy of returning DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES surplus cash to shareholders by way of dividends and share buy The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance backs thereby increasing total shareholder returns and the net which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought asset value per share.
The directors will only exercise the authority against its directors.
The Company has provided and continues to when satisfied that it is in the best interests of shareholders provide an indemnity for its directors, which is a qualifying third generally and that it would result in an increase in earnings per party indemnity provision for the purposes of Section 234 of the share.
The Company purchased and subsequently cancelled Companies Act 2006.
4,010,482 of its own shares during the financial year, representing 3.5 per cent of the issued share capital as at 31 August 2015, at an COMPANYS SHAREHOLDERS average price of 13.27.
The aggregate amount of consideration including costs paid by the Company for the purchases was Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial 54m.
During the period 1 September 2015 to 14 October 2015, Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Company purchased and subsequently cancelled a further DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the 590,000 of its own shares, representing 0.5 per cent of the issued Companys website.
As at 31 August 2015, the following information share capital, at an average price of 15.24.
The aggregate amount had been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of of consideration including costs paid by the Company for the notiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
This authority is renewable annually and be noted that these holdings may have changed since notied to the approval will be sought from shareholders at the AGM in 2016 Company.
However, notication of any change is not required until torenew the authority for a further year.
the next applicable threshold is crossed.
% as at ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES date of Nature of During the financial year ended 31 August 2015, 241,236 ordinary Holder Number notication holding shares of the Company were issued under the Sharesave Scheme Aberdeen Asset 6,698,196 5.70 Indirect at prices between 387.00p and 580.80p.
The Articles of Association ManagersLimited of the Company provide that the Board may, subject to the prior Royal London Asset 5,789,995 4.97 Direct approval of the members of the Company, be granted authority Management Limited to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares or Norges Bank 3,614,803 3.09 Direct grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares, including new ordinary shares.
A disclosure was received from Norges Bank on 23 September 2015 notifying the Company that they no longer held a SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL notiable interest.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its trading subsidiaries, WH Smith High Street Limited and WH Smith The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the Travel Limited, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is banking arrangements, property leases, licence and concession accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In addition, the of the Group.
The Company recognises the importance of service agreements of some senior executives and employee share communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy plans would be similarly affected on a change of control, including, and performance are understood.
This is achieved principally in the case of some employees, in relation to compensation for loss through the Annual report and accounts and the AGM.
a range of corporate information, including all Company announcements and presentations, is available to investors on the DIRECTORS CONFLICTS Companys website, www.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders consider and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a director following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim has an interest that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum interests of the Company Situational Conicts.
The Board has a for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally formal system in place for directors to declare Situational Conicts attend the AGM and are available to answer questions that to be considered for authorisation by those directors who have shareholders may wish to raise.
no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to The Notice of Meeting is made available to shareholders at least authorise a Situational Conict, the non-conicted directors must 20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to have elected to receive electronic communications receive notice promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits of the availability of the Annual report on the Companys website.
or conditions when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they 54 Governance v33.
indd 54 26 11 2015 15:09 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 The deadline for appointing a proxy is 48 hours before the time AUDITOR xed for the meeting although, in calculating this period, no PwC has expressed its willingness to continue in ofce as auditor account is taken of non-working days.
A resolution to re-appoint PwC as auditors to the Company and a resolution to authorise the Audit Committee to In accordance with best practice all resolutions at the 2016 AGM determine its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
will be taken on a poll vote.
This enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for every share he or she holds.
The results of the poll vote on the resolutions put to Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the directors the meeting will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened in following the end of the meeting and will also be published on Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys theCompanys website.
Auditors are unaware, and each of the directors has taken all steps he or she should have taken as a director in order to make himself The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
and CFO COO update the Board following meetings with major shareholders and analysts briengs are circulated to the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Board.
The Head of Investor Relations also carries out a regular The AGM of the Company will be held at Allen & Overy LLP, One programme of work and reports to the Board the views and Bishops Square, London E1 6AD on 27 January 2016 at 11.30am.
information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together with of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
When requested to do so, the Chairman and nonexecutive directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
This report was approved by the Board on 15 October 2015.
By order of the Board POLITICAL DONATIONS It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and no Ian Houghton political donations, contributions or EU political expenditure were Company Secretary made in the year 2014: nil.
15 October 2015 GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors that are likely to affect its future developments, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 25.
The Financial review on pages 14 to 17 of the Strategic report also describes the Groups financial position, cash ows and borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in Notes 20 to 23 of the accounts on pages 87 to 90.
In addition, Note 23 of the accounts on page 88 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Strategic report on pages 20 and 21 also highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The directors report that they have reviewed current performance and forecasts, combined with expenditure commitments, including capital expenditure, proposed dividends and share buybacks, and borrowing facilities.
After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue its current operations, including contractual and commercial commitments for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
