Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Board of Directors Richard Baker Andy Harrison Chairman Chief Executive Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: September 2009 September 2010 due to step down by February 2016 Date of appointment as Chairman: September 2014 Age: 57 Age: 52 Experience: Andy served as Chief Executive Experience: of easyJet plc from 2005 to 2010 Richard previously served as and was Chief Executive of RAC plc Chairman of Virgin Active Group, previously Lex Services plc from Chief Executive of Alliance Boots 1996 to 2005.
Prior to this, he held Group plc and Chief Operating the roles of Managing Director of Officer at Asda Group plc.
Courtaulds International Fabrics External appointments: and Finance Director of Courtaulds Global Advisory Council, Textiles plc.
Andy has also held Aimia Chairman a nonexecutive directorship at DFS Furniture Plc Chairman Emap plc, where he was Chairman Advent International Plc of the Audit Committee.
Operating Partner External appointments: Committee membership: Dunelm Group plc Nomination Committee Nonexecutive director Chairman Remuneration Committee Sir Ian Cheshire Wendy Becker Senior Independent Director Independent nonexecutive director Date of appointment to the Board: February 2011 Date of appointment to the Board: January 2008 Age: 55 Age: 49 Experience: Sir Ian was Group Chief Executive Experience: of Kingfisher plc until the end of Wendy has been Group Chief January 2015, and was also a Marketing Officer for Vodafone, former Chair of the British Retail Managing Director of TalkTalk and a Consortium.
External appointments: External appointments: Government lead nonexecutive Jack Wills Limited director Chief Executive Business in the Community Cancer Research UK Trustee Director Deputy Chairman BGT Capital PLC Chair Princes Trust Trustee MediCinema Trustee Chair English National Ballet Trustee Cambridge Programme for Oxfords Said Business School Sustainability Leadership Member of Business Chairman of Advisory Board Advisory Board Committee membership: Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Whitbread Corporate governance: Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Board of Directors 50 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Nicholas Cadbury Christopher Rogers Louise Smalley Group Finance Director Managing Director Group HR Director Date of appointment to the Board: Costa Coffee Date of appointment to the Board: November 2012 November 2012 Date of appointment to the Board: May 2005 Age: 49 Age: 47 Age: 55 Experience: Experience: Nicholas joined Whitbread in Louise joined Whitbread in Experience: November 2012 as Group Finance 1995 and has held the position Christopher joined Whitbread ten Director.
He previously worked at of Group HR Director since 2007. years ago as Group Finance Director, Dixons Retail PLC, in a variety of During her time at Whitbread, a role he held until November 2012. management roles, including Chief Louise has held a variety of He was appointed Managing Financial Officer from 20082011.
HR roles across the Whitbread Director of Costa Coffee in July Nicholas also held the position of businesses, including HR Director 2012.
Christopher previously worked Chief Financial Officer of Premier of David Lloyd Leisure and at Woolworths Group plc where Farnell PLC, which he joined in 2011.
he was Finance Director and also Nicholas originally qualified as an She previously worked in the held the position of Chairman of the accountant with Price Waterhouse.
oil industry, with BP and Esso Woolworths Group Entertainment Petroleum.
He originally qualified as an accountant with Price External appointments: Waterhouse before joining DS Smith Plc Kingfisher plc in 1988.
Nonexecutive director External appointments: Travis Perkins Plc Nonexecutive director Simon Melliss Susan Taylor Martin Stephen Williams Independent nonexecutive Independent nonexecutive Independent nonexecutive director director director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: April 2007 January 2012 April 2008 Age: 62 Age: 51 Age: 67 Experience: Experience: Experience: Simon, a chartered accountant, Susan has held a number of roles Stephen retired as General Counsel was Chief Financial Officer of at Thomson Reuters, including and Chief Legal Officer of Unilever Hammerson plc from 1995 to President, Thomson Reuters during 2010, having originally joined 2011, having originally joined the Media, President of Global in that position in 1986.
Prior to that, company in 1991 as Group Financial Investment Focus Accounts and Stephen spent 11 years at Imperial Controller.
Prior to that he served Managing Director of Legal in the Chemical Industries plc.
From 1995 as the Group Financial Controller UK and Ireland.
Prior to this she to 2004 he was a nonexecutive of Sketchley PLC and held senior was Global Head, Corporate director of Bunzl plc and from 2004 finance positions with Reed Strategy for Reuters, which she to 2010 he was Senior Independent International.
Simon also previously joined in 1993.
held a nonexecutive directorship External appointments: External appointments: at Associated British Ports Thomson Reuters Croda International Plc Holdings plc.
President, Legal Nonexecutive director External appointments: Thomson Reuters Foundation Eversheds LLP Hermes Property Unit Trust Trustee Nonexecutive director Chairman Spencer Stuart LLP Committee membership: University College London Senior Advisor Audit Committee Treasurer and member Moorfields Eye Hospital of the Council NHS Trust Trustee fide La Warr Pavilion Trust Committee membership: Deputy Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Amicus Curiae Limited Director Nomination Committee Leverhulme Trust Board member Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Whitbread Corporate governance: Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Board of Directors 51 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Corporate governance continued Board activities during the year At the meetings during the year, the Board discharged its In advance of each Board meeting, a set of Board papers, responsibilities and considered a range of matters, details including monthly financial and trading reports, is circulated of which can be found below: so that directors have sufficient time to review them and Board agenda 2014 15 arrive at the meeting fully prepared.
Standing agenda items The Board has a rolling agenda which sets matters to be Chief Executives report Health and Safety report considered throughout the year.
Following the annual quarterly Finance Directors report Strategy Day, the Board agrees the significant topics to be Secretariat report discussed at the Board meetings during the year.
The rolling agenda is then scheduled to ensure that there is a structured Q1 Q2 approach to the consideration of topics and recurring issues Approval of yearend Premier Inn Germany are evenly spread across the calendar.
The Board gives its documentation and final Costa Poland attention to each area of the business in turn so that a strong dividend Whitbread Hotels & understanding of the entire Company is maintained.
The Costa UK Retail Restaurants International rolling agenda is regularly reviewed and updated and is Costa France Premier Inn UK Network circulated as part of the secretariat report before each hub by Premier Inn Strategy meeting.
Information Technology Premier Inn update The agenda for individual Board meetings are agreed with Strategic plan preparation the Chairman and the Chief Executive on a monthly basis Costa China so that current events and potential future issues can be discussed alongside the regular reports.
Standard items Q3 Q4 for each meeting are a review of progress on action points, Costa UK Retail Pensions update reports from the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and Premier Inn digital Premier Inn update the Managing Directors of Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Interim results and dividend 2015 16 budget and Costa and the secretariat report.
Costa International Franchise Corporate Governance review The Chairman meets with the nonexecutive directors Board Ways of Working Corporate Responsibility activity without the executives present after Board meetings.
Group risk profile Leadership talent Information Technology There is a schedule of matters reserved exclusively to the Team member pay Board: all other decisions are delegated to management.
Those matters reserved exclusively to the Board include Board processes and topics to be discussed are continually approval of Group financial statements and the preliminary reviewed to ensure that the correct focus is given to the announcement of half and fullyear results: changes relating key issues highlighted at the annual Strategy Day.
to the Groups capital structure: the annual budget and the Groups business plan: approving capital projects, acquisitions and disposals valued at over 12 million: interim dividends and recommendation of final dividends: and establishment of Board committees.
The schedule of matters reserved was reviewed at the January 2015 Board meeting and is available on our website.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 governance 52 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Corporate governance continued Board meetings and attendance Effectiveness The Board generally holds meetings at monthly intervals The effectiveness of the Board, committees and individual during the year and on an ad hoc basis as and when required.
directors is reviewed annually in accordance with the Code.
Ten meetings were held during the year and attendance at meetings by directors is set out below: Composition of the Board It is believed that the Board and its committees have the Audit Nomination Remuneration appropriate balance of skills, experience, diversity, Board Committee Committee Committee independence and knowledge of the Company to enable 1 3 Richard Baker 10 10 3 3 5 5 them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Board Andy Harrison 10 10 has a majority of independent nonexecutive directors.
After assessing independence against the Code, the Board Nicholas Cadbury 10 10 considers all nonexecutive directors to be independent in Christopher Rogers 10 10 judgement and character.
On appointment, the Board also considered the Chairman to be independent in character Louise Smalley 10 10 and judgement.
4 Wendy Becker 10 10 4 4 4 4 5 6 2 4 No new directors were appointed during the financial year.
Sir Ian Cheshire 10 10 4 4 5 6 Details of the appointment procedure can be found in the Simon Melliss 10 10 4 4 4 4 report of the Nomination Committee on page 60.
Susan Taylor Martin 10 10 4 4 External directorships Stephen Williams 10 10 4 4 6 6 Nonexecutive directors may serve on other boards provided Members of the executive team attended committee meetings as they continue to demonstrate the required commitment to appropriate.
The Nomination Committee 1 Richard Baker was a member of the Audit Committee prior has reviewed the extent of other interests of the nonexecutive to his appointment as Chairman and attended three meetings directors and the Board is satisfied that the Chairman and in this capacity.
He was not a member of the Committee for the each of the nonexecutive directors commit sufficient time fourth meeting but was in attendance by invitation.
to their duties and fulfil their obligations to the Company.
2 Three of the Nomination Committee meetings dealt with the appointment of the successor to the Chairman, therefore Sir Ian Cheshire chaired these meetings as Senior Independent Director.
No executive director has taken on more than one Following his appointment as Chairman, Richard Baker now nonexecutive directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
During the year Andy Harrison became a nonexecutive 3 One of the Remuneration Committee meetings dealt with the director of Dunelm Group plc and Louise Smalley became Chairman fees therefore Richard Baker did not attend.
a nonexecutive director of DS Smith Plc.
4 Due to prior commitments Wendy and Sir Ian were unable to attend one of the Remuneration Committee meetings.
Both directors Training and development received the papers and provided feedback for the relevant meeting.
On appointment, all directors receive a full and formal induction that is tailored to their specific needs.
Meetings are Insurance cover arranged with the Chairman, Chief Executive and all executive The Company has appropriate directors and officers liability and nonexecutive directors.
Meetings are also arranged insurance in place.
In addition to this, the Company provides with members of the senior management team, the Groups an indemnity for directors against the costs of defending advisers and, if appropriate, major investors.
A detailed review certain legal proceedings.
of all our businesses is provided and several site visits to our brands are arranged to provide insight into the Company and to develop an understanding of each business.
Training and development continues beyond the induction process and is an ongoing process for all Board members.
The Chairman reviews and agrees the training and development needs with each director on an annual basis.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 governance 53 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Corporate governance continued Directors attend external training events to update their skills The conclusions of the review were discussed at the April and knowledge.
Training events were attended by Board 2015 Board meeting and actions in response to the results members during the year on a range of issues including: have been developed.
Areas for discussion included: Cyber Security Disciplines for Board members: preparation and reporting of consistent KPIs at each Board meeting: Risk Management and Mitigation: and further details on shareholder feedback and contact Media Training.
with advisers: and Investor relations and market updates were also presented international strategy, with particular reference to Costa to the Board and regular updates from each of the brands in China.
In response to last years evaluation, there has been a All directors have access to independent professional advice significant improvement in international capability, increasing at the Companys expense.
Directors serving on the Board the strength in depth of our international talent pipeline.
committees confirmed that they are satisfied that they received sufficient resources to enable them to undertake Individual directors their duties effectively.
Each director has access to the The Chairman has onetoone meetings with all directors Company Secretary for advice on governance.
to discuss their performance and to identify whether they continue to contribute effectively to the Board and The Company Secretary prepares a monthly report that demonstrate commitment to the role.
includes updates on corporate legislation and best practice on matters including corporate governance.
This report Chairman is presented and discussed at each Board meeting.
The Senior Independent Director meets with the non executive directors without the Chairman present to discuss Evaluation the performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent An evaluation of the Board, its committees, individual Director also speaks with the executive directors to gain their directors and the Chairman is carried out each year.
views before discussing the results with the Chairman.
Board and committees Conflicts of interests An external evaluation was conducted in 2012 and Directors are required to disclose any conflicts of interest as discussed on page 48, it was agreed by the Board immediately as and when they arise throughout the year.
to postpone the external evaluation due to take place in In addition, a formal process is undertaken in February January 2015 by 12 months in view of the recent Chairman each year when all directors confirm to the Board details succession process.
This years Board evaluation was of their external interests including any other directorships conducted internally and had two aspects: which they hold.
each director completed a formal questionnaire on These are assessed by the Board to determine whether the the performance of the Board and each of the Board directors ability to act in the best interests of the Company committees, considering the balance of skills, diversity could be compromised.
If there are no such potential or actual independence and knowledge of the Company on the conflicts, the external interests are authorised by the Board.
Board, how the Board works together, and other factors All authorisations are for a period of 12 months.
No director relevant to its effectiveness: and is counted as part of a quorum in respect of the authorisation the Chairman met all directors on a onetoone basis.
of his or her own conflict.
It is recognised that all organisations are potential customers of Whitbread and, in view of this, the Board has authorised all directors current external directorships.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 governance 54 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Corporate governance continued Shareholder relations As in previous years, all voting by shareholders at this years In accordance with the Code, the Board recognises that it has AGM will be by poll using electronic handsets.
The voting responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with results, including proxy votes received, will be displayed on shareholders takes place and any major shareholders issues a screen at the end of the meeting.
In addition, the audited and concerns are communicated to the Board.
poll results will be disclosed on the Companys website following the meeting, and announced through the regulatory The Company communicates with both the institutional news service.
and private shareholders through the following means: Share capital Interaction with all shareholders The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6 relating to the Companys website www.
co. uk, where the share capital of the Company can be found within the information and news is regularly updated: directors report on pages 78 and 79. the Annual Report, which sets out details of the Companys Accountability and internal control strategy, Business Model and performance over the past financial year and plans for future growth: Internal control and risk management the Annual General Meeting, where all shareholders have The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal the opportunity to vote on the resolutions proposed and control and risk management, and for reviewing their to put questions to the Board and executive team: and effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
presentations of fullyear and interim results to analysts They can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, and shareholders, which are also available on the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, Interaction with institutional shareholders evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks.
This the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director process was in place throughout the 2014 15 financial year of Investor Relations hold meetings with institutional and up to the date of this Report.
The process is reviewed by investors following the fullyear and interim results: the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors in the Code.
A report of the key risks can be found the Chairman meets with institutional shareholders on pages 34 to 37. on request: the Board receives updates on the views of major Risk analysis shareholders from the Companys brokers: and The Board identifies the principal risks of the Company on a investor days.
regular basis and throughout the year it reviews the actions in place to mitigate the risks together with assurance and Interaction with private shareholders monitoring activity.
The analysis covers health and safety, live webcast presentations of the fullyear and interim financial, market, operational and reputational risks which results: and the Company may face as well as specific areas identified in the business plan and budget process.
electronic communications with shareholders including use of the online share portal.
Each of the businesses also carries out its own risk analysis together with the Director of Internal Audit and The Annual General Meeting this is reviewed regularly by the management boards.
The Annual General Meeting AGM provides all shareholders All major capital and revenue projects, together with with the opportunity to communicate directly with the significant change programmes, include the consideration Board which encourages their participation at the meeting.
of the risks involved and an appropriate action plan.
In accordance with the Code, the Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue including a specific resolution to approve the Report and Accounts.
For each resolution, proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM if they are unable to attend in person.
All valid proxy votes received for the AGM are properly recorded and counted by Whitbreads registrars.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 governance 55 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Corporate governance continued Controls Ernst & Young review and report on the significant issues The Company reviews and confirms its level of compliance identified in their audit report.
with the Corporate Governance Code on an annual basis.
An internal control evaluation process is overseen by the The matters reserved to the Board require that major management team which assesses the level of compliance projects and programmes must have specific Board with the controls, policies and processes and the results approval.
are reviewed and tested on a sample basis by PwC.
Limits of delegation and authority are prescribed to ensure Post completion reviews of major projects and investments that the appropriate approvals are obtained if Board are carried out and reported on to the Board.
authority is not required to ensure appropriate segregation of tasks.
Statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts Group financial policies, controls and procedures are in As required by the Code, the directors confirm their place and regularly reviewed and updated.
responsibility for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts The Whitbread Code of Conduct, setting out required levels and consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, of ethics and behaviour, is communicated to employees.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys The Code of Conduct makes reference to specific policies performance, Business Model and strategy.
Further detail on and procedures which have to be followed.
how this conclusion was reached can be found in the report Management is responsible for ensuring the appropriate of the Audit Committee on pages 57 to 59. maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure that financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance Statements by the auditor in respect of its reporting with applicable laws and regulations and is distributed both responsibilities internally and externally in a timely manner.
Statements by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found in the auditors report on pages 85 to 87.
A review of the financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and Going concern results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
The directors going concern statement can be found in the All financial information published by the Group is subject directors report on page 80. to the approval of the Audit Committee and the Board.
Business Model and strategy An annual review of internal controls is undertaken by Information on the Groups Business Model and the strategy the Board with the assistance of the Audit Committee.
for delivering the objectives of the Company can be found on pages 4 to 47.
Assurance The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, Board committees approves an audit programme which ensures that the The Board is supported by three committees: the Audit significant areas of risk identified are independently Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration reviewed within at least a three year period.
Their terms of reference are reviewed annually The programme and the results of the audits are regularly and updated in line with best practice.
They have been assessed during the year.
reviewed in 2015 and approved by each of the Committees.
They are available in full on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee reviews the major findings from both operational and external audits.
A detailed report from the Chairman of the Remuneration Under the control of the Director of Internal Audit, Committee is set out on pages 62 to 76.
Reports for the Audit independent audits are carried out by PwC.
The reports are and Nomination Committees can be found on pages 57 to 61. reviewed by the Audit Committee and on a monthly basis by the Executive Committee to ensure that the actions required to address issues identified are implemented.
The Director of Internal Audit and PwC reports annually to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls across the Group.
Whitbread Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 governance 56
