Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa The Business Model in action Cust C Custo omer mer r Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good A force for good Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat Our approach Our approach We recruit, reward, train and develop The size of our network and the We design our stores to create our team members to build highly number of distribution channels a warm and welcoming experience.
engaged teams who deliver a great mean you are never far from We use customer insight to build coffee experience for our customers.
We develop talented leaders We serve great quality coffee.
We maintain quality through and offer jobs with opportunities We constantly develop new food ongoing refurbishment.
and exciting international career and drink ideas.
Business Model in action Business Model in action Creating employment opportunities Making everyday experiences special Convenient and accessible locations Costa created 1,900 new UK jobs At Costa we aim to deliver a We have grown our presence in the during the year.
combination of lovingly handcrafted UK and overseas, as well as extending quality coffee, absolute convenience, our channels to include drive thru, 574 people were given the a real community spirit, a warm cinemas, health clubs and offices, opportunity to manage one of welcoming atmosphere and, above so our customers can enjoy a Costa our coffee shops in 2014 15 and all, friendly expert barista service.
coffee wherever they may be.
213 of them are managing their own business for the first time.
In the past year we have focused on We now have over 3,000 stores capturing and defining what makes worldwide together with over Building strong leadership Costa unique and how this translates 4,000 Costa Express machines.
Costas senior leaders were engaged for our millions of customers around to create a talent plan for the future the world.
Marketleading brands focused on recognising, developing Costa won the Allegra Strategies and coaching the talent within the Product innovation and continuous award for Best Coffee Shop organisation.
We launched a new series of A new Costa Talent Charter has been coffee roasts, Old Paradise Street Brand preference and loyalty introduced, enabling the creation Limited Roasts, to complement YouGovs annual usage and awareness of opportunities and support our existing Mocha Italia blend.
study showed that, if a Costa, for our team members to develop Starbucks and Caff Nero were next their careers.
Our first savoury glutenfree to each other, 38% of respondents product, the British Chicken and would choose Costa, 17% would Investment in our people Basil Salad Wrap, was added choose Starbucks and 12% would Our new Coffee Ambassador training to the existing awardwinning choose Caff Nero.
programme, developed to enhance glutenfree sweet range.
store managers coffee knowledge The Costa Coffee Club has around The new Marlow Costa Express and expertise, has been attended 2.5 million active card holders.
machine offers up to 240 by 1,124 store managers.
different variations of hot drink.
A further 2,795 team members attended coffeebased training courses, with 753 receiving individual development training.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 The Business Model in action 24 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa The Business Model in action continued Cust C Custo omer mer r Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good A force for good Profitable Growth Good Together Our approach Our approach We invest in our stores to strengthen We use a number of different We raise money for the Costa our position as UK market leader ownership models including Costa Foundation, which builds school and expand in selected international owned equity stores, franchise and projects in coffeegrowing markets where we can build joint ventures.
continue to build a strong franchise Our teams take pride in supporting business and are extending our their local communities.
Costaowned equity model into key countries.
We are creating more than 1,000 new job opportunities on average every year.
All our coffee is 100% Rainforest Alliance accredited and all our products are sustainably, ethically and, wherever possible, locally sourced.
We are reducing waste to landfill and our carbon footprint in relative terms.
Business Model in action Business Model in action Winning market share, growing Expansion in the UK and in selected Team and Community sales and driving efficiencies international markets Over 1.7 million was raised for the Costas total system sales grew During the year we opened 176 Costa Foundation, which has now by 16.6% to 1,398.7 million in 2014 15. net new UK stores, taking the total provided access to education for number to 1,931. over 30,000 children.
The UK Retail business delivered an 16.2% increase in sales, with like Costa now has a presence in 29 An additional nine school projects for like sales up 6.0%.
countries outside of the UK, with the were completed, with ten more opening of 43 net new stores in the under construction.
We have announced a new Costa year taking the total to 1,149. milestone to grow system sales Customer Wellbeing to around 2.5 billion in 2020.
777 net new Costa Express machines Nutrition and allergen information were added as we continued to available for every product in store Strong cash flow and balance sheet expand the business both in the and on the website.
Costas strong cash flow generation UK and overseas.
supports its growth plans and the All of Costas coffee, tea and refurbishment of its estate.
Strong returns on capital hot chocolate are sourced from Costa grew returns by 5.8% pts Rainforest Alliance Certified farms.
Environment Monitored UK stores achieved a 32.35% reduction in carbon emissions relative to sales versus the 2009 baseline.
80.67% of all operational waste from Costas UK owned stores is now diverted from landfill.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 The Business Model in action 25 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa Winning Teams Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good Talent and succession We believe that if we create a great With our continued growth targets, it is increasingly important place to work for our team members to ensure that we have the right people in place to deliver our goals.
We have engaged Costas senior leaders to create a this will help us to build Winning talent plan for the future, which includes a range of activities Teams to make everyday experiences focused on developing, coaching and recognising the talent we have, and creating ownership to recruit and invest in more special for millions of Costa customers.
Included in these plans are a Talent Board to discuss and manage key activities and our commitment to Listening and taking action the business, and the Costa Talent Charter that will enable us Costa uses Whitbreads sixmonthly team engagement to create more opportunities and support our team members survey, Your Say, to measure how well we are doing at to develop their careers.
building a great place to work.
Opportunities for progression As our business grows so do the number of job opportunities.
Team engagement survey: Your Say During the year 1,900 new jobs were created in the UK.
Engagement Engagement Response Response We have successfully recruited for over 190 vacancies, score score rate rate from management level in stores to globallybased roles Oct 2014 Oct 2013 Oct 2014 Oct 2013 in our support functions.
Over 40 of these were filled by Costa 80% 83% 82% 88% internal candidates and 50 were brand new roles.
Costa achieved a high engagement score of 80%, with 82% During the year, we provided 574 people with the opportunity of people completing the survey.
Key priority areas identified to manage a coffee shop and 213 of these are managing their were to improve communication and the provision of tools own business for the first time.
To help support our ambitious growth plans, we are This year our teams contributed to the revision of our increasingly focused on ensuring crosspollination of talent summer drinks campaign by streamlining the process for between business units to create a wellrounded succession making the drinks to make it simpler and more efficient.
pipeline that benefits from the transference of ideas and This approach was so successful that we repeated the experiences within Costa.
process for our Christmas 2014 campaign.
Lee Rice, Barista Maestro France Team turnover When I started in UK Equity it I have worked in training, As we emerge from recession we have observed a was in a brand new store which coaching, auditing and tightening labour market and work is underway to deepen had a real emphasis on team management in stores of all our understanding of why people leave Costa and to help us dynamics and great customer sizes.
Trying a whole range make sure that everyone we recruit can have a career with us.
Corporate Franchise of roles has helped me identify also had a real sales focus my strengths as well as areas In order to gain such understanding, weve launched a new giving great customer service, for improvement.
I have also exit interview questionnaire, organised listening groups and making great drinks and had the privilege of working built on our annual engagement with a pulse survey.
This has going the extra mile to advise with some great people at helped us to develop a clear strategy that focuses on pay customers.
I feel like Im now all levels, from whom I have for progression, training platforms and ensuring we have the encouraging similar things here learned a lot.
best joiner experience for new starters.
In the UK, Costa is a wellestablished brand with We have adopted a new recruitment framework which a certain prestige for both focuses on finding the right people, giving them a great customers and staff.
In France, recruitment experience and inducting them in the right way cafs like Costa are largely new to ensure we create loyal and engaged team members.
and unheard of which means we are really building from Costa DNA the ground up to establish To achieve our vision of becoming the worlds favourite customer loyalty.
Working coffee shop brand, we have spent the last year working hard across different business to make sure that our Costa DNA can be found wherever units has given me many new you are in the world.
professional experiences, and broadened my horizons Our DNA is who we are as a brand and importantly how beyond measure.
our teams feel about working here.
Our new online global magazine, Extra Shot is a fantastic platform for connecting our business around the world.
It provides news, updates and stories from across our business units and is available to Costa employees everywhere.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Winning Teams 26 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa Winning Teams continued Developing our teams Ruth Sowerby, HR Graduate China In 2014 we refocused on coffee as a core element of our heritage and as a foundation for future growth.
We invested In Autumn 2014 Costa created its first ever international graduate placement.
Ruth Sowerby, an HR Graduate second in a Coffee Ambassador training programme to take every to left, undertook a five month placement in Shanghai with Store Manager out of the business to enhance their coffee the Costa China team.
They then took accountability for the coaching and development of their teams.
To date 1,124 I feel very privileged to have Working internationally has managers have attended the programme and it is mandatory the opportunity to support our given me the opportunity for all new Store Managers.
In moving to share and increase my towards becoming a truly knowledge about how other In addition we took a further 3,548 people out of the business global brand, we are aligning HR processes are transferred to attend other training programmes: 2,795 for other coffee our training programmes to globally, as well as an based training, and a further 753 for individual development.
reflect local market needs opportunity to build on my whilst retaining their core language skills.
Celebrating and recognising our teams structure.
The most important ingredient in our coffee is our people When I arrived I was given a and we are constantly searching for relevant and impactful very warm welcome which ways to celebrate and recognise achievement, such as a helped me settle in and quickly suite of pins flying beans and awards that we present at feel at home.
I have also had our conferences and meetings.
the chance to visit several store teams and meet other key Barista of the Year 2014 stakeholders in our Chinese Now in its 9th year, our internal competition to find Costas business.
Everyone here best barista continues to be a stand out point in the Costa exhibits the same core Costa values that I experienced calendar for celebrating and recognising our brilliant team in the UK!
members for the pride, passion and personality that they bring to work every day.
The competition runs from April to October and sees Costa baristi around the world take part Get Britain Back to Work campaign in increasingly challenging levels of competition before flying In July Costa visited Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham and to London to take part in the two day global Champion of London to support the Sun newspaper with its Get Britain Champions final.
back to work campaign, to help connect job seekers with opportunities.
This year the global final saw baristi from China, the Middle East, Europe and the UK go head to head in front of a live The events were a great way to engage local communities audience of over 250 Costa stakeholders.
The winner was with the fantastic opportunities Costa has, not just for jobs Prakash Rai, a Barista from Dubai International Airport who but also for careers.
During the course of the week we wowed the judges with a technically brilliant performance.
completed over 500 interviews and, out of those, nearly 300 went forward for a store trial or interview.
Apprenticeship scheme This summer we will be launching our first ever Costa Apprenticeship programme.
The scheme will begin with an Intermediate Level 2 Apprenticeship in Customer Service and Barista Skills.
Each individual will be supported by a clear personalised development plan to ensure that they learn a range of skills and have the opportunity to progress in the Company.
Advanced and Higher level apprenticeships will follow as part of the wider apprenticeship scheme.
The Princes Trust Our work with the Princes Trust enabled us to give access to work to more young people than ever before, with Prakash Rai, Dubai Barista of the Year 2014 38 joining the programme in 2014 15 and 15 being offered longterm employment as a direct result of their placement.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Winning Teams 27 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa Customer Heartbeat Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good The UKs Favourite Coffee Shop The UK is increasingly a nation We were very proud to be named the nations Favourite of coffee drinkers.
A recent Allegra Coffee Shop brand for the fifth consecutive year after 1 industry experts, Allegra, published their annual Project report found that 80% of UK Caf 15 UK report for 2014.
50% of an independent consumer consumers visit a coffee shop at least panel named Costa as their favourite coffee shop, up 2% pts on the prior years result.
This marketleading position once a week and drink an estimated is reinforced by YouGovs Usage and Awareness U&A two billion cups of coffee per year annual study, which asks the question If there were a Costa, Starbucks and Caff Nero next door to each other which on those visits.
would be your first choice to visit for a break and or a chat?.
Costa has led this trend in the UK and the brand is at the 2 Brand preference Costa is the UKs favourite forefront of the growth of coffee shop culture around the world.
Earlier this year we were delighted to win the Allegra Strategies award for Best Coffee Chain Europe.
The Home of Irresistible Coffee As the Home of Irresistible Coffee we believe that our success has been built through a combination of elements lovingly handcrafted quality coffee, convenience, a real community spirit, a warm welcoming atmosphere and, above all, friendly expert barista service.
In the past year we have focused on capturing and defining what makes our brand unique and how this translates for our millions of customers around the world.
By creating a cycle Key of constant improvement in our look and feel, food offering, CostaStarbucks Ca Nero store service and product design, as well as marketing and customer communications, we will ensure that Costa 2 Brand preference YouGov U&A annual study, If there were a Costa, continues to be the Home of Irresistible Coffee for many Starbucks and a Caff Nero next door to each other which would be years to come.
your first choice to visit for a break and or a chat?
Our customers find a warm, welcoming atmosphere at Costa.
1 Project Caf 15 UK report for 2014.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Customer Heartbeat 28 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa Customer Heartbeat continued Limited roast.
Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts Giving our customers choice Try our new Old Paradise Street In September 2014, for the first time in Costas 43 year history, Around 40% of transactions involve the purchase of Limited Roast No.
7, made with we launched a new series of coffee roasts, to complement food and we place a tremendous focus on making sure we 100% Sumatran beans.
our existing Mocha Italia blend.
Named after the street in have a great range of sweet and savoury products for them Lambeth, which was the birthplace of the Costa Roastery, to choose from.
We know that many of our customers come the Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts have been created in to our stores for an indulgent treat and our new range of by our Master of Coffee, Gennaro Pelliccia.
These limited mini tarts are a range of delicious sweet treats such as mini edition roasts provide customers with greater choice banoffee tart and pecan tart, each one less than 150 calories.
and cater to changing consumer appetites as peoples We also aim to cater to an increasing number of our appreciation of coffee becomes increasingly sophisticated.
customers that follow a coeliac diet.
In the year we launched our first savoury glutenfree product, the British Chicken and Basil Salad Wrap, which is proving very popular and complements our existing awardwinning glutenfree sweet range.
2014 was a year that saw some exciting new product launches in our 344 Costa China stores.
In March 2014 we launched the Flat White, which received positive customer feedback and quickly moved to around 10% of coffee sales, despite it being a relatively niche coffee drink in a still immature coffeedrinking market.
Whilst, in February 2015 we unveiled a new, special edition drink that draws on inspiration from both East and West and is a mix of Earl Grey Tea and Mocha Italia coffee, aptly named Caf Grey.
We love to listen and learn Costas success is thanks to the passion and support of our baristas who transform our stores into vibrant communities Our Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts have been created by our Master of Coffee, Gennaro Pelliccia.
and go the extra mile to put a smile on the face of every single customer.
To motivate and engage our baristas we have a Listen and Learn customer insight programme that provides The first of the Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts was Roast real time customer feedback to each UK store so they can No.
Made from 100% arabica beans from Colombia and find out directly what their customers are saying about their Brazil it brings dark chocolate notes with a hint of pepper experience.
On average each store receives around 26 pieces and a sweet buttery aroma.
The second Roast to launch, of feedback per month which are then discussed by the store in January 2015, was Roast No.
5 which has a dark roasted team.
This information gives them the insight and inspiration almond taste with a bitter sweet lingering flavour.
A great to find ways to delight customers even more.
example of Costas commitment to innovation, we will continue to introduce further new Limited Roasts in the years to come, showcasing new flavours to our customers and meeting demand for customised and personalised drinks.
Comfortable and inviting stores, where our customers can feel at home.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Customer Heartbeat 29 Start Date: 30 04 2015 Remove Date: COP 27 05 2015 CC051527A Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa Customer Heartbeat continued Bringing quality coffee to the customer everywhere Our 3,080 stores worldwide are designed to be comfortable We know from customer research that people wont travel and inviting so that wherever they are in the world our far for a cup of coffee, which is why weve put so much energy customers can feel at home, so we invested 25.9 million in and focus into growing our presence in the UK and overseas.
improving our product in the current year.
Across the UK We have extended our channels such as drive thru, cinemas, we have refurbished 117 stores in 2014 15 and now more than health clubs and offices so our customers can enjoy a cup half of our estate is new or refurbished in the last three years.
of irresistible coffee, wherever they may be.
Additionally, we have been developing a new global store design that brings to life The Home of Irresistible Coffee.
The new design delivers the warmth and comfort that we Number of UK stores know our customers want in their local coffee shop and uses wall art to reflect our coffee heritage and expertise.
Currently on trial in selected stores in the UK, and with test sites to open internationally, the initial customer feedback has been very positive and we will roll out the new design more widely in 2015 16.
Strengthening our digital presence In September 2014 we launched a new Coffee Club app, making it easier than ever for customers to reap rewards whilst enjoying the food and drink they love, five points for every whole 1 spent and each point is worth a penny.
Our four million active card members no longer need to carry a Coffee Club card in their wallet as everything is on the app, which means that when the barista scans the phone the points are automatically added to the customers account.
The new app features a location button to search for the Key nearest Costa and also enables customers to filter the search Costa for the facilities they are looking for, such as babychanging, Starbucks disabled access, drive thru or Costa Express.
Also included Ca Nero is a Whats New feature with the latest news and offers and customers can customise the app by picking a background and adding a photo.
We have become the first coffee shop brand to embrace In China, we used a digital campaign to promote the winning innovative ways to deliver our coffee to places where there drink from Costas Barista of the Year competition.
We is simply no room for a full baristaservice.
We now have created a microsite and invited customers to post their over 4,200 Costa Express machines including over 300 in pictures and enter a competition to win six roundtrip British international markets.
Our new Marlow model Costa Express Airways tickets to London.
The campaign was very popular machine offers up to 240 different types of hot drinks and has with thousands of submissions to the site.
been designed to appeal to all five senses with the machine emitting coffeeshop inspired sounds and aromas and a screen We continue to grow our social media presence and now that depicts the coffee journey from bean to cup.
have over 1.2 million Facebook fans and over 140,000 Twitter followers.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Customer Heartbeat 30 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa Profitable Growth Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good The UK coffee shop market Costa delivered another outstanding Over the last fifteen years there has been a series of social performance during the year, with trends which have underpinned growth in the coffee shop market.
According to coffee experts Allegra Strategies, UK total sales up 17.9% driven by strong branded chains outlets have grown at around 6% CAGR UK Retail and Enterprises sales over 20082014 with further growth expected over the next few years.
growth, together with the opening of 219 net new stores worldwide.
Six years ago there were fewer than 11,000 outlets in the UK, today there are just under 19,000 and in 2020 this is expected to rise to over 27,000.
Changes in consumer habits Underlying operating profit increased by 20.7% to are cited as the major drivers behind the growth of this sector, 132.5 million.
Once again, a disciplined approach to capital including the rise in female spending power, increased mobile deployment combined with strong cash flow generation working and the evolution of the high street with many coffee has increased return on capital by 5.8% pts to 46.3%.
venues increasingly acting as social and community hubs.
Our relentless focus on understanding the changing needs of our Growth milestones customers and our rigorous approach to providing excellent In 2011 and 2013 we laid out our growth milestones to grow execution has played a major part in our success and helped system sales to 1.3 billion and 2.0 billion by 2016 and 2018 differentiate us from the competition.
During 2014 15 we achieved our 2016 milestone delivering total system sales of 1.4 billion, driven by a strong UK Retail UK performance.
As we continue to make good progress During 2014 15 our UK Retail business delivered another towards our 2018 milestone, our strong market position, strong performance with sales up 16.2% and like for like combined with the increasing propensity of UK consumers sales in our UK equity stores up 6.0%.
Increasing numbers to drink quality coffee and the exciting potential that our of transactions continues to power like for like growth, driven international expansion provides, is leading to further growth by the increasing consumption of coffee as Costa remains opportunities beyond this point.
We have therefore set out the UKs favourite coffee shop.
a new milestone to grow system sales to around 2.5 billion in 2020.
Our strong organic growth is continuing and we extended our lead in the UK, opening 176 net new stores in the year, Growth opportunities from a wide variety of channels taking the total to 1,931.
This puts us on track to reach over 2,200 stores in the UK by 2018.
With the strength of our brand and the growing consumption of coffee we see further opportunity to grow our store base to over 2,500 in 2020.
Drive thru Product innovation underpins our like for like growth and we are pleased with the success of our new range of Growth coffee blends, Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts, as well Concessions Retails parks opportunity as the extension of our food offering.
The success of our through store breakfast offering and the launch of our new sweet range segmentation continue to drive our performance in different day parts, c. 2,500 UK with our food capture rate representing around 40% stores Universities hospitals High street of transactions.
by 2020 Investment in our stores is a key element of our strategy, with 117 equity stores refurbished in 2014 15.
The investment Transport in organic growth, innovation, our teams and our stores has enabled us to increase our share of the UK coffee shop market and to build marketleading customer preference for our brand.
The coffee shop brand preference survey as conducted by YouGov rates Costa as the clear number one.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Profitable Growth 31 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa Profitable Growth continued Costa Enterprises to be completed in 2015 16.
Post rebranding, the stores are In addition to our store portfolio, we provide access to delivering positive like for like growth.
In France we have been Costa coffee through a number of different channels such trialling a mixture of equity and franchise stores and ended as Wholesale, Costa Express and Costa at Home.
This the year with 11 equity stores along with three franchise stores.
business is known as Costa Enterprises.
In 2014 15 Costa We expect to open a further six stores during the current Enterprises had a very successful year, growing system sales financial year.
Costa Express delivered a strong performance with the installation of 777 net new units, giving a total of 4,292 China, where we operate through two joint ventures, remains units at the yearend.
We believe we can grow the number an exciting opportunity for the Group.
We are making of machines to over 8,000 in 2020 as we continue to expand good progress with the profitability of our like for like store into new growth channels in the UK as well as focus on our estate in China improving.
We continue to invest in new store international expansion.
Costa at Home continues to make openings, to build the critical infrastructure and to invest in progress in this emerging but fastgrowing category.
the management capabilities and resources required for future growth.
During the year we opened 18 net new stores in China as we refocused on increasing our penetration in key tier one cities.
We currently have a total of 344 stores across 31 cities and plan to grow to around 900 stores in 2020.
Global coffee consumption kg capita year Finland 12.2 Norway 9.5 Sweden 7.1 Germany 7.0 France 5.5 USA 4.2 Spain 4.1 Costa Express machines Poland 3.2 International UK 2.8 Costa now has a presence in 29 countries outside of the UK with a total of 1,149 stores, giving us a good geographical mix Source: International Coffee Organisation 2011. and revenue diversification.
Our franchise business continues to do well, particularly in the Middle East and Ireland.
We are While the propensity of UK consumers to drink quality coffee pleased with the progress we are making in Poland as we is on the rise, consumption remains below that of many other continue to rebrand the estate to Costa and have now developed countries, providing an opportunity for growth, rebranded 53% of the estate with the whole estate expected both at home and in our exciting international markets.
Costa: strength and breadth UK Retail Costa Enterprises Costa EMEI Costa Asia Equity stores Costa Express Europe, Middle East China and South Individual franchise Corporate partnerships and India East Asia System sales System sales System sales System sales m m m m % growth % growth % growth % growth Stores Stores Stores Stores % % % % Machines % At constant FX system sales, reported grew 8.1% Costa EMEI, 20.0% Costa Asia.
At constant FX system sales reported grew 8.1% for Costa EMEI and 20.0% for Costa Asia.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Profitable Growth 32 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Costa Good Together Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good 2016 17 targets Progress Team and Community The Costa Foundation will build 50 schools Over 1.7 million raised for the Costa Foundation.
An additional nine new school projects have been completed with Provide enhanced skills training to 20,000 ten more still under construction.
Seven more projects have been approved and are at planning stage, Give our team members over 5,000 with committed funding in place bringing support from the Costa management progression opportunities.
Foundation to 63 communities in nine countries around the world.
The Costa Foundation has now provided access to education to over 30,000 children.
Costa skills training programmes have now enhanced the capability of more than 4,000 baristas this year and more than 15,000 since 2009.
Our management development programmes have now reached more than 4,000 people since 2009.
More than 1,900 new UK jobs have been created in Costa stores.
Customer Wellbeing All our hot drinks will be sustainably Nutrition and allergen information available for every product in store sourced and certified.
Our products will be locally ethically All our coffee, tea and hot chocolate is sourced from Rainforest Alliance sourced wherever possible.
We will improve the nutritional value Both savoury and sweet glutenfree items are available and certified of our products and enable our customers by the Coeliac Society.
to make a fully informed choice when Sugar free ginger bread syrup introduced into Christmas 2014 they visit our stores.
Launch of less than 150 calories Little Treats range offering a real alternative to larger portion sweet items.
New fresh fruit and salads launched.
Continued commitment to Department of Health pledge on salt reduction F2 2012.
Environment and Energy 25% carbon reduction from direct Costa achieved a 39.91% reduction in carbon intensity from our operations relative to sales against 2009 baseline.
Monitored UK stores achieved a 32.35% reduction in carbon emissions Zero waste to landfill from UK relative to sales versus the 2009 baseline.
The Roastery in Lambeth has reduced carbon by 32% relative to We will provide clear guidance to our production since 2009. partners to achieve similar results.
80.67% of all operational waste from Costas UK owned stores diverted from landfill.
100% of the waste produced at the Roastery was diverted from landfill, with 80.59% being recycled.
The Costa Express office achieved a 89.10% diversion of waste from landfill.
Water usage in stores has been reduced through the implementation of low flow cisterns and taps and the roll out of waterefficient dishwashers.
Whitbread Costa Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Good Together 33
