Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Group HR Directors report Whitbread is a highly people intensive business and we work extremely hard to create an engaging environment for our 45,000 employees, ensuring our people are enabled to perform to the best of their abilities and progress at the fastest possible rate in order to fulfil their potential.
Louise Smalley Group HR Director We are incredibly proud of the high levels of engagement that our managers have been able to achieve in our new, more challenging Your Say survey.
We recognise that the ongoing commitment to build leadership strength is vital to our continued growth and success: the growth of our future leaders through stretching opportunities and broadening job experiences is paramount in our leadership development strategy.
We recently implemented some important organisational changes to meet the future needs of our growing businesses and aligned this with a number of key internal promotions to accelerate the development of some of our highest potential leaders.
In addition, as we build new capabilities for Whitbread, we have continued to attract some exceptional talent at all levels from a variety of industries and geographies.
This year we have also seen increased volumes of graduates join us, launched a new coaching programme to support leaders through the most challenging career transitions and completely reengineered our approach to understanding and measuring future leadership potential.
To signify the strategic importance of high quality leadership, and to maintain the momentum we have generated over the last year, we have introduced measurable leadership succession objectives for all our directors.
These will form part of the Annual Incentive Scheme and will ensure a clear and consistent focus on the drivers of a strong succession pipeline across the Group.
Team turnover Our aim is to set challenging people measures and targets to ensure we drive continued focus on establishing a great place to work for our team members and remain an employer of choice.
Although our WINcard results for team turnover were below target, they still reflect a good performance relative to our sector and also the challenging stretch we set ourselves in what is becoming a more buoyant employment market.
Ensuring that we have capable, confident and engaged teams to deliver a consistently excellent service for our customers is critical to our success.
We believe that to build confident, skilled and capable teams who stay and also grow with the business, we have to invest in providing clear opportunities for training and development and to increase pay for progression.
As outlined on pages 14 and 26, we are focussing on what engages our teams at work across the businesses and, as we grow, we will continue to set stretching people targets.
Diversity Operating in multiple countries, we recognise that diversity brings significant business and commercial benefits, from innovation to quality decision making.
Building a healthy and diverse talent pipeline is critical to our global success.
This year, our efforts have been targeted on identifying opportunities to increase the level of diversity throughout the organisation.
This has resulted in a new strategy, targets and accountabilities across the Group.
We are increasingly Whitbread Group HR Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Directors report 46 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 T he strategic report on pages 4 to 47 was approved by the Board and signed on its Group HR behalf by Simon Barratt, General Counsel and Company Secretary on 27 April 2015.
Directors report continued incorporating diversity into all aspects of our people strategies.
Some examples of specific progress we have made in 2014 15 include: identifying the points in the pipeline where interventions will be most effective in supporting gender balance: the precision of knowing where to focus by role in each brand will significantly support our diversity efforts: ensuring our upandcoming leaders from underrepresented groups have access to quality mentoring across the organisation: and trialling unconscious bias training throughout Costa, which will be expanded across the organisation and built into core manager training.
A breakdown of the directors of the Company, senior managers defined as those in the Directors Forum and all Whitbread employees, split by gender, as at 26 February 2015 is set 1 out below : Directors Senior managers All Whitbread employees Male Female Male Female Male Female 1 Numbers taken from our core HR database.
Internal policies We have a range of policies and programmes which are regularly reviewed and communicated to employees through various training modules.
These include our Code of Conduct, human rights, antibribery, hospitality and gifts, and antifraud and theft policies.
Code of Conduct and human rights We recognise the importance of taking care of our people by providing a healthy and safe working environment and working responsibly to be a positive part of the communities in which we operate.
Our Global Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all employees in all countries, outlines the expected standards of behaviour and the core values of the Company.
The Code of Conduct also includes details of our independent speaking out service, enabling employees to report any concerns regarding harmful behaviour or conduct in a confidential manner.
Everyone deserves the right to live and work with dignity.
There are basic standards of human rights that Whitbread respects at all times.
These relate to issues such as child labour, humane treatment, working conditions and fair pay.
We expect our business partners to respect these standards and we will only work with organisations that have the same respect for peoples working conditions that we do.
Louise Smalley Group HR Director 27 April 2015 Whitbread Group HR Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Directors report 47
