Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants The Business Model in action Cust C Custo omer mer r Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good A force for good Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat Our approach Our approach We recruit, reward, train and develop Premier Inn offers customers the At every Premier Inn we serve our 32,000 team members to build greatest choice.
highly engaged teams who deliver Premier Inn offers a consistently high Over half of our Premier Inns great customer service and make quality product supported by our have a Whitbread branded everyday experiences special.
We offer jobs and an industryleading Our dynamic pricing system means Our restaurants have distinctive apprenticeship programme to grow we can offer customers the best brand propositions and serve talented leaders.
value and deliver occupancy targets.
great quality value food appealing to a local customer base and We are a leading online retailer our hotel guests.
four out of every five bookings is made at www.
We continually refurbish our estate to maintain its quality.
We build brand awareness and loyalty through targeted marketing and sales.
Business Model in action Business Model in action Creating employment opportunities Making everyday experiences special Convenient and accessible locations 78 graduates were recruited into At Premier Inn we promise to make With over 690 hotels across the UK, operational roles via our graduate our guests feel brilliant by giving them our customers can be confident scheme this year.
a great nights sleep and we back this of finding a Premier Inn near to up with our Good Night Guarantee.
Around 55% of the people we recruit are aged 16 to 25.
We aim to serve up great memories Almost all of our 405 restaurants in our restaurants and our guests are are located alongside a Premier We have created over 1,200 work scoring us more highly for levels of Inn, making them convenient placements, providing opportunities service, with the score up 1.3% pts for Premier Inn guests and local to young and unemployed people in the year.
who may struggle with access to employment.
Product innovation and continuous Marketleading brands improvement Premier Inn was recognised as Building strong leadership We have partnered with Hypnos the Best Budget Hotel Chain Premier Inns Shooting Stars to develop our best ever bed, which by Business Traveller.
programme continues to be highly assures both comfort and durability.
successful, with 68% of Premier We have rolled out around 21,000 Brand preference and loyalty Inns roles being filled by internal of the new beds during the year.
Premier Inn continues to lead the candidates.
YouGov Hotel Brand Index and In November 2014 we launched the We have rolled out MSc and MBA has retained its title as Best Value first hub by Premier Inn, a new hotel level qualifications for site and Hotel for the fifth year running.
concept that makes great use of support centre leaders.
space and provides guests with the Sales from Premier Inns Business latest technology.
Account programme account for Investment in our people around 26% of all sales.
Last year we launched our WISE We have given 38 of our Beefeater Whitbread Investing in Skills & Grill restaurants a new contemporary We now have 1.5 million members Employment programme.
look and feel, which has brought across our Restaurants loyalty in new customers and improved programmes.
During the year over 4,400 guest scores.
Restaurants team members were trained at one of our three national skills academies.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 The Business Model in action 12 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts p83 135 Company accounts p137 142 Cust C Custo omer mer r Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good A force for good Profitable Growth Good Together Our approach Our approach We invest in high returning, We are entering into selected We are raising 7.5 million towards consistently profitable sites and international markets with the The Premier Inn Clinical Building are increasing our share of the Premier Inn brand.
at Great Ormond Street Childrens UK market with rapid expansion Hospital.
We maximise synergies and of Premier Inn, especially efficiencies with our joint site We are creating more than 1,000 in London.
job opportunities every year with a focus on 16 to 24 year olds and the longterm unemployed.
We are committed to sustainable sourcing.
We seek to minimise our carbon, waste and water usage often using innovative technology and construction methods.
Business Model in action Business Model in action Winning market share, growing Expansion in the UK and in selected Team and Community sales and driving efficiencies international markets We have now raised over 4 million Premier Inn has 39% more UK rooms During the year we added 4,360 for Great Ormond Street Hospital than its nearest competitor and new UK rooms, whilst our committed Childrens Charity achieved record occupancy pipeline remains strong with 12,465 There are now over 940 apprentices of 81.3%.
rooms, of which 5,568 are in London.
in learning and over 1,000 students Premier Inns total sales increased We have now extended our Premier have completed work experience by 15.3% to 1,116.4 million and its Inn UK growth milestone to reach placements.
like for like sales grew by 9.1%.
Customer Wellbeing Restaurants total sales increased Overseas we have a strong The sustainable supply strategy has by 3.2% to 542.8 million and its like committed pipeline of 26 hotels been launched to our supplier base for like sales grew by 2.1%.
in the Middle East, South East Asia with robust risk analysis to assess and India and will open our first performance against our 2017 Strong cash flow and balance sheet Premier Inn in Germany in early 2016. sustainable sourcing target.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants strong EBITDA growth generates Active property management We have continued to progress cash to support its ambitious We closed 257 Premier Inn rooms within our food platforms to reduce growth plans and the refurbishment which didnt meet our brand salt content in line with Department of its estate.
standards and replaced them of Health targets.
with better quality rooms in the Strong returns on capital same area.
Environment Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Carbon emissions have reduced by grew returns by 0.2% pts to 13.5%.
95.47% of waste is now diverted from landfill from direct operations.
Water consumption has reduced by 20.85% relative to sales against our 2009 baseline.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 The Business Model in action 13 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Winning Teams Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good Strengthening our culture Success is all about making In 2014 15 we continued to embed the purpose of helping everyday experiences feel special our guests feel brilliant through a great nights sleep, through our Bigger, Bolder, Better campaign in Premier Inn and our for our customers and we rely on purpose of serving up great memories in Restaurants.
our Winning Teams to do just that.
We are committed to making everyone feel valued, nurtured, That is why it is vital that our teams recognised and invested in, and we are incorporating this are highly engaged and passionate promise into every aspect of our employee experience.
Career development We are building our talent for the future by strengthening Listening and taking action our succession planning and continuing to develop the next Over the past four years we have seen high levels of generation of leaders to support the delivery of our growth engagement measured through our annual engagement ambitions.
This year we took the opportunity to review and improve the survey by simplifying the language In Premier Inn we continued to deliver our highly successful and improving the structure to provide better insight to Shooting Stars programmes.
The success and strength inform action planning.
In addition, we translated the survey of Shooting Stars is demonstrated by 68% of Premier Inn into multiple languages for our international team members.
roles being filled from our internal talent pipeline.
The new survey was launched in October 2014 and we In addition we have introduced a new commercial programme achieved an engagement score of 78%.
Key priority areas within our support centre, aimed at developing internal identified were to improve benefits and the promotion capability within trading, strategy, digital and finance.
of a healthy work life balance.
Furthermore, we rolled out MSc and MBA level qualifications for site and support centre leaders.
Team engagement survey: Your Say In Restaurants we introduced a new training programme Engagement Engagement Response Response called Best Welcome, which offers all our team members score score rate rate Oct 2014 Oct 2013 Oct 2014 Oct 2013 a range of opportunities related to their potential, skill and career aspirations.
All will complete their basic and foundation Hotels & Restaurants 78% 80% 85% 93% training inhouse as part of their induction into Whitbread Restaurants, with the potential to progress to the intermediate Team turnover and advanced stages to prepare them for their next role.
With the economic recovery, we have seen signs of a tightening labour market and have therefore launched a number of Food quality research initiatives to gain a better understanding of the Our central development kitchen encourages teams to reasons why people may leave us as well as what existing team experiment and innovate with new dishes and we have members are looking for.
This is done through exit interviews, invested significantly in kitchen equipment and training to our annual engagement survey, regular pulse surveys and support our site teams.
During the year, over 4,400 people listening groups.
We have also implemented a robust reporting were welcomed through three national skills academies.
process for Premier Inn operators and senior managers to During each restaurant renovation we train the entire team monitor turnover at a local level.
for five days, including two days at our skills academies, raising levels of engagement, excitement and expertise.
We are turning these insights into action.
Our approach to paying team members will focus on pay for progression.
We are developing a new career ladder within Premier Inn operations, which enables team members at the start of their career to understand the extensive opportunities available and how to realise them.
Similarly, there are clear progression pathways within Restaurants which are supported by different stages of training.
Team members can also crosstrain to diversify their skills and experience.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Winning Teams 14 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Winning Teams continued Investing in young people Work placements Our industry is often a first entry job for young people going We have created over 1,200 work placements this year, into the workplace.
At Whitbread we have a young workforce, providing opportunities to young and unemployed people where around 34% are aged 16 to 25 years and around 55% who may struggle with access to employment.
We have of the people we recruit every year are 16 to 25 years old.
Many empowered our managers to make meaningful links with are not in employment, education or training so we invest in schools through our partnership with Believe in Young training to ensure they have the necessary skills and confidence People, and our managers have built stronger relationships to progress their careers.
with the Jobcentre Plus teams.
Externally we recruited 78 graduates in operational roles Stuart Mapplebeck, Halifax Town Centre Hotel onto our graduate scheme this year and we have also doubled Two years ago, Stuart was the numbers of support centre graduates and interns in HR, unemployed and demotivated.
Following a visit to his local job centre, Stuart attended Last year we launched WISE Whitbread Investing in a recruitment day for a new Skills and Employment.
WISE uses an innovative inhouse, Premier Inn hotel opening in employerdesigned qualification system which complies Halifax town centre.
Stuarts with national accreditation standards.
Our WISE programme natural flare for hospitality is focused on educating, engaging and employing people shone through, resulting in who are often from disadvantaged backgrounds.
It is focused him being offered a position on four key areas: as a Reception Team Member.
building national links with schools, colleges and universities Within just four months, his passion and strong skills led to a to provide sustainable and inspirational work experience promotion to Reception Team Leader.
Two years later, Stuart has to young people: completed the Bronze Shooting Stars Programme, the level 2 apprenticeship and is currently on the pilot level 4 apprenticeship.
transitioning these students and the unemployed into work with opportunities to progress: Stuart said I will be forever grateful to Whitbread and the WISE team for giving me the opportunity to change my life.
Before developing a ladder of apprenticeships, from pre joining Premier Inn, I was an extremely lost individual and I now employment at level 1 to multisite management at have a career with a company that has given me the opportunity level 7: and to grow, develop and achieve my dreams both professionally and personally.
supporting our suppliers to adopt these WISE principles.
Building on the success of WISE within Premier Inn, we are developing structured work placement and apprenticeship programmes across Whitbread.
Our Winning Teams make everyday experiences feel special for our customers.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Winning Teams 15 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Winning Teams continued Apprenticeships The Big Hospitality Conversation We are proud of the impact we are making, with many Whitbread participates in the Big Hospitality Conversation, Whitbread apprentices gaining promotion within 15 months which is a joint initiative that was set up between the British and some of them progressing into management.
Hospitality Association, Springboard and Business in the Community.
We offer Intermediate, Advanced and Higher Apprenticeships in Hospitality, and we have 16 to 60 year olds who are The aim is to create 60,000 job opportunities for young learning on and off the job, increasing their wider industry people by 2016.
In September 2014, the 20th Big Hospitality knowledge and stretching their capabilities to help progress Conversation took place at Londons City Hall.
We have also launched an Advanced Apprenticeship in Business Administration and we are excited Recognition about plans for the contact centre, digital and logistics teams.
The My Rewards programme is an automated, preloadable, prepaid Visa debit card used for all reward and recognition payments in Premier Inn.
During the year, we paid out around Daniel Blanco, Edinburgh Airport Newbridge Hotel 900,000 to our teams and over 86% of our team members Selected from over 150 entries, have registered for their My Rewards card.
Daniel was named Premier Inns UK Apprentice of the Year 2014.
In 2014, we launched a brand new incentive: All Green more than just a dream.
This incentive gives team members Having left school with no working in hotels the potential to earn an extra weeks salary qualifications, Daniel joined if all their key metrics are achieved.
This allows us to recognise Premier Inn, initially to work in Edinburgh Airport Newbridge Winning Teams and ensure that every team member is Hotels restaurant.
Within a connected to our overall purpose.
month he started showing signs of real potential and was offered In Restaurants we have developed a recognition strategy a place on the Apprenticeship that balances out commercial success with great behaviours.
Since beginning his We created a system of pin badges white, silver and gold apprenticeship two years ago, he has shown outstanding and financial rewards which can be given to team members commitment and enthusiasm and is a fantastic ambassador who have served up a great memory to guests.
Daniel said, Winning the Apprentice of the Year Award has been We collect the best stories every month and a restaurant an amazing achievement.
So many people believed in me from team member is surprised with a cheque for 1,000 for the beginning of my journey at Premier Inn, when my confidence serving up great memories.
These stories are included in our was at an alltime low.
I genuinely had no idea what I wanted monthly interactive newsletter, Cover Stories, which is sent to do with my life and I am very grateful to them.
electronically to our team members.
The Apprenticeship Programme has been a fantastic experience and really helped me understand not only the running of the business and how it all fits together to make a great hotel, but also some important life skills which will stay with me forever.
In Restaurants we reward team members who have served up a great memory to guests.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Winning Teams 16 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Customer Heartbeat Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good The Premier Inn bed is the centrepiece of the customer As the owner of the UKs favourite offer and everything else in the room flows from it.
We have hotel chain, Premier Inn, as well as partnered with Hypnos to develop our bestever bed with 1,200 individual pocket coil springs, a supercomfort restaurant brands including Brewers integrated topper and mattress made from 100% recyclable Fayre and Beefeater, we welcome materials supporting our Good Together programme.
These beds assure comfort as well as durability and in 2014 15 we over five million customers a month rolled out around 21,000 new beds.
During the year we have continued to introduce our next generation of bedroom which, along with the new bed, features more contemporary design with excellent working space, aerated power shower and a 40inch flat screen TV.
The public areas in many of our hotels have also been given a makeover to create a better flow between the lobby and restaurant and create a fresher, more modern environment.
Premier Inns inhouse Thyme restaurant chain is one of the UKs largest restaurant brands with 180 sites serving around two million dinners every year.
At Premier Inn we promise to make our guests feel brilliant by giving them a great nights sleep.
At Premier Inn were all about sleep We believe a great day starts with a great nights sleep and we promise to make our guests feel brilliant by giving them a great nights sleep.
We are so convinced we can deliver on our promise that we offer the unique Premier Inn Good Night Guarantee which means any guest that doesnt get a good nights sleep can get a full refund.
Sleep plays a key role in all our planning and investment decisions, from addressing problems that prevent our guests Appealing to a broad customer base from getting a great nights sleep, such as room temperature Premier Inn has a uniquely broad customer base stretching and noise: to perfecting the bestever bed and room design: across business and leisure segments.
Our guests trust to creating impactful advertising campaigns.
Premier Inn to deliver great value, providing comfort and quality at a reasonable price and with nearly 700 hotels across In 2014 15 we invested 100 million in Premier Inn in the UK they can rest assured they will find a Premier Inn near product improvement, maintenance and systems to deliver to where they want or need to be.
the excellent standards our guests expect.
This included a significant investment in providing unlimited free WiFi In 2014 15 we launched four local language websites across the estate, fully refurbishing 3,000 rooms, rolling German, Spanish, Italian and French to make it easier for out our new bed and installing air conditioning in around our international guests to book with us.
We plan to increase this investment to web visitor volumes from these countries have gone up around 140 million in 2015 16, as we refurbish more rooms, around 30% yearonyear and booking values have gone complete the new bed roll out and continue the investment up around 38%.
Around 55% of guests who stay with us are travelling on business and many of them are holders of a Premier Inn Business Account card.
It is a valuable tool and sales from the card now account for around 26% of all sales.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Customer Heartbeat 17 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Customer Heartbeat continued What our customers think of us Case study We always want to find out what our customers think of us so we can continuously improve.
To do this we operate Help Link UK Ltd operates in the renewable technology the largest consumer survey in Europe and over 900,000 and central heating industry and has had a Premier Inn guests respond every year to our questionnaire, providing business account since 2012.
They typically book around 5,000 rooms per year and Dawn MatthiasJackson, Help daily feedback for every single site.
In 2014 15 69.9% of Links Procurement Manager, explains why Premier Inn our guests gave us nine or ten out of ten.
is their hotel chain of choice.
We are tremendously proud to have been recognised once We receive excellent account We value the online booking again as the Best Budget Hotel Chain by Business Traveller management, in terms of tool as it is very user friendly and in January 2015 we picked up their award for Best Mid always being able to contact and gives us all the Scale Hotel Chain beating four star hotels to the top spot.
our account manager who is management information more than willing and able to requirements we could ever 1 Premier Inn continues to lead the YouGov Hotel Brand Index deal with any requests we have need, whilst enabling us to and has retained its title as Best Value Hotel in the index for in a very professional and control spend.
Premier Inn the fifth year running.
timely manner, together with hotels are perfect for our being updated on all the latest people in terms of the amount YouGov value measure developments from Premier of locations to select from and Inn such as new locations and the consistency and standard booking tools.
An exciting innovation, hub by Premier Inn In November 2014 we launched our first ever hub by Premier Inn hotel on St. Martins Lane in central London.
Over four years in development and testing, hub by Premier Inn has been shaped by extensive guest research and aims to capture the imagination of guests who already rely on technology for many other aspects of their everyday lives.
Each of the hotels 163 compact rooms is stylishly designed January January January January January January to make the best possible use of space and comes equipped with the latest technology, including a 40inch smart TV.
A Key state of the art app enables guests to check availability and Premier Inn Ibis book a room in minutes.
Then, when they arrive, they can use Travelodge Marriott the same app to control various settings in their room, such Holiday Inn Hilton as changing the channel on the smart TV, or adjusting the room temperature and lights.
The app also provides guests 1 Source: YouGov Brand Index.
52 week rolling average at 1 January 2015. with a detailed local area guide, with the hottest places to Which of the following brands do you think represents good poor go and things to do in the city.
By that we dont mean cheap or expensive, but that the brands offer a customer a lot in return for price paid.
Targeted customer communications With 89% of all our rooms booked online, Premier Inn is a Restaurants major digital retailer.
com Almost all of our 405 restaurants are colocated alongside with the help of the yearround TV advertising campaign a Premier Inn and play an important role in delivering the featuring Lenny Henry, along with other promotional Premier Inn customer experience, offering a great value all channels such as poster advertising, CRM and digital you can eat breakfast free for children under 16 and a marketing.
All channels work together highly effectively welcoming venue for dinner.
Each restaurant is also a popular to enable guests to receive information about the brand choice for the local community to dine out with friends and in the way that they want.
family and our restaurant teams are passionate about serving up great memories for their 47.6 million guests every year.
In the past year we have significantly increased our social media presence and activity.
We now have over 138,000 friends on Facebook, up from around 96,000 last year and have the biggest social following of any UK based hotel chain.
Our Twitter following is also up by more than a third to over 46,000.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Customer Heartbeat 18 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Customer Heartbeat continued In 2014 15 we have focused on building a broader customer When we ask our guests specifically what they think about base across these local communities, appealing to a younger the quality of our food they are scoring us highly, with food audience and those with families.
We have refreshed our scores up significantly yearonyear at 61.9%.
This is as a Beefeater Grill brand and given it a more contemporary result of the great new menus we have created with popular look and feel, which has led to new customers trying out the new dishes such as Beef and Merlot Pie which became our brand for the first time.
In those 38 sites which have been top seller after being launched in Autumn 2014. rebranded we have seen guest scores that relate to branding and environment increase by an average of 15% pts following refurbishment.
Importantly, our focus on refreshing the brand proposition helps us to provide a better service to the Premier Inn customer, enhancing their overall experience.
For families we have launched new kids programmes in each of our three main brands.
Beefeater Grill has partnered again with Mr Men we had previously partnered with Mr Men in the 1980s and 1990s, Brewers Fayres younger guests are loving The Beano promotions and Table Table is delighting children with its Horrible Histories fun and games!
The new Beef and Merlot Pie.
Creating great memories In our business people are the main ingredient.
After all, it is the waiter or waitress serving a guest that can make all the difference to their experience and if a guest has a great memory of their visit then they are more likely to tell their friends and family.
Guests are scoring us more highly for levels of service with scores up 2.3% pts in the year.
This is being driven by continued investment in training our teams at our three specialist food and drink skills academies and generally improving our training right across the board.
We have launched new kids programmes in each of our three main restaurant brands.
Serving up great memories for Sammy Our brand loyalty schemes are enabling us to understand Sammy is a teenage boy with severe autism.
He has his set our customers better and tailor our communications and routines and, for Sammy, a huge part of his routine is visiting the promotions in a much more relevant and personalised way.
Central Park Brewers Fayre in Rugby.
Sammy visits every day at the same time, with his dad, Ben and he always asks for a Sammy We now have 1.5 million members across our Beefeater Special for lunch which consists of: two pieces of bacon and two Grill Reward Club, Brewers Fayre Bonus Club and Table fried eggs on white bread, jelly in one bowl and chocolate ice Table Tasty Rewards loyalty programmes.
cream with two flakes in another dish.
Increasingly we are connecting with our guests through The team at Central Park know Sammy very well and Kirsty, a Team social media and in the year we have seen significant growth Leader, wanted to do something special so she worked with the in presence on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter with over marketing and systems teams at support centre and between them 515,000 fans on Facebook and over 17,000 Twitter followers they set up a special button on the till for Sammys order, which across the three main brands.
has pleased Sammy no end and ensures he always gets exactly the same meal, every visit!
In Restaurants, serving up great memories is about cooking quality food consistently well that is served by our Winning Teams who go the extra mile to create great memories for our guests.
We are delighted that in the year we have seen record guest scores with the overall net guest score at 67%, with 75.9% scoring us nine or ten out of ten.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Customer Heartbeat 19 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Profitable Growth Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good These opportunities include room extensions to existing During 2014 15 our Hotels & hotels and access to central London that the hub by Premier Restaurants business performed well.
We have therefore set out a new milestone to reach around 85,000 rooms in 2020.
Total sales grew by 11.1%, a strong performance that reflects like for like London remains a key area for expansion and we plan to grow our London estate to around 20,000 rooms in 2020. sales growth of 6.6% and total rooms This includes 3,500 of our new compact city centre hotel growth of 7.2%.
Underlying profit brand, hub by Premier Inn.
rose by 15.3% to 401.4 million and Our committed pipeline remains strong with 12,465 rooms return on capital increased by 0.2% of which 5,568 are in London and 5,158 are freehold properties.
This puts us on track to achieve our 2016 growth pts to 13.5%.
milestone and well on our way towards reaching our target of around 75,000 rooms by 2018.
Driving profitable growth and returns Hotels & Restaurants delivered a strong performance with Whilst we focus on delivering our organic growth strategy revenue increasing by 11.1% to 1,659.2 million.
Premier it is also important that we continue to deliver good like Inn grew total sales by 15.3% to 1,116.4 million with like for for like growth.
Our focus on the quality and consistency like sales growth of 9.1% and 4,103 net new room openings.
of our product and services, combined with the key levers Restaurants grew total sales by 3.2% to 542.8 million with of dynamic pricing, digital, reinvestment in our estate and like for like sales growth of 2.1% and the opening of four network strength, improved like for like sales by 9.1% for new restaurants.
Our strong EBITDA growth provides cash Premier Inn during 2014 15. generation to support the capital investment for both reinvestment in the business and organic growth as we Premier Inns marketleading position invested 483.1 million in growing and improving our hotel Premier Inn continues to deliver a marketleading customer and restaurant estate during the period.
At the same time experience combined with offering the best value for we grew our returns to 13.5% as we continue to focus on money in the sector according to YouGov, as shown growing profits and creating sustainable shareholder value.
Premier Inn has grown its market share with RevPAR and room Through investing in better rooms for our customers, growing growth.
In the year we saw a good recovery in the regional the strength of our network and implementing an enhanced hotel market with RevPAR growth of 10.1%, with Premier Inn refurbishment programme, we have further reinforced our regional RevPAR up 9.7% at the same time increasing rooms competitive position and improved our customer experience.
In London, Premier Inn grew RevPAR by 1.7% The quality and consistency of our guest experience, together whilst increasing rooms available by 14%.
with the strength of our network, has resulted in top customer satisfaction scores with Premier Inn scoring 4.3 out of UK growth milestones 5.0 on TripAdvisor and 82% in the recent WHICH?
UK hotel At the end of 2012 13 we extended our growth milestones chain survey.
to reach around 75,000 rooms by 2018 with our share of the total hotel market rising from 8.0% to around 10.0% in this We continue to invest in the refurbishment and maintenance period.
In 2014 15 we made good progress against these of our Premier Inn estate and we spent around 100 million objectives opening 4,103 net new Premier Inn rooms in in 2014 15, up from 80 million in the prior year.
Through this 25 net new hotels ending the year with a total of 59,138 we have refurbished some 12,700 rooms, rolled out around rooms and a pipeline of 12,465 rooms.
21,000 new beds, taking the total number of new beds to around 34,000, as well as installed air conditioning in a further Our strong market position with record occupancy of 2,500 rooms.
We have also upgraded our WiFi capability 81.3%, low market share in London and the increase in and installed free WiFi across the Premier Inn estate.
customer demand brought about by the economic recovery is leading to further growth opportunities beyond 2018.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Profitable Growth 20 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Profitable Growth continued Winning market share We are investing in our direct digital distribution, with At the end of 2014 15 we had a total of 697 hotels 59,138 www.
com being our customers preferred rooms, 39% more than our nearest competitor, enabling us booking channel, representing 80% of bookings, up from to offer customers the widest choice of location.
Visits from mobile devices continues to to open around 5,500 new UK rooms in 2015 16, leaving us be one of the fastest growing channels, increasing 34% around a further 10,000 rooms to open to reach our 2018 year on year to account for 45% of all traffic.
Our committed pipeline continues to grow, with the addition of 5,169 new rooms in the year taking the total Premier Inn 80% direct distribution to 12,465.
2020 Growth milestones c. 85,000 UK rooms New room c c p a c p a openings c c Key Premier Inn c digital direct Web indirect Nonautomated Percentage of customers booking through different reservation channels.
Today target target target Our dynamic pricing system aims to deliver efficient pricing Ke Keyy for all our hotels, with the combination of high occupancy Premier Inn Closures Committed pipeline Uncommitted and great value for money.
During 2014 15 we made good progress, achieving record occupancy of 81.3%, up 3.2% pts, hub by Premier Inn growing rooms available by 6.1% and increasing total RevPAR The London hotel market remains a key growth opportunity by 8.7%.
Dynamic pricing helps us to achieve this growth and we plan to grow our London estate from 10,214 to around whilst maintaining our value for money proposition and 18,000 rooms by 2018 and around 20,000 in 2020.
This delivering a good return on capital.
will include 3,500 hub by Premier Inn rooms.
hub is a new generation of compact, city centre hotel which offers a contemporary room design, excellent connectivity and good value for money and appeals to customers who value price, location and design over space.
As the footprint of a hub room is around 45% smaller than that of a Premier Inn room it provides us with access to central London and, with a lower cost base, would deliver similarly good returns on capital to a Premier Inn at a 30% lower price point.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Profitable Growth 21 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Profitable Growth continued Our first hub by Premier Inn hotel opened in St. Martins Premier Inn International Lane in November 2014 and, although early days, the guest Premier Inn International is focused on fastgrowing, emerging feedback has been very positive.
The TripAdvisor score markets such as the Middle East, South East Asia and India.
is 4.4 with 90% of correspondents rating their stay an During 2014 15 our international hotels made good progress excellent or very good experience.
with like for like occupancy rising 2.1% pts to 79.6% and like for like RevPAR growing 10.5% to 35.68.
Our five hotels in the We have ten hub hotels in the committed pipeline for Middle East are now generating profits and, whilst our three hotels in India are in a challenging market, there are good London and a further three hub hotels in the committed longerterm opportunities.
Although it has taken longer than we expected to sign Premier Inn Germany management contracts and to open hotels, our international At our WHR Investor Day in July 2013 we announced that we pipeline continues to build as we transition from an asset were researching the German hotel market and in September heavy to asset light structure to accelerate future growth.
2014 we acquired our first trial hotel in Frankfurt.
The total We have a strong committed pipeline of 26 hotels up from investment will be around 25 million and the hotel, which has 22 last year and we see the potential for opening around around 200 bedrooms, is due to open in the first half of 2016.
The German hotel market is around a third larger than the Restaurants UKs, with around 900,000 hotel rooms, and is much more Restaurants made good progress in the year, with total fragmented.
The penetration of the branded budget sector sales growth of 3.2% and like for like sales growth of 2.1%, is relatively low at 5% in comparison to 22% in the UK.
The outperforming the Coffer Peach industry benchmark outside independents have the highest share of the German hotel of the M25.
While the first three quarters of the year showed market at 74%, albeit over time their share has been in gradual a good performance there was a marked slowdown in the decline, similar to the trend we have seen in the UK.
We market in the fourth quarter.
Management continues to intend to have around six to eight hotels in three or four major focus on new menu ranges, better procurement and smarter cities in Germany in 2020, leveraging our UK capabilities as promotions through using data from our loyalty cards to we extend into this market.
We have also made good progress in rejuvenating our brands with our Brewers Fayre brand refresh now complete and 38 Beefeaters converted to our new format.
The goal for our restaurants business is to serve up great memories and it is pleasing to see that our guest scores have shown an improving trend increasing 1.3% pts to 67.4%.
We continue to focus on new menu ranges.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Profitable Growth 22 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Hotels & Restaurants Good Together Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbea H H Heartbea a at t t A force for good 2016 17 targets Progress Team and Community Raise 7.5 million for The Premier Inn Over 4 million raised for Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity.
Clinical Building at Great Ormond Street Over 940 apprentices in learning.
Over 1,200 new jobs many filled by young and longterm unemployed.
10,000 nationally recognised qualifications Over 1,200 work placements completed.
for team members including 3,000 apprenticeships.
5,000 new jobs created 50% of these filled Over 1,000 school, college and university students completed work by young and longterm unemployed.
Customer Wellbeing Accreditation and sustainable supply Launched sustainable supply strategy to supplier base with robust of global critical products.
risk analysis to assess supplier performance against 2017 sustainable sourcing target.
Progressive improvement of information on nutritional content across our food Continued focus and progress within our food platforms to reduce and drink portfolio, enabling customers salt content in line with Department of Health targets.
Upweighted activity on development within our food and drink portfolio, Communicate with our customers openly delivering further focus on calorific content and nutritional value.
and transparently about our actions, plans Continued high levels of traceability and audits for meat products.
Energy and Environment 25% carbon reduction from direct 25.59% less carbon emitted than in 2009 relative to sales.
operations relative to sales against Doubled the amount of renewable energy purchased to 60% and self a 2009 baseline.
generated over one million kWh from Solar PV panels on our hotels.
10% carbon reduction across supply Data collection tool identified and project launched to determine chain activities against a 2014 baseline.
baseline carbon footprint within our supply chain activities.
25% water consumption reduction Delivery of tools and supplier workshops to enable suppliers to reduce relative to sales against a 2009 baseline.
carbon within their operations underway.
Zero waste to landfill from direct operations.
20.85% water consumption reduction relative to sales against our Certified energy and environmental 2009 baseline.
induction training for all team members.
95.47% of waste now diverted from landfill from direct operations.
Conduct energy assessment audits Developed new energy assessment audits to comply with Energy across all properties.
Savings Opportunity Scheme regulation requirements.
Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Good Together 23
