WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY Our business model explains what we do and how we deliver our primary purpose of creating value for our shareholders.
We aim to do this through improving our profitability and cash ow, and delivering sustainable returns.
WHSmith is one of the UKs leading retailers with two distinct businesses Travel and High Street.
At the heart of both our businesses are our people and our customers.
Delivering Shareholder Returns The leading retailer in Britains most popular high convenience, books and news for street stationer, bookseller the worlds travelling customer andnewsagent 1 2 3 Develop new formats Managing our offer to Maximising returns andchannels in the UK reectchanging needs of from ourspace andinternationally ourcustomer 4 5 6 7 Optimising Focused use The right people Operating efficiency of cash and skills responsibly Buy Move Sell Customer OUR GOALS Our two businesses have distinct goals and strategies with some common elements, for example, the WHSmith brand and some shared services.
Travel and High Street are run by separate management teams reecting the different customers, strategies, operating models and cost structures.
In Travel, our goal is to be the leading retailer in convenience, books and news for the worlds travelling customer.
In High Street, our goal is to be Britains most popular high street stationer, bookseller and newsagent.
We aim to deliver our goals through our strategic priorities and initiatives.
These are detailed on the following page.
indd 4 26 11 2015 15:10 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 DEVELOP NEW FORMATS AND CHANNELS MAXIMISING RETURNS FROM OUR SPACE 1 3 INTHEUK AND INTERNATIONALLY For Travel and High Street this means: For Travel this means: focusing on the return from space in each store taking into working closely with our landlords, franchise and jointaccount all product and operating costs to ensure we are able venture partners: tomaximise the net profit from each store: renewing existing contracts and concessions: using our space and product profitability data to drive our identifying new locations, building on the strength of the decision-making: and WHSmith brand: focusing on efficient and low cost operating models in our developing new formats which leverage our existing stores whilst maintaining high levels of customer service expertise:and and availability.
continuing to grow our international business through different operating models: direct lease, joint-venture and franchise.
4 OPTIMISING EFFICIENCY For High Street this means: In both Travel and High Street we have a strong track record of optimising efficiency and continue to focus on delivering cost focusing on prime shopping locations in the UK where we benefit savings from across the businesses by: from significant levels of footfall: identifying efficiencies in our store operating models, working with landlords to manage our space needs: distribution centres and supply chain as our product assortment developing new formats, for example, WHSmith LOCAL: and and volumes change over time: developing our online channels whsmith.
co. uk utilising technology and other innovations: and and funkypigeon.
ongoing cost reduction programmes including occupancy costs.
MANAGING OUR OFFER TO REFLECT THE 5 FOCUSED USE OF CASH 2 CHANGING NEEDS OF OUR CUSTOMERS Both Travel and High Street are cash generative and the focused For Travel this means: use of cash is a key part of our strategy.
We see three uses ensuring our offer reects the changing needs of our customers for cash: in different locations and channels, providing a compelling investing in the business where we believe we can achieve a rate choice of products, available for them where and when they of return on investments greater than our cost of capital: need them: making value accretive acquisitions: and identifying changes in trends in our markets and channels and managing our space accordingly: returning surplus cash beyond that required to fund organic growth and minor acquisitions to shareholders through a working with landlords to manage the product ranges in each progressive dividend policy and share buybacks.
location: and using our own label and private labels, such as Gadgetshop, to 6 THE RIGHT PEOPLE AND SKILLS develop product ranges appropriate for the travelling customer: and to wholesale to our international partners.
Our ability to deliver our business model is underpinned by our 14,000 colleagues primarily in the UK but also in Australia, Asia, For High Street this means: the Middle East and Europe who serve our customers every day.
continuing to manage the space in our stores to reect the We are committed to promoting a culture of equality and diversity characteristics of each location.
For example, competition, through our policies, practices and procedures and provide afuence, and store size and layout: ongoing training and development for our employees.
identifying changes in trends in our markets and managing our Our core values of customer focus, value our people, accountability space accordingly: and drive for results are key to our performance.
developing new products and ranges including building on our strong heritage in own-brand education and stationery: 7 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY For Travel and High Street this means acting responsibly to all our developing other private labels such as Gadgetshop where we stakeholders including customers, suppliers, business partners, can benefit from lower costs: and employees and the communities in which we operate.
You can read providing additional services for our customers, for example, more about our approach to corporate responsibility in the Other post ofces.
disclosures section of the Strategic report on pages 22 to 24. REVIEW OF OPERATIONS You can read more about our progress in all areas of the strategic priorities in the respective reviews of operations for Travel and High Street on pages 10 to 13.
There are areas of risk and uncertainty associated with our strategy which you can read about in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 20 and 21.
