WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate governance DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES 1.
Henry Staunton joined the Board of 4.
Suzanne Baxter is a non-executive business continuity globally and corporate WHSmith in September 2010 and became director and joined the Board of WHSmith governance at Standard Chartered.
Drummond Hall is a non-executive also Chair of the Nominations Committee.
She was appointed as Group director and joined the Board of WHSmith He has extensive finance, media and retail Finance Director of Mitie Group Plc in in September 2008.
He is the Senior expertise and is a non-executive director April 2006.
Following her qualication Independent Director and Chair of the of Capital and Counties Properties plc and as a chartered accountant with Price Remuneration Committee.
He is a Chairman of BrightHouse Group PLC and Waterhouse, her career has been divided non-executive director and Chair of the Phoenix Group Holdings.
He was previously between advisory roles in corporate Remuneration Committee of The Sage the Finance Director of Granada and ITV, finance with Deloitte and a range of finance, Group plc and is the Senior Independent Chairman of Ashtead Group and Vice commercial, operational and business Director of First Group plc.
He spent the Chairman of Legal and General PLC.
development roles in support of both public early part of his career with Procter & and private sector clients, rstly with Serco 2.
Stephen Clarke is Group Chief Executive Gamble, Mars and PepsiCo Inc, and from and now with Mitie.
She is Chair of the and joined the Board of WHSmith in June 2002 to 2006 was Chief Executive of Dairy Business in the Community BITC South 2012, becoming Group Chief Executive on Crest PLC.
West Strategic Advisory Board: a business 1 July 2013.
He joined WHSmith in August to community outreach charity, promoting Ian Houghton is Company Secretary 2004 as Marketing Director for WHSmith responsible business practice and is Chair and Legal Director and was appointed in High Street.
In 2006 he was appointed of the Council of the Business Services September 1998.
Commercial and Marketing Director Association BSA : a policy and research and in 2008 became Managing Director BOARD COMMITTEES centre of excellence for the support of WHSmith High Street.
He began his services industry.
Audit Committee career at the Dixons Group where he Suzanne Baxter Chair carried out a number of store, product and 5.
Annemarie Durbin is a non-executive Annemarie Durbin marketing roles.
director and joined the Board of WHSmith Drummond Hall in December 2012.
Robert Moorhead is Chief Financial Head, Independent Governance, Assurance Nominations Committee officer and Chief Operating officer CFO and Workplace at Standard Chartered.
COO and joined the Board of WHSmith Henry Staunton Chair She has previously held senior roles in in December 2008.
He is a Chartered Suzanne Baxter Wholesale Banking, including Head of Accountant and joined WHSmith in 2004 Stephen Clarke Financial Institutions for Europe and as Retail Finance Director.
Previously, Annemarie Durbin Africa, and had global responsibility for the he was Group Finance Director at Drummond Hall Development Organisation client segment.
Specsavers Optical Group and Finance She has held Consumer Banking head Remuneration Committee and IT Director of World Duty Free Europe.
roles in the Philippines and Thailand and Drummond Hall Chair He also held a number of roles at B&Q and has been Chief Executive officer in both Suzanne Baxter Kingsher Group.
He started his career at countries.
Currently she is responsible Annemarie Durbin Price Waterhouse.
for internal audit, property, security, Henry Staunton 34 Governance v33.
