28 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIVISIONAL OVERVIEW CONTINUED PROGRESS ONLINE ONLINE GENERATED 35% OF OUR REVENUE IN 2015 AND EMPLOYS AROUND 1,300 PEOPLE INGIBRALTAR, THE UK, ISRAEL, BULGARIA, ITALY, SPAIN AND THE PHILIPPINES.
Sportsbook gross win margin Revenue per unique active player Unique active players % no.
in 000s 0.2 ppts -4% 9% 2013 2014 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 8.1% 213.7 2,692.2 2013 2013 7.8% 204.6 7.6% 2,467.9 189.1 2,360.7 This KPI gives an indication of how sporting results This KPI reects the average revenue generated from This KPI reects the change in the number of have affected our performance during the year.
customers who have used our products during the individual customers who have used Onlines products Our normalised range for Online is around 8% for year, demonstrating our effectiveness in growing during the year, demonstrating how successful we gross win and c7.5% for net revenue.
In 2015, the the value of customers as well as growing the overall have been in recruiting and retaining Online customers.
gross win margin was 0.2 percentage points higher customer base.
Total Online net revenue was 4% The number of unique active players was up 9% year-on-year at 7.8%.
This comprised an in-play margin higher in 2015, with Sportsbook up 4% and gaming in 2015.
Strong growth was seen in the two key of 5.4% 2014: 5.3% and a pre-match margin of 9.7% up 5%.
Net revenue per unique active player was products Sportsbook and the Vegas product suite 2014: 9.3%.
weaker in 2015. and in the core markets, being the UK, Italy and Spain.
1 Online net revenue split by product Sportsbook Casino WHAT WE DO William Hill is one of the leading online 48% 46% gaming and betting providers to UK customers, and is also a top three online sports betting operator in Italy and Spain.
With more than a million betting opportunities on offer every week, we provide in-play and pre-match sports betting, and a wide range of gaming products.
1 Online revenues split by territory UK Italy and Spain Other Poker Bingo 79% 9% 12% 2% 4% 29 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Growing UK market share Onlines principal focus during the year was This includes measures such as automatic on launching a new mobile website and self-exclusion, a time out feature for The UK remains a key growth opportunity iOS app, which went live in October.
This is short-term account closure and additional given the structural growth of the market one of the last stages of Project Trafalgar, deposit limits.
Although very early days, we and consolidation that is expected to fall under which we have built a technology are seeing an impact, for instance through out from implementation of the Point of platform that enables us to control our increased self-exclusion rates, though any Consumption regime in 2014.
As a leading front-end customer interfaces.
We are in long-term effect is not yet clear.
operator with a competitive product the process of launching our Android app range, user experience and marketing Onlines core markets continued to perform and will roll out the desktop experience investment, William Hill is well placed to well, with Sportsbook amounts wagered after the Euro 2016 football tournament.
1 benefit from this market reshaping.
As this up 7%, and gaming net revenue up 15%.
1 represents a unique opportunity to gain By taking control of our front-end customer Within this, UK net revenue was up 11%.
1 more market share, we have continued interface, we are able to deliver much faster In local currency terms, net revenue in to invest in our operations and capex to customer innovation, which we believe is Italy and Spain was up 28% and 13%, deliver differentiation but have driven cost key to further differentiating our customer respectively.
The two together made an efficiencies, particularly in marketing, while operating loss of 0.4m and Italy achieved offering and, ultimately, delivering a much remaining highly competitive.
profitability for the first time in 2015.
In addition, the new platform enables However, outside our core markets net Maximising the mobile opportunity faster loading times, an expanding product 1 revenue declined as we closed five markets range and continuous improvement of With a broader betting and gaming product and saw foreign exchange and regulatory user journeys.
We have already seen such range than ever before, it becomes ever changes or other government measures benets, including rapid and frequent more critical to make it easy for customers impact performance.
Within this, there was a updates to the app, signicantly faster app to bet when they want on what they want.
1% decline in Sportsbook amounts wagered loading times, improved mobile registration The increasing use of mobile technology 1 and a 30% decline in gaming net revenue.
conversion and higher cross-sell from has been a key trend in the industry in Other markets now represent only c12% of sports into gaming.
recent years, and mobile betting and Online net revenue, down from 17% in 2014. gaming continues to be a major focus for We also continued to enhance our Over time, we would expect this to continue us.
It now accounts for 56% of Sportsbook market-leading position in gaming with a to change as we focus our investment turnover and 41% of gaming net revenue.
behind growing our core markets.
In November, we launched our Macau site, The gross win margin was in line with International expansion providing exclusive and proprietary Asianexpectations at 7.8%.
We have also launched We are also taking our online offering into new Live Casino for Vegas, Macau and Pre-exceptional cost of sales increased a number of other countries, focusing on Mayfair, supporting the destination gaming 147%, principally due to an additional markets with a strong gambling culture and strategy.
Our Vegas product suite grew net 66.4m of POCT.
Operating costs were at a competitive regulatory and tax framework revenue 20% in 2015 and now accounts year-on-year.
in which we have the ability to offer a for 66% of our casino revenues.
In the broad sports betting product range and Marketing costs were 120.6m 2014: second half, we started the roll-out of our casino gaming.
132.1m, with a 3% increase in spend in the in-house developed Bonus Engine, which Approximately 88% of Onlines net UK, no World Cup investment, and lower is further enhancing the competitiveness 1 spend in other markets linked to lower net revenues in 2015 came from the UK, of products like Vegas and Live Casino revenues levels.
During the year, we secured Spain and Italy.
The remaining revenues with market competitive acquisition our preferred live TV advertising assets for are spread across a large number of other bonus capabilities.
the 2015 16 football season and for the countries.
In 2015, we closed five markets Online also collaborated with entrepreneur EURO 2016 football tournament.
and revenues were also impacted by L Marks, a company that manages government action in other countries.
corporate accelerators, on a highly Telephones performance: In Italy and Spain we are investing successful incubator programme, the first 2 Telephone made an operating loss of substantially in marketing to drive revenue in our industry.
The winning company, 1.2m in the period 2014: 0.8m loss.
We have rapidly BetGame, received 150,000 of investment Amounts wagered were up 7% and gained market share in both countries.
to further develop its eSports betting 1 net revenue was up 5% to 12.4m concept and an ongoing partnership with 2014: 11.8m with a gross win margin Performance review William Hill to roll out the product in 2016. of 5.8% 2014: 6.0%.
Operating costs During 2015, Online incurred an At the end of October, along with the rest decreased by 8%.
From 2016, Telephones additional 66.4m in UK POCT following performance will be included within of the industry we implemented additional its introduction on 1 December 2014. the Online segment, which oversees responsible gambling measures required This was the driver of the year-on-year that business.
under the Gambling Commissions profit decline.
Excluding that additional revised Licensing Conditions and Codes 1 2 Net revenue is a term equivalent to the Revenue cost, operating profit would have of Practice.
dened by the statutory accounts on page 106. grown 9%.
2 Operating profit loss is dened as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specic identied intangible assets recognised on acquisitions.
30 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIVISIONAL OVERVIEW CONTINUING TO LEAD RETAIL RETAIL IS THE LARGEST WILLIAM HILL DIVISION, GENERATING 56% OF OUR REVENUE IN 2015 AND EMPLOYING AROUND 12,200 PEOPLE IN THE UK.
OTC gross win margin Average profit per LBO Average gross win per machine % per week m 0.5 ppts 10% 1 % 2013 2013 2015 2014 2014 2014 2013 2015 2015 19.4% 81,750 949 939 80,301 18.3% 897 17.8% 72,548 This KPI gives an indication of how sporting results This KPI reects the average profitability of the Retail This KPI reects the trends in the underlying growth 1 1 have affected our performance during the year.
Retail net revenue declined 2% with OTC net in gaming machine net revenue.
Based on an At 17.8%, the gross win margin was 0.5 percentage revenue down 4% and gaming machine net revenue average of 9,299 machines, the average gross points lower than the prior year but within our down 1%.
Cost of sales was 6% higher, with 19.1m of win per machine per week was 1% higher at 949, normalised range of 1718%.
Over-the-counter additional tax costs following the increase in the MGD rate benefiting from the closure of 108 shops in 2014 wagering declined in 2015 in the absence of a from 20% to 25% on 1 March 2015.
Operating costs were with lower average gross win per machine per week.
down 3%, primarily as a result of the 2014 exceptional The machine density was unchanged year-on-year 2 shop closures.
Overall, operating profit was 11% lower at 3.94, with a maximum of four machines allowed at 171.4m, largely reecting the additional MGD cost.
Gaming machine net revenue declined 1%, Retails performance overall impacted by closure of the 108 impacted in H1 2015 by the roll-out of the new Eclipse shops in 2014, with the average number of LBOs being cabinet, a freeze on the release of new games and 2% lower at 2,363.
Average profit per LBO also declined implementation of the 50 journey.
Gross win margin was 0.5 percentage points lower but within the expected range.
1 Retail net revenue split by product Horse racing Gaming machines Other WHAT WE DO Retail is a highly cash-generative 20% 51% 10% business and, over time, we have substantially evolved its product range to deliver what customers want.
LBOs have proven resilient in the face of both the economic downturn and the rapid growth Football ofdigital gambling over the last 15 years.
Football 11 % 11 % Greyhounds unds 8% 8 8 8% % % % % % % 31 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Growing market share Video walls are installed in 430 shops and We are working towards a one customer proposition that gives William Hill are a significant differentiator of the shop We believe that LBO customers are experience, particularly when coupled customers a more consistent and joinedlooking for an entertaining and engaging up experience online, on their mobile with our state-of-the-art broadcast facilities experience, ranking convenience as their in Leeds, giving us our own high-quality devices and in shops.
main reason to bet in LBOs per se and broadcast proposition and enabling careful location and customer service as the key A major step in this strategy is the SSBT, management of the timing and positioning reasons for choosing a particular LBO.
which enables us to bring one of our of TV gantry content to maximise turnover.
We have focused on the quality of our competitive advantages our broad customer service, our product range product range to Retail customers.
Improving responsible gambling particularly in football and technology Using Onlines Trafalgar platform, we have innovations to bring customers an As part of our ongoing responsible developed a proprietary SSBT.
This will attractive and differentiated offering.
gambling improvements, in April 2015 we benefit from both Onlines broad product implemented the 50 journey, requiring range and product pipeline and a user Our market share by number of LBOs is customers staking over 50 on gaming experience that shares many features with around 26% but we have an estimated machines to use account-based play williamhill.
Our SSBT is currently being 31% by revenue.
or gain authorisation from shop staff tested in-shop to ensure stability, and will to improve customer interaction and be rolled out in 2016.
Customer feedback Continued estate expansion encourage more conscious decisionso far has been positive.
Our target is to We aim to expand Retail organically making.
We also implemented the ABBs have an initial 500 SSBTs in key shops through new shop openings, increasing Player Awareness System, which assesses for the EURO 2016 football tournament.
our LBO estate on a net basis by around customer behaviour against a range of During the coming year, we will develop 0.5%1% per annum.
This slowed as the markers identied through the Responsible ways to further enable customers to move Government changed planning regulation Gambling Trust research, and are using funds between channels.
to put LBOs into a separate use class, in-house developed analytic algorithms During the year, we implemented a new creating another barrier to entry for new to keep improving the effectiveness of content improvement strategy, which shop openings.
Finally, included sourcing games through five new we worked with the industry to develop supplier contracts.
We are now releasing, We continue to exceed our internal a national, cross-operator self-exclusion hurdle rate for returns on new openings on average, one game every two weeks scheme that will be rolled out shortly.
and saw gaming machines return to as a portfolio, investment costs of which accounted for 28% of our Retail capex growth in Q4 2015, which was continued Performance review in 2016. in 2015.
During 2015, Retail paid an additional Around 90% of our shop estate is leased.
We continue to open new shops 19.1m in MGD as the rate increased from The average remaining lease length is although the rate of openings has slowed 20% to 25% on 1 March 2015.
This was around seven years.
The average lease since the Government implemented the principal driver of the year-on-year profit cost per LBO is c22,000 per annum.
changes to planning regulations that decline, excluding which operating profit place bookmakers in a sole use class.
Encouraging technology innovation We opened 25 shops in 2015, closed In spite of the rapid growth of digital 16 and resited seven.
The number of It is estimated that more than half of gambling, licensed betting ofces LBOs shops at the end of the period was 2,371 Onlines regular customers also gamble remain the channel of choice for the 2014: 2,362. in LBOs and 28% of our regular Retail majority of UK customers and Retail customers gamble online.
We are using continues to be a resilient and highly cashnew technology such as SSBTs to generative business.
Our omni-channel create an engaging betting and gaming strategy focuses on maximising the large experience, and to encourage customers footprint we have in both LBOs and online to use more than one channel through to target the increasing proportion of cross-channel promotions, for instance customers who are using both digital coordinating new game launches.
and land-based channels to bet.
1 Net revenue is a term equivalent to the Revenue dened by the statutory accounts on page 106.
32 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIVISIONAL OVERVIEW INTERNATIONAL GROWTH AUSTRALIA WILLIAM HILL AUSTRALIA GENERATED 6% OF REVENUES IN 2015 AND EMPLOYS AROUND 250 PEOPLE BASED INSYDNEY AND DARWIN.
Improving the customer experience We improved the product range by WHAT WE DO being the first to launch in-play betting As with Online, we are focusing on in Australia, expanding our local market expanding the product range and William Hill Australia was created product range and implementing the through the acquisition of Sportingbet continuously improving the user Global Trading Platform in time to support experience.
Informed by the Group including Centrebet in March our Australian Open sponsorship.
com in experience and also increased race eld We launched our new app in September fees, we implemented a revised trading August 2013.
The combined group and it is now one of the highest rated being rebranded as William Hill policy, extending from a high roller focus betting apps in the Australian App Store.
to a proven mass market approach that is is one of the largest online betting In the second half, we achieved A$7m of companies in Australia, with 324,000 attractive to the digital, more recreational annualised savings from an operational customer.
Added to that, we expanded the active customers.
restructuring which we have reinvested in product range with both more local market expanding the product and IT team from content and, through our Global Trading 38 to more than 150 people.
Owning and Platform, content from a much wider range managing our technology platform inof sports from Europe and the US.
house is a major competitive advantage as it speeds up our delivery of innovations.
benefiting from Since Q4 2015, we have been seeing the proprietary technology benets of these changes start to translate into improved operational performance.
We have also restructured our IT operations to benefit from one of our The decline, however, in the performance greatest differentiators: our proprietary of the business year-over-year reects technology platform.
Without being reliant primarily the amounts wagered decline as on the same platforms used by others in we implemented client management and the market, we can deliver a differentiated trading changes to address unprofitable experience and bring innovations to Building a digital business turnover following race eld fee increases, the market faster than our competitors.
and the transition to the William Hill brand.
The Australian market is very attractive, We have built an internal IT team to The gross win margin has structurally growing at double digit rates, with structural make the most of this asset and are now improved from c9% to c11% reecting the growth drivers in xed-odds, sports releasing innovations more rapidly than client management and trading changes.
While it is major competitors.
1 Net revenue declined faster than gross win an increasingly competitive environment, as we increased our proportion of free bets customers are also shopping around more, Performance review to a more competitive level, from 0.5% of creating an opportunity to attract more Australia is a very attractive opportunity, amounts wagered to 1.3%.
customers through a differentiated and with structural growth driven by betting on engaging experience.
Since completing Operating costs in local currency were mobile devices, in-play, xed odds betting the two acquisitions in 2013, therefore, higher with additional marketing costs and sports products.
We are targeting we have focused on building William Hill for the brand launch and additional the mass market, recreational customer Australia into a business able to compete depreciation and amortisation reecting base, who are generating the fastest at the highest levels in the online betting higher capital investment levels.
market by changing the management 2 Operating profit declined as a result team, now led by Tom Waterhouse, We have continued to develop our brand, of the topline change and reported restructuring the operations, increasing product and user experience during 2015. operating profit was further impacted marketing effectiveness and improving the We successfully migrated the Sportingbet by an 11% decline in the average value customer experience.
com customers to of the Australian dollar against sterling William Hill in March 2015 and January year-over-year.
33 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements US WILLIAM HILL US GENERATED 2% OF REVENUES IN 2015 AND EMPLOYS AROUND 400 PEOPLE, MAINLY IN CASINO-BASED SPORTS BOOKS IN NEVADA.
Building the leading Nevada business We are also prepared to invest in relevant WHAT WE DO opportunities, such as the agreement with Nevada is one of only four states allowed to Monmouth Park racetrack in New Jersey license land-based sports betting in the US William Hill US was created in June where we have created a William Hill sports 2012 through the acquisition of and is the only one that currently operates bar that could be converted into a sports an open commercial market.
Sports books three small sports book operators book should the law permit it.
in Nevada, American Wagering, Inc. can only be operated inside casinos, though customers using mobile accounts In 2015 we became a member of the Brandywine Bookmaking LLC and the Cal Neva racing and sports book can deposit via kiosks provided in casino American Gaming Association AGA and bar locations.
While the major casinos and are working with them on routes to assets for$49m, and was rebranded as William Hill.
operating on the Las Vegas Strip tend challenge the federal ban.
to manage their own sports books, the majority of the other casinos outsource this Performance review specialist capability.
William Hill is now the William Hill US continues to perform preferred outsource supplier as we operate strongly with growth from amounts 103 of the 187 sports books in Nevada.
1 We have successfully grown William Hill Net revenue was 12% higher local US by improving the user experience currency: 5% at 33.3m 2014: 29.7m expanding the product range, including with a more normalised gross win margin in-play betting, developing the mobile app of 6.5% 2014: 7.9%.
Operating costs and redeveloping the sports books which were 21% higher local currency: 13% 2 are now branded as William Hill.
We are and operating profit was down 5% local also the exclusive risk manager for the currency: -11% to 9.2m 2014: 9.7m.
State of Delawares sports lottery.
Creating optionality There continues to be a lot of discussion in the US about the potential for overturning the federal ban on land-based sports betting and for licensing online gaming in other states.
While it is unclear how such changes may evolve, we want to ensure William Hill is well positioned to take advantage of emerging opportunities.
Through our Nevada operations, we are building brand awareness and recognition of our strengths in sports betting.
The Company and individual licences awarded by the Nevada Gaming Commission bring increased trust, given the high level of probity checks required to achieve those licences.
