Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Strategic report 6 Our business model What we do differently The Morrisons difference At Morrisons, we focus on fresh food.
Our Market Our focus on fresh is supported by our vertically Street departments, and particularly our butchers, integrated farm to fork business model.
Unlike bakers, shmongers and greengrocers are skilled any other major UK supermarket, we manufacture in a way no other supermarket in the UK can match, morethan half of the fresh food we sell ourselves, and are passionate about what they do.
They prepare operatingour own abattoirs and food production food the way our customers like it, and often to factories as well as our own farm for research and individual customer specications.
That focus on development purposes.
We also operate our own fresh food is present across the Group as well as in distribution network.
ournew online and convenience businesses.
What we do Then we We make things move them We are the second largest fresh food manufacturer in the UK.
We own, operate and control a greater proportion of our fresh food supply chain than any other major grocery retailer in the UK.
Every day we make more than half of the fresh food we sell in store and online.
Our vertically integrated supply chain gives our customers assurance over the provenance, quality and safety of our food.
We buy direct from farmers and have the ability to process whole animals or crops, therefore we utilise more of what we buy with less wastage.
We employ qualied butchers, bakers, shmongers and greengrocers in store, allowing our customers to tailor quantities and cuts of meat and sh to suit their preferences.
And we buy things We pride ourselves on buying as much fresh food in the UK as we can 100% of our Morrisons own brand fresh meat is British sourced, supporting British farmers.
We work with our suppliers through the Morrisons farming programme to ensure British farming remains competitive and sustainable.
We are committed to sustainable supply chains through purchasing our products ethically.
We have made our supply chain shorter by dealing direct with more of our suppliers.
We insist on high manufacturing standards from our suppliers to ensure the integrity and quality of our products.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 7 Above: Direct control over our vertically integrated supply To further reassure customers of our commitment to Fresh food chain is a clear competitive advantage.
It helps us to offering great value we have introduced our Match & We focus on fresh food better manage materials and resources, allows us to More card during the year.
This means price is never a acrossthe Group as well minimise waste and costs, and makes it easier to react reason for customers to shop elsewhere, and allows as in our new online and swiftly to changing customer demands.
In addition, customers to focus on what is different, and better, convenience businesses itgives us confidence in the provenance and safety about Morrisons.
The Elliott report into the horsemeat scandal highlighted that Morrisons stood out in its supply chain integrity.
How we are different From eld to fork in hours Fresh Controlling food provenance, safety and quality.
And sell them in Getting food onto our shelves fresher and faster.
Prepared by us our stores and online Making more fresh food than any other supermarket.
Consistently excellent Delivering our fresh-focused customer experience in stores and online.
Monitoring to our standards Through our Ethical Trading Code andManufacturing Standard.
Passing savings on to the customer Value Our vertical integration model allows us to take cost out of the supply chain to pass on to customers.
Honest, clear pricing Transparent promotions and clear shelf edge pricing are complemented by our Match & More guarantee.
Quality If a customer is not 100% satisfied, neither are we.
We offer refunds and replacements on products prepared by us.
Reducing our waste Buying whole animals and crops direct from farmers and processing through our own operationseliminates needless waste.
Friendly customer service Service Our warm customer service provides enhanced perception, engagement and loyalty.
Skilled colleagues Our in-store skilled colleagues tailor portion sizes to suit customers personal preferences.
Availability In store, our operation allows us to react quickly and efficiently to customer needs, catering for local demand.
