William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 73 Governance Financial statements Application of Policy for 2016 Given the potential year-to-year earnings The Committee reviewed the CEOs base volatility, the Committee has decided that salary, which has been 550,000 per As noted above, for 2016 we will operate the EPS measure for 2016 will be set on annum since his appointment in 2014, in accordance with our existing policy.
an aggregate, rather than point to point, and considers that it is towards the lower The substantive provisions of the approved basis.
Taking into account actual EPS for end of the appropriate market range: and, policy have been repeated in this years each of the four years provides better line whilst he has performed strongly, the level DRR for ease of reference.
However, there of sight for participants than focusing on of salary increases in the business and are a few changes in the way we will apply the EPS result in the fourth year financial cost pressures generally meant that it did our existing policy for this year.
The Committee concluded not think it was appropriate to increase reecting the importance of growth, 25% that an aggregate EPS range of 106p to his salary on 1 January 2016.
Therefore, of the 2016 bonus will be based on net 126p will apply and this takes into account his next review will be in January 2017 1 1 revenue.
Net revenue is a major KPI for the impact of the proposed buy back when the Committee will consider his William Hill and is reported in the Annual of shares.
The 106p to 126p range is overall salary position, bearing in mind that Report.
Of the remainder, 60% of the equivalent to an implied growth range of no adjustment will have been made for 2 bonus will be based on operating profit, 3% to 10% p. a.
Growth remains key to over two years.
As Philip Bowcock was and 15% on individual objectives.
sustaining success at William Hill, therefore appointed towards the end of 2015, his Recognising the volatility of earnings in the Committee has retained the three base salary will remain unchanged in 2016 our industry and the impact that certain BPMs, all of which, as before, focus on and will be reviewed again in January 2017. trading events can have on profit, we have mobile and Australia.
The activities of the Committee are 2 decided to widen the operating profit The Committee continues to believe summarised on page 85. target range from 95%105% of target that the combination of TSR, EPS and to 90%110% whilst reducing the level of Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues revenue-related measures is the most payment at threshold from 30% of salary on the Committee for their hard work in appropriate, with significant vesting only to 10% of maximum.
As in previous years, 2015 and for the support we have received possible with strong TSR outperformance.
no bonus will be payable unless the Group from the William Hill management team.
achieves the threshold operating profit The Committee is conscious that the I would also like to thank our shareholders hurdle.
The Committee is convinced that Company operates in an environment for their support at the AGM in 2015 on these changes will ensure that the bonus where certain external events, which the resolution to approve the Annual plan more closely supports our strategic were not foreseen at the time the targets Report on Remuneration.
I hope we objectives and will be better attuned to our were set and are outside the control of can continue to rely on your support at business.
Further details of the bonus plan management, can potentially lead to the AGM on 11 May 2016.
If you have for 2016 are set out on page 83. vesting outcomes which do not fairly any comments or questions on any reect the Groups overall performance.
element of the report, please e-mail me The PSP performance measures for 2016 Consequently, as permitted under which will continue to be measured over atiwalsh@williamhill.
the Companys existing approved a four-year period will remain the same as remuneration policy, the Committee in 2015.
50% will be based on relative TSR Imelda Walsh reserves the right to adjust the vesting compared to a similar peer group to that Chair, Remuneration Committee outcome to reect the impact of such used in 2015, with 25% on basic adjusted changes.
Relevant examples include EPS and 25% on Business Performance changes to betting taxes and product fees Measures BPMs.
and the impact on financial performance In setting the EPS range, the Committee of changes in the regulations governing the took into account a number of factors, all gambling industry, subject to management of which in combination have an impact achieving an appropriate level of on earnings: mitigation.
In addition, in accordance with the approved policy, no adjustment to taxes levied on this industry have risen increase vesting will be made without prior 1 considerably: and Net revenue is dened as revenues retained from consultation with leading investors.
amounts staked after paying customer winnings regulatory changes and other anddeducting free bets.
player protection measures which 2 Operating profit loss is dened as pre-exceptional WilliamHill has supported and in profit loss before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specic identied intangible assets somecases pioneered.
