l e n n s r r a e h e m 08 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CREATING VALUE FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS BY LEVERAGING OUR SCALE BETTING AND GAMING ARE AT THE CORE OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL, WE USE OUR BRAND AND SCALE TO ATTRACT CUSTOMERS TO GAMBLE RESPONSIBLY BOTH ONLINE AND IN SHOPS, AND MAKE A MARGIN ON THEIR SPEND.
THE RESOURCES HOW OUR CUSTOMERS WE NEED GAMBLE WITH US Financial strength Through funds generated by our operations or provided by shareholders, bondholders and other debt providers, we operate, invest in and expand our business both organically and through acquisition.
People and knowledge Mobile Land-based The Board provides strategic leadership of the business.
The passion, commitment and innovation of our employees across both land-based and digital Sports betting operations creates our culture and makes William Hill Gaming one of the most trusted gambling brands.
Tablet PC Brand and reputation Our 82-year-old brand is one of the most recognised and trusted in gambling.
We invest primarily in regulated markets where the licensing of operators helps to encourage fair and open gambling, to protect vulnerable customers, to prevent underage gambling, to support sports integrity, to keep crime out of gambling and to enable investment in continually improving responsible gambling measures.
Omni-channel Our different land-based and digital channels enable customers Technology to access our products wherever and whenever they want to We invest in both clever thinking and the best gamble, offering a more social experience in our LBOs or sports technology to innovate and differentiate ourselves books or a quick and easy bet on their mobile devices.
and the William Hill brand from our competitors offerings.
We use our customer insight to continuously Betting rene our products and services, and to improve the Our customers primarily come to us through sports betting, customer experience.
where we build an anticipated margin into the offer price.
We continuously evolve our betting product range to be relevant Relationships to our customers by providing betting opportunities they cannot We work with all our stakeholders to build long-term nd elsewhere.
We collaborate with customers, regulators, governments, sports bodies, suppliers Gaming and the wider gambling industry around the world to Gaming is constantly available and extends the opportunity ensure we both comply with and increasingly lead the for customers to use our products in between betting events.
way in delivering a responsible gambling experience.
We build a margin into our gaming products.
Gaming outcomes are randomly generated and more frequent and so operate at alower but more stable margin than sports betting.
o f c t f s - u i o n C m O 09 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements HOW WE THE RESULTS OF INVEST WHAT WE DO Reinvesting cash ows Our UK Retail operation is a mature, stable and highly cash-generative business.
This enables us to reinvest 1.6bn in the faster growing areas of digital gambling and Net revenue international expansion, supported by technology that differentiates our customer experience.
Digital The digital gambling market is growing by around 291.4m 1 1015% in markets such as the UK and Australia.
Operating profit By investing in marketing and technology, we continually build and reinforce the prole of the William Hill brand and differentiate our offering by using technology to deliver a product range and a user experience that stands out 12.5p from our competitors.
Full-year dividend to shareholders International As regulations change around the world, opportunities are opening up for us to take our betting and gaming offering to a wider customer base.
We invest primarily 418m in licensed markets where established regulatory and Total taxes and duties incurred in 2015 tax structures give us longer-term visibility on potential revenues.
We have established leading market positions in five major gambling markets.
Actively encouraging responsible gambling by customers Contributing positively to our local communities andsupportingother industries 1 H2GC.
