18 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GREAT CU STOMER EXPERIENCE DELIVERED RESPONSIBLY 19 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Using data to improve Developing our customercontrol responsible gamblingtools As part of our ongoing responsible At the same time, we continue to gambling improvements, in April 2015 the work on improving the tools we betting shop industry implemented the provide to customers.
This change requires shop The industrys inaugural GambleAware customers staking over 50 on gaming weeks were held in January and machines either to use account-based June 2015 to raise awareness.
play or to gain authorisation from shop These were further supported by national staff and is intended to improve customer TV advertising campaigns, increased interaction and encourage more responsible gambling advertising conscious decision-making.
after 9 p. m. in shops and devoting 20% of shop windows to responsible In addition to allowing customers to access real-time information about gambling messages.
their session play, which can reduce Having introduced Set Your Limits on biased or irrational decisions, it also machines in 2014, we took this tool a step gives us more information on customer further by requiring customers to make patterns.
These data support the ABBs an active choice on whether to set limits Player Awareness System, a world before play as from January 2015. first in retail betting, which aims to help In Glasgow and Chatham we have people avoid gambling-related harm.
This system assesses customer behaviour undertaken pilot schemes to extend self-exclusion across operators, taking the against a range of markers identied through research commissioned by the best practices we have developed and collaborating with the industry to develop Responsible Gambling Trust.
Alerts can be sent to customers by text, e-mail or a national scheme to meet the Gambling Commissions target date of April 2016. on-screen with signposting to responsible gambling tools such as Set Your Limits In Online, our new gambling controls on machines or self-exclusion, and hub provides easy access to responsible directing customers to the National gambling information and tools.
co. uk This includes automatic self-exclusion, or to speak to the shop team.
In addition, enabling customers to request immediate we are using in-house developed analytic self-exclusion without having to contact algorithms that will keep improving customer services.
A time out can also the effectiveness of our engagement.
be requested via customer services Responsible gambling training for our for a short-term account closure and shop teams helps colleagues understand customers can now set weekly and these markers of harm and how to monthly deposit limits within their approach a customer who exhibits any accounts, in addition to the daily deposit of them.
limits previously offered at registration.
OUR GOAL IS TO FOSTER A LIFELONG RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR CUSTOMERS, JUST AS WE HAVE IN MANY OF OUR BETTING SHOPS.
PART OF ACHIEVING THAT IS ABOUT HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS TO GAMBLE RESPONSIBLY AT ALL TIMES, GIVING THEM THE TOOLS AND INFORMATION THEY NEED TO ENSURE THEIR GAMBLING DOES NOT GET OUT OF CONTROL.
