22 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REGULATION AND OUR MARKETPLACE CHANGING TIMES REGULATORY CHANGE AND THE NEED FOR SCALE IS DRIVING CONSOLIDATION WITHIN THE GAMBLING INDUSTRY.
FOR WILLIAM HILL ONE OF THE LARGEST SCALE OPERATORS REGULATORY CHANGE CREATES FURTHER OPPORTUNITIES FOR INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION.
Market overview The importance of having a large-scale Gambling takes many forms and varies operation is increasing.
Scale enables SCALE AND from country to country.
The industry is investment in marketing and technology made up of government-run operations, CONSOLIDATION whilst being able to absorb the impact of licensed monopolies or open commercial regulatory change and, as witnessed most markets.
In some countries, there is an recently, significant increases in gambling outright ban on gambling.
In our view, investment in technology of products available to consumers in particular is key to further developing including lotteries, sports betting, casino the customer offering in terms of product games, bingo and poker are available in breadth and depth, user experience and, many different formats, from land-based above all, personalisation.
clubs, pubs, casinos, betting shops and race tracks to online gambling.
Land-based activities remain the format of choice for most gambling customers Technology is a key enabler of across all the leading countries by differentiation.
The fastest growing gambling revenues.
Online gambling first TECHNOLOGY products today are supported by started in earnest in 1998 while mobile innovations in technology.
In the UK, gambling has become more prominent for example, in-play betting and mobile in the last five years with the advent of gambling have been key drivers of smartphone and tablet technology.
the growth of the online industry in In many countries, gambling regulations recent years.
were originally designed with land-based operations in mind.
With the advent of digital gambling overcoming physical borders, governments are moving to update their regulations to take account ofonline and mobile gambling.
This is creating opportunities for Changing regulation is a key feature of companies such as William Hill who the gambling industry, with many markets have built a successful digital business.
REGULATION now revising their regulatory regime to It is particularly an advantage for those cater for digital developments.
A legal who have become successful in the UK framework typically involves the licensing of market as the competitive intensity in this companies that are required to comply with liberalised market has driven high levels a domestic regulatory regime and to pay ofinnovation that are proving attractive gambling taxes in return for being allowed in other markets.
Licensing regimes, such as the UKs, can also focus on key social aims such as encouraging 23 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements The UK one of the most fragmented William Hills international expansion is digital markets is currently seeing benefiting from this scale and expertise to significant consolidation activity, with six reduce the risks associated with exposure significant operators coming together in to any one country.
We would also expect potential mergers in 2016: Paddy Power to see consolidation amongst smaller and Betfair: Ladbrokes and Gala Coral: operators in the UK, where the introduction andBwin.
of the Point of Consumption Tax POCT has signicantly impacted profit margins, William Hill is already one of the largest thereby hindering their ability to invest in scale operators in the market, with a being competitive with the scale operators.
substantial UK land-based business and one of the leading online businesses.
This requires significant investment in To date, much of the gambling industry innovation and know-how.
The increasing has relied on third-party software suppliers cost of such investment to drive for core technology.
Increasingly, the small differentiation is more and more favouring number of companies that can afford to do the scale operator.
so like William Hill are looking to control more of the technology themselves in order In many countries, land-based incumbents to bring customers a differentiated offering.
have struggled to capitalise fully on the online opportunity because of these hurdles in terms of technology and expertise.
responsible gambling, preventing under In many regulated markets, responsible As regulations are changing, gambling 18s from gambling, treating customers gambling is at the heart of government law is not always clear.
In Europe, for fairly and equally and preventing crime.
In the UK, for instance, instance, some local country laws are at Regulation is a complex area, with each protecting the vulnerable is one of three odds with the EuropeanUnion legislation country taking a different approach, but we core objectives for the licensed industry.
that permits the freedom of movement believe that a competitive and regulated The level of attention on companies of goods and services.
Our response environment drives out illegal gambling and effectiveness in this area is increasing.
to regulatory change can result in some delivers better value for customers in a safe It is critical to have strong responsible uctuations in revenues.
For the companies, gambling measures embedded in the it gives greater clarity on revenues and, heart of the Groups operations when as much as possible, a level playing eld pursuing growth in regulated markets.
24 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REGULATION AND OUR MARKETPLACE OVERVIEW OF OUR CORE MARKETS WILLIAM HILLS STRATEGY IS TO INVEST IN REGULATED MARKETS WHERE WE CAN TAKE A LICENCE AND DO SO PROFITABLY.
APPROXIMATELY 88% OF ONLINES REVENUES ARE GENERATED FROM THESE MARKETS.
ASTHE LEGAL PICTURE IS EVOLVING, WE HAVE A CLEAR LEGAL AND RISK-ASSESSED POSITION ON EACH OF THEMARKETS FROM WHICH WE GENERATE REVENUES.
Evolving customer habits have led to The British LBO industry is a key Our core markets bookmakers offering a wider range contributor to the UK economy.
The UK of betting and gaming products than We directlysupport around 38,800 ever before, with football betting and full-time equivalent FTE jobs and generate 3 The UK is William Hills primary market, machine-based gaming proving 2.3bn towards GDP.
With a number 1 representing 85% of Group net revenue increasingly popular with customers.
of industries reliant on ours, notably UK in 2015. horseracing and greyhound racing, our The number of betting shops has stayed total economic footprint is more than Around 70% of the UK adult population relatively stable for some years at around 100,000 FTE jobs and 5bn towards GDP, participates in gambling each year 9,000, having peaked at c16,000 in the including contributing around 1bn a year including the National Lottery.
It declined to c8,800 in 2015 as a to Treasury through direct, indirect and 8 million people regularly use land-based number of operators, including WilliamHill, 3 employee taxes.
and digital gambling each year, equivalent closed shops in response to the to 17% of the UK adult population.
This has Government increasing gambling duties.
The industry makes a positive contribution increased over time, with the National to local economies, paying business rates, The market continues to consolidate Lottery and TV advertising making offering exible working arrangements and slowly, with four major operators 86% gambling more socially acceptable as providing a meeting place for members of the market continuing to open shops aleisure activity while mobile devices are of local communities to take part in an and a gradual reduction in the number of making the product more accessible.
small chains and independent operators.
William Hill is currently the largest UK As a well-regulated industry, we also UK retail operator with 26% of LBOs and an provide a safe environment for gambling The National Lottery is the largest product estimated 31% of revenues.
Plans to activities, with staff regularly trained in the gambling sector, operated from merge Ladbrokes and Coral have been to identify potential harmful gambling 38,000 outlets.
LBOs are the second announced, which would create the largest behaviour and to engage with customers largest segment, generating 3.2bn estate.
This is being reviewed by the to encourage responsible gambling.
2 of gross gambling yield in 2014 15.
We continue to have an active dialogue Between 2010 and 2015, LBO gross LBOs are still very popular with around with the UK Government to encourage gambling yield grew at a compound annual 2 7080% of UK gamblers, even among and support fact-based decision making in growth rate CAGR of 2%.
The customer relation to our industry, given the social and LBOs were first legalised in 1961 when the experience is a critical driver of continued economic contribution we make to the UK.
Government recognised that significant LBO usage, with shops providing a social Find out more in our CR Report: Pages 3443. levels of gambling were happening outside environment and many being a hub within race tracks and elected to tax, regulate their local community.
and control the industry through licensing.
The regulatory environment for LBOs Over the years, gradual regulatory change last changed signicantly with the 2005 has permitted LBOs to broadcast sports Gambling Act and the regulation of gaming events, to open for longer and to provide machines.
We pay 15% gross profits tax amore welcoming shop environment.
1 Net revenue is a term equivalent to the Revenue on OTC betting.
From 1 March 2015, the dened by the statutory accounts on page 106.
2 gross profits tax on gaming machines, Gambling Commission, Gambling Industry Statistics April 2010March 2015, November 2015.
Machine Games Duty MGD, increased 3 Measuring the economic contribution of the British from 20% to 25%.
25 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements UK online In our view, sports betting has a high UK market share barrier to entry, with the most successful 1 by number of LBOs Online, including mobile, is the operators like William Hill benefiting fastest growing segment of the 1 from large-scale specialist teams who UKgambling industry.
5 produce increasing volumes of innovative Since it first became established in betting opportunities, including using 1998, the online sectors growth has proprietary algorithms to derive pricing for coincided with an expansion of the total new markets.
In our view, sports betting is 4 2 gambling population, suggesting online the most important product for attracting has offered access to customers who and retaining customers in the UK.
would not naturally use LBOs.
In the It targets the largest single segment of the early years, the market was led by the online gambling population, has a lower 3 major land-based brands William Hill cost per acquisition, the longest customer 1.
William Hill 26% and Ladbrokes as the most recognised lifespan and the best cross-selling potential 2.
The entrance of as well as the greatest opportunity for 3.
Coral 21% more technology-led and specialist online product differentiation.
Betfred 16% operators eroded the leaders market Technology has become a barrier to entry 5.
In 2008, we began the strategic with significant investments required to reshaping of our Online business.
support delivery of a high-quality, seamless Online was regulated by the Gambling and differentiated user experience UK betting market share 2,3 Commission on a point of transaction across multiple access channels.
by online revenue basis from 2007.
In November 2014, the Differentiation of the product range is 1 basis of regulation was changed to the also important and companies such as point of consumption and more than 400 William Hill are increasingly developing and 2 operators are licensed by the Gambling sourcing exclusive and proprietary gaming Commission.
From December 2014, the content for customers.
licensed operators have also been taxed 3 on that basis, with the tax set at 15% of gaming net revenue net of free bets and 8 4 15% of sports betting gross win gross 7 6 5 offree bets.
William Hill 15% The UK online market was estimated to 2.
Bet 365 12% have generated 2.7bn of gross gambling yield in 2014, of which sports betting was 3.
Paddy Power 8% 2 estimated 15% market share by revenues.
Gala Coral 6% Currently, the market is relatively 7.
Ladbrokes 5% fragmented, much more so than in other 8.
Other 36% taxed and regulated online gambling markets across the world.
The introduction of the Point of Consumption Tax is expected to lead to greater concentration in the market as smaller scale, lower margin operators fall away, become less competitive or consolidate.
1 Gambling Commission Industry Statistics April 2010 March 2015.
2 Gambling Compliance, UK Online Market Share, October 2015.
3 This chart shows market share as at October 2015, prior to the merger of Paddy Power Betfair in 2016.
26 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REGULATION AND OUR MARKETPLACE In 2015, William Hill became the first Gross gaming Our core markets company to launch an in-play offering via 1 yield by product Australia digital devices in a way that is consistent 1 with the Act.
In 2015, the Australian Australia is one of the most attractive government commissioned a review of the gambling markets, having the highest Act with a view to potentially updating it to 4 spend per capita among the ten largest reect the current technological landscape.
3 The online betting market is already much Betting or wagering as it is known locally more consolidated than in the UK, with now accounts for 21% of the Australian the three leading operators Tabcorp, 2 gambling market at A$25bn of turnover Sportsbet Paddy Power and William Hill and A$3bn of gross gambling yield a year.
accounting for the majority of the market.
Total betting has grown at around 35% Competitively, a number of European 1.
Poker 61% per annum, within which online has grown operators have moved into the market in 2.
Lottery 12% at around 20% per annum and is projected recent years, including William Hill, Paddy 3.
Casino table games Keno 6% to continue to grow at 14% per annum in Power and Bet365, looking to use their 4.
Betting 21% 20142016 given the shift to mobile and established expertise in this attractive 2 high smartphone penetration rates.
However, scale is increasingly important, not least because there have The structural growth Betting benets from being the only 1 been significant increases in betting of sports betting gambling segment that is fully open taxes and levies in recent years, including to online operators and has benefited 5 1 increased race eld fees fees paid to the from structural growth drivers, including horseracing industry from July 2014. the shift to digital betting, to xed odds betting and to wagering on sports as well as horseracing.
4 For many years, the market was dominated by land-based, pari mutuel, state 3 monopolies.
Since 2006, online has grown 2 from c9% of the market to around one-third today, with advertising allowed since 2008.
Horseracing 49% As in the UK, mobile has grown strongly, 2.
Sports 28% Betting on sports has grown to 28% of the 5.
Other 2% online market, particularly on Australian and American professional sports.
However, betting continues to be dominated by racing.
Online in-play betting and gaming are banned under the 2001 Interactive Gambling Act but are permitted via a telephone line.
Sources: 1 Roy Morgan Research, State of the Nation September 2014.
27 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Italy online Sportsbook market Our core markets Our core markets 1 share by turnover Italy and Spain US 1 9 A number of European countries The US market is dominated by 8 have followed the UK in amending land-based casinos and lotteries.
7 or establishing licensing regimes for Online gaming is largely illegal with 6 online gambling.
William Hill has been onlyDelaware, New Jersey and Nevada awarded licences to operate in Italy, having licensed operators to provide 5 Spainand Ireland.
Online sports 4 betting is illegal under the Interstate Italy is the largest of the European 3 Wire Act 1961 and state-sponsored 2 gambling markets, with spend per capita land-based sports betting is banned on gambling the second highest among 1.
Bet 365 47% underthe Professional and Amateur Sports the top ten regulated markets, behind Protection Act 1992 PASPA in all but 2.
four states Nevada, Delaware, Montana 3.
Eurobet 8% Online regulations were first introduced in and Oregon.
Lottomatica 6% 2006 to legalise real-money skill games 5.
Sisal 5% In Nevada, sports books have to be sited and betting exchanges.
Snai 5% within casinos and typically are either run poker was legalised in 2007 and sports 7.
Bwin 5% by the casino operator or outsourced to betting followed.
Other 9% The market continues to evolve with largest such operator by number of outlets the further liberalisation of regulation, and was created through the acquisition for instance introducing the Palinsesto and consolidation of three small operators.
Spain online Sportsbook market Supplementare, which has gradually Nevada also permits mobile betting for 2 share by turnover allowed operators to expand their sports customers who create their accounts betting offerings.
The market was initially through land-based outlets.
1 dominated by the land-based incumbents 4 In Delaware, sports betting is run by the but these regulatory changes have Delaware State Lottery and William Hill US increased the competitiveness and market is the exclusive bookmaker for that service.
leadership of new operators, such as William Hill, with skills and capabilities New Jersey continues to seek ways to honed in more open, competitive challenge PASPA and enable land-based 3 markets elsewhere.
sports betting in the state.
William Hill has an agreement in place with Monmouth 2 In Spain, sports betting features more Park in the event that sports betting is strongly in the online market, representing permitted in New Jersey.
Bet 365 46% around 44% of gross gaming yield.
In 2015, increased focus on the sports betting 2.
Bwin 20% Spain regulated online slots games for the legalisation debate, prompted in part by 3.
With no prominent land-based the increasing popularity of Daily Fantasy 4.
Other 15% sports betting incumbent, the market is led Sports Betting.
by the major European operators.
Other non-core markets William Hill also generates revenues in other countries outside of our core five markets by providing online sports betting and gaming activities.
There are approximately 100 countries within this category.
These markets make up c4% of Group revenue.
We take regular legal assessment of whether existing regulations allow us to provide these services.
As legislation is updated, we then either apply for a licence or withdraw from the market.
Sources: 1 Agimeg and AAMS, July 2015.
