14 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PROMOTING OUR BRAND 15 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Leveraging our scale through Building William Hill as a marketing investment successful international brand The scale of our Online business means The William Hill brand is proving we have one of the largest marketing successful outside the UK as well and budgets in the UK industry.
This supports is now established as a consistent brand both new customer acquisition and being on three continents.
front-of-mind when our existing customers In Italy and Spain, where we have taken are preparing to bet.
local licences and advertise on TV, we During 2015, we again secured the key are number two in both locations for TV packages we wanted for the coming prompted awareness.
year in the UK, including top bookmaker In Australia, we launched as William Hill packages with Sky, BT Sport, ITV and in February 2015 and have successfully Channel 4.
Our share of voice for the migrated both the Sportingbet and key live football market is estimated to tomwaterhouse.
com customer bases be c2021% for the 2015 16 football over to our brand.
Our prompted brand season, signicantly ahead of our c15% awareness increased from 32% to 63% market share by net revenue.
This further between March 2015 and February 2016, reinforces our outstanding levels of and our spontaneous awareness rose spontaneous brand awareness.
from 12% to 32% in the same period.
This has grown faster than we expected Optimising our investment and faster than other brands that launched to maximise our impact at the same time.
We are establishing Through our highly experienced in-house William Hill as a clear top three brand marketing teams based in the UK, by building a reputation for a fast and Gibraltar and Tel Aviv, we also optimised easy service and as a challenger brand, our Online marketing investment, for competing against local incumbents with instance by improving our pay-per-click differentiated products, like in-play.
Onlines overall In the US, where we are licensed in spend actually reduced 9% while our Nevada, we brought three existing brands investment in the UK increased 3% in together under the William Hill name and spite of the lack of a major international the strength of our performance is building football tournament.
Historically, afliates drove a lot of trafcto In many markets, we nd a high level of our sites.
Now, as we have increasingly trust is already associated with our brand focused on our core, regulated among governments, regulators and the markets, TV advertising, search engine wider industry, given our long track record optimisation and PPC account are in the well-regulated UK market.
These channels accounted for c73% of our marketing spend and all drive a lower cost per acquisition.
This management expertise is being shared across the Group with Tel Aviv, for instance, supporting Australias campaigns.
OUR BRAND IS ONE OF OUR MAJOR ASSETS, IN THE UK AND INTERNATIONALLY.
CUSTOMERS TELL USTHE WILLIAM HILL BRAND STANDS FOR HERITAGE, 1 TRUST AND EXPERTISE.
A YOUGOV SURVEY IN 2015 HIGHLIGHTED THAT BRAND AND OR REPUTATION IS THE SECOND MOST IMPORTANT FACTOR IN CHOOSING AN ONLINE BETTING ACCOUNT AND THATWILLIAM HILL WAS THE MOST TRUSTED BRAND.
Source: 1 1 B Bar arcla clay ys s C Yo auGo pitalv, Y UK ou Gambling Gov UK G Sur amb vle inyg, No Suv rv ee mber y, No 2 five 0m 15 b. er 2015
