40 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COLLEAGUES ENGAGED COLLEAGUES ARE CRITICAL TO OUR SUCCESS AND THE QUALITY OF THE EXPERIENCE ENJOYED BY OUR CUSTOMERS.
WE INVEST IN CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES FORALL COLLEAGUES AND ENCOURAGE A WIDE RANGEOF EXPERIENCE AND INSIGHT THROUGH OURDIVERSE WORKFORCE.
Engagement Development Gender diversity We continue to build on the success of our Our approach to talent management and Having diversity across the Group remains Colleague Forums, which operate in each succession continues to be a high priority a key focus for both the Board and the of our locations and from which a group of given the increasing complexity of our executive team.
The gender diversity colleagues are drawn for the International international business.
We have mentoring across different levels of the Group is Colleague Forum, to share practices and schemes, talent development for high shown below.
potential people, executive coaching and Gender diversity study sponsorships to support peoples Colleagues are also encouraged to make number individual development needs, as well their voices heard through the annual as organised programmes such as the engagement survey, HOME Truths, Board of Senior All Retail Academy.
directors managers colleagues which we have held each year since 6 222 7,534 2010.
This year, over 11,000 colleagues The Academy was established in 2012. participated worldwide, with our highest Around 3,543 colleagues undertook the ever participation rate at 75%.
The highest first stage of the programme The William score related to effective training, customer Hill Way in 2015.
A further 706 undertook 8,025 focus and relationships with managers.
the Stepping Up programme to prepare We saw further improvement around Customer Service Assistants for Deputy 2 53 line of sight between an individuals Manager roles and 26 LBO Managers role and the strategy, job security went through Taking the Lead to prepare Female Male and respect for individual differences.
them for becoming a multi-site manager.
Managers throughout the business have We are also strong supporters of drawn up action plans to further consider Legislation requires that we define developing women at all levels of our the specific points that their respective senior managers as the directors of business.
We have developed bespoke teams have raised.
During the year, our subsidiary companies.
However, the courses for women in administrative and health and well-being has been a major Board believes this information does not frontline jobs, and created a programme focus across the Group in response to provide a meaningful analysis of how the for women managers focused on work-life balance being highlighted in the Group operates so the data shown reflect developing their skills and confidence.
the proportion of senior managers by our Our Springboard programme brings up own internal grading system.
For reporting to 50 women a year through into junior purposes, there are 58 directors of management roles.
subsidiary companies, comprising 46 men and 12 women.
41 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Rewarding and celebrating Health and safety We continued to focus on addressing ourcolleagues anti-social behaviour ASB in our shops The health and safety of our colleagues, with 60 ASB workshops held during the Our colleagues are critical to our success customers and those who come into year involving 250 LBOs and over 500 and we want William Hill people to be contact with our business are employees.
These bring together our shop engaged, excited and energised by of paramount importance to us.
teams, the Security and Operations teams our business.
We continue to cement a strong Primary and external agencies such as local police to address the issue.
Salary levels are dictated by market Authority partnership for Health and conditions so we personalise what we offer Safety with Westminster City Council.
Human rights colleagues through our benets, our bonus During 2015, we received assured advice plans and the ways in which we reward on our health and safety manual and The Board considers that it is not and recognise peoples efforts.
Our range related policy and process advice in all necessary for the Group to operate of benets is, we believe, the most keyareas.
From this, a national inspection aspecic human rights policy at present.
In many plan is to be developed.
Our policies already operate within cases, people can choose the benets During the year we completed a review aframework to comply with relevant laws, that t their lifestyle, reecting the fact we of the extended lone working that we to behave in an ethical manner and to have a very diverse colleague population.
This allowed respect the human rights of our employees Every colleague is eligible to earn a bonus certain risk-assessed shops to operate and other stakeholders in the business.
and we encourage them to benefit from single-manning during evening hours The Corporate Responsibility Committee, our business success by investing in our as service levels demand.
Our review share save schemes.
William Hill is proud on behalf of the Board, is satisfied that demonstrated that our key focus areas, William Hills policies operate in a way that is to report that from 1 April 2016 it will be a such as security or employee issues, National Living Wage employer, paying at consistent with the UNs Global Compact, showed no evidence of having been covering areas of human rights, labour, the least the National Living Wage to all UK negatively impacted by single-manning.
colleagues over 18. environment and anti-corruption.
CELEBRATING COLLEAGUES In May, 223 people gathered at the Grand Hotel in Brighton from across the William Hill world to recognise the winners and runners-up in our HOME Awards.
These were awarded in 12 different categories, from National Shop Team of the Year to Outstanding Contribution to Innovation to Community Champion.
In September, colleagues who recorded 25 or 40 years service attended our annual Long Service Awards, celebrating with their partners with aweekend at the Ayr Gold Cup.
