Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Strategic report 2 Morrisons overview This is Morrisons Morrisons has grown from a market stall to the UKs fourth largest supermarket group.
Who we are Online We are a value-led grocer, British born and bred, Our online delivery focused on fresh food.
High quality, fresh products service now covers are at the heart of everything we do.
We have nearly 50% of our own manufacturing production facilities that UKhouseholds.
supply our stores to ensure that we sell only the best products.
Our vertical integration gives us 79 both control over the provenance of our supply chain and the exibility to meet the demands 2 of customers.
We have adapted to the changing demands of our customers by launching a multi-channel offer that gives the same great supermarket experience to customers in our convenience stores and online business.
95 Key 42 Supermarkets Morrisons M local Online coverage Distribution centres Manufacturing 115 This data is based on internal reporting regions and excludes our store in Gibraltar.
15 Fresh Our vertically integ grated supply chain and s d str tro ong ng 110 supplier relations sh hi ip ps s ensure only the fr re esh she es st t produce is sold to o 66 114 our customers.
28 Number of customers who Online Stores across UK, visit stores per week orders, over of which 153 are convenience stores 1.1M 12.1M 667 Number of 60% colleagues, over of the fresh food we sell 117,000 we make ourselves Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 3 Building momentum......
In the year ahead, we will further improve our customer offer through lowering prices, providing better service and great new products.
Making great quality fresh food in our factories and shops.
Our unique craftspeople butchers, bakers, shmongers, greengrocers are Morrisons.
If we get all the everyday small details right, more customers will shop with us more often.
And more customers mean more sales, which will ultimately mean more profit to invest back into improving our customer offer even further...... Building momentum by being Morrisons.
