06 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MARKETPLACE KEY TRENDS AFFECTING OUR BUSINESS THERE ARE VARIOUS ECONOMIC, REGULATORY, CONSUMER AND COMPETITOR TRENDS THAT ARE INFLUENCING HOW WE INVEST AND WHERE WE FOCUS OUR RESOURCES.
GLOBAL REGULATION Around the world, governments are updating their existing gambling 01 legislation to take account of new digital gambling.
This is creating opportunities for William Hill.
Having built a highly competitive digital offering in the UK, one ofthe most advanced and innovative markets globally, we compete strongly innew international markets and thereby diversify our business.
POSITIVE ECONOMIC GROWTH As a low ticket leisure activity, gambling proved relatively resilient 02 during the latest economic downturn.
However, UK consumers discretionary spend was squeezed for several years with cost ination above wage ination, constraining growth.
In 2015, that trend started to change.
We expect gambling to benefit from increased discretionary spend, particularly asit becomes an ever more mainstream leisure activity.
TAX ON GAMBLING When governments regulate they also tax licensed gambling 03 companies.
This is increasing the importance of scale as the larger operators can continue to invest while bearing this tax cost.
In the UK, the Point of Consumption Tax was imposed on online gambling companies in December 2014.
This additional cost isexpected to drive consolidation of the industry over time.
CONSOLIDATION AND SCALE Scale is becoming increasingly important, with companies investing 04 substantial capital in marketing and technology as well as paying gamblingtaxes.
The UK one of the most fragmented digital gambling markets is seeing significant consolidation activity.
William Hill is already oneof the largest scale operators and we benefit from generating substantial cash in our Retail business that we reinvest in digital and international opportunities.
07 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements DEVELOPMENTS IN TECHNOLOGY To date, much of the gambling industry has relied on third-party 05 software suppliers for core technology.
Increasingly, the small number of companies that can afford to do so like William Hill are looking to control more of the technology themselves in order to bring customers a differentiated offering.
FOCUS ON RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING We want relationships with our customers to last a lifetime, which is 06 already what happens in many of our shops.
Its in our interest, as well as customers and governments, to enable customers to gamble responsibly.
Wherever possible, we aim to identify problems before they develop in order to encourage customers to use the tools and support available to stay in control.
EVOLVING CONSUMER HABITS Mobile makes gambling more accessible and fun than ever before 07 through second screen interaction while watching sports.
In the UK, this reaches a more mass market, recreational customer base and leads to a lower average number of accounts and apps being used.
That increases the importance of scale, with the ability to differentiate product and user experience through technology andto invest in marketing to be front-of-mind with the customers.
PRODUCT AND CHOICE Customers preferences in gambling continually evolve.
08 Newer products such as football betting, in-play and gaming have grown signicantly in the last decade, both in shops and online.
New channels, like mobile and self-service betting terminals, also extend our reach and our customers choice.
We aim to stay at the forefront of new opportunities and continually innovate both our betting and gaming product range and our means of reaching more customers.
GETTING CLOSER TO THE CUSTOMER With more extensive product ranges and proliferation across multiple 09 channels comes the need to make the customer experience ever more relevant.
Personalisation is the next major trend for William Hill.
The personal experience already exists in shops.
Taking it online is allabout data: managing and translating vast volumes of data into ways of anticipating exactly what our customers want to do, perhaps even before they know themselves.
