William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report DIRECTORS REPORT 93 Governance The directors present their Annual Report Strategic Report Share capital on the affairs of the Group, together with The Board has prepared a Strategic As at 26 February 2016, the Company Financial the financial statements and auditors Report which provides an overview had an allotted and fully paid-up share statements report, for the period ended 29 December of the development and performance capital of 884,567,665 ordinary shares of 2015.
The following also form part of of the Groups business for the period 10p each with an aggregate nominal value this report: ended 29 December 2015 and which of88,456,766.
pages 58 and 59, which show the covers likely future developments in The Company is not aware of any names of all persons who were the Group.
The Chairmans overview, agreements between shareholders directors of the Company during the CEOs statement, business overviews, that may result in restrictions on the period.
In addition, during the period the strategic priorities, key performance transfer of securities and voting rights.
Neil Cooper served as a director of the indicators, regulation and marketplace There are no restrictions on the transfer of Company.
Mr Cooper resigned from report, divisional and performance ordinaryshares in the Company other than the Board on 6 November 2015: overviews, corporate responsibility report, certain restrictions imposed by laws and financial review and managing our risks the reports on corporate governance regulations.
This will include insider trading sections together provide information laws and market requirements relating to set out on pages 51 to 71: which the directors consider to be of close periods.
Also included will be the information relating to financial strategic importance to the Group.
requirements of the Listing Rules whereby instruments, as provided in the notes to directors and certain employees of the the financial statements: Results and dividends Company require the necessary approval related party transactions as set out in The Groups profit on ordinary activities to deal in the Companys securities.
after taxation and exceptional items for note 31 to the financial statements: and Each ordinary share of the Company the period was 189.9m 2014: 206.3m.
greenhouse gas emissions, set out on carries one vote.
Further information on The directors recommend a final dividend pages 42 and 43. the rights and obligations attaching to the of 8.4p per share to be paid on 3 June 2016 Companys ordinary shares, in addition to ordinary shareholders on the Register Details of committee memberships for to those conferred on their holders by each director are set out on pages 58 and of Members on 29 April 2016 which, if law, are set out in the Companys Articles approved, together with the interim dividend 59.
Details of the directors interests are set of Association, a copy of which can be out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
of 4.1p per share paid on 4 December obtained from the Company Secretary, and 2015, makes a total of 12.5p per share is also available on the companys website, Management report forthe period.
Changes to the For the purposes of compliance with DTR Articles of Association must be approved Directors and ofcers 4.1.
8R, the required by special resolution of the Company.
liabilityinsurance content of the Management Report can The holders of ordinary shares are entitled be found in the Strategic Report and this Pursuant to Article 155 of the Articles of to receive the Companys report and Directors Report, including the sections Association and subject to the provisions accounts, to attend and speak at general of the Annual Report and Accounts of the Companies Act 2006, the directors meetings of the Company, to appoint incorporated by reference.
and ofcers of the Company shall be proxies or corporate representatives and indemnified out of the assets of the to exercise voting rights, and to receive a Annual Report and Accounts Company, against liability in defending dividend, as and when declared.
proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in The directors are aware of their which judgement is given in their favour or responsibilities in respect of the in which they are acquitted or in connection AnnualReports and Accounts.
with any application in which relief is The directors consider that the Annual granted to them by the court from liability Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, for negligence, default, breach of duty or is fair, balanced and understandable and breach of trust in relation to the affairs of provides the information necessary for the Company.
In addition the Group has shareholders to assess the Companys purchased and maintains directors and position and performance, business ofcers insurance cover against certain modeland strategy.
legal liabilities and costs for claims incurred The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of any act or omission in the appears on page 96. execution of their duties.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 94 Substantial shareholdings Nevada regulation This follows an increase in saving limits from 250 per month, which continues As at 29 December 2015, the Company Shareholders of William Hill are subject to to be the maximum amount which may had been notied, in accordance with regulation by the Nevada State Gaming be saved for savings contracts started the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Control Board and the Nevada Gaming before 2014.
Employees in selected other of the Financial Conduct Authority, of the Commission as a result of the Companys countries in which the Company operates notiable interests in the ordinary share ownership of licensed subsidiaries in may participate in local share saving capital of the Company set out in the Nevada and the Companys registration schemes, which for operational, tax or table below.
as a publicly traded company operating legislative reasons may differ in operation in Nevada.
Information regarding Percentage compared to the UK.
Name of holder shareholding Nevada gaming regulatory requirements can be assessed by shareholders at William Hill is committed to equal Parvus Asset Management www.
UK LLP I 13.03% In all aspects of employment including Morgan Stanley & Co.
Employee policies recruitment, promotion, training and International PLC D 7.99% development and terms and conditions Oppenheimer Funds, Inc I 5.13% The Group places considerable value of employment, all employees and on the involvement of its employees and Capital Research and applicants for employment are given equal Management Company I 5.07% has continued to keep them informed opportunities regardless of gender, marital on matters affecting them as employees BlackRock Advisors UK or family status, race, nationality, ethnic and on the various factors affecting the Limited I 5.04% origin, religion, age, disability and sexual performance of the Group.
This is achieved Artemis Investment orientation.
William Hill endeavours to through formal and informal meetings Management LLP D and I 4.98% ensure that all employees are made aware and the Group magazine Will2win.
Schroders plc I 4.98% of the provisions of the policy and of their An employee engagement survey is responsibility to uphold and promote it.
also conducted annually, the results of In the period 30 December 2015 to William Hill will not tolerate harassment, which are communicated to employees 26February 2016, the following changes discrimination or victimisation in the for review and to managers for action.
were disclosed in accordance with the workplace in any form.
Employee representatives are consulted Disclosure and Transparency Rules: regularly through colleague forums on a Applications for employment by disabled Percentage wide range of matters affecting their current persons are always fully and fairly Name of holder shareholding and future interests.
considered, bearing in mind the aptitude Parvus Asset Management and ability of the applicant concerned.
UK LLP I 14.01% In respect of the UK, the Company In the event of employees becoming operates an SAYE Share Option Scheme Morgan Stanley & Co disabled, every effort is made to ensure International PLC D 7.16% which is open to all eligible employees.
that their employment within the Group Options under the scheme are granted BlackRock Advisors continues and that appropriate training with an exercise price up to 20% below UK Limited I 5.28% is arranged.
It continues to be the policy the prevailing share price.
The maximum of the Group that the training, career Nature of holding permissible monthly savings under the D Direct development and promotion of disabled scheme is 500 for savings contracts I Indirect persons should as far as is feasible be commenced in 2014. identical to that of other employees.
significant agreements change ofcontrol There are no significant agreements to which the Company is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control in the Company following a takeover bid.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 95 Governance Political donations Authority to purchase own shares Auditor and disclosure of information toauditor There were no political donations made An authority for the Company to purchase Financial or political expenditure incurred during the its own shares remains valid until the Each of the directors in ofce at the statements period in respect of EU political parties, forthcoming Annual General Meeting date when this report was approved candidates or organisations 2014: nil.
AGM, when it is intended that a resolution confirms that: will be put forward to shareholders to The Board has, however, given approval so far as the director is aware, there is renew such authority.
no relevant audit information of which for certain subsidiaries in respect of WilliamHills US business to make the Companys auditor is unaware: and Issue of new ordinary shares donations within specified limits.
In the US, the director has taken all the steps that it is far more common for corporations to During the financial period ended they ought to have taken as a director 29 December 2015, 7,402,421 new participate in the political process through in order to make themselves aware of a variety of methods, including raising or ordinary shares of the Company were any relevant audit information and to issued following the exercise of options donating funds to political candidates.
establish that the Companys auditor is The approval from the Board will permit or vesting of awards under various share aware of that information.
This comprised the following the US business to decide and agree on modest political contributions to candidates issues of new ordinary shares: Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as auditor for political ofce in jurisdictions where the 2,243,454 shares under the employee Company is doing or seeks to do business.
A resolution to re-appoint Sharesave Scheme, at prices between Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will Contributions to political candidates do not 129p and 365p per share: guarantee that elected ofcials will support be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
3,239,341 shares under the Employee a particular piece of legislation or otherwise act in their ofcial capacity to benefit the Bonus Matching Scheme: Other information required to be incorporated by reference Company, rather, they assist in electing 1,842,489 shares under the individuals whom the Company believes Performance Share Plan: and For the purposes of compliance with are likely to support its business goals Listing Rule 9.8.
4, the following information and in establishing productive working 77,137 shares under the William Hill is hereby incorporated by reference within Online Long Term Incentive Plan.
this Directors Report: The Board therefore believes that giving Except where indicated above, the exercise Listing Rule Location within the approval for the US business to make or vesting price was nil.
Requirement LR Annual Report such political contributions is essential LR 9.8.
6R 1 Directors for the Company to fully participate in Annual General Meeting Directors interests Remuneration theAmerican political process.
In respect Report The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. of the US, no political expenditure was on 11 May 2016 at Cavendish Conference incurred in 2015 2014: $21,200.
By order of the Board Centre, 22 Duchess Mews, London W1G 9DT.
The notice of the AGM Luke Thomas and an explanation of the items of Company Secretary, William Hill PLC non-routine business are set out in the 26 February 2016 explanatory circular that accompanies thisAnnual Report.
Registered Ofce: Greenside House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green, London N22 7TP
