Why we exist Our mission People with specialist talents work best and contribute more when recruited, trained and inspired by To develop and manage talent: specialist companies.
to apply that talent, Within WPP, our clients have access to companies with all the necessary marketing and communications skills: throughout the world, companies with strong and distinctive cultures of their own: for the benefit of clients: famous names, many of them.
WPP, the parent company, complements these companies in three distinct ways.
to do so in partnership: First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated etween them, WPP companies have tens of centrally.
For the operating companies, every administrative thousands of individual clients.
They range from hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit of Fortune 500 global giants through single-nation professional excellence.
start-ups to the smallest of specialist charities.
Second, the parent company encourages and enables Diverse as they are, they have one thing in operating companies of different disciplines to work together common: in pursuing their objectives, they face for the benefit of clients.
Such collaborations have the formidable competition.
Growing affluence in many parts additional benefit of enhancing the job satisfaction of our of the world combined with overcapacity and over-supply people.
The parent company also plays an across-the-Group in almost every significant consumer market has put more role in the following functions: the management of talent, and more power into the hands of consumers, accelerated including recruitment and training: in property management: by technology.
in procurement and IT: in knowledge sharing and practice As always, if they are to succeed or even to survive development with an emphasis on sustainability.
with profit every competitive company needs an And finally, WPP itself can function as the 21st-century intrinsically appealing product or service.
Increasingly, equivalent of the full-service agency.
For some clients, part of that appeal must lie in a companys evident sense predominantly those with a vast geographical spread and of a wider responsibility: one that extends beyond share a need for marketing services ranging from advertising owners, employees and consumers and recognises a duty through design and website construction to research to the environment and to society as a whole.
Todays and internal communications, WPP can act as a portal most successful companies are founded on strong values.
to provide a single point of contact and accountability.
But even all that, though remaining the most No two clients are structured in precisely the same fundamental of requirements, is seldom enough.
Within WPPs operating companies, teams can as competitive costermongers arrange their apples in be tailor-made to match any and all.
appealing displays and polish them lovingly to catch their customers eyes, so all companies need to display their wares compellingly.
They need access to high-quality information, strategic advice and specialist communications skills.
And its in the nature of specialist and creative talent that it is unlikely to flourish within the confines of a client company.
