66 Governance Board of directors Allan Cook CBE Prof Dr Uwe Krueger Heath Drewett James Cullens Fiona Clutterbuck Chairman CEO Group finance director Group HR director Non-executive director Background and experience Allan Cook is a chartered Prof Dr Uwe Krueger is Heath Drewett is a A graduate of Cambridge Fiona Clutterbuck has engineer with more than a physicist who studied at graduate in mathematics University, James Cullens substantial experience in 40 years international the University of Frankfurt, from Peterhouse, Cambridge.
brings significant senior all areas of corporate experience in the graduating with a PhD in He started his career at leadership experience finance, including a automotive, aerospace and complex system theory.
Price Waterhouse now gained in both the UK particular focus on the defence industries.
He was He has spent the majority  and internationally.
financial institutions sector, chief executive of Cobham of his career leading LLP where he qualified gained during 15 years at plc until December 2009. engineering and consulting as a chartered accountant.
James was previously Group Hill Samuel and HSBC and Prior to this he held senior organisations in North HR director for Hays plc, seven years at ABN AMRO.
roles at GEC-Marconi, America, Europe, the Heath held a variety having held similar positions She has a LLB Hons from BAE Systems and Hughes Middle East and Asia Pacific.
of senior finance and previously with Linde AG, the University of London Aircraft.
corporate development The BOC Group plc and and qualified as a barrister He began his career at roles at British Airways Plc PA Consulting Group.
Allan was awarded a CBE international strategy BA and The Morgan for services to the defence consulting firm A T Kearney, Crucible Company plc.
He is a fellow of the and aerospace industries followed by leadership He spent seven years in Chartered Institute of and is a fellow of the Royal positions at Hochtief AG, BAs finance team, latterly Personnel and Development Academy of Engineering an international provider holding the position and has a MSc in HR the Academy where he of construction services.
of head of business Development, a MA and is Vice President and serves performance.
He also chairs More recently he was chief the Academys employerexecutive officer of Swiss focused Diversity company Oerlikon.
He Leadership Group, part joined Atkins from Texas of the UK Department for Pacific Group and Business, Innovation & Skills Cleantech Switzerland.
In 2014, he became lead non-executive director of BIS.
Date of appointment s Non-executive director, Executive director, Executive director, Executive director, Non-executive director, September 2009 June 2011 June 2009 1 July 2014 March 2007 Chairman, February 2010 CEO, August 2011 Group HR director, Senior independent 31 July 2014 director, July 2013 External appointments Deputy chairman, Non-executive director, None Non-executive director, Head of strategy, Marshall of Cambridge ONTEX S. A. Zele, Chartered Institute corporate development Holdings Limited Belgium of Personnel and and communications, Member of the operating Non-executive director, Development, until Phoenix Group executive board, SUSI Partners AG 22 April 2015 Non-executive director, J F Lehman & Company Zurich, Switzerland Member of the The Paragon Group of New York, USA Non-executive director, International Advisory Companies PLC Chairman, the Sector Aggreko plc Board, Open University Skills Council for Science, Business School Engineering and Manufacturing Technologies Alliance SEMTA Chairman, the UK Governments Skills & Jobs Retention Group Director, Baker Dearing Educational Trust Lead non-executive director, BIS Committee membership Chairman, Nomination None None None Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 67 Board of directors continued Allister Langlands Thomas Leppert Dr Raj Rajagopal Catherine Bradley Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Background and experience Allister Langlands retired Thomas Leppert is the chief Dr Raj Rajagopal held Catherine Bradley has from international energy executive officer at Kaplan, several positions at BOC had a 30 year career as an services company John Inc. His professional work Edwards before being investment banker, advising Wood Group PLC Wood has spanned leadership appointed chief executive, corporates and other Group in May 2014 after positions both in the public a position he held until clients in the USA, Europe 23 years, serving as and private sectors November 2006.
chairman, chief executive, including construction, an executive director of deputy chief executive financial services and real The BOC Group plc until She has experience across and group finance director.
November 2006. the entire mergers and Prior to joining Wood acquisitions and capital Group, he was a partner Tom was the elected Mayor He was awarded an markets sphere which with international of Dallas, Texas from 2007 honorary doctor of science she acquired with leading accounting firm Coopers to 2011.
Prior to this he degree by Cranfield financial institutions, & Lybrand Deloitte now was the chairman and University in 2004 and the including Merrill Lynch,  chief executive officer of Institution of Engineering Paribas and Credit Suisse.
the Turner Corporation, vice and Technologys IET IEE chairman of Pacific Century Eric Mensforth International She holds a degree in Allister is a member of Financial Corporation and Gold Medal for outstanding finance and international the Institute of Chartered its major subsidiary the contribution to economics from Ecole Accountants of Scotland.
Bank of Hawaii, president manufacturing technology des Hautes Etudes He holds a MA Hons in and chief executive and management in 2003.
Economics from the officer of Castle & Cooke University of Edinburgh and Properties, Inc. and Raj is a fellow of the Royal In 2014 Catherine was has completed the Harvard national partner of Trammell Academy of Engineering, appointed by HM Treasury Advanced Management Crow Company, Inc. the IET, the Institution of as a non-executive board Program.
Mechanical Engineers, member of the Financial He began his career at the Chartered Institute Conduct Authority, the McKinsey & Co. where of Management and the UK financial regulator.
He holds a MBA with distinction from Harvard Business School.
Date of appointment s Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Non-executive director, September 2013 October 2013 June 2008 June 2015 External appointments Non-executive chairman, Chief executive officer, Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Maven Income and Kaplan, Inc. Bodycote plc Financial Conduct Growth VCT 5 PLC Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Authority Non-executive director, Austin Industries, Inc. e2v Technologies plc Standard Life UK Smaller Non-executive director, Companies Trust plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Senior independent Non-executive director, director, Exova Group plc Porvair plc Chairman, HHV Pumps Private Ltd India Chairman, The University of Manchester I3 Limited Member of the Advisory Board, Centre for Business Research of Cambridge University Committee membership Chairman, Audit Nomination Committee Chairman, Remuneration Audit Committee, Committee Remuneration Committee Committee effective 1 July 2015 Nomination Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee effective 1 July 2015 effective 1 July 2015 Alun Griffiths retired as Group HR director at the conclusion of the Companys annual general meeting held on 30 July 2014.
Rodney Slater stepped down as non-executive director at the conclusion of the annual general meeting held on 30 July 2014.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
