38 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Asia Pacific Good growth in revenue and improved margin.
Key performance indicators 2015 2014 Change Financial metrics Revenue 109.7m 100.5m 9.2% Operating profit 9.8m 8.0m 22.5% Operating margin 8.9% 8.0% 0.9pp Work in hand 49.2% 49.3% -0.1pp Safety AIR 77 47 30 People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,523 1,498 1.7% Average staff numbers for the year 1,561 1,357 15.0% Staff turnover 12.2% 16.4% -4.2pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 9% 23% 15% 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Revenue by geography Buildings 24% Public sector: local government 21% Hong Kong 42% Urban development 16% Public sector: national government 2% Mainland China 35% Rail including mass transit 16% Private sector 77% Singapore 11% Water and environment 11% Australia 3% Roads 6% Other Asia Pacific 9% Other 27% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 80.3 82.9 88.0 100.5 109.7 8.2 10.3 8.1 8.0 9.8 1,152 1,206 1,260 1,357 1,561 Strategic Report 39 Segmental performance continued Asia Pacific Across the region, we aim to develop We have been appointed by LeightonPerformance our advisory role, forming strategic China State JV to carry out the detailed Our Asia Pacific region saw good growth partnerships with engineering companies design for temporary works for the in revenue this financial year, up 9.2% to 109.7m 2014: 100.5m.
and contractors to secure higher value underground Exhibition Station and opportunities.
As our partners increasingly 300 metre long western approach tunnels Our operating margin improved compared look for opportunities to invest as well on Shatin-Central Link, one of the major as construct, we seek to work with them MTR lines that are under construction.
with last year to 8.9% 2014: 8.0%, despite our continued investment in IT at the planning and design stage as well as during implementation.
We have won a consultancy service and personnel costs associated with our drive to expand into new territories.
contract for the detailed design of As the urbanisation of countries in 650 hectares of reclaimed land in Headcount was slightly ahead, closing southeast Asia continues, we retain a preparation for the construction of the clear focus on urban planning, transport third runway system at Hong Kong at 1,523 2014: 1,498, due to the market slowdown in mainland China which infrastructure and property.
In India, we International Airport.
The expansion plan provide urban planning with a focus on will allow the airports annual passenger constrained growth.
programme and project management in capacity to increase by 30 million a year the infrastructure, buildings and property upon commissioning by the planning year Business model sectors.
In delivering our strategy of of 2023 according to the Airport Master In Asia Pacific, we operate predominantly geographic diversification, we are gaining Planning of 2030. in Greater China supplemented by traction in the wider region, with project a network of offices across Malaysia, wins in Malaysia, Vietnam, Indonesia In China, the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Vietnam, Singapore, India and Australia.
Office-funded Eco Low-Carbon Urban We provide our clients with a range of Planning Methodology continues to services throughout the entire cycle of Business drivers enhance our reputation as a pioneer urban development, supporting them for sustainable urbanisation.
We also Our growth potential in the Asia Pacific both in-country and overseas, working region is underpinned by the speed won a new contract to undertake the in partnership with chosen Chinese development planning of Shangrao and scale of urbanisation driving both contractors.
government spending and the rate of High-speed Railway New District, a district of 72.8 square kilometres in private sector investment.
We have strengthened our regional Jiangxi Province strategically located capability in project management and also within Chinas high-speed railway Outside Asia Pacific, good business draw upon our Group wide expertise to opportunities exist for the Group as a network.
deliver the most technically appropriate whole as major Chinese companies invest solutions to our clients.
in large scale infrastructure development Our 2014 memorandum of understanding for global strategic cooperation with projects outside their domestic market.
Strategy China Communications Construction In Hong Kong, we continue to diversify Company Ltd. and its subsidiary China Operations our client base and strengthen our Harbour Engineering Company Ltd.
In Hong Kong, following our appointment relationships with internationally CHEC has resulted in work on the to project manage the implementation renowned contractors through our design Colombo Port City development in of major elements of the West Kowloon and build projects.
We have also assigned Sri Lanka alongside CHEC.
Cultural District in April 2014, the first a dedicated team to pursue government foundation works for the M Museum projects.
and Conservation and Storage Facility have begun.
Our team dedicated to In mainland China, despite the property pursuing government projects also market slowdown due to the transition made good progress, winning a major from an investment to service led assignment from the Drainage Services economy and the introduction by the Department to upgrade the sewerage Government of a programme of antifacilities in West Kowloon and Tsuen Wan.
corruption measures, our planning and architecture business remains client focused and is well prepared for the continued growth cycle.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 40 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Asia Pacific In southeast Asia, we won a substantial We are investing in and developing our Risk masterplanning project in Jakarta, human resources infrastructure to support During the year, we have seen political Indonesia during the year.
In Malaysia and our regional expansion plans, and have unrest in Hong Kong and the introduction Vietnam, we continue to pursue projects also invested in technology and personnel of widespread anti-corruption measures selectively in the transport and property to ensure that we are able to support on mainland China, both resulting in sectors.
In particular, we are pursuing an and sustain our next phase of growth.
potentially increased risk for our business.
increased number of private sector roles We continue to monitor developments by bringing our programme and project In Asia Pacific, our equal opportunities closely in both territories.
If this impacts management, design, engineering and employment approach has helped attract the flow of work we will take appropriate technical capability together to provide and retain female employees, with action regarding headcount and resourcing.
43% of the overall headcount being female and with a 27% representation We are expanding our footprint across In India, we see good opportunities in in senior management roles.
Over 40% the region and we recognise that this the property, masterplanning and of all our new hires for graduate engineer expansion brings increased risks.
We are working and experienced candidate positions, risks have been identified as lack of closely with our team in Hong Kong outside Faithful Gould, were female.
commercial transparency, political to target selected clients and niche instability and risks associated with opportunities in the Indian property Our work with engineering campuses to operating within unfamiliar regulatory, market.
showcase the varied opportunities and tax and employment regimes.
We mitigate work culture that Atkins has to offer has these risks by undertaking research into Our Faithful Gould business has fully resulted in 50% of our overall graduate both the market and specific clients, as integrated Confluence strengthening engineers being female in our global well as using professional advisors to assist our multidisciplinary offering to clients.
The GDCs have with legal and regulatory compliance.
Our appointment as engineering project also introduced a flexible working policy.
manager on the Formula 1 Singapore Currently over 20% of the GDC workforce We identify, review and assess risks across Grand Prix has been extended for a is female.
all of our businesses and the process is further three years and our pharmaceutical explained in more detail in the Principal sector workload remains strong for clients Safety and sustainability risks and uncertainties section page 48. such as Abbott, GSK, Johnson&Johnson, Against a strong background in health This year we implemented successfully Novartis and Roche.
While economic and safety, we were disappointed our our online service delivery process in growth has slowed in China and India, AIR increased again this year although Asia Pacific, for more information see the we continue to see opportunities in the the increase is due to a single officemarket section page 51. hospitality sector and have been appointed related incident.
to project manage the refurbishment Outlook works at one of Singapores most iconic In November, we won the Sustainability Asia Pacific remains well placed to deliver resorts.
Award at the British Business Awards on its strategic growth plan, helped by 2014 in China.
The awards recognise the acquisition of Confluence in October People and promote excellence in innovation, 2013.
In mainland China, growth is Overall headcount in our Asia Pacific enterprise and endeavour in British expected to be impacted by the region was slightly ahead in the year and Chinese business.
The Sustainability slowdown in the economy during the although there were marked variations Award recognises organisations that second half of this year and the by territory.
Staff turnover has decreased have demonstrated a commitment to Governments anti-corruption campaign, to 12.2% 2014: 16.4%, reflecting the building of a sustainable business but to remain attractive.
Our move to market conditions.
Our ability to attract in China.
focus on higher quality projects will and retain staff remains a key area of continue.
In India, we have set up a health and safety forum to review and share safety In Hong Kong, the Legislative Councils best practice with other consultants.
delayed approval of funding has caused a reduction in the pipeline of public work.
However, across the segment work in hand is consistent with last year at 49.2% 2014: 49.3% of our budgeted revenue, and we believe the potential in the region remains underpinned by the speed and scale of urbanisation.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
