Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Directors Report other disclosures In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to Amendment of the Companys Articles purchase its own ordinary shares and the Company seeks authority ofAssociation on an annual basis to renew the Directors limited authority to purchase The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special the Companys ordinary shares in the market pursuant to Article resolution of the Companys shareholders.
57 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
On 29 September 2015, the Company announced its intention to commence a 300 million Appointment, removal and powers share repurchase programme to be executed over the twelve month ofDirectors period to September 2016 the 2015 Buyback Programme.
It is intended that a special resolution will be proposed at the 2015 AGM The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
to grant authority for the Company to purchase up to approximately The Board may appoint any person it considers appropriate to be 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, calculated at the a Director.
Under the Articles of Association any such Director shall latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then The special resolution will set the minimum and maximum prices be eligible for election.
The Articles of Association also require that at which may be paid.
The Directors intend to use this authority to make each AGM at least one-third of the current Directors must retire as share repurchases pursuant to the 2015 Buyback Programme and will Directors by rotation.
All those Directors who have been in office for use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account three years or more since their last appointment shall retire at that AGM.
market conditions, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing In addition, any Director may at any AGM retire from office and stand for levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
However, in line with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance will enable the Directors to continue to be able to respond promptly Code, all continuing Directors will stand for annual election at the 2015 should circumstances arise in which they consider that such a AGM.
The Board may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would the limitations of the law and the Companys Articles of Association.
be in the best interests of the Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Authority to allot shares Company is allowed to hold shares purchased by it as treasury At the 2014 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot new shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 19,040,960.
The Directors employee share schemes.
As at the date of this report, the Company intend to propose at the 2015 AGM to seek authority to allot and holds 7,105,842 shares in treasury and the Directors currently intend grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares up to that any shares which are purchased will be held in treasury.
an aggregate nominal amount representing approximately two-thirds The existing authority to purchase up to 26,438,350 ordinary shares of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares, is due to expire at the conclusion of this years AGM and a special calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the Notice of AGM, but of that amount only one-third of the Companys 2015 AGM.
issued share capital excluding treasury shares, calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication ofthe Notice of AGM, may be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rightsissue.
If approved, this Change of control significant agreements authority will expire at the conclusion ofthe 2016 AGM.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that take Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the Directors will effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover also recommend that they be empowered to allot equity securities for except for the 512 million US Private Placement Bonds issued on cash or to sell or transfer shares out of treasury other than pro rata to 1 September 2015, the 800 million multi-currency revolving credit existing shareholders, until the 2016 AGM.
This authority shall be limited facility agreement dated 3 June 2015, the amended US$600 million to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal receivables facility agreement originally entered into on 31 July 2013 amount of no more than approximately 5 per cent of the issued and the US$664 million US private placement Bonds issued on ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date prior 16 November 2005 which could become repayable following a relevant topublication of the Notice of AGM.
There are no agreements between the Company and any Director that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control following a takeover bid, Authority to purchase shares except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause On 30 September 2014, the Company announced a 250 million options and awards granted under such schemes to vest in those share repurchase programme the 2014 Buyback Programme circumstances.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions as a method of returning surplus capital to shareholders.
The 2014 relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would Buyback Programme was completed during the year.
From 2 October normally vest and become exercisable for a limited period of time upon 53 2014 to 27 July 2015, 7,407,837 ordinary shares of 10 pence 66 a change of control following a takeover, reconstruction or winding up were purchased for a consideration of 250 million representing 2.78 of the Company not being an internal reorganisation, subject at that per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 October time to rules concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
All shares purchased were held in treasury and some were subsequently transferred from treasury to satisfy awards under the Conflicts of interest Companys share plans.
Additional details concerning the 2014 Buyback Programme can be found in note 26 to the consolidated Processes and procedures are in place which require Directors to financial statements.
identify and declare actual or potential conflicts of interest, whether matter-specific or situational.
These notifications are made by a Wolseley plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Report other disclosures continued Director prior to or at a Board meeting, or in writing.
All Directors have Each of the Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: acontinuing duty to update any changes.
the Group consolidated financial statements, which have been The Board may authorise potential conflicts which can be limited in prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give scope, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position These authorisations are regularly reviewed.
During theyear, all conflict and profit of the Group and the undertakings included in the management procedures were adhered to and operated efficiently.
consolidation taken asa whole: and the Strategic report and the Directors Report contained in this CREST report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
system for stocks and shares.
In addition, having taken all matters considered by the Board and Directors responsibilities statement brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, the Directors consider that the Companys 2014 15 Annual Report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the and Accounts, taken as a whole, presents a fair, balanced and Strategic report, the Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration understandable assessment of the Companys position and Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable prospects and provides information necessary for shareholders to law and regulations.
The Directors have prepared the Strategic assess the Companys position and performance, business model report, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report and strategy.
as if the Company were required to do so in accordance with the UKCompanies Act 2006.
The Directors of Wolseley plc as at the date of this Annual Report are 1 as set out below : Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Gareth Davis, Chairman Directors have prepared the Group consolidated financial statements Ian Meakins, Group Chief Executive in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards John Martin, Chief Financial Officer IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Company financial statements Frank Roach, Chief Executive Officer, USA in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, and Alan Murray, Senior Independent Director for being satisfied that the consolidated and Company financial Tessa Bamford statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company John Daly and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, Pilar Lopez the Directors are required to: Darren Shapland select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Jacky Simmonds make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Non Executive Director and prudent: 1 Michael Wareing stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 25 November 2014. state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Employees applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the The Group actively encourages employee involvement in driving our consolidated and Company financial statements respectively: and current and future success and places particular importance on keeping employees regularly informed about the Groups activities prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis and financial performance and on matters affecting them individually unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the and the business generally.
This can be through informal bulletins, Company will continue in business.
in-house publications and briefings, as well as via the Groups The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting intranet sites.
The Group operates on a largely decentralised basis records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys with a control framework exercised by a small team at the Group transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Services Office.
This ensures that consistent standards are set and the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable maintained while allowing for implementation in a way that supports them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply each business units particular circumstances.
Local management with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS is responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps decision-making.
forthe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A European Works Council EWC has been operating since The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting employees in ofthe Companys website.
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom Europe on such matters as significant developments in the Groups regulation, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial operations, managements plans and expectations, organisational statements, may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
changes within the Group and also for employee representatives to consult Group management about concerns over any aspect of the Wolseley plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Groups operations.
At the date of this report, there were 15 EWC Management report representatives, of which nine were employee representatives and The management report for the year, as required by the Disclosure six were management representatives.
Employee representatives are and Transparency Rules, is incorporated within pages 1 to 76 of the appointed from each European country in which Wolseley operates.
All employees are offered a range of benefits depending on their local environment.
Where possible, they are also encouraged to Political donations builda stake in the Company through the ownership of shares through participation in the Companys all-employee share schemes.
At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, shareholders have passed a resolution, as a precaution, to approve Employment policies donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure as such terms are now defined in sections 362 to 379 of the Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people and Companies Act 2006.
Each year, the Board has confirmed that it webelieve that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political a successful business.
The Group remains committed to equality party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no of opportunity in all of its employment practices.
It is the Groups intention of changing that policy.
In previous years, this resolution policy that the selection of employees for appointment, career related to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company development and promotion be determined solely on the skills and has ensured that, although registered in Jersey, it will continue to attributes which are relevant to the job and which are in accordance apply the same standards and has such provisions incorporated with the laws of the country concerned, and it will progressively into its Articles of Association.
The Directors propose to seek, once promote diversity.
Ongoing training of employees and the continued more, authority for the Group to make political donations and or development of their skills is of prime importance.
The Group also incur political expenditure for amounts not exceeding 125,000 in has policies in place relating to the continuation of employment of, aggregate, which they might otherwise be prohibited from making and appropriate retraining for, employees who become disabled and or incurring under the provisions of Article 12 of the Companys for giving full and fair consideration to applications for employment Articles of Association equivalent to sections 362 to 379 of the by disabled persons, having regard to their particular attributes Companies Act 2006 and which would not amount to donations and abilities.
in the ordinary sense of the word.
This authority would last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
During the year, no Indemnities and insurance expenditure was incurred which could be regarded as political The Company indemnifies the Directors in respect of liabilities in nature.
incurred as a result of their office in accordance with its Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by Jersey law.
Restrictions on transfer of shares Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions to the maximum extent There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the permitted by English law were granted to all Directors in office and Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the to the Company Secretary by Wolseley plc now known as Wolseley Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying Limited and these remain in force as at the date of this report.
special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company When Wolseley plc registered in Jersey became the new holding is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that company, additional third-party indemnity provisions were granted may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting by the Company, and it has granted indemnities to all Directors rights.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by and the Company Secretary appointed since November 2010 in aspecial resolution of the Companys shareholders.
There is appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action Share capital and voting rights against the Directors and officers.
Neither the Companys Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with any indemnities nor insurance would provide any coverage to the extent movements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
As at 31 July 2015, 53 there were 266,592,678 fully paid ordinary shares of 10 pence 66 Independent Auditors and audit information each in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange, of which The Directors in office at the date of this report confirm that, so far 7,105,842 ordinary shares were held in treasury.
The voting rights of as they are each aware, in respect of the consolidated financial treasury shares are automatically suspended.
Accordingly, the total statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2015, there is no voting rights were 259,486,836 as at 31 July 2015. relevant audit information of which  LLP Subject to the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 PwC are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares ought to have been taken as a Director to be aware, in respect of the or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights and consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine 2015, of any relevant audit information and to establish that PwC are or as the Board shall determine.
Copies of the Companys Articles aware of that information.
ofAssociation can be obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey, Deloitte LLP is willing to act as auditors of the Company, and orby writing to the Group Company Secretary.
resolutions concerning their appointment and the determination of their remuneration will be proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Wolseley plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Report other disclosures continued Page The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt Section Topic reference ADR programme in the USA for which Deutsche Bank Trust 1 Capitalised interest 76 Company Americas acts as Depositary.
The American Depositary 2 Publication of unaudited financial information N A Shares ADS which are evidenced by ADRs are traded on the USA 3 Smaller related party transactions N A over-the-counter market, where each ADS represents one-tenth of aWolseley plc ordinary share.
4 Details of long term incentive schemes N A established specifically to recruit or retain a Director Share options 5 and 6 Waiver of emoluments by a Director N A During the financial year ended 31 July 2015, options were exercised 7 and 8 Allotments of equity securities for cash 73 pursuant to the Companys share option schemes resulting in 9 Participation in a placing of equity securities N A 53 the allotment of 60,881 ordinary 10 pence shares and the 66 10 Contracts of significance 73 53 transfer of 301,995 ordinary 10 pence shares for an aggregate 66 11 and 14 Controlling shareholder disclosures N A consideration of 10 million from treasury.
A further 12,706 ordinary 53 53 12 and 13 Dividend waiver 102 10 pence shares have been allotted and no ordinary 10 66 66 pence shares have been transferred from treasury under these Capitalised interest schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this report.
The Group does not have capitalised interest of any significance on Details of shares issued during the year are set out in note 26 to the its balance sheet.
Dividends UK pension schemes Details of the Companys proposed final dividend payment for the Wolseley currently has two pension schemes in respect of year ended 31 July 2015 are set out on page 33. employees in the United Kingdom: Exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks 1 Defined Benefit Scheme the Wolseley Group Retirement Disclosures relating to exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow Benefits Plan Plan is a trust-based defined benefit scheme.
risks are set out in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Plan has been closed to future accrual from 31 December 2013.
On and from 1 January 2014, all remaining active members Financial risk management objectives and policies of the Wolseley Group Retirement Benefits Plan transferred Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives and to the Wolseley Group Defined Contribution Plan.
There are policies, including our policy for hedging, are set out in note 37 to three trustees consisting of an independent trustee, a  financial statements.
nominated trustee and a corporate trustee.
The corporate trustees consists of six trustee directors and, save for David Illingworth Going concern chairman of thetrustees and Ian Percy, CBE, all of the other The going concern statement can be found on page 35. trustee directors are employees of the Group.
2 D efined Contribution Scheme the Wolseley Group Defined Future developments within the Group Contribution Plan is a trust-based defined contribution pension The Strategic report, starting on page 8, contains details of likely scheme with three Company-nominated trustees, three future developments within the Group.
member-nominated trustees, who are all UK-based employees of the Group, and one independent trustee, Wayne Phelan of Greenhouse gas emissions PSIndependent Trustees Limited, chairman of the trustees.
Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions can be found In April 2015, one of the member-nominated trustees left the onpage 40. employment of the Wolseley Group and a selection process to appoint a replacement will be undertaken before the end of Post balance sheet events 2015.
The Wolseley Group Defined Contribution Plan has been Information concerning post balance sheet events can be found in used as the vehicle to auto-enrol Wolseley employees and the note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
plan rules have been updated to meet the auto-enrolment legal requirements.
The basis of contributions to the Wolseley Group Profit Defined Contribution Plan was enhanced from 1 January 2014, Details of the Companys profit for the year ended 31 July 2015 inaddition to expanding the investment choices available following canbe found on page 31. a detailed review by the trustees and Company.
The Directors Report, prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the UK Listing Authoritys Other disclosures Listing, and the Disclosure and Transparency rules comprising pages Certain information that is required to be included in the Directors 8 to 102, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Report can be found elsewhere in this document as referred to below, each of which is, to the extent not in this report, incorporated by reference.
Graham Middlemiss The information required to be disclosed by LR9.8.
4R can be found Group Company Secretary on the following pages of this Annual Report: 28 September 2015 Wolseley plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
