How were doing Ogilvy CommonHealth the highly-regulated healthcare environment, and developed unique expertise in data design and health behavior change, Worldwide making it easier for all audiences to more fully comprehend and act upon health information.
Report by Matt Giegerich With 41 new assignments from 25 clients in the US Chairman and chief executive officer alone, we continued to expand our business in traditional biopharmaceuticals.
But with ongoing industry espite hastening challenge and change in the global consolidation and financial pressures mounting, we healthcare marketplace, Ogilvy CommonHealth broadened our focus well beyond pharma, pushing further Worldwide OCHWW delivered yet another into the health and wellness marketplace and converting year of growth and expansion in 2015.
In moves new work around the globe in OTCs, medical diagnostics, consistent with our five-year plan, weve continued driving nutrition and health service brands.
To this end, we the agency forward with a focus on streamlining our launched Ogilvy CommonHealth Wellbeing, focused global network, collaborating across Ogilvy and WPP, on helping transform the individual health state based relentlessly pursuing creativity and innovation in healthcare on fundamental human biology, beliefs and behavior.
communications, and further diversifying our client base.
And our relentless march forward will continue in 2016 and beyond as we continue to envision and drive the inherently important future of health-oriented communication.
Our collaborations within ghg | greyhealth group the Ogilvy network and across WPP have allowed Report by Lynn Vos Chief executive officer us to expand our breadth n 2015, ghg had its best year ever, achieving significant of services while creating top-line and double-digit profit growth, fueled by better global efficiencies breakthrough, multichannel agency launch campaigns, innovative medical education and healthcare-access programs.
ghg significantly expanded its client base, Over the past year we streamlined the OCHWW launched several new products in oncology, rare diseases network to better align with our clients global footprints, and diagnostics, and has engaged with exciting start-ups ensuring wherever a marketplace need or opportunity in the health IT sector.
arises, we have both the physical presence and required It is a never before moment in healthcare, where the health expertise in place.
Our collaborations within the trends are working in favor of positive change: a shift from Ogilvy network and across WPP have allowed us to products to outcomes, the growing personalization of expand our breadth of services while creating better global health content, technology-enabled care, and a national efficiencies.
Examples include our emphasis on success with will to stomp out chronic disease.
Demonstrating its spirit Team clients, our collaboration with Sudler & Hennessey of innovation and role as a change agent, ghg became IBM to combine offices in Spain, as well as our providing full Watsons first health-agency partner, making it possible financial system and back-office support for WPPs largest to bring cognitive computing to healthcare brands.
acquired The Lathe, a mobile-first agency pioneering In this rapidly evolving environment, innovation m-health programs that connect patients, caregivers and new skills, new services, new technologies is vital to professionals.
In addition, ghg expanded its new point-ofOCHWWs long-term success.
This year, along with care offerings, investing in OptimizeRx Corporation, a numerous other advances, we launched a comprehensive software company whose content-delivery platform enables electronic health records offering to enable contextual pharmaceutical companies to provide on-demand patientmessaging within the normal course of a physicians digital care services, and PARx Solutions, which specializes in workflow, pioneered the application of social media within expediting the prior-authorization process.
76 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Healthcare Communications With the growing use of digital and cognitive technology, GCI Health healthcare industry marketers have a golden opportunity to deliver behavioral insight-based messaging and tools to drive Report by Wendy Lund better health outcomes.
ghgs thought leadership and original Chief executive officer research in these areas led to the coining of the phrase Chief Health Officer, or CHO, the individual usually female who CI Health, WPPs global specialty healthcare makes healthcare decisions for herself and her family, as communications and PR agency, is continually well as the creation of the seminal white paper, The Gulf recognized for our ability to integrate across Between Them: The New Customer and Her Healthcare marketing disciplines and within PR to identify Partners.
ghg believes that Communication is the Cure the most appropriate channels and platforms that to improving health and wellness, and the CHO will be maximize the impact of our clients messages, specifically an effective, even revolutionary, healthcare advocate.
leveraging our sought-after traditional, social media and advocacy capabilities.
GCI Health has garnered an enormous amount of recognition in 2015, being named both Global and North Demonstrating its spirit of American Healthcare Agency of the Year by The Holmes Report, and Bulldog Reporters Healthcare Agency of the innovation and role as a Year.
Our creative and breakthrough programming was change agent, ghg became honored with a SABRE Award for RX Campaign of the Year, Global SABRE for PR Campaign of the Year, IBM Watsons first healthPRWeeks Global Breakthrough Campaign of the agency partner Year and multiple digital and multicultural awards.
Our thought leadership in todays multi-channel landscape has allowed us to continue our record growth, ghgs philanthropic work with the Jed Foundation bringing on 30 new accounts in innovative, emerging continues to be highly rewarding, as major progress is areas and ones with a critical unmet need, like biosimilars, underway to address the emotional health challenges oncology, ALS, spinal cord injury, medical device and of young adults on campuses nationwide.
Our thought leadership in todays multi-channel landscape has allowed us to continue our record growth In 2016, GCI Health will continue to help our clients embrace the changing healthcare landscape, do something different in this heavily-regulated environment and put patients at the center of everything we do.
