16 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our markets Since the widespread adoption of payment cards in the 1960s, there has been an ongoing shift away from cash to non-cash payments.
Today, these include credit, debit, prepaid cards, and many other forms of local and alternative payment methods.
These are accepted through a wide range of channels, such as at an in-store point-of-sale terminal, over the internet or on a mobile device.
In light of these developments, we believe that merchants will need to focus on payments more than ever before, with payment acceptance no longer seen as a business utility but as a strategic enabler of growth and differentiation.
As such, we believe merchants need their payment partners, not only to process transactions safely and reliably, but also to provide them with the opportunity to compete across channels, open up new markets, interpret their transaction data and maximise acceptance while minimising fraud and risk.
17 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information We believe that the Digital payments is a large, following five themes are global and fast-growing important in understanding market.
our markets and the growth prospects they offer: Technology is enabling new ways to pay.
Consumers expect more from merchants.
New ways to pay are proliferating globally and locally.
Risk, fraud and regulatory scrutiny are increasing the burden on merchants.
Each of these themes is discussed in more detail on the following pages.
18 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our markets continued MARKET THEME 1: We operate in a large market that is Higher growth in emerging markets Digital payments growing at a fast rate.
The total compared to developed markets: transaction value in 11 key payments From2010 to 2015, we expect emerging is a large, global markets that represent approximately markets will have experienced faster 75% of 2015 total global transaction value growth in digital payments turnover 1 and fast-growing is estimated to be approximately 22tn.
than developed markets with some The market is also experiencing a regions for example, China and parts of market pronounced shift away from cash and Latin America expected to see CAGRs towards card-based and local and well above developed countries such alternative payment methods.
asthe United States and the UK.
Within the total market, we believe there Differentiation of growth, market size are pockets of faster growth across and revenue levels by type of merchant certain geographies and merchant industry and segment and merchant verticals, as well as in local and alternative type: Payment needs are very different payment methods as follows: for merchants depending on which vertical they operate in.
Verticals with Fast growth in ecommerce and mobile significant digital payment and crosspayments: ecommerce transactions border flows such as Travel, Airlines, areexpected to have grown at a CAGR Digital Content and Global Retail of 16% from 2010 to 2015, while mobile tendto grow faster than the broader payments transactions are expected economy.
In addition, different customer tohave grown at a CAGR of 57% in segments tend to generate different the same period.
levels of net revenue depending on the complexity of their payment needs.
1 PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS BY VALUE tn 2019E 6 7 1 3 9 1 27 2015E 4 5 1 3 8 1 22 2013A 3 4 1 3 8 1 20 Credit card Debit card Other card Electronic direct ACH Cash Other paper payment 1 Source: Euromonitor.
19 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information MARKET THEME 2: Technology is liberating commerce for mobile commerce, andwhere the emerging Technology consumers, allowing them to switch between internet of things means our objects will payment channels, browse and buy on the shop for usand transact for goods and is enabling new move and pay through different devices.
In this services between each other.
new technological environment, merchants ways to pay require innovative and flexible payment However, the innovations in device and solutions in an omni-channel environment connectivity technologies also bring with that are delivered with speed to market.
them increases in threats to identity and other cyber crime, thereby increasing the Consumers can now shop and transact need for security technology that creates using almost any kind of device, at a time secure routes for the free flow of funds and place of their choosing.
Over 1.4 billion and information between consumers and 1 smartphones were used globally in 2014. merchants, as well as effective cyber Almost half of these devices are connected security and fraud detection software and with high-speed 3G or 4G internet programs.
The net result of this is that connections, which has driven up the use payment partners have an opportunity to of data 20-fold, while the cost of data usage play an ever-more prominent role in their 2 has decreased to near-zero.
These trends customers businesses to help unlock are changing the nature of the internet, benefits from higher growth, increased where ecommerce increasingly means cost savings and reduced risk profiles.
2 Source: Portio Research, Mobile Data Usage Trends 2011-2015.
3 Source: Statista, 3G Mobile Wireless Penetration Worldwide 2015.
20 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our markets continued MARKET THEME 3: Consumers have demonstrated a taxis or within mobile games, consumers Consumers willingness to engage with new are increasingly making purchases from technologies and change their traditional their smartphones, at a time and place of expect more from shopping habits in order to satisfy their their convenience, without being desires for a seamless, but safe, constrained by specific types of payments merchants transaction experience.
Only 1% of the or a merchants location.
These new global population had a mobile phone in experiences are difficult to support using 1 1995 compared to 73% in 2014. traditional payments technology, and Consumers are using these devices to complex to implement for merchants.
make transactions across borders and Consumers increasingly expect to shop in on the move.
one channel and seamlessly return an item in another but data, finances and As payments are embedded into everyday transactions are stored in different systems transactions, such as in-app payments for for ecommerce and in-store channels.
2 PERCENTAGE OF GLOBAL POPULATION WITH MOBILE % % 2014 73 of Britons buy online while commuting via public 1995 1 4 transport on an average week 3 SHARE OF MOBILE USERS WHO HAVE MADE A MOBILE PAYMENT % % 65 of all UK ecommerce sales 58 57 now on mobile during daily 4 commute 30 27 26 23 22 22 22 22 20 18 17 17 17 17 17 16 10 15 15 14 14 13 12 11 US UK FR ES IT fide CN JP AU Digital goods or services Real-life service Physical goods music, downloads taxi, tickets, car parking coee, clothes 1 Source: Informa.
2 Source: Informa, WCIS published in KPCBs Internet Trends.
4 Source: Zapp CEBR published on InternetRetailing.
21 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information MARKET THEME 4: There are more than 300 payment Local schemes are expanding globally: New ways to pay methods in use around the world.
We Payment schemes that have traditionally believe the cost and complexity to focused on a single region are expanding are proliferating merchants of connecting to each of these rapidly.
For example, China UnionPay will increase as the number of local and and JCB, both regional card schemes, globally and locally alternative payment methods proliferate: grew their purchase transaction value by 52% and 22% respectively from 2013 New payment methods will be the to 2014, compared to the 8-14% growth main way to pay: 43% of global payment during the same period by international transactions in 2012 were made using card schemes American Express, Visa 2 local and alternative payment methods, and MasterCard.
which is expected to increase to 59% 1 by 2017.
The e-wallets market alone is expected to grow to 1.6tn in transaction value in the same period.
PURCHASE TRANSACTION GROWTH, 3 2013 14 Alternatives to traditional payments % will unlock new markets: Start-ups are China 52 exploring cross-border transactions, UnionPay e. g. TransferWise: account-to-account JCB 22 transfers, e. g. Venmo: and digital MasterCard 14 versions of payment on delivery, e. g. Klarna.
They are also creating ways for Visa 10 the underand un-banked to connect AmEx 8 toglobal commerce through platforms Diners such as Zong and Boku.
2 Discover 4 TRANSACTION VALUE BY METHOD 2012 17E US $bn 1,679 1,656 979 122 117 295 93 93 54 42 245 18 209 164 Cards Bank transfer Direct debit e-wallets Mobile Cash on delivery Other 2017E 2012 1 Source: Worldpay and First Annapolis Report.
4 Source: Your global guide to Alternative Payments, Worldpay First Annapolis, 2014.
22 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our markets continued MARKET THEME 5: A wide array of devices are now Regulatory changes are increasingly Risk, fraud and continually connected to each other, and multi-faceted and complex.
These are contain more and more sensitive data, potentially costly to implement but could regulatory scrutiny creating attractive targets for criminals.
also encourage technology-driven Threats to identity and other cybercrime innovation in payments.
are increasing are increasing rapidly and 70% of enterprises in the UK have now reported the burden on suffering an external cyber attack.
The payments market is making significant ongoing investments in security merchants technology, for example in single-use tokens which obscure a card number so that it is useless to a criminal: or in developing technology that can intelligently identify fraud and securely re-route the flow of funds and information between consumers and merchants.
Regulators are also driving change and pushing for more innovation in payments, using this as a way to fide-risk the industry and reduce the traditional reliance on banks.
For the payments industry, this means the number of active regulators and sources of regulation now span traditional national regulators, such as the Financial Conduct Authority, to supranational regulators e. g. European Payments Council, global industry bodies Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, domestic standards UK Cards and payment network rules e. g. Visa and MasterCard.
23 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Competitive landscape Therefore as the market evolves, we The payments landscape is fragmented believe the advantage lies with market with players ranging from a small number participants who can: of global payments partners, to smaller players who compete in specific Maximise acceptance while minimising geographies or customer segments, to fraud: Companies that provide end-toniche specialists who compete on specific end coverage and scale technology can expertise and partnership coverage.
keep pace with evolving threats.
We believe that the most successful companies in the industry will be those Meet the demand for omni-channel that can provide merchants with access options: Payment partners need to and connections to the global payments offer a comprehensive range of networks, who can deliver extensive and integrated payment channels to value-adding payments capabilities maximise sales opportunities and tailored to the markets they serve, and do ensure reconciliation in one place.
so while leveraging a robust but flexible technology platform.
Follow and support consumers globally: Providers need to establish a global We believe, over time, that the industry is network to provide access to well-suited to consolidation as payments international markets through local or become more global and the benefits of alternative payment methods, currency scale become even more relevant.
Leverage the advantages of being able to process large volumes of data: Scale players capturing a high volume of transactions have a superior data set to exploit and the capital to invest in new products and services for merchants.
