Strategic Report 25 Segmental performance United Kingdom and Europe Good momentum in our core markets.
Key performance indicators 2015 2014 Change Financial metrics Revenue 903.8m 998.3m -9.5% Operating profit 60.7m 62.6m -3.0% Operating margin 6.7% 6.3% 0.4pp Work in hand 45.3% 49.2% -3.9pp Safety AIR 105 192 -87 People Staff numbers at 31 March 9,642 9,544 1.0% Average staff numbers for the year 9,405 9,751 -3.5% Staff turnover 11.9% 9.5% 2.4pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers -9% -3% -4% 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Rail including mass transit 38% Public sector: local government 16% Defence and security 15% Public sector: national government 23% Roads 11% Regulated 31% Water and environment 8% Private sector 30% Aerospace and aviation 6% Education 6% Urban development 4% Buildings 3% Other 9% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 1,001.5 940.5 977.1 998.3 903.8 65.3 53.2 62.2 62.6 60.7 10,896 10,047 9,913 9,751 9,405 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 26 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe Our operational excellence programme Performance Business model continues to improve the underlying Our United Kingdom and Europe business Our focus is on the planning, design processes of the business, ensuring delivered a much improved second half and enabling of our clients capital increased time to focus on our clients performance after a mixed first half.
programmes and projects in and around needs and project delivery.
Full year revenue decreased 9.5% to infrastructure, as well as providing 903.8m, reflecting the sale of our engineering consultancy services to wider Our ability to leverage skills and capability highways services business last financial markets.
We are a technical consultancy, from a variety of industry sectors and year and our Polish business in 2014, providing advice, design and engineering professional disciplines provides a strong a market downturn in aerospace and together with project management skills difficult trading conditions in Scandinavia for public and private sector clients.
Our selling proposition to our clients.
We see multiple opportunities for our broad and Portugal.
multidisciplinary skills allow us to draw on expertise from across the business, multidisciplinary offering, providing good growth potential.
On an ongoing basis, excluding disposals including our resource pool of professional and changes to joint venture reporting, technical staff in India, to deliver complex revenue actually increased by 2.7% driven projects and to support other Group Business drivers primarily by the UK where we have seen businesses with specialist expertise.
The economic environment significantly good momentum in our core markets, affects the opportunities available to which continue to be well-funded.
As we continue to progress our our business and the UK Governments operational excellence programme, we recognition of infrastructure as a core The operating margin at 6.7% includes have recently announced a reorganisation enabler of growth provides a positive the benefit of around 5m of research and rationalisation of our UK operations stimulus.
Our diversified portfolio provides and development expenditure credit into four market facing divisions, which resilience to market fluctuations, as does RDEC following early adoption of took effect on 1 April 2015.
The new the fact that a number of our markets new rules in the UK.
In previous years organisation structure is designed to remain well-funded.
We intend to exit the the equivalent benefit was shown maximise our core technical skills and Portuguese market where we currently as a reduction in the tax charge.
On a bring people together into new market, employ 48 staff.
comparative basis excluding the effects of business development and project delivery RDEC, the disposals and changes to joint teams to support competitive bidding and Scandinavian markets continue to benefit venture reporting give a margin of 6.0%.
focus on delivering projects effectively.
from investment in infrastructure from Overall, we believe these changes will the public and private sectors, providing We successfully completed the acquisition make it easier for us to collaborate and stable, well-funded market conditions.
of Terramar, one of Norways leading share ideas internally, allowing us to project management consultancy firms, provide our clients with greater innovation Added resilience is brought to our during the third quarter.
Our strategy and a broader range of expertise, UK business by its ongoing support for of portfolio optimisation also continued together with best use of technology and projects in other regions, together with with the disposal of our Polish business resources.
We expect the reorganisation the use of our global design centres in to Multiconsult, a Norwegian consultancy to deliver year on year margin progress India, which provide flexibility of delivery and design business, in September 2014. in a stable market.
and access to high quality, lower cost resources.
Closing staff numbers rose by 1% to Strategy 9,642, with growth driven by our rail, Our market leadership position in the Our strategy focuses on maintaining design and engineering and highways our market leadership positions in the UK is underpinned by the technical and transportation businesses as well as excellence of our people and the quality UK and realising the opportunities arising the acquisition of the 65 person Terramar from the UK Governments commitment of their work.
For example, we were business.
This was partially offset by delighted to be shortlisted for four to stimulate the economy through the sale of our Polish business and the infrastructure investment and from awards at the 2015 MCA Management rightsizing of our aerospace business.
regulatory spend in rail, utilities and airports.
Our defence, security and aerospace markets provide good diversity to our infrastructure exposure.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 27 Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe working options to help us both recruit The majority of the Groups postPeople employment benefit liability sits within Excluding the people who transferred and retain staff.
During the year, the proportion of females in the UK increased the UK business and is comprised of with the sale of our Polish business, our defined benefit pension obligations, United Kingdom and Europe headcount slightly to 25% and we were recognised as one of The Times Top 50 Employers the largest of which is within the Atkins increased very slightly during the year.
Pension Plan, which is closed to the Staff turnover increased to 11.9% from for Women 2015. future accrual of benefits see note 29 9.5% as market conditions continued to improve.
In line with the rest of the Group, we page 182 for more detail.
measure employee engagement through In the UK, we continue to implement our Viewpoint employee opinion survey.
The pension obligations are recognised In the UK, our results in 2014 showed as a risk due to their size and the fact programmes to assist with the attraction, engagement and retention of talented a slight decrease compared with the that the ongoing liability is a function of previous year reflecting changes in the a number of assumptions, not least the people and to be recognised by a number of independent organisations as a great business and some of our markets.
In life expectancy of members.
This risk is Europe, the result was unchanged.
Both mitigated by ongoing cash contributions place to work.
In The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For results continued to outperform the global to the pension fund, which have been norm for the professional services sector.
agreed with the pension trustees, along we rose from 18th to 16th place and we appeared in the top 25 for the ninth with measures to manage ongoing volatility.
We are one of the largest Safety and sustainability and most popular recruiters of newly Workplace health, safety and wellbeing We identify, review and assess risks graduated engineers and were shortlisted continue to be a high priority.
The overall for the TARGETjobs most popular AIR has improved this year, primarily as a across all our businesses and the process is explained in more detail in the Principal graduate recruiter in the construction, result of the sale of our highways services civil engineering and surveying sector business and the introduction of proactive risks and uncertainties section page 48. in 2015.
In Denmark, as part of Engineer measures such as the Atkins operating the Future we collaborate with a safely system see the Corporate Outlook number of organisations, institutions sustainability review page 61 for more The outlook for our United Kingdom and companies to encourage many more information.
and Europe business as a whole is stable, people to choose a career in technology despite a slowdown in our aerospace development.
We won Engineering Practice of the business.
Year at the Irish Building and Design The ongoing promotion of science, Awards for our approach to sustainability In the UK, the infrastructure markets technology, engineering and mathematics and innovation, our commitment to continue to present opportunities for STEM careers to young people continues training, and the depth and breadth our broad multidisciplinary offering as the to be a focus.
Our eight STEM hubs of our projects.
UK Government stimulates the economy in the UK enable a more coordinated with its commitment to infrastructure approach to STEM activity with schools, We have formalised a volunteering policy spend.
We believe our refreshed operating colleges and community groups.
These volunteer model is well placed to address this days have mainly been used to support need.
Our Faithful Gould business During the year, 364 young people joined enters the new financial year with its charity organisations such as RedR and the UK business on formal education Engineers without Borders.
diverse portfolio providing an order book and development programmes including that is comfortably ahead of last year.
Risk Notwithstanding the current competitive We recognise that there is a risk in the Atkins is a founder member of the 5% landscape in Scandinavia, our core mediumand longer-term of a shortage Club see the People section page 57 for markets remain well-funded, with a of professional technical staff in our more detail.
As at 31 March 2015, 8.9% good pipeline of infrastructure projects, industry.
To help address this, we of our UK staff were on a formalised commissioned a study, The skills deficit: supported by government commitments.
apprentice, sponsored student or graduate consequences and opportunities for UK programme.
We have outlined in the Our secured work in hand in the United Kingdom and Europe is 45.3% People section page 55 our approach We are focused on increasing the to recruiting apprentices and sponsoring 2014: 49.2% of next years budgeted proportion of female employees and revenue and, with our reorganisation students and graduates to help mitigate have developed a range of flexible this risk.
in place, this gives us confidence for the year ahead.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 28 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe United Kingdom Key performance indicators 2015 2014 Change Financial metrics Revenue 835.6m 922.0m -9.4% Operating profit 59.4m 58.1m 2.2% Operating margin 7.1% 6.3% 0.8pp Work in hand 46.0% 49.9% -3.9pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 8,885 8,810 0.9% Average staff numbers for the year 8,675 9,017 -3.8% Staff turnover 12.1% 9.5% 2.6pp Performance Operations The UKs electrification programme presents a substantial opportunity for our Our UK business has seen headline Rail revenue reduce by 9.4% to 835.6m Our rail business remained busy, operating rail business.
In partnership with Parsons Brinckerhoff, we are the lead design 2014: 922.0m and headcount growth at a high level of staff utilisation, reflecting of 0.9%.
Excluding disposals and the strong markets in the areas of signalling, organisation for the electrification of the Great Western main line between London change in the accounting treatment of electrification and station design.
As a joint ventures gives a more representative result our headcount continued to grow and South Wales.
We are also working with Carillion Power Lines to deliver the increase in revenue of 2.7%.
The full year operating margin was 7.1% Work continued on signalling projects 2014: 6.3%.
Operating profit includes awarded under the two major frameworks Following our involvement in early stage design for phase one of High Speed 2 RDEC and joint venture reporting for the Sussex Wessex and Kent Anglia changes, excluding these gives an areas, including East Sussex that was between London and the West Midlands, we believe we are well placed to win operating margin of 6.4% 2014: 7.2%.
completed successfully in February 2015 and a major resignalling project in east further opportunities in phase two.
Our aerospace business faced a market Kent.
This was in addition to ongoing downturn in the year and profitability work on our other non-framework signalling Our overall financial performance was adversely impacted by a number of was further impacted by a number contracts at Cardiff and Wolverhampton.
of outstanding contract variation outstanding contract variation negotiations.
We have reached resolution on the large negotiations in our UK rail business, which In partnership with Network Rail, Laing have now been largely resolved.
During ORourke and VolkerRail, we are jointly majority of these which, as previously indicated, impacted positively on our the first half, we also rightsized our water delivering the Stafford area improvement and environment business.
By contrast, programme, and continue to support the regional cash performance at the end of the period.
our highways and transportation and delivery of a number of other technically design and engineering businesses challenging projects for Network Rail, continue to benefit from the UK including the transformation of Governments maintained focus on Birmingham New Street station, which infrastructure investment, and performed will open in September 2015. strongly during the year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 29 Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe Highways and transportation We were also appointed in collaboration Faithful Gould Our highways and transportation business with CH2M as designer for the Aberdeen Our UK business has performed well with focuses on three core areas: strategic western peripheral route Balmedie continued signs of recovery in our market.
advice, design consultancy and asset to Tipperty.
The contract will include The Scape Asset Management, Surveying management.
In addition, we provide the design and construction of 58km and Design Services public sector operational maintenance and design for of new dual carriageway as well as framework has provided a steady stream the M25, Londons orbital motorway, as new side roads, access tracks and more of work, particularly in education.
Wins part of our role within the M25 Connect than 100 new structures, including two include appointments at the universities Plus consortium.
significant focal point bridges over of York, Edinburgh, Loughborough and the rivers Dee and Don.
Wolverhampton and for Kent county and In November 2014, Highways England Leicester city councils.
The London and appointed Atkins as one of its key Water and environment southeast commercial property sector is suppliers on the Collaborative Delivery Our water and environment business improving and we have been appointed Framework CDF.
The CDF will deliver returned to growth during the second half to work for Solum Regeneration at important upgrades to motorways and of the year.
This improved performance London Bridge and Walthamstow, and trunk roads across England over the was due to increased volumes from Argent at Paradise Circus, Birmingham next four years.
We will provide design contracts secured with water utility clients and Kings Cross, where we have been and engineering expertise for in the prior year, including Thames Water appointed on the development of block upcoming programmes including major and Severn Trent Water, delivering R7, a new 13,000 square metre office improvements.
Among the projects in their programmes for the 2015 to 2020 space set over 12 floors.
the CDF pipeline are the A14 trunk road regulatory period AMP6.
between Cambridge and Huntingdon Our market position in the nuclear and a programme of smart motorway We have bid successfully for similar sector continues to grow.
collaborative opportunities with other appointed by Capenhurst Nuclear Services water companies and secured frameworks as the programme management office to In 2014, we were appointed to provide with United Utilities, Southern Water deliver its new process plant, the Legacy design development expertise to the and are one of three selected consultants Cylinder Facility.
Welsh Governments M4 corridor project for Wessex Water, giving us confidence around Newport working with design in continuity of workload for our water In Scotland, we have been appointed partners Arup and RPS.
The proposals engineering team in AMP6.
to provide project management and include the development of 24km of multidisciplinary design services on new motorway and a 2.5km long viaduct Our work in sustainable development Cockenzie Marine Park, an old power crossing of the river Usk, as well as major continues to grow, evidenced by recent station site being redeveloped into flexible remodelling of M4 junctions 23 and 29. commissions for significant land large scale manufacturing facilities, and developments which we are leading for EDI Group in its redevelopment of In a joint venture with Mouchel, we in South Africa and Morocco, as well the Fountainbridge site in Edinburgh.
have been awarded the design contract as additional sites for the development for the third stage of Transport Scotlands sector in the UK.
Design and engineering ambitious programme to upgrade a Our design and engineering business 177km stretch of the A9 between the During the year, the business undertook has performed well during the year.
cities of Perth and Inverness to full dual work on major UK infrastructure projects The business serves customers across five carriageway standard by 2025.
We will including Crossrail and High Speed 2, key market segments: education, airports, provide multidisciplinary design work and recent awards on major highways defence, transportation and mixed use for the 50km stretch of road between and rail projects are drawing on our development.
All sectors have strong Dalraddy and Inverness.
specialist environmental and ground pipelines of secured workloads and engineering teams.
The division also works closely with the Groups Energy business to deliver the buildings and infrastructure elements of major UK projects.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 30 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe In the education sector, we successfully Defence, aerospace and won the design contract to work with communications Laing ORourke on the Priority Schools Overall our defence, aerospace and Building Programme in Yorkshire.
We will communications business experienced continue to focus on higher and further a difficult year.
Our aerospace business was impacted Our airports team continues to win and by a significant market downturn as our deliver significant programmes of work major client, Airbus, moved from design at both London Gatwick and Heathrow.
to production on a number of its programmes.
We reduced the number Our defence infrastructure portfolio of people engaged on aerospace projects includes major programmes of work for in both the UK and India, with the BAE Systems, designing facilities for air majority of those affected successfully and sea-based defence.
redeployed into growth areas of the business, including defence and energy.
In January, the business was appointed We are focused on developing our by Transport for London as part of one of relationships with other aerospace the major consulting groups developing partners and the business is now stable.
the detailed plans for Crossrail 2.
It is also supporting the Middle East business on We are well positioned in defence where the Doha Metro Gold Line project.
discussions with front line commands secured important contract wins and We continue to support London Legacy we are encouraged by further pipeline Development Corporation on the opportunities.
transformation of Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
Management consulting Our management consultancy business We have also supported initial nuclear provides the UK Government and various new build infrastructure work in the UK, industry clients with practical capability including EDF Energys new Hinckley Point to run the full lifecycle of technology reactor, and remain heavily involved in enabled change programmes.
nuclear decommissioning work, including a role on the Silos Direct-encapsulation We continue to deliver security work for Plant project at Sellafield.
We are the central government, as well as supporting clients engineer on Tidal Lagoon Swansea Heathrow Airports IT outsourcing Bay, creating the worlds first man made, contract in partnership with Capgemini, energy-generating lagoon.
leveraging our position in aviation.
We have established a strong capability in holistic security and this team is delivering a range of high profile projects, including a number of cyber security assignments for multinational private sector clients.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 31 Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe Europe Key performance indicators 2015 2014 Change Financial metrics Revenue 68.2m 76.3m -10.6% Operating profit 1.3m 4.5m -71.1% Operating margin 1.9% 5.9% -4.0pp Work in hand 38.2% 42.3% -4.1pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 757 734 3.1% Average staff numbers for the year 730 734 -0.5% Staff turnover 9.7% 9.7% n a Performance We have maintained a good order book We made further progress on our through the year.
The Danish Government portfolio optimisation strategy, with the Our Europe business is primarily focused on the rail and highways infrastructure has announced a major programme sale of our 77 person business in Poland of investment in rail infrastructure and to Multiconsult which completed in markets in Scandinavia, with smaller operations in Portugal and Ireland.
rolling stock, and we believe we are well September 2014. positioned to benefit from this.
Headline revenue reduced by 10.6% to Our operations have stabilised in Ireland In Sweden, we successfully bid with and showed some modest growth 68.2m reflecting the sale of our Polish operation and an increasingly competitive our partners on the Molnby Depot and through the year with headcount Gothenburg-Bors High Speed Line increasing for the first time since 2008 market in Scandinavia.
Margins decreased to 1.9% 2014: 5.9% reflecting losses contracts which will generate good on the back of some good wins in the work for us.
Bidding activity remains high water and highways sectors.
In Portugal, in our Polish and Portuguese businesses and workload issues in Sweden.
as a series of projects come to market.
the continuing difficult economic We are also working on a number of conditions will curtail any meaningful Headcount rose to 757 2014: 734, other significant infrastructure projects, growth in the medium term and we such as the Hallsberg double tracking intend to exit the Portuguese market, with the disposal of our Polish operation in September 2014 being offset by the project and the Mlarbanan rail systems where we currently employ 48 staff.
project for the state transport authority, acquisition of Terramar in Norway.
The market outlook, and medium-term pipeline and order book, Operations remain good.
In Denmark, we continue to work across a number of major rail and road We are focused on expanding our position infrastructure projects, including the new in the Norwegian infrastructure and railway line between Copenhagen and project management markets.
We believe Ringsted and the European Rail Traffic that the strategic acquisition of Terramar Management System signalling will position us to secure further work programme.
Atkins teams of specialists in the well-funded infrastructure markets are collaborating with the client and in Norway, as well as unlocking further suppliers in a joint team to ensure a project management opportunities.
successful implementation of the project, which is currently in the design phase.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
