Strategic Report 41 Segmental performance continued Energy Continued good performance despite the low oil price.
Key performance indicators 2015 2014 Change Financial metrics Revenue 182.0m 169.6m 7.3% Operating profit 20.4m 15.1m 35.1% Operating margin 11.2% 8.9% 2.3pp Work in hand 29.8% 31.8% -2.0pp Safety AIR 63 0 63 People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,813 1,461 24.1% Average staff numbers for the year 1,633 1,424 14.7% Staff turnover 8.6% 11.7% -3.1pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 7% 35% 15% 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Oil and gas 44% Public sector: national government 1% Nuclear 43% Regulated 54% Power including renewables 13% Private sector 45% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 98.6 128.4 151.9 169.6 182.0 8.5 11.4 13.8 15.1 20.4 970 1,095 1,307 1,424 1,633 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 42 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Energy Performance Business drivers Operations Our Energy business continued to perform Our business is underpinned by the global Nuclear well despite the effect of the low oil price.
growth in energy requirements as many Approval from the US Government in Revenue was up 7.3% year on year countries struggle with increasing demand September 2014 saw the successful 5.4% on an underlying basis excluding and the desire to decarbonise to mitigate completion of our acquisition of Nuclear this years acquisitions and changes to the effects of climate change.
The acquisition not only joint venture accounting and staff enhances the capability of the Groups numbers increased 24.1% to 1,813.
The In nuclear and conventional power Energy business, with 130 specialists in year on year improvement in operating generation, the imperative to keep nuclear safety, design engineering, and margin was supported by a reduced level existing generation and distribution professional security services, but also of bidding costs on major programmes facilities operating safely for longer establishes our nuclear footprint in as compared with last year.
Growth has remains, as well as the need for technical North America in both the federal and been supported by successful partnering support around nuclear decommissioning.
arrangements and two acquisitions in As many countries look to develop nuclear North America.
The downturn in certain power as part of their long-term strategy Elsewhere our international nuclear oil and gas markets during the second for more secure, low carbon energy, we portfolio remains strong as we continue half was more than offset by growth in are seeing momentum gather on nuclear to provide a broad range of services to our nuclear business.
new build programmes around the world.
the Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation Our skills are therefore in high demand in the Middle East on the 20bn Barakah across the entire nuclear lifecycle.
New Nuclear Programme, through our Business model joint venture with French engineering The Energy business operates worldwide In oil and gas, we continue to see a similar consultancy Assystem, n. triple.
a. and to competing against a wide range of focus on keeping existing production the 15bn International Thermonuclear competition, from large multinational and distribution facilities operating safely Experimental Reactor programme in engineering consultancies to specialist for longer, drawing on our safety and the South of France, through our role niche players.
As the oil and gas as architect engineer, as part of the industry seeks to reduce operating costs Engage consortium.
Strategy as a consequence of the low oil price, We remain focused on oil and gas, there is continued demand for our In the year, we signed a memorandum nuclear, conventional power generation advanced engineering skills and lifecycle of understanding MOU with the China and renewables.
In these industries we are expertise.
National Nuclear Corporation that will applying our high end, multidisciplinary enable us to focus on supporting Chinas engineering skills during both design and entry into the UK new build market.
This operational phases to assure the integrity MOU represents our first step in building and economic performance of our clients a longer-term relationship with Chinese facilities.
companies in the energy industry.
We continue to look at investment Our position in the UKs nuclear opportunities to selectively expand our decommissioning market strengthened geographic footprint and service offering in the year with the award of a new through organic growth, as well as contract with Sellafield Ltd for its 1.4bn extending and creating new partnering Silos Direct-encapsulation Plant project, arrangements and targeting acquisitions.
one of the largest high hazard nuclear waste projects in the world, as part of a joint venture with AREVA and Mace.
This award is testament to the success of our strategic partnerships, which continue to deliver some excellent opportunities for the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 43 Segmental performance continued Energy We continue to be busy on existing An addition to our long-term framework Power nuclear generation and life extension agreements, a notable win in the year was Our power division continues to maintain work through our role as an EDF Energy a five year contract for the provision of a significant portfolio in providing high UK Strategic Supply Chain Partner structural integrity management services end technical support to large scale power and providing design, engineering, with Talisman Sinopec Energy UK Limited, generation and transmission projects infrastructure and project management elevating us to a tier one supplier and with clients such as National Grid, Drax, services to URENCOs 540m capital building on our previous 10 year Eggborough and ENERGOS in the UK.
We became framework partner to Our position in the UK nuclear new build A new five year agreement with Centrica SSE Hornsea Ltd in the year to provide market remains strong as we continue to to support decommissioning projects in end to end support through the provide engineering and related technical the UK and Netherlands demonstrates development and execution of major services to Horizon Nuclear Power and how our cross-industry expertise and projects at two gas storage sites in the EDF Energy for a new generation of decommissioning experience in both UK.
Our ability to draw on expertise from nuclear power stations in the UK.
nuclear and oil and gas has become different parts of the Group, including an important differentiator in the project costing and management Oil and gas decommissioning market.
capabilities from Faithful Gould, was key While the oil price has resulted in to establishing this long-term partnership.
challenging market conditions for some The Middle East market continues to of our oil and gas teams, the division provide opportunity for growth with This division continues to access new overall remains resilient.
With much a strong pipeline of work, including the international markets with the award by of our experience and expertise in recent award of a contract to provide the Hyundai Engineering and Construction operational support, our clients are engineering services to Shanghai Electric Company to provide engineering design seeking the added value that our skills Power Construction Corporation in services for the Abu Dhabi Water & in asset integrity management and support of a major project for Aramco Electricity Authority Mirfa Independent production optimisation can bring to and we continue to support the Abu Water and Power Project in Abu Dhabi.
Dhabi Marine Operating Company with the safe life extension of existing critical As well as building our pipeline in the We continue to expand our ability to infrastructure.
Middle East, we have been engaged by provide services on a worldwide scale China Light and Power in Hong Kong to through our operational hubs in the Elsewhere, our international oil and gas look at options to extend the life of its UK, Middle East, North America and Asia operations remain busy on projects such generating assets.
In October 2014, the successful as supporting Eni UK Limiteds portfolio the award of the open ended contract acquisition of Houston Offshore of assets in Australia, a contract for the providing engineering design services Engineering added 150 people in INPEX Corporation-operated Ichthys to Tennessee Valley Authoritys coal North America with world class skills in LNG Project, offshore Western Australia, and gas plants as part of our teaming deepwater floating production platforms.
and acting as technical advisor and arrangement with Merrick & Co in engineering designers on Singapores North America last year.
Further expanding our expertise and liquefied natural gas LNG terminal as international footprint has helped us part of a five year engineering services secure long-term framework agreements agreement for our full range of for both consultancy and design services capabilities, building on our portfolio for major international oil and gas of projects in the LNG market.
operators such as BP, Shell, Maersk, Chevron, Apache, Nexen and Statoil.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 44 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Energy Marine renewables Our people have used a variety of Risk Our portfolio of work in the marine platforms to encourage students to The risks identified as being most renewables industry continues to expand consider a career in engineering, including pertinent to Energy are the oil price with the addition of another engineering visits by our graduates to school and remaining low for an extended period design services contract for three offshore university events.
and those associated with the safety, substations at DONG Energys proposed environmental and reputational Hornsea Project One offshore wind farm.
We continue to work to increase the consequences of an error in our work We have secured major contracts with proportion of female employees and have given the high hazard nature of the DONG Energys eight offshore substations, introduced a range of flexible working facilities on which we work.
including those at the planned Burbo options to help us both recruit and retain Bank Extension, Race Bank and Walney staff.
This and other initiatives helped We have also identified that our plans Extension offshore wind farm projects in us to increase the level of new recruits for growth are potentially affected by the UK.
Our work on Statoils Dudgeon in the UK this year that are female from the availability of skills.
To mitigate this Offshore Wind Farm also continues.
23 to 30, which is 24% of total hires, an risk we continue to invest in our in-house increase of 6%.
A womens professional training academy that now provides We have been commissioned by the network is now well established in our externally recognised courses.
This year Carbon Trust to carry out an industry major office locations and we are piloting we welcomed over 500 people onto study into the use of low frequency AC a programme to support women these courses.
technology for offshore wind farm power returning to work after maternity leave.
This commission to explore We assess risks across all of our businesses ways to reduce the costs of wind power Safety and sustainability and this is explained in more detail in the grid integration, together with our work The year on year increase in our AIR is Principal risks and uncertainties section in developing offshore floating technology, the result of a single reportable accident, page 48. improves the viability for wind farms to compared with zero accidents in the be located further offshore and therefore prior two years.
Outlook helps to position us at the forefront of The outlook for our Energy business the industrys next development phase.
Worldwide, we currently have over remains good despite the ongoing market 120 safety engineers who provide impact of falling oil prices.
People technical and safety engineering services Overall headcount increased by 352 to the onshore and offshore assets We are well positioned in growth due in part to our two North American of the majority of large oil companies markets and have work in hand at 29.8% acquisitions.
Underlying headcount and we provide similar services to the 2014: 31.8% of budgeted revenue.
increased approximately 7%, underpinning nuclear and power industries.
We are monitoring the trading good business performance.
Staff turnover environment in oil and gas closely and has fallen in line with our expectations We are helping society to make the will react rapidly and adapt to changes: and reached a four year low of 8.6% transition to a low carbon economy we anticipate reduced volumes in this 2014: 11.7%.
through our work on a wide range of industry during the coming year and if low carbon enabling technologies such necessary will redeploy resources to We measure employee engagement as nuclear, offshore wind, tidal, carbon other parts of Energy and across the through our Group wide Viewpoint capture and storage, and biomass.
Our overall engagement score for We also work on helping to extract Energy remains significantly better than the worlds remaining oil and gas the benchmark for our industry sector.
A significant majority of people indicated that they are proud to work for Atkins.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
