110 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Other corporate disclosures As permitted by legislation, some of Conduct any transactions and The current Directors were appointed to thematters normally included in this arrangements with the Group other Worldpay Group plc on the date shown report have instead been included in than on an arms-length basis and against their names: theStrategic report on pages 8 to 76 onnormal commercial terms: Director Appointment date asthe Board considers them to be of Act in any way which it knows will Sir Michael Rake 1 September 2015 strategic importance.
Specifically, render the Company unsuitable for theserelate to the Companys business continued listing on the London Philip Jansen 3 July 2015 model and strategy, future business StockExchange: and Rick Medlock 3 July 2015 developments and risk management.
Vote on any resolution to approve a Ron Kalifa 3 July 2015 TheCorporate governance report on 'related party transaction' where the Martin Scicluna 8 September 2015 pages 82 to 96 and Remuneration report Significant Shareholder is the related party.
John Allan 8 September 2015 on pages 97 to 109 are incorporated in this Deanna Oppenheimer 1 January 2016 report by reference.
The Company has complied with and, James Brocklebank 5 November 2013 sofar as the Company is aware, the Relationship Agreement with the Significant Shareholder has complied Robin Marshall 5 November 2013 Significant Shareholder with and has procured compliance by In accordance with the Listing Rules, itsassociates with the independence Conflicts of interest theCompany entered into a Relationship provisions under the Relationship The Board considers and authorises Agreement with Ship Global 2 & CY S. C. A.
potential or actual conflicts as appropriate.
the 'Significant Shareholder' on 12 Directors with a conflict donot participate October 2015.
The principal purpose of the Directors appointment, conflicts in the discussion orvoteonthe matter Relationship Agreement is to ensure that ofinterest and powers of Directors inquestion.
the Company is capable of carrying on its Directors appointment business independently of its Significant With regard to the appointment and Powers of Directors Shareholder.
replacement of Directors, the Company Subject to the Companys Articles of isgoverned by its Articles of Association, Association, the prevailing legislation and Advent and Bain, who are associates of the UK Corporate Governance Code, any directions given by special resolution, the Significant Shareholder and continue theCompanies Act 2006, and related the business and affairs of the Company to be significant investors in the Company, legislation.
Directors may be appointed will be managed by the Directors.
are each entitled under the Relationship bythe Company by ordinary resolution or Agreement to appoint one Non-Executive by the Board, on recommendation of the Other statutory disclosures Director to the Board for as long as Advent Nomination Committee.
In addition, the Dividends and Bain are respectively entitled to Relationship Agreement between the The Group's dividend policy is set out on exercise, or to control, directly or indirectly, Company and the Companys Significant page 74 in the Financial review.
A dividend 10% or more of the votes at general Shareholder see paragraph 1 above of 1.5m was paid in the year to the meetings of the Company.
The first provides for the latter to appoint NonGroups former parent company prior to nominee Directors are James Brocklebank Executive Directors to the Board.
in respect of Advent and Robin Marshall A Director appointed by the Board holds inrespect of Bain.
office only until the following Annual Greenhouse gas emissions General Meeting and is then eligible for The disclosures concerning greenhouse Under the Relationship Agreement, the election by shareholders.
The Company gas emissions required by law are included Significant Shareholder has undertaken may, in accordance with and subject to in the Strategic report on page 33. that it shall not and shall procure that the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, itsassociates shall not : by ordinary resolution of which special Employees Take any action that would preclude or notice has been given remove any Director Disclosures relating to the Groups inhibit the Company or any member of before the expiration of his or her term of employees are included in theStrategic the Group from operating independently office.
report on pages 28 to 30. of the Significant Shareholder: Take any action that would prevent Further information on the appointments theCompany from complying with its to the Board is set out in the Corporate obligations under the Listing Rules: governance report on pages 82 to 96.
Propose any shareholder resolution which is intended to circumvent the Listing Rules: 111 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Research and development respect of all shares held in the EBT, the On 1 March 2016, the Company received Disclosures in relation to the Groups trustee has waived its right to receive notice that BlackRock, Inc. had increased research and development are included dividends and will not exercise voting rights.
its holding to 129,183,963 shares inthe Strategic report on pages 30 to 32.
Further details regarding the EBT are representing 6.45% of the Company's total contained in Note 1a and 5h to the Financial voting rights.
No political donations were made and no At 7 March 2016, the Company had not political expenditure was incurred during Restrictions on the transfer of received any further disclosures of major the year.
OrdinaryShares holdings of voting rights, pursuant to the From admission of the Companys securities requirements of Rule 5 of the Financial Details of the Groups charitable activities on the Main Market of the London Stock Conduct Authority Disclosure Rules and are set out in the Strategic report on Exchange, Ship Global 2 & CY S. C. A. the Transparency Rules.
'Significant Shareholder' entered into alock-up period of 180 days and the No Directors and their connected persons Share capital and related matters Companys Directors entered into a lock-up have an interest in 3% or more of the voting Share capital period of 365 days.
During the lock-up rights of the Company as at 7 March 2016.
The structure of the issued share capital periods, the Significant Shareholder and of the Company at 31 December 2015 and the Directors agree not to dispose of any Amendment of Articles of Association information about the issue of shares securities held in the Company.
Certain The Companys Articles of Association during 2015 are set out in Note 5f to the ofthe underwriting banks may, however, may be amended by special resolution financial statements.
The Company has waive the restrictions in respect of the ofshareholders.
The Companys Articles two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares lock-up periods before they expire.
of Association adopted by shareholders andCVR non-voting redeemable shares.
on12 October 2015 are available on the The transfer of Ordinary Shares is Groups website.
Shareholders rights governed by the general provisions of The rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares theCompanys Articles of Association Provisions of change of control are governed by the Companys Articles andprevailing legislation.
There are no The senior facilities agreement entered ofAssociation and prevailing legislation.
restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary into by the Company and various lenders There are no specific restrictions on the Shares other than i as set out in the on 4 September 2015 to refinance existing size of a holding.
Subject to applicable law lock-up arrangements described in the borrowings as part of the IPO comprising and the Articles of Association, holders of preceding paragraph: ii as set out in the Term Facility 1, Term Facility 2 and the Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive all theArticles of Association: iii certain revolving credit facility provides for the shareholder documents, including notice restrictions which may from time to time repayment of all sums utilised together ofany general meeting: attend, speak and be imposed by laws and regulations with interest on 30 days notice in the exercise voting rights at general meetings, forexample, insider trading laws : and event of i any sale of substantially all of either in person or by proxy: and participate iv pursuant to the Listing Rules of the the businesses or assets of the Company: in any distribution of income or capital.
Financial Conduct Authority whereby or ii if any person or group of persons certain Directors, officers and employees acting in concert acquire more than 50% Restrictions on voting of the Company require approval to deal of the issued voting share capital of the There are no specific restrictions on the inthe Ordinary Shares in accordance with Company.
In addition, the senior shareholders ability to exercise their the Companys share dealing rules.
unsecured notes issued by Worldpay votingrights, save in situations where the Finance plc on 10 November 2015 and Company is legally entitled to impose such Notifiable interests in share capital guaranteed by the Company, contain a restrictions usually where amounts remain At 31 December 2015, the interests in repurchase provision at 101% of the value unpaid on the shares after request, or the voting rights over the issued share of the notes plus interest accrued but shareholder is otherwise in default of an capitalof the Company had been notified, unpaid that may be exercised by holders of obligation to the Company.
Currently, as shown in the table below.
the notes on the same events as well as allissued Ordinary Shares are fully paid.
on certain forms of merger of the As at 31 December 2015 Company.
Number of % interest in Shares held by the Companys Shareholder shares shares employment benefit trust Ship Global 2 & The Companys offshore employee benefit Cy S. C. A.
839,481,879 41.97 trust 'EBT' is used to purchase Worldpay BlackRock, Inc. 107,115,455 5.35 Group shares for the benefit of employees, including satisfying outstanding awards made under its employee share plans.
