68 Governance Directors report The directors of a company are required The Annual Report will be laid before Indemnification of and insurance to prepare a strategic report about that shareholders at the annual general cover for directors and officers company for each financial year, designed meeting AGM to be held at One Great Directors and officers of the Company to inform shareholders and help them George Street, Westminster, London and its subsidiaries benefit from directors assess how the directors have performed SW1P 3AA at 1100 on Wednesday and officers liability insurance cover in their duty to promote the success of the 29 July 2015.
Details of the business respect of legal actions brought against company.
Additionally the directors are to be considered at the AGM, together them.
In addition, directors of the required to prepare a directors report with an explanation of each of the Company are indemnified in accordance containing certain disclosures, some of resolutions, are set out in the separate with article 138 of the Companys articles which may be included in the strategic notice of meeting.
of association to the maximum extent report if they are considered to be of permitted by law, such indemnities being strategic importance.
The directors of qualifying third party indemnities.
Prior to Directors WS Atkins plc are pleased to present the adoption of new articles of association The names and biographies of those their Directors report for the financial by shareholders on 3 September 2008, persons serving as directors of the year ended 31 March 2015.
The following all directors in appointment on that date Company as at the date of this report are information has been included in the had separate deeds of indemnity.
These incorporated into this report by reference Strategic Report and is incorporated into indemnities, which still remain in force, and can be found in the Board of directors this report by reference: are available for inspection by shareholders section pages 66 to 67.
James Cullens at the Companys registered office was appointed as a director with effect greenhouse gas emissions Corporate during normal business hours and will from 1 July 2014 and replaced Alun sustainability review, page 63 be available for inspection at the AGM.
Griffiths as Group HR director following review of the performance and future his retirement on 30 July 2014.
Rodney development of the Group Strategic Neither the insurance nor the indemnities Slater retired as a non-executive director Report, pages 2 to 65 provide cover where the relevant director on 30 July 2014.
Catherine Bradley was or officer has acted fraudulently or appointed as a non-executive director Principal risks and uncertainties dishonestly.
with effect from 9 June 2015. pages 48 to 53 employment matters, such as inclusion Under the Companys articles of Articles of association and diversity and provision of association all directors must retire at the The Companys articles of association information to, and consultation with, first AGM following their appointment set out the Companys internal regulation employees People, pages 54 to 59. by the Board and may offer themselves and cover such matters as the rights for election by shareholders.
Catherine of shareholders, the appointment and The following pages of the Annual Report Bradley, following her appointment by removal of directors, the power to issue contain all other statutorily required the Board as a non-executive director and buy back shares and the conduct of information and information required from 9 June 2015, will stand for election Board and general meetings.
A copy of to be disclosed under the UK Listing at the AGM.
In line with the requirements the Companys articles of association Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure of the UK Corporate Governance Code is available on the Groups website or and Transparency Rules the LRs and DTRs all directors retire at each AGM and, on request from the company secretary.
To the extent necessary, if eligible, may offer themselves for Amendments to the articles of association certain information is incorporated into re-election.
This year all the directors, must be approved by at least 75% of this report by reference, as follows: being eligible, will offer themselves for those voting in person or by proxy at Chairmans statement pages 6 to 7 re-election.
The Board considers that each a general meeting of the Company.
of the directors standing for re-election Corporate governance report continues to be effective and that each of pages 72 to 79 them demonstrates a strong commitment Nomination Committee report to their role.
pages 80 to 83 Audit Committee report pages 84 to 89 Remuneration report pages 90 to 120 Financial risk management and financial instruments notes 19 and 20 to the financial statements, pages 167 to 176 Events occuring after the reporting period note 41 to the financial statements page 199 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 69 Directors report continued In accordance with the Companys Under this policy there were seven The Company has a Level 1 American articles of association, directors can be donations totalling $48,000 made to Depositary Receipt ADR programme, appointed or removed by the Board or non-partisan US ballot initiatives during which enables US investors to purchase by shareholders in general meeting.
the Companys American Depositary Subject to the provisions of relevant In addition, we have one political action Shares ADSs.
Each ADS represents one legislation, the Companys articles of committee in the US that makes donations ordinary share and allows each holder, association and any directions given by funded entirely by employee contributions.
subject to the terms and conditions of the a special resolution of the shareholders, ADR, to receive dividend payments and the Board of directors may exercise all vote by proxy on resolutions at a general Shares the powers of the Company and may meeting.
Share capital delegate authorities to committees and As at the date of this report, the Companys management as it sees fit.
Details of Shares acquired through Atkins employee share capital consists of 104,451,799 the main committees of the Board are share schemes rank equally with all issued and fully paid ordinary shares each contained in the Corporate governance other ordinary shares in issue and have with a nominal value of 0.5p, listed on report pages 72 to 79, the Nomination no special rights.
The trustees of the the London Stock Exchange, of which Committee report pages 80 to 83, the Companys employee benefit trusts EBTs 4,341,000 ordinary shares are held in Audit Committee report pages 84 to 89, have waived the rights of the EBTs to treasury.
Shares may be held in certificated the Remuneration report pages 90 to 120 receive dividends on shares they hold, or uncertificated form.
Further details and on the Groups website.
with one EBT fully waiving this right and of the Companys issued share capital, another waiving the right to dividends including changes during the year, can Research and development be found in note 31 to the Financial in excess of 0.01p per share.
In addition neither of the trustees of the EBTs The Group develops and delivers Statements page 191. innovative technical solutions to its clients, exercises its right to vote in respect of such shares.
Shares held in trust on the costs of which are expensed to the The rights and obligations attaching to the Consolidated Income Statement page 128.
Companys ordinary shares are contained behalf of participants in the Atkins Share Incentive Plan are voted by the trustee, The Group obtains enhanced tax relief in the Companys articles of association for these costs in certain territories, and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited, as directed by plan participants.
Details of particularly the UK and the US.
In the In summary, the ordinary shares allow UK, the Group has early-adopted the holders to receive dividends and to share-based payments, including information regarding the shares held new RDEC research and development exercise one vote on a poll per ordinary expenditure credit regime in the UK with share for every holder present in person by the EBTs, can be found in note 32 to the Financial Statements page 192. effect from 1 April 2013, further details or by proxy at general meetings of the on which are provided in note 1 to the Company.
Shares held in treasury are not At the AGM held in 2014, shareholders Financial Statements page 14. entitled to vote or receive dividends.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or sale granted authority for the directors to allot relevant securities up to approximately of ordinary shares and no requirements Political donations and for prior approval of any transfers, except one third of the issued share capital and expenditure a further one third in connection with as described below.
Under the Companys The Group made no political donations articles of association, the directors have an offer by way of a rights issue.
The and incurred no political expenditure directors intend to seek shareholder the power to suspend voting rights and in the UK or European Union EU the right to receive dividends in respect approval for an equivalent authority during the year ended 31 March 2015 at this years AGM, details of which are of ordinary shares and to refuse to 31 March 2014: nil.
register a transfer of ordinary shares in contained in the notice of meeting.
circumstances where the holder of those Since 1 April 2012, our policy has, in shares fails to comply with a notice The Company is not aware of any accordance with relevant US Federal agreements between shareholders that issued under section 793 of the Act.
The and state election laws, been to make directors also have the power to refuse might result in the restriction of transfer corporate political donations only on the or voting rights in relation to the shares to register any transfer of certificated following basis: shares that does not satisfy the conditions held by such shareholders.
directly to non-partisan ballot initiatives set out in the articles of association.
supporting infrastructure development and maintenance or to individual candidates and political parties only via the affiliated PACs, funded entirely by employee contributions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 70 Governance Directors report continued Share purchases Change of control Information required under At the AGM held in 2014, the Company No agreement with a director or LR 9.8.
4R was granted authority by shareholders employee of the Company provides The information required to be disclosed to purchase up to 10,011,000 ordinary for compensation for loss of office under LR 9.8.
4R is set out in table 2. shares, representing approximately 10% or employment whether through of the Companys ordinary share capital resignation, purported redundancy or Table 2: Information required under as at 11 June 2014.
No ordinary shares otherwise that occurs as a result of LR 9.8.
4R were purchased pursuant to this authority a change of control.
Location during the year ended 31 March 2015 Information within Annual or to the date of this Annual Report.
This Section requirement Report All of the Companys employee share authority will expire at the forthcoming schemes contain provisions relating to 12 Shareholder Directors report AGM and the Company will seek waivers of page 69 a change of control of the Company.
shareholder approval for an equivalent dividends Under these provisions, a change of authority such authority being in control would normally be a vesting 13 Shareholder Directors report accordance with current best practice event, facilitating the exercise of options waivers of future page 69 at this years AGM.
dividends or transfer of allocations subject to any relevant performance conditions being 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each, Directors statement of satisfied.
representing approximately 4.2% of the responsibility Companys issued share capital, were held The Company is not a party to any other The directors are responsible for preparing in treasury throughout the year and to significant agreements that take effect, the Annual Report, the Remuneration the date of this Annual Report following alter or terminate upon a change of report and the Financial Statements a historic share buyback programme.
control other than its funding facilities, in accordance with applicable law and which provide that in such a situation the regulations.
Significant shareholders Company may be unable to draw down As at the year end and the date of this any further amounts under the facilities Company law requires the directors Annual Report, the Company had been and or that they may be cancelled.
to prepare financial statements for notified of holdings of 3% or more of the each financial year.
Under that law, total voting rights attaching to its issued the directors have prepared the Group share capital as detailed in table 1. and Company Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company Table 1: Holdings of 3% or more of the total voting rights attached to the and Group for that period.
Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 71 Directors report continued In preparing these Financial Statements, Each of the directors, whose names and Independent auditor the directors are required to: functions are listed in this Annual Report The Companys independent auditor, pages 66 and 67, confirms that, to the  LLP, has select suitable accounting policies best of his her knowledge: expressed its willingness to continue and then apply them consistently in office and resolutions for its the Group Financial Statements, which make judgements and accounting reappointment and to authorise the have been prepared in accordance estimates that are reasonable and directors to determine its remuneration with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, prudent will be proposed at the forthcoming give a true and fair view of the assets, AGM.
state whether applicable IFRSs as liabilities, financial position and profit adopted by the EU have been followed, of the Group Approved by the Board and signed on subject to any material departures the Directors report contained in the its behalf by disclosed and explained in the Financial Annual Report pages 68 to 71 includes Statements.
a fair review of the development and Richard Webster performance of the business and the Company Secretary The directors are responsible for keeping position of the Group, together with 10 June 2015 adequate accounting records that are a description of the principal risks and sufficient to show and explain the uncertainties that it faces.
WS Atkins plc, Woodcote Grove, Companys transactions and disclose Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey KT18 5BW, with reasonable accuracy at any time As required by the LRs, the Companys England the financial position of the Company independent auditor has considered and the Group and enable them to ensure the directors statement of compliance Registered in England and Wales that the Financial Statements and the in relation to those points of the UK No.
1885586 Remuneration report comply with the Corporate Governance Code which are Act and, as regards the Group Financial specified for its review.
Statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard Regulation.
They Going concern are also responsible for safeguarding the The directors have a reasonable assets of the Company and the Group expectation that the Company and and hence for taking reasonable steps the Group have adequate resources for the prevention and detection of fraud to continue in operational existence and other irregularities.
for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis The directors are responsible for the in preparing the Financial Statements.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information Disclosure of audit information included on the Companys website.
The directors confirm that, as at the Legislation in the UK governing the date this Annual Report was approved, preparation and dissemination of financial so far as each director is aware there statements may differ from legislation is no relevant audit information of which in other jurisdictions.
the Companys independent auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken The directors consider that the Annual all the steps that he or she ought to Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced have taken as a director in order to make and understandable and provides the himself or herself aware of any relevant information necessary for shareholders to audit information and to establish that the assess the Groups performance, business Companys independent auditor is aware model and strategy.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
