32 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued North America Our new, more focused, client-centric operating model made solid progress.
Key performance indicators 2015 2014 Change Financial metrics Revenue 341.4m 380.9m -10.4% Operating profit 20.0m 19.1m 4.7% Operating margin 5.9% 5.0% 0.9pp Work in hand 61.6% 58.8% 2.8pp Safety AIR 31 117 -86 People Staff numbers at 31 March 2,735 2,836 -3.6% Average staff numbers for the year 2,794 2,970 -5.9% Staff turnover 10.7% 11.5% -0.8pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers -10% 5% -6% 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Roads 43% Public sector: local government 54% Water and environment 14% Public sector: national government 10% Aerospace and aviation 8% Regulated 2% Defence and security 7% Private sector 34% Buildings 3% Rail 3% Urban development 2% Other 20% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 279.2 421.9 389.7 380.9 341.4 13.8 21.2 15.3 19.1 20.0 1,858 3,314 3,091 2,970 2,794 Strategic Report 33 Segmental performance continued North America We are shifting our focus to major Performance Business model infrastructure programmes in our core Our North America segment, which Our new consultancy operating model markets and strengthening our capability consists of our consultancy and established five client-focused businesses Faithful Gould businesses, saw a 4.7% supported by a technical professional to compete for major projects and programmes by drawing on resources increase in operating profit over last year, organisation TPO to ensure the best to 20.0m 2014: 19.1m at an improved people are assigned to the work quickly from across the business and leveraging the Groups worldwide capabilities.
Revenue and efficiently, irrespective of staff was down 10.4%, reflecting first half location.
currency headwinds, and a change in Business drivers the Groups accounting for joint ventures.
The five client facing businesses consist of The majority of North Americas projects Excluding these effects, together with transportation, public and private, federal, are government funded, in part or in the impact of the prior year disposal aviation and strategic ventures, which whole, either through a state or local of Peter Brown, revenue was down 3.8%.
includes areas such as rail, energy, government or directly through federal Our consultancy business delivered technology and future-proofing cities.
Publicly funded projects provide revenue of 274.5m 2014: 305.3m The model is now established and proving greater stability although they tend to be and operating profit of 18.1m successful in aligning with our clients awarded more slowly and are at greater 2014: 17.4m, at an improved margin needs.
risk of being delayed due to changing of 6.6% 2014: 5.7%.
The TPO is gaining momentum and Faithful Gould had a more challenging focusing on recruiting, retaining and Operations year, delivering operating profit of 1.9m developing world class technical Our transportation business has delivered 2014: 4.9m.
Results were adversely professionals in our industry.
This supports another good performance, particularly affected by bad weather on the East our objective of providing new and with important clients such as the Coast and industrial action across some innovative technical and business solutions departments of transportation in Florida, of the oil and chemical sites on which to our clients, resulting in broader, deeper Texas, Colorado and Georgia.
Other we work, both of which impacted our client relationships and the opportunity notable contract reselections, extensions delivery capability.
to work on their largest and most complex and task awards include the Central projects.
Florida Expressway and Camino Real In the prior year we disposed of our Regional Mobility Authority.
Peter Brown business which contributed Our operational excellence programme a loss in the period to March 2014 of is also focused on centralising, simplifying Our public and private business has 3.2m and revenue of 6.8m.
and streamlining the management and increased its focus on larger projects administration of key shared services.
and programmes and on select clients.
During the year, our consultancy We believe that the efforts to streamline These efforts have resulted in an business established a new, more these areas will yield structural cost increase in average contract size.
Our focused, client-centric operating model, reductions in the medium term.
client portfolio is expanding with new which made solid progress, increasing environmental and general engineering win rates and positioning the business Strategy services appointments with city and to capitalise better on existing and new We will continue to focus on growing county governments in Florida, Nevada, market opportunities.
Our focus on our business by concentrating on excellent and Colorado, and at the state level implementing and embedding our project delivery and client service, for organisations such as the Louisiana operational excellence programme expanding our services and focusing Coastal Protection and Restoration contributed to our improved margin.
on securing larger, longer-term projects.
Authority and South Florida Water As a result of our shift in focus last year, Management District.
Average staff numbers reduced by 5.9% we increased our win rate and on average as a result of the implementation of our won larger contracts.
In particular, we In aviation, we continue to execute new operating model and reduced oil increased the number of clients delivering successfully our programme management and gas workloads for Faithful Gould.
more than $5m of business per year, while contract at New Orleans Louis Armstrong reducing the number of clients delivering and Atlantas Hartsfield-Jackson less than $0.1m per year.
Notable new contract awards at airports include Los Angeles International, Tampa International and additional work at Austin-Bergstrom International.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 34 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued North America Our federal business has expanded its The implementation in 2014 of My Career, Previously reported Department of Justice presence in the flood mapping sector our Group wide online performance and Securities and Exchange Commission with reselection as one of two consultants management system, is improving the enquiries relating to potential Foreign to provide nationwide mapping services quality of our performance management Corrupt Practices Act violations by to the Federal Emergency Management activities by creating greater links between The PBSJ Corporation prior to its Agency.
In addition, we were successfully performance and reward.
acquisition by the Group have now been reappointed on our Federal Highway resolved with an agreed settlement Administration design and construction We are committed to recruiting, retaining, of $3.4m.
management services and our Federal developing, and elevating minority and Transit Administration programme women professionals through initiatives We identify, review and assess risks across management contracts.
such as our sponsorship of WTS all of our businesses and the process is International WTS.
Founded in 1977, explained in more detail in the Principal Our strategic ventures business completed WTS has a specific mission of fostering risks and uncertainties section page 48. its first year of operation with a diverse lifelong career goals for women in the This year we commenced the portfolio of rail, transit and energy and transportation industry.
Our support has implementation of our online service renewables clients for whom we provide included scholarship programmes through delivery process in North America, for environmental, planning, permitting, our charitable giving foundation, The more information see the market section programme management, asset Atkins Foundation.
page 51. management and engineering services.
Safety and sustainability Outlook Faithful Goulds North American Our safety culture plays a central role in We see stable market conditions in the business had a quieter year following the how we deliver work.
Sustainability and key states in which we operate.
Economic conclusion of some key client programmes employee wellbeing continued to be an conditions in states such as Florida, and cost reduction measures taken area of focus.
We reduced overall injuries Texas, California and Georgia are showing by clients in the oil and gas sector by 18% compared with last year and our promising developments in funding, redirecting their demand for our services.
We exceeded coupled with growing investment interest Notwithstanding this, the oil and gas the Groups global AIR goals in all areas.
sector remains a key part of the business Our serious injury rate is more than four with ongoing work for many of the times lower than the industry average.
Our work in hand improved year on large operators.
year both as a function of improved The Atkins Foundation supports projects win rates and the scale and longevity People that aim to improve the long-term quality of individual awards, increasing our Our North American consultancy of life for those in our local communities.
secured work in hand as a percentage headcount has remained stable due to It primarily supports community initiatives of next years budgeted revenue to 61.6% sustained recruitment efforts throughout focused on education and response 2014: 58.8% giving a solid platform the year.
Turnover has stabilised and to natural disasters.
Special consideration for future growth.
is now in line with industry norms.
is given to programmes that promote We will continue our cost and efficiency science, technology, engineering and We remain focused on attracting then mathematics STEM subjects.
efforts in the new financial year, building retaining staff, and we continue to on the savings realised in the year ended measure employee engagement through 31 March 2015.
Risk our Group wide Viewpoint employee A majority of our work is government opinion survey.
The overall score remains As our refreshed consultancy business funded and, as a result, political in line with industry benchmarks, but the uncertainty and deadlock caused by model embeds further, we expect exercise did highlight areas targeted for productivity to continue to increase, the 2016 presidential election may lead improvement as we bed in our TPO.
to delays in federal programmes and helping to drive further margin improvement.
We are closely monitoring Congresss activities for continued funding of programmes, particularly around transportation and highways, where delays would have an adverse impact on our workload.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
