Other committees Major Announcements Committee Treasury Committee Committee members during the year ended 31 July 2015 Committee members during the year ended 31 July 2015 J Martin Chief Financial Officer Chairman J Martin Chief Financial Officer Chairman G Davis Chairman S Gray Group Financial Controller M Fearon Group Director of Communications and I Meakins Group Chief Executive Investor Relations 1 R Shoylekov Group General Counsel I Meakins Group Chief Executive M Verrier Group Treasurer 1 R Shoylekov Group General Counsel M Wall Group Director of Corporate Finance The Committee has no meetings scheduled, and it was not required Responsibilities to meet during the year.
The Treasury Committee considers treasury policy, including Other ad hoc committees financial structures and investments, tax and treasury strategy, policies and certain transactions on behalf of the Group, reviews the As required by the demands of business, the Board may appoint performance and compliance of the tax and treasury function, within ad hoc committees to facilitate the implementation of its decisions a framework delegated by the Board, and makes recommendations or to consider specific matters in further detail between scheduled to the Board in matters such as overall financing structure and meetings.
The Board may delegate matters of a substantive nature strategy and currency exposure.
If it does so it will generally have already considered the matter in-depth at a full Board meeting but What the Committee has done during the year may require further review prior to final approval.
The Committee met periodically during the year and considered a During the year, a number of committees were appointed for the range of treasury-related matters including the Groups refinancing specific purpose of implementing decisions of the Board in relation see page 34, financing analysis, cash pooling, counterparty to approved acquisitions, the development of projects or the release exposure and guarantees, interest rate risk, currency balancing, of announcements.
In addition, a Committee of the Board was counterparty credit limits and overdraft facilities.
established to conduct final interviews and select the Companys new auditors.
Disclosure Committee Committee members during the year ended 31 July 2015 Executive Committee J Martin Chief Financial Officer Chairman Committee members during the year ended 31 July 2015 M Fearon Group Director of Communications and I Meakins Group Chief Executive Chairman Investor Relations T England Group Chief Information Officer I Meakins Group Chief Executive 2 P Headon Managing Director, UK 1 R Shoylekov Group General Counsel O M Jensen Chief Executive Officer, Nordic Region J Martin Chief Financial Officer Responsibilities B Morrison Group HR Director The Disclosure Committee meets as required to deal with all matters F Roach Chief Executive Officer, USA relating to public announcements of the Company and, in particular, 1 R Shoylekov Group General Counsel the Companys obligations under the Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
It also assists in the design, implementation and periodic evaluation of the Companys Responsibilities disclosure controls and procedures.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group Any announcements relating to any matters which the Board strategy and policies and for day-to-day operational management has designated as reserved matters, or matters of a substantive of the business, and monitors business performance.
Details of this or strategic nature, are dealt with by the Board or by the Major Committee can be found on page 56.
What the Committee has done during the year What the Committee has done during the year Management matters were addressed by the Committee and other The Committee met periodically during the year to consider specific committees to whom specific authority has been delegated to matters that had been identified as needing consideration.
implement Board strategy or policy.
The Committee met 10 times during the year.
1 Richard Shoylekov stepped down as Secretary to the Board and its Committees on 31 July 2015 and his title changed from Group Company Secretary and General Counsel to Group General Counsel.
Graham Middlemiss succeeded him on 1 August 2015 as Group Company Secretary.
Mr Shoylekov remains a member of the Major Announcements, Executive, Treasury, and Disclosure Committees.
Mr Middlemiss became Secretary to the Major Announcements, Executive, Treasury and Disclosure Committees on 1 August 2015.
2 Patrick Headon replaced Steve Ashmore as Managing Director, UK on 30 April 2015.
Wolseley plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
