How were doing Strategic report to share owners Dear share owner At the same time, we have responded to the changing competitive landscape by accelerating the implementation of our Company celebrated its our strategic goals.
Sector targets for faster-growth markets and new media have been raised to 40-45% of revenue over the thirtieth birthday in 2015 with next five years and horizontality across clients, countries and another record year: revenue, regions has been raised to our number one strategic priority.
profitability, net sales margins Your share price increased by over 16% in 2015, closing at 1,563.0p at year end.
Since then it has strengthened and earnings per share all further to 1,656.0p, up a further 6%, at the time of writing, reached new highs, despite reflecting our record results for 2015, as well as slightly strong currency headwinds in the second stronger global stock markets in recent weeks.
Dividends half and a generally low-growth global increased by 17% to 44.69p, a new high.
This represents a dividend pay-out ratio of 47.7% of headline diluted earnings environment.
For the fifth successive year, per share, compared with 45.0% in 2014.
It now seems WPP was named Creative Holding Company possible that the newly targeted pay-out ratio of 50% will of the Year at the Cannes International be achieved by the end of 2016, one year ahead of target.
Festival of Creativity, in recognition of your Reported billings were 47.6 billion, up almost 5% in constant currencies, driven by a strong overall leadership Companys collective creative excellence: and position in net new business league tables for the fourth year also for the fourth consecutive year, WPP in a row and GroupM topping both the RECMA media was ranked Most Effective Holding Company tsunami net new business and retention tables.
Revenue was up over 6% to 12.2 billion and up well over 7% in constant in the Effie Global Effectiveness Index: and, currencies.
Net sales were up well over 4% and almost 6% for the second year in a row, Warcs Most in constant currencies.
Including 100% of associates and Effective Holding Company.
investments, revenue is estimated to total around 17 billion over $27 billion.
Headline PBIT was up well over 5% to 1.774 billion and up well over 8% in constant currencies.
Net sales margins increased by 0.2 margin points to an industry-leading 16.9% and, on a constant currency basis, were up 0.4 margin points, ahead of the targeted constant currency increase of 0.3 margin points.
Cannes International Festival of Creativity Reported profit before interest and tax rose 7% to Holding Company of the Year 1.679 billion from 1.569 billion, up well over 10% in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 constant currencies.
Headline EBITDA increased by almost 5% to 2.002 billion, crossing 2 billion for the first time, up well over 7% in constant currencies.
Headline profit before tax was up over 7% to 1.622 billion and reported profit before tax was up almost 3% to 1.493 billion.
Diluted headline earnings per share rose by over 10% to 93.6p an all-time high and Effie Global Effectiveness Index diluted reported earnings per share were up almost 10% to Most Effective Holding Company of the Year 88.4p, both reflecting strong like-for-like revenue and net sales 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 growth, margin improvement and the benefit of acquisitions.
Return on equity increased 1.3 percentage points to 16.3% in 2015 compared with 15.0% in 2014, while the weighted average cost of capital increased to 6.7% in 2015 from 6.1% in 2014.
Additionally, the value of the Groups non-controlled investments rose by almost 500 million This strategic report to share owners should be read in conjunction with to 1.2 billion during the year, chiefly reflecting the and as part of the Directors report on pages 113 to 161 and the section headed How we comply on pages 163 to 169. increasing value of our content businesses, primarily VICE, and the partnership formed during the year with comScore.
24 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Free cash flow amounted to almost 1.3 billion in 2015, Revenue growth impacted by strong over 1 billion for the fifth consecutive year.
This free cash currency headwinds in the second half flow was absorbed by 0.7 billion of net cash acquisition payments and investments, 0.6 billion of share buy-backs Our reported revenue growth for the year was 6.1%, and 0.5 billion of dividends, a total outflow of 1.8 billion.
and on a constant currency basis, which excludes the This resulted in a net cash outflow of 0.5 billion, before impact of currency movements, revenue was up 7.5%.
any changes in working capital.
Average net debt was This difference of 1.4% reflects strong foreign currency therefore 3.6 billion in 2015, compared to 3.1 billion in headwinds in the second half: chiefly due to the strength of 2014, at 2015 exchange rates, and net debt at 31 December the pound sterling, primarily against the euro, partly offset 2015 was 3.2 billion, against 2.3 billion at 31 December by the weakness of the pound sterling against the US dollar.
The average net debt to headline EBITDA ratio in On a like-for-like basis, which excludes the impact of 2015 was 1.8 times, which is in the middle of the Groups currency and acquisitions, revenue was up 5.3%, with net target range of 1.5-2.0 times.
In the fourth quarter, like-for-like revenue Headline interest cover in 2015 was 11.7 times.
So far, was up well over 6%, the strongest quarter of the year, in the first two months of 2016, average net debt is up following like-for-like growth in the third quarter of well at 3.5 billion against 2.7 billion for the same period in over 4%, due to stronger growth in the fourth quarter in 2015, at 2016 exchange rates, reflecting the same factors North America, the UK and Asia Pacific, Latin America, as the full-year average for 2015.
Our long-term debt is Africa & the Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe, currently rated Baa2 and BBB and our short-term debt P2 partly offset by slightly slower growth in Western and A2, by Moodys and Standard & Poors respectively.
Like-for-like net sales were up almost With the equity market capitalisation at the time of 5% in the fourth quarter, the strongest quarter of the year, writing of approximately 21.4 billion, the total enterprise with all regions, except the UK and Western Continental value of your Company is approximately 25.5 billion, Europe, recording their strongest quarter of the year.
a multiple of 12.8 times 2015 headline EBITDA.
US UK Greater China Germany Australia New Zealand Our 5 Billion Dollar Markets WPP companies including associates and investments generated revenues of more than $1 billion in five markets 25 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 1 Constant currency revenue growth % North America leads the way North America 15 7.9 North America, with constant currency revenue growth 14 10.0 of over 11% in the final quarter and like-for-like growth UK 15 8.4 of well over 9%, strengthened further, exceeding the strong 14 16.0 growth seen in the first nine months, an improvement over Western Continental Europe 15 4.7 the third quarter year-to-date constant currency growth 14 5.1 of well over 6% and like-for-like growth of over 6%.
Asia Pacic, Latin America, 15 8.5 Particularly strong growth was achieved in Advertising and 14 15.8 Africa & Middle East and Media Investment Management, parts of the Groups Public Central & Eastern Europe Relations & Public Affairs businesses and Branding & Identity, direct, digital and interactive operations.
On a full- 1 Constant currency net sales growth year basis, constant currency revenue was up almost 8%, by geography % with like-for-like up over 7%.
Net sales were up well over North America 15 4.7 4% in constant currency, with like-for-like up over 4%.
14 3.4 The UK rate of growth in the final quarter, although lower than quarter three, remained strong at well over 6% UK 15 7.8 14 7.1 in constant currency, compared to well over 7% in quarter three, with like-for-like growth of almost 3%, well ahead of Western Continental Europe 15 4.3 14 2.5 the 1% seen in quarter three.
The Groups Advertising, Public Relations & Public Affairs, Branding & Identity and direct, Asia Pacic, Latin America, 15 7.3 14 12.5 Africa & Middle East and digital and interactive businesses performed particularly well.
Central & Eastern Europe Despite the slight slow-down in the rate of revenue growth, net sales remained strong, with constant currency growth of almost 7%, slightly down on quarter three, with like-for-like 2 Net sales margin by geography % growth of 3.5% compared with over 2% in quarter three.
North America 15 18.8 On a full-year basis, constant currency revenue was up over 14 17.9 8%, with like-for-like up over 4%.
Net sales were up almost 8% in constant currency, with like-for-like up almost 3%.
UK 15 16.2 14 15.8 Western Continental Europe, although remaining patchy from a macroeconomic point of view, continued the Western Continental Europe 15 13.7 14 12.9 2015 revenue by geography versus peers $bn Asia Pacic, Latin America, 15 16.8 14 18.3 Africa & Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe 5 Rest of World o 20 Western Europe o including UK 15 Revenue by geography m North America o 10 North America o 5 12,000 UK o 10,000 0 Western Continental Europe o 1 1,3 1,2, 3 1,4 1,2 WPP Omnicom Publicis IPG Dentsu Havas 8,000 Asia Pacic, Latin America, o 6,000 Africa & Middle East and 4,000 Central & Eastern Europe 2,000 0 1 W PP reportable US$s per WPP results.
Omnicom, IPG, Publicis and Havas 11 12 13 14 15 company presentations for 2015 with CEE estimated at 3%.
2 F X. Havas and Publicis assumes $1 0.9013 based on the average for 2015.
3 O MC and PUB CEE based on analyst estimates.
I PG assumes Canada is ca 1.5% of revenue.
2 5 T he calculation of net sales margin is set out in note 31 of the R est of World.
Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa & Middle East and Central financial statements.
26 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 1 improvement seen in quarter three, with constant currency Constant currency revenue growth by sector revenue growth of well over 6%, the highest rate of quarterly % Advertising and Media 15 9.9 growth in 2015, and partly driven by acquisitions.
Like-for- 14 19.8 Investment Management like revenue was up over 5% in the final quarter, down Data Investment 15 3.5 slightly on the 6% seen in quarter three.
Similarly, net sales 14 1.5 Management growth on a constant currency basis was up over 7% in the Public Relations 15 4.7 final quarter, the highest rate of quarterly growth in 2015, 14 2.6 & Public Affairs compared to over 4% in quarter three, again partly driven Branding & Identity, 15 7.3 by acquisitions.
On a like-for-like basis, net sales were up 3% 14 9.5 Healthcare and in the final quarter, compared with well over 4% in quarter Specialist Communications three.
For the year, Western Continental Europe revenue grew by well over 4% like-for-like well over 5% in the 1 second half, compared with almost 4% in 2014, with Constant currency net sales growth by sector net sales growth of 2.5% like-for-like well over 3% in % Advertising and Media 15 5.3 the second half, compared to over 1% in 2014.
Belgium, 14 7.8 Investment Management Denmark, Germany, Italy and Turkey all showed good Data Investment 15 4.6 growth in the final quarter, but Austria, France, Ireland, the 14 0.9 Management Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland were tougher.
Public Relations 15 4.3 In Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa & Middle East and 14 2.7 & Public Affairs Central & Eastern Europe, on a constant currency basis, Branding & Identity, 15 7.8 revenue growth in the fourth quarter remained strong at over 14 8.6 Healthcare and 9%, ahead of the first nine months growth of over 8%.
Specialist Communications Like-for-like revenue growth in the final quarter was over 6%, the second highest quarter of 2015, slightly lower than the 2 almost 7% seen in quarter one.
Growth in the fourth quarter Net sales margin by sector % was driven principally by Asia Pacific, Latin America and Advertising and Media 15 18.4 1 2 3 Africa, the CIVETS, the Next 11 and the MIST.
Central & 14 18.6 Investment Management Eastern Europe, after the improvement seen in quarter three, Data Investment 15 16.2 slipped back slightly, with full-year like-for-like revenue down 14 15.6 Management over 1%.
Constant currency net sales growth in the region as Public Relations 15 16.7 a whole was over 7%, with like-for-like net sales up 3%.
In 14 15.8 & Public Affairs Asia, Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Myanmar, Branding & Identity, 15 15.0 Pakistan and Vietnam, had double-digit like-for-like growth, 14 14.7 Healthcare and while Japan and Malaysia were more challenging.
Specialist Communications Quarter four in Latin America was the strongest of the year, with like-for-like revenue up almost 8%, compared with quarter three, the next highest, with over 4%.
Like-for-like net sales Revenue by sector m grew over 7% in quarter four, also the highest quarterly growth Advertising and Media o in 2015, with full-year growth of almost 5% over 6% in the 12,000 Investment Management 10,000 second half compared with well over 2% in the first half.
Data Investment o 8,000 Africa also grew strongly, with like-for-like revenue up Management 6,000 Public Relations & o over 8% in both quarter four and the full year, driven by 4,000 Public Affairs the Groups Media Investment Management, Data 2,000 Branding & Identity, o 0 Investment Management and direct, digital and interactive Healthcare and Specialist 11 12 13 14 15 Communications businesses.
In Central & Eastern Europe, like-for-like 1 Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa.
2 1 B angladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, See definition on page 228.
2 South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam the Group has no operations in Iran.
T he calculation of net sales margin is set out in note 31 of the 3 Mexico, Indonesia, South Korea and Turkey.
27 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners revenue was up over 1% in quarter four, compared with Strong growth in advertising and media 3% in quarter three, with Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Kazakhstan up strongly.
Poland, Russia and Advertising and Media Investment Management was the Slovak Republic were tougher.
the strongest performing sector, with constant currency 4 Full-year revenue for the BRICs, which account for over revenue growth of almost 10% for the year, and 9% in $2.8 billion of revenue, was up well over 3% on a like-forquarter four.
Like-for-like revenue was up over 8% for like basis, with the Next 11 and the CIVETS up over 9% both the year and quarter four.
Advertising grew strongly and well over 11% respectively.
The MIST was up almost in North America and Latin America in quarter four, but 8%.
In 2015, 29% of the Groups revenue came from Asia the UK, Continental Europe and Africa were more difficult Pacific, Latin America, Africa & Middle East and Central & and, overall, Advertising remained challenged.
Media Eastern Europe down slightly from almost 30% in 2014, Investment Management showed strong like-for-like due to the strength of sterling against the currencies of many growth, with double-digit growth in all regions and of the markets in these regions still having a significant sub-regions, except the UK and the Middle East.
On a net sales basis, there was also a slight drop to Of the Groups advertising networks, J. Walter almost 30%, which compares with the Groups strategic Thompson Worldwide, Ogilvy & Mather and Grey objective of 40-45% in the next five years.
Markets outside performed well in quarter four.
Growth in the Groups North America now account for 63% of our revenue.
Media Investment Management businesses has been very consistent throughout the year, with constant currency and like-for-like revenue up strongly for the year, but with a slightly weaker second half, principally in the UK.
tenthavenue, the engagement network focused on out-ofhome media, also performed strongly in the fourth quarter, with like-for-like net sales growth up almost 9%.
The strong revenue and net sales growth across most of the 4 Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Groups businesses, partly offset by the challenges in the Our 9 Billion Dollar Brands Nine WPP brands have generated revenues of $1 billion or more 28 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Groups Advertising businesses in most regions, resulted UK, Latin America and Africa & the Middle East.
On a in the combined net sales margin of this sector dropping full-year basis, revenues were up well over 4% in constant 0.2 margin points to 18.4%, but improving by 0.2 margin currency and 3% like-for-like.
Ogilvy Public Relations, points in constant currency.
Cohn & Wolfe and the specialist Public Relations & In 2015, J. Walter Thompson Worldwide, Ogilvy & Public Affairs businesses in the US, the UK and Mather, Y&R and Grey generated estimated net new Germany performed well, with Burson-Marsteller and business billings of almost 1.1 billion $1.7 billion.
Hill Knowlton Strategies less buoyant.
An improving GroupM the Groups Media Investment Management top-line and good control of costs resulted in net sales arm, which includes Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom, margins for the year improving by 0.9 margin points to Maxus, GroupM Connect, Xaxis and now Essence, 16.7% and by 1.0 margin point in constant currency.
together with tenthavenue, generated estimated net new At the Groups Branding & Identity, Healthcare and business billings of 3.8 billion $6.0 billion.
The Groups Specialist Communications businesses including direct, net new billings totalled 5.6 billion $8.6 billion, slightly digital and interactive, constant currency revenue grew down on the 5.8 billion $9.3 billion recorded in 2014. strongly at over 11% in quarter four as with most of our Data Investment Management revenue grew by almost businesses, the strongest quarter of 2015 and like-for-like 6% in the fourth quarter on a constant currency basis, the revenue was up almost 9%, a significant improvement over strongest quarter of 2015, and 1.4% like-for-like.
Full-year revenue was up over 7% in constant showed a similar pattern, up over 5% in constant currency currency and over 5% like-for-like.
The Groups direct, in quarter four and almost 1% like-for-like.
On a full-year digital and interactive businesses, especially JWT Mirum basis, revenue was up 3.5% in constant currency, but down the digital arm of J. Walter Thompson Worldwide, WPP 0.2% like-for-like, with the second half stronger than the Digital and VML performed strongly, with parts of the first half.
Net sales showed a similar trend, with a stronger Groups Healthcare Communications and Branding & second half on both a constant currency and like-for-like Identity businesses slower.
Net sales margins for the sector basis.
The mature markets were more difficult, remaining as a whole improved 0.3 margin points to 15.0% and by under pressure, but in the faster growth markets net sales 0.3 margin points in constant currency.
Syndicated research continues to show In 2015, 37.5% of the Groups revenue came from resilience, with like-for-like net sales growth up well over direct, digital and interactive, up over one percentage point 2%, but custom research, which accounts for almost half from the previous year, with revenue growing well over 7% of Data Investment Management net sales, was down by like-for-like.
Kantar Worldpanel, Kantar Health, Kantar Retail and IMRB all showed strong like-for-like net sales growth, while Margins reach new high, ahead of target TNS, Millward Brown and Lightspeed were more challenged.
There seems to be a growing recognition of the value of real Net sales margins were up 0.2 margin points to a new first-party data businesses, rather than those that depend on historical high of 16.9% and increased 0.4 margin points third-party data.
Net sales margins improved by 0.6 margin in constant currencies, ahead of the Groups margin target points to 16.2% and by 1.1 margin points in constant of 0.3 margin points, excluding currency.
Good cost control and the continued benefits of three years, reported net sales margins have improved by restructuring contributed to the improvement in net sales 0.8 margin points and by 1.2 margin points, excluding margins.
Although there has been further improvement during the impact of currency.
2015, the slowest sub-sector continues to be like-for-like net Group revenue is more weighted to the second half of sales growth in the custom businesses in mature markets, the year across all regions and sectors, especially in the where discretionary spending remains under review by clients.
faster-growing markets of Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The Groups Public Relations & Public Affairs As a result, the Groups profitability and margin continue businesses continued the growth shown earlier in the year, to be skewed to the second half of the year, with the Group with a stronger second half and even stronger quarter four.
earning approximately one-third of its profits in the first Constant currency revenue growth in quarter four was half and two-thirds in the second half.
over 8%, and like-for-like net sales were up almost 6%, Given the significance of Data Investment Management with strong growth in all regions, but particularly in the revenues to the Group, with none of our parent company 29 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners competitors presently represented in that sector, net sales costs amounted to 331 million $505 million, which are a more meaningful measure of comparative top-line was 16.2% of headline operating profit before incentives growth, although we know competitors do have significant and income from associates, compared with 313 million principal media, barter, telesales, food broking and field $512million or 16.3% in 2014.
Achievement of target marketing operations, where the same issue may arise.
objectives generates 15% of operating profit before bonus Net sales are a more appropriate measure because Data as an incentive pool.
Investment Management revenue includes pass-through Net sales margins, before all incentives and income costs, principally for data collection, on which no margin from associates, were 19.3%, up 0.2 margin points, is charged.
In addition, the Groups Media Investment compared with 19.1% last year.
The Groups staff cost-toManagement sub-sector is increasingly buying digital net sales ratio, including severance and incentives, media for its own account on a transparent opt-in basis decreased by 0.8 margin points to 63.2% compared to and, as a result, the subsequent billings to clients have 64.0% in 2014, indicating an improvement in productivity.
to be accounted for as revenue, as well as billings.
We As a result of all this, headline PBIT was up well over believe a number of our competitors face the same issue 5% to 1.774 billion from 1.681 billion and up well over and, consequently, that reporting practices should be 8% in constant currencies.
Thus, it is possible that revenue and the In 2015, the Group generated exceptional gains of revenue growth rate could increase, whilst net sales and the 296million, largely representing gains on the sale of net sales growth rate remain the same and, therefore, the certain Kantar internet measurement businesses to latter presents a clearer picture of underlying performance.
comScore Inc. the sale of the Groups interests in Because of these two significant factors, and whilst e-Rewards and Chime Communications plc, together with continuing to report revenue and revenue growth, we re-measurement gains of 165 million, which included will focus even more on our net sales margins.
In 2015, a gain of 132 million in relation to the acquisition of a the reported headline net sales margin was up 0.2 margin majority stake in IBOPE in Latin America.
These were points to 16.9%, achieving the highest reported partly offset by investment write-downs of 79 million, comparative level in the industry.
resulting in a net gain of 217 million, which in accordance with prior practice, has been excluded from headline profit.
The Group also incurred 106 million of restructuring costs which largely comprised 52 million of severance Operating costs contained costs, primarily in relation to certain of the Groups Data Investment Management businesses in Western Continental During 2015, the Group continued to manage operating Europe, and 37 million of IT transformation costs.
costs effectively, with improvements across most cost With 29 million of one-off IT asset write-downs, this all categories, particularly staff and property costs.
On a resulted in a net exceptional gain of 82 million.
After all like-for-like basis, headline operating costs rose by 2.6%, these gains and restructuring costs, reported PBIT rose by less than the rate of growth for revenue and net sales.
7% to 1.679 billion from 1.569 billion, up well over 10% On a like-for-like basis, the average number of people in constant currencies.
in the Group decreased by 1.9% in 2015.
On the same Net finance costs excluding the revaluation of financial basis, the number of people in the Group at 31 December instruments were 152 million, down almost 10% from 2015 decreased by 1.6% compared with the end of 2014.
This reflected the beneficial impact These average and point-to-point figures partly reflect the of lower bond coupon costs resulting from refinancing transfer of almost 1,500 staff to IBM in the first half of maturing debt at cheaper rates, partially offset by lower 2015, as part of the strategic partnership agreement and income from investments.
Headline profit before tax IT transformation program, together with the continuing increased by over 7% over 11% in constant currencies to sound management of headcount and staff costs in 2015 to 1.622 billion and reported profit before tax was up almost balance revenue and costs.
On a like-for-like basis, revenue 3% over 7% in constant currencies to 1.493 billion, the and net sales increased by 5.3% and 3.3% respectively.
latter reflecting lower relative levels on the revaluation of Reported staff costs, excluding incentives, increased financial instruments.
by 3.2% and rose by over 4% in constant currency.
Staff The Groups headline tax rate was 19.0%, compared costs included 24 million $37 million of severance costs with 20.0% in 2014, and on reported profit before tax compared with 37 million $63 million in 2014.
Incentive 30 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners was 16.6% against 20.7% in 2014.
The reported tax rate growth, which remain stuck around 3% to 4% and is lower than the headline tax rate because most of the below the pre-Lehman trend rate, which by definition was gains on disposals of subsidiaries and investments, and unsustainable.
In fact, in recent months, whilst real GDP the gains on re-measurement of equity interests, are not forecasts have remained steady, nominal forecasts have taxable.
Reported profit after tax rose by over 8% almost deteriorated significantly to under 3%, due to the strength 12% in constant currencies to 1.245billion.
of the US dollar, although the same pundits expect inflation Diluted headline earnings per share rose by over 10% somewhat optimistically?
to increase in the coming years.
over 13% in constant currencies to 93.6p and diluted In this respect, oil price reductions, the Iranian nuclear reported earnings per share increased by almost 10% armistice and the international currency wars have over 13% in constant currencies to 88.4p.
not been helpful black or grey swans.
The faster growth markets of the BRICs and Next 11, located in Asia, Latin America, Africa & the Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe continue to grow faster than the slower markets of Parallel universes North America and Western Europe, although the growth gap has narrowed significantly as Brazil, Russia and China The Groups record performance in 2015, its fifth record have slowed and the US and UK, and even some parts year in a row, was particularly creditable given the of Western Continental Europe, have quickened.
absence of any maxior mini-quadrennial factors, and the slowdown in worldwide GDP growth, both nominal and real, in the second half of the year and into 2016.
Brand investment drives Pleasingly, bottom-line growth and net sales margin top-line like-for-like sales improvement has been particularly strong, beyond budget, target and last year.
Revenue and net sales growth were growth, which, in turn, is the also better, or similar, with all geographies and sectors biggest determinant of total except data investment management growing revenue and net sales on both a constant currency and like-for-like share owner return basis.
Like-for-like revenue and net sales were up almost 5% and over 2% respectively in the first six months and Geopolitical issues remain top of business leaders up almost 6% and over 4% for the second half.
The continuing crisis in the Ukraine and and net sales momentum continues, with the two-year consequent bilateral sanctions, continued tensions in the half-yearly growth rates at 13.6% and 6.4% to 13.5% and Middle East and North Africa and the continuing risk, 6.6% respectively.
Our operating companies are still hiring despite the negotiated agreement, of a Grexit, or even cautiously and responding to any geographic, functional more seriously now, a Brexit from the European Union top and client changes in revenue positive or negative.
Lower oil prices and first-time and continued constant currency basis, headline PBIT was above budget quantitative easing in Europe and continued easing in Japan and well ahead of last year and the increase in the net sales may seem to bottom or underpin the recovery and a margin was well above the Groups full-year target of a 0.3 continued, but somewhat patchy, US recovery and UK and margin points improvement on a constant currency basis.
Indian strength may help confidence.
But concerns about Despite this strong performance, the always on, Don China, aggravated by the recent renminbi devaluation and Draperish general industry optimism seems misplaced.
stock market decline, and Brazil remain, although we To survive in the advertising and marketing services sector, remain unabashed bulls of both.
you have to remain positive, indeed optimistic, seeing the Countries and opportunities like Indonesia, the glass half-full and industry and company reports generally Philippines, Vietnam, Egypt, Nigeria, Mexico, Colombia continue, understandably, to reflect that attitude.
However, and Peru and now post-Macri Argentina add to confidence general client behaviour does not reflect that state of mind, and maybe even Cuba and Iran will, along with a mild as tepid GDP growth, low or no inflation and consequent recovery in Western Continental Europe, chiefly in lack of pricing power encourage a focus on cutting costs Germany, Spain and Italy.
France remains soft, although to reach profit targets, rather than revenue growth.
In there are some small signs of improvement.
addition, there seem to be little, if any, reason for an upside breakout from the current levels of real or nominal GDP 31 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners But there are other grey swans, chiefly three.
Not surprising then, that corporate leaders tend to will the Federal Reserve pre-Christmas tightening falter, be risk averse.
The average life expectancy of US CEOs is or even reverse and what will be the further impact on around six to seven years, US CFOs around four to five years bond and equity markets?
Although interest rates are and US CMOs two years.
likely to remain lower, longer than many anticipate, due Interestingly, the company structures that offend to mediocre growth rates, when the tightening comes, as corporate governance with geared voting structures, seem it inevitably will, it may have a dramatic impact on bond to be the ones that encourage more long-term strategic and equity valuations, as recent gyrations in the markets thinking.
In these conditions, procurement and finance take indicate.
Will continued renminbi weakness, for example, the lead over marketing and investment and suppliers are blow the Federal Reserve Bank off course from further encouraged to play the additional roles of banks and or tightening in 2016?
At best, clients focus on a strategy Secondly, the somewhat surprising result of the of adding capacity and brand building in both fast growth UK General Election at least to the pollsters, with the geographic markets and functional markets, like digital, Conservatives winning an overall majority, has resulted and containing or reducing capacity, perhaps with brand in an  European Union referendum, building to maintain or increase market share, in the now pegged for 23 June.
In addition, the reduction of mature, slow growth markets.
This approach also has the the still remaining, substantial, UK budget deficit, is apparent virtue of limiting fixed cost increases and being re-addressed in the context of a new fixed five-year increasing variable costs, although we naturally believe political cycle.
that marketing is an investment, not a cost.
We know from Finally, the free fall in the oil price, although effectively our own annual Millward Brown BrandZ Top 100 Most a tax cut for consumers, has not resulted, it seems, in Valuable Global Brands report, that brand investment increased consumer spending, perhaps due to the lingering, drives top-line like-for-like sales growth, which, in turn, psychological impact of that now infamous weekend in is the biggest determinant of total share owner return.
Moreover, oil producing states and their Investment in the top 10 brands from this report annually sovereign wealth funds have had to pull in their investment over the last 10 years would yield a total investment return horns, which in turn has caused concerns in relation to 300% greater than the MSCI.
energy bank loans to both public and private sectors and We see little reason, if any, for this pattern of behaviour the liquidity of banks themselves.
to change in 2016, with continued caution being the So all in all, whilst clients are certainly more confident watchword.
There is certainly no evidence, based on 2015, than they were in September 2008 post-Lehman, with to suggest any such change in behaviour, although one stronger balance sheets over $7 trillion in net cash and or two institutional investors, including, most notably, limited leverage, sub-trend long-term global GDP growth BlackRock, Legal & General and the UK Government, at around 2.5% to 3.0% real and 3.5% to 4.0% nominal, are saying that they are tiring with some companies combined with these levels of geopolitical uncertainty, total focus on short-term cost cutting and would favour with low inflation or fears of deflation resulting in limited strategies based more on the long-term and top-line pricing power, with short-term focused activist investors growth and the end to quarterly reporting.
and strengthened corporate governance scrutiny, make them unwilling to take further risks.
They, therefore, focus on costs, rather than revenue Outlook for 2016 growth.
If you are trying to run a legacy business, at one end of the spectrum you have the disrupters, like Uber and The pattern for 2016 looks very similar to 2015, but Airbnb, and at the other end you have the cost-focused with the bonus of the maxi-quadrennial events of the models like 3G or JAB in fast-moving consumer goods and visually-stunning Rio Olympics, the UEFA Euro Football Valeant and Endo in pharmaceuticals although their models Championships and, of course, the US Presidential Election are under considerable pressure currently, whilst in the to boost marketing investments, as usual by up to 1% middle, towering above you, you have the activists led by or so, above advertising as a proportion of GDP.
such as Nelson Peltz, Bill Ackman and Dan Loeb, with a Forecasts of worldwide real GDP growth still hover perception of stressing short-term performance maybe they around 3.0% to 3.5%, with recently reduced inflation need a marketing campaign to establish they really are long estimates of 0.5% giving nominal GDP growth, in dollars, 32 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners of even less than 3%.
Advertising as a proportion of GDP markets are adjusting to continued low growth: so lower, should at least remain constant overall.
Although it is still longer both growth and interest rates.
at relatively depressed historical levels, particularly in The budgets for 2016 have been prepared on a mature markets, post-Lehman, it should be buoyed by cautious basis as usual hopefully, but continue to reflect incremental branding investments in the under-branded the faster-growing geographical markets of Asia Pacific, faster-growing markets.
Latin America, Africa & the Middle East and Central & Although both consumers and corporates seem to be Eastern Europe and faster-growing functional sectors of increasingly cautious and risk averse, the latter should Advertising, Media Investment Management and direct, continue to purchase or invest in brands in both fast and digital and interactive to some extent moderated by the slow growth markets to stimulate top-line sales growth.
slower growth in the mature markets of Western Merger and acquisition activity may be regarded as an Continental Europe.
Our 2016 budgets show like-for-like alternative way of doing this, particularly funded by cheap revenue growth of well over 3% and net sales growth long-term debt, but we believe clients may regard this as of over 3% and a target net sales margin improvement a more risky way than investing in marketing and brand of 0.3 margin points excluding the impact of currency.
and hence growing market share, particularly as equity At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit valuations have been, at least until recently, strong.
The data for the first two months of 2016.
The Group has recent, potentially record, spike in merger and acquisition had a good start to the year, with like-for-like revenue activity may be driven more by companies running out growth up over 5% in the first two months and net sales of cost-reduction opportunities, rather than trying to find revenue growth opportunities or synergies.
In 2016, our prime focus will remain on growing revenue and net sales faster than the industry average, driven by our leading position in the new markets, in new media, in Data 1 Investment Management, including data analytics and the 2015 digital revenue vs peers $bn application of technology, in creativity and horizontality $7.3bn the increasing opportunities for coordination and co-operation between activities both nationally and internationally, and at a client and country level.
New markets, new media and Data Investment Management account respectively for $5.5bn 29%, 37.5% and 20% of the Groups revenues of $19 billion, demonstrating the success of our strategic focus.
$4.7bn At the same time, we will concentrate on meeting our net sales margin objectives by managing absolute levels of costs and increasing our flexibility in order to adapt our cost structure to significant market changes and by ensuring that the benefits of the restructuring investments $2.3bn $2.3bn taken in 2014 and 2015 continue to be realised.
The initiatives taken by the parent company in the areas of human resources, property, procurement, IT and practice $0.7bn development continue to improve the flexibility of the Groups cost base.
Flexible staff costs including incentives, freelance and consultants remain close to historical highs WPP Publicis Omnicom Dentsu IPG Havas of above 8% of net sales and continue to position the Group extremely well should current market conditions deteriorate.
Some commentators and analysts believe that the markets are signalling a recession.
Whilst some countries may technically go into recession i. e. two 1 consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth, we do not P eer digital revenue according to Sanford Bernstein percentages applied to FY 2015 US$ revenue.
believe there will be a general recession.
More likely the 33 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners up over 3% on the same basis, again reflecting the add value to our clients businesses and our peoples careers, divergence between revenue and net sales in the Groups an objective which has been specifically built into shortMedia and Data Investment Management businesses.
We have decided that up to half of All regions and sectors, except Data Investment operating company incentive pools are funded and Management, showed revenue and net sales growth, with allocated on the basis of Group-wide performance in 2016 Advertising and Media Investment Management, digital, and beyond.
Horizontality has been accelerated through direct and interactive and the specialist communications the appointment of 45 Global Client Leaders for our major businesses up the strongest.
These trends are in line with our clients, accounting for over one-third of total revenue of budgets, which also indicate a broadly steady rate of growth almost $20 billion, and 17 Regional, Sub-Regional and throughout the year, albeit with the usual conservatism in Country Managers in a growing number of test markets quarter four.
Operating profits and margins for the first two and sub-regions covering 51 of the 112 countries in which months were significantly above budget.
Horizontality across clients, Horizontality countries and regions a strategy Including associates, the Group currently employs almost the Group has pursued for many 190,000 people in over 3,000 offices in 112 countries, now including Cuba.
It services 352 of the Fortune Global 500 years, is clearly becoming an companies, all 30 of the Dow Jones 30, 77 of the NASDAQ increasingly important part of 100, and 830 national or multinational clients in three or more disciplines.
Over 550 clients are served in four disciplines our clients strategies and these clients account for over 52% of Group revenue.
The Group also works with 448 clients in six or more countries.
The Group continues to lead the industry in These statistics reflect the increasing opportunities coordinating communication services geographically and for horizontality developing client relationships between functionally through parent company initiatives and activities nationally, internationally and by function.
For example, the Group has been We estimate that well over a third of new assignments very successful in the recent tsunami of Media Investment in the year were generated through the joint development Management pitches, chiefly in the US and is now ranked of opportunities by two or more Group companies.
first by RECMA, for both net new business reviews and Horizontality across clients, countries and regions retentions.
The swing factor between the most and least a strategy the Group has pursued for many years, successful firms totals approximately $6 billion on net new is clearly becoming an increasingly important part business currently even more including retentions and of our clients strategies, particularly as they continue will probably go higher in due course.
This has resulted in to invest in brand in slower-growth markets, and both an increase in our global Media Investment Management capacity and brand in faster-growth markets.
market share to about a third and market leadership in The Group continues to improve co-operation and all regions, with North America now at around 30%.
coordination among its operating companies in order to 1,2 RECMA media reviews 2015 Billings $bn 8 New client o 6 Incl retained 4 o 2 0 -2 -4 WPP Omnicom Publicis Dentsu IPG Havas RECMA 2016 Major Wins 2015 44 largest pitches & moves.
2 Adjusted for Publicis loss of Walmart and WPP win of Sony Omnicom Carat loss.
34 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Four core strategic priorities Our six specific objectives Our reason for being, the justification for WPPs existence, Here are six objectives which represent our key continues to be to add value to our clients businesses and performance indicators KPIs.
For an assessment our peoples careers.
Our goal remains to be the worlds most of how we performed against them in 2015, admired and respected communications services advisor read on.
to global, multinational, regional and local companies.
To that end, we have four core strategic priorities, Continue to improve operating as presented on pages 16 and 17. margins on net sales.
Increase flexibility in the Advance horizontality by ensuring our people cost structure.
work together for the benefit of clients, primarily through two horizontal integrators: Global Use free cash flow to enhance share Client Leaders and Regional, Sub-Regional owner value and improve return on and Country Managers.
Increase the combined geographic share of revenues Continue to develop the value added from the faster-growing markets of Asia Pacific, by the parent company.
Latin America, Africa & Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe to 40-45% of revenues.
Emphasise revenue and net sales Increase the share of revenues from new media growth more as margins improve.
Improve still further the creative Maintain the share of more measurable marketing capabilities and reputation of all services such as data investment management and our businesses.
direct, digital and interactive at 50% of revenues, with a focus on the application of technology, data and content.
If we implement this strategy effectively then our First, to continue to improve operating margins.
business will be geographically and functionally wellIn 2015, we achieved a margin of 16.9% on net positioned to compete successfully and to deliver on sales, the highest-reported level in the industry.
our long-term financial targets: We continue to believe a margin of well over 19% Revenue and net sales growth greater than the on net sales, is a tough, but realistic, objective industry average.
given that our best-performing companies in Annual improvement in net sales margin of 0.3 each services sector have already demonstrated they can margin points or more, excluding the impact of currency, perform at a combined Group margin of 18% on net sales.
depending on net sales growth and staff cost-to-net The Group has embarked on a number of programs sales ratio improvement of 0.2 margin points or more.
to improve operational effectiveness including process Annual diluted headline EPS growth of 10% to simplification, shared service centres, offshoring certain 15% delivered through revenue and net sales growth, tasks to lower-cost markets and, where appropriate, margin expansion, acquisitions and share buy-backs.
We are consolidating IT infrastructure and services, and centralising systems development and applications to create efficiencies and focus investment.
These programs are projected to deliver a 1.0 margin point benefit excluding the impact of currency over the course of the next two to four years, with 2016 being the first year of significant delivery.
35 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Second, to increase flexibility in the cost Third, to enhance share owner value and structure.
In 2015, flexible staff costs maximise the return on investment on the including incentives, freelance and Companys substantial free cash flow of almost consultants remained close to historical 1.3 billion or almost $2.0 billion per annum.
highs of above 8% of net sales and continue As capital expenditure remains relatively stable, to position the Group extremely well should there are broadly three alternative uses of current market conditions deteriorate.
funds: acquisitions, share buy-backs and dividends.
We have increasingly come to the view, based on Change in variable costs % co-operative research with leading investment institutions, that, currently, the markets favour consistent increases in 11.4 12.7 12.5 13.1 7.3 8.2 8.0 8.3 15 2015 dividends and higher sustainable pay-out ratios, along with o 2014 12 o anti-dilutive progressive buy-backs and, of course, sensibly- 2013 o 9 priced smallto medium-sized strategic acquisitions.
There is still a very significant 3 pipeline of reasonably priced smalland medium-sized 0 potential acquisitions, with the exception of Brazil and Variable staff costs Variable staff costs as a % of staff costs as a % of net sales India and digital in the US, where prices seem to have got ahead of themselves because of pressure on our competitors to catch up.
This is clearly reflected in some of the operational issues that are starting to surface elsewhere in the industry, particularly in faster-growing markets like Brazil, India and China.
Our acquisition focus in 2015 was again on the triple play of faster-growing geographic markets, new media and data investment management, including the application of 1 Headline operating margins vs peers % 18 WPP including o associates 17 WPP o 16 Publicis o 15 Havas o 14 Omnicom o 13 IPG o 12 11 10 9 8 7 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 B ased on headline operating profit as a proportion of net sales as defined on page 228, excluding share of results of associates.
As our competitors do not disclose net sales, competitor operating margins have been calculated on a revenue basis, and sourced from relevant public filings.
36 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 1 technology, data and content, totally consistent with Distributions to share owners m 6.0% our strategic priorities in the areas of geography, new 1200 5.9% communication services and measurability.
In 2015, the Buy-backs 1000 o Dividends paid 800 o Group spent almost 650 million on initial acquisition 3.8% 600 4.3% 4.5% payments, net of cash acquired and disposal proceeds.
400 Whilst talent and creativity in the broadest sense 200 remain the key potential differentiators between us and 6.0% 0 11 12 13 14 15 our competitors, increasingly differentiation can also be achieved in three additional ways: through the application 1 of technology, for example, Xaxis and AppNexus: through S um of share buy-backs and dividends paid divided by average shares in issue for the relevant period, as a percentage of the average share price for integration of data investment management, for example, the relevant period.
Kantar and comScore: and investment in content, for example, the Groups minority investments in Imagina, VICE, Media Rights Capital, Fullscreen, Indigenous Share buy-backs.
They continue to be targeted to absorb Media, China Media Capital and Bruin Sports Capital.
any share dilution from issues of options or restricted stock.
Net acquisition spend is currently targeted at around However, given the net sales margin target of 0.3 margin 300-400 million per annum, excluding slightly more points improvement, the targeted level of share buy-backs significant one-offs, like the purchase of a controlling will be 2-3% of the outstanding share capital.
If achieved, stake in IBOPE in Latin America and our investment the impact on headline diluted EPS would be equivalent to in comScore.
We will continue to seize opportunities an incremental improvement of 0.2 margin points.
in line with our strategy.
In addition, the Company also has considerable free Dividends.
As outlined in the June 2015 AGM cash flow to take advantage of any anomalies in market statement, the achievement of the previous targeted values, particularly as the average 2015 net debt to pay-out ratio of 45% one year ahead of schedule, raised EBITDA ratio was under 1.8 times, at the mid-point of our the question of whether the pay-out ratio target should market guidance of 1.5-2.0 times.
Share buy-backs in 2015 be increased further.
Following that review, your Board cost 588 million, representing 3.0% of issued share decided to up the dividend pay-out ratio to a target of capital, at the top-end of our target range.
50%, to be achieved by 2017, and, as a result, declared In 2015, the Company returned over 1.1 billion to an increase of almost 37% in the 2015 interim dividend share owners, including share buy-backs, an increase of to 15.91p per share, representing a pay-out ratio of 47.5% 17% over 2014.
Funds returned to share owners total for the first half, against the traditionally lower first-half 3.5billion over the last five years and 5.2 billion over pay-out of 40% in the previous year.
This has the effect the last 10 years.
of evening out the pay-out ratio between the two half-year periods and consequently balancing out the dividend Fourth, we will continue to develop the value payments themselves, although the pattern of profitability added by the parent company and build unique and hence dividend payments seems likely to remain integrated marketing approaches for clients.
one-third in the first half and two-thirds in the second half.
WPP is not just a holding company focused on Given your Companys strong progress, your Board has planning, budgeting, reporting and financial recommended an increase of 8.3% in the final dividend to issues, but a parent company that can add 28.78p per share, which, together with the interim dividend value to our clients and our people in the areas of human of 15.91p per share, makes a total of 44.69p per share for resources, property, procurement, IT and practice 2015, an overall increase of 17.0%.
This represents a development, including sustainability.
We will continue dividend pay-out ratio of 47.7%, compared to a pay-out to do this through a limited group of 400 or so people ratio of 45.0% in 2014. at the centre in London, New York, Tokyo, Hong Kong, It now seems possible that the newly targeted pay-out Singapore, Shanghai and So Paulo.
This does not mean ratio of 50% will be achieved by the end of 2016, one year that we seek to diminish the strength of our operating ahead of target.
Dividends paid in respect of 2015 will total brands, but rather to learn from one another.
is to maximise the added value for our clients in their businesses and our people in their careers.
37 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Many of our initiatives are possible because of the scale beyond our industry, often competing with investment on which we now operate.
In the optimum use of property, banking, management consulting, new media and private in IT and in procurement generally, we are able to achieve equity offers.
The war for talent is fierce and will intensify efficiencies that would be beyond the reach of any further, with ageing and lower birth rate demographic individual operating company.
But it is also clear that there changes, and there is, therefore, more to be done.
is an increasing requirement for the centre to complement The blueprint for our executive development curriculum the operating companies in professional development and has been completed, and our flagship client leadership client coordination.
It is a relatively recent development for training program, Maestro, now in its 13th year, is being certain multinational marketing companies, when looking continuously developed.
The parent company and each of to satisfy their global communications needs, to make their our operating companies have installed their own approach initial approach not to operating companies, but directly to to performance assessment and succession planning, aimed holding or parent companies.
at developing the careers of their people, improving the Such assignments present major, and increasingly frequent, quality of feedback, coaching and mentoring they receive opportunities for the few groups of our size.
It is absolutely and providing for orderly succession.
essential that we have the professional resources and the Following recent events, we are, even more importantly, practice development capability to serve such clients focusing on gender sensitivity and the appropriateness and comprehensively, actively and creatively.
Initiatives involving effectiveness of male interactions with women.
A senior some of the worlds largest marketers continue to gain management mentoring and development program, momentum.
The worlds largest advertiser is itself integrating The X Factor, run by Charlotte Beers, the former its efforts around brands, in the areas of advertising, media chairman and CEO of Ogilvy & Mather and chairman investment management, market research, packaging design of J. Walter Thompson, continues to prepare women and public relations.
For our largest client, amongst others, for the next level of leadership in the Group and has we have implemented a seamless model, effectively a one-client been broadened and deepened.
More information about agency within our Group.
All our clients, whether global, additional programs, including WPP Stella, appears on multinational or local, continue to focus on the quality of page 156. our thinking, coordination of communications and price.
In 2011, your Company teamed up with the Shanghai In response, we focus on talent, structure and incentives.
Art & Design Academy to establish the WPP School of Marketing and Communications.
This jointly run school offers Chinas first professional marketing and communications three-year diploma program.
This initiative Managing talent is the priority continued in 2015, with the fifth intake of 100 students.
In 2015, WPP partnered with the Indian School of Talent and its management therefore remain at the heart Design and Innovation to offer a three-year undergraduate of our reason to be: that is what our clients pay us for.
course on marketing communications: and, in 2016, your Development of our people and the way we manage that Company has announced the launch of the WPP Africa talent is a critical determinant of performance and on that Academy in Johannesburg, South Africa, in collaboration critical dimension, we continue to make significant progress.
with the Red & Yellow School of Logic and Magic.
This In April 2015, WPP was named one of Americas 500 initiative will enable WPP companies across Africa to best employers by Forbes magazine, the only company in access high quality, relevant and cost-effective training the communications services industry to be placed among programs for their agency people.
After more than 20 years, the WPP Fellowship program In developing highly-competitive incentives combined remains surprisingly the only multidisciplinary and with extremely attractive working environments, we multi-geographical recruitment and training initiative in increasingly differentiate ourselves from our competitors the industry, with a lower acceptance rate than Harvard and improve the attractiveness of WPP companies as Business Schools MBA program.
Of those recruited to the destinations for talent.
Our quarterly reviews with the program since 1995, 109 are women and 72 are men.
operating companies have been structured to give more We continued to scrutinise and modify our compensation time and attention to talent and to clients.
Our recruiting practices, both to offer competitive and appropriately efforts throughout 2015 were especially fruitful as we based rewards to our people and to attract outstanding successfully targeted and recruited top talent within and 38 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners talent from elsewhere.
This is a key strategic priority for us.
substantially to the Groups overall margin improvement.
Our competition is, sometimes, not so rigorous in evaluating We have also ensured our new buildings are designed and rewarding performance for example, taking advantage to focus on sustainability and we look to achieve BREEAM of sharp falls in share prices to re-price or issue options or standard in the UK and LEED standard in the US and giving limited disclosure to investors of compensation plan similar standards elsewhere.
A failure of external, as well as internal, audiences to workplaces continue to be cited for their creativity, understand the importance of globally competitive incentiveinnovation and effectiveness.
based compensation will undermine the Companys 2016 will see the completion of our Shanghai WPP leadership position.
After all, we invest well over $10 billion Plaza co-location, housing 3,000 of our people, the a year in human capital, as opposed to only $400 million in shared space at Sea Containers House in London housing fixed assets 25 times more.
2,300 people, and the renovation of our shared space on Lexington Avenue in New York.
These new co-location projects all meet our new planning standards and support our horizontality goal.
Longer-term co-location projects Communications are in the planning stage for New York, So Paulo and central Madrid, where the former Telefnica building We aim to be a model of excellent external and internal will house more than 40 Group companies.
communications, through our website content, social media Our goal is to continue to deliver excellent work space, channels and in print.
These include: frequent tweets and while reducing the portfolio further and so mitigate the regular internal emails: a monthly public news e-bulletin impact of property inflation.
Our focus on continuing to and company FactFiles: our multi-awarded quarterly global reduce the establishment cost-to-net-sales ratio will help newspaper and e-book, The WIRE: and our annual Atticus the Group achieve its margin targets for 2016, and beyond.
Journal of original thinking in communications services: as well as the promotion of Group initiatives such as the Atticus Awards and Worldwide Partnership Program, BrandZ studies, and our consistently-awarded Sustainability Reports Procurement and Annual Reports.
To support WPPs focus on horizontality, enhancements In procurement, our goal is to make savings, add value have been made to the directories and search engines and minimise risk across all of WPPs external spend, on both our public website and Group intranet, enabling with particular emphasis on opportunities to leverage users to find quickly individual experts, client knowledge, our scale to the benefits of our clients and our companies.
company information and office locations via multiple In 2015, we continued to implement and develop a devices.
The Group intranet continues to undergo spend analytics system, which now provides supplier-level redevelopment and now holds an extensive database of and category visibility of over $5 billion of external spend, WPP talent, as well as a comprehensive range of business across 12 of our largest markets the US, Canada, the UK, and personal development resources.
Germany, France, Spain, Italy, China, India, Brazil, Mexico In the first quarter of 2016, wpp.
Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore will out of over 500 corporate websites assessed for accessibility be implemented in 2016.
Capturing and making sense of by SiteMorse.
big data is increasingly driving procurement opportunity assessment and new project activities across the Group.
For 2016, we will continue our focus on the key drivers of supplier cost, combined with an increased emphasis on Property management internal demand management what we buy, why we buy and how we buy.
For indirect procurement, our goal In 2015, we saw the benefit of more agile working, remains to have a minimum of 50% supplier spend in each supported by more technology in the office environment, as major country covered by WPP preferred suppliers and our property portfolio was reduced by nearly 1% to end the contracts, and for these preferred suppliers to work with year with 24.0 million square feet while net sales were up us to deliver year-on-year value improvement.
almost 6% in constant currency and average headcount grew by almost 3%.
As a result, the establishment cost-to-net-sales ratio dropped by 0.2 margin points to 6.9%, contributing 39 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Information technology Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal strategic alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice In 2015, we continued to make considerable progress development initiatives have therefore been reinforced in in the transformation of the Groups IT capability.
In such areas as healthcare, retail, internal communications, March 2015, we launched the new global IT function corporate sustainability and media and entertainment.
simultaneously with the creation of the IT shared This has been especially important in developing our services organisation.
To demonstrate a key step towards portfolio of direct investments in new media under WPP horizontality, we successfully deployed Microsoft Office365 Digital and WPP Ventures and where our investments as our single collaboration and email platform throughout are working with our agencies and people to bring new the Group.
Other key achievements included establishing technology capabilities and understanding to our clients.
a single global service desk for over 150,000 IT users, to All these initiatives are designed to ensure that we, the support the IT infrastructure.
parent company, really do as well as being perceived to Key strategic partnership agreements were signed inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, support and incentivise in 2015 to transform additional IT services, including our operating companies to achieve their strategic and managed print and telecommunications.
marked a second landmark, where we extended our strategic partnership with IBM for the transformation Fifth, to emphasise revenue and net sales of back office application support and maintenance.
This growth more as margins improve.
One phase went live in March 2016 with the transfer of service legitimate criticism of our performance against responsibility and approximately 300 people to IBM.
the best-performing competition has been our As a result of the IT transformation, IT costs in 2015 comparative level of organic revenue growth, were held to a like-for-like growth rate that was in line although the methods used to calculate rates of with net sales growth and significantly less than revenue organic growth vary to say the least and we may have put growth on the same basis.
2016 should see the first year too much emphasis on margin improvement.
Encouragingly, of significant cost reduction.
our like-for-like revenue growth of 5.3% put your Company near the top-end of the pack in 2015, and followed a leading position in 2014.
Net sales growth on the same basis of 3.3% was we believe more than respectable, given there is no Practice development standard reporting practice and so accurate comparisons with our competitors is not currently possible.
Investment In practice development, we continue to develop horizontal analysts please demand this disclosure!
Our net sales initiatives in a focused set of high-potential areas across margin of 16.9% in 2015 was the highest reported level in our vertical operating brands: in Media Investment the industry.
We continue to believe that profitable growth Management, healthcare, sustainability, government, new is preferable to sacrificing margins.
technologies, new markets, retailing, shopper marketing, internal communications, financial services and media and entertainment.
Specifically, we continue to invest in sharing Our net sales margin of insights and developing initiatives through WPP Digital in digital marketing and media, The Store in distribution 16.9% in 2015 was the highest and retail and our Government & Public Sector Practice.
reported level in the industry.
In key geographic markets we are increasingly coordinating our activities through WPP Regional, Sub-Regional and We continue to believe that Country Managers.
We continue to believe that increasing profitable growth is preferable coordination is required between our brands at global and country levels, as the arguments for investment in regional to sacrificing margins management become weaker, partly because of improved technology.
In addition, we have increased the number of WPP Estimated net new business billings of 5.6 billion Global Client Leaders to coordinate our efforts on behalf of $8.6billion were won in 2015, with the Group first overall clients and to ensure they receive maximum benefit from their in net new business tables for the fourth year in a row.
The relationships with WPP regional operating brands.
40 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Group continues to benefit from consolidation trends in the A further 15 acquisitions and investments were made industry, winning assignments from existing and new clients, in the first two months of 2016, with one in Advertising including several very large industry-leading advertising, and Media Investment Management: two in Data digital, media, pharmaceutical and shopper marketing Investment Management: three in Public Relations & assignments.
These wins partly benefited the second half Public Affairs: seven in direct, digital and interactive: one in of 2015, but the full benefit will be seen in 2016.
Healthcare Communications: and one in sports marketing.
The Group has been actively engaged in the tsunami These acquisitions continue to target our previouslyof media investment management reviews, chiefly in the US, described strategic priorities: expanding the share of totalling approximately $20 billion.
The Group has been revenues of our businesses in Asia Pacific, Latin America, particularly successful in these reviews and is now ranked Africa & Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe to first by RECMA, both for net new business and retentions.
40-45%: in new media to 40-45%: and in Data Investment There is, probably, more net new business to come, Management, direct, digital and interactive, to one-half.
increasingly driven by the Groups differentiation in technology, data and content.
Our practice development activities are also aimed Expansion plans at helping us position our portfolio in the faster-growing geographic and functional areas.
The Group completed We intend to expand our strong networks J. Walter 52 acquisitions and investments in 2015: 18 were in new Thompson, Ogilvy & Mather, Y&R, Grey, Bates markets: 37 in quantitative and digital: and 8 were driven CHI&Partners, Scangroup, Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom, by individual client or agency needs.
Out of all these Maxus, tenthavenue, TNS, Millward Brown, Kantar transactions, 11 were in both new markets and quantitative and digital.
Revenue in faster-growing markets 2013-2015 Specifically, in 2015, acquisitions and increased equity $bn stakes were completed in Advertising and Media Investment 6 Management in the US, the UK, France, Germany, the WPP o 5 1 Dentsu JPN o Netherlands, Turkey, South Africa, Singapore, Australia, 4 Dentsu o 3 New Zealand and Mexico: in Data Investment Management 2 Omnicom o 2 in the US, the UK, the Czech Republic, Israel and Brazil: in 2 Publicis o 1 2,3 Public Relations & Public Affairs in the US, Germany and IPG o 2 0 Havas India: in Branding & Identity in the US and the UK: in o 2013 2014 2015 direct, digital and interactive in the US, the UK, Belgium, 1 Germany, Sweden, Lebanon, the UAE, South Africa, Peru Dentsu revenue reported in Japan.
2 P eer data sourced from annual results translated at average exchange rate and China: in Healthcare Communications in the US, the for the year and assumed non-Euro countries in Europe are 3% of revenue.
UK and Australia: and in sports marketing in the US.
3 Assumed Canada is 1.5% of revenue.
Organic revenue growth vs peers % 14 WPP o 12 WPP net sales 1 Dentsu o 10 1 IPG o 1 8 Omnicom o 1 Havas o 6 1 Publicis o 4 2 0 Q114 Q214 Q314 Q414 Q115 Q215 Q315 Q415 1 P eer data sourced from company presentations.
41 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Media, Kantar Health, Kantar Retail, Kantar Worldpanel, influential BrandZ studies and Y&Rs equally influential Hill Knowlton Strategies, Ogilvy Public Relations, BrandAsset Valuator.
Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, Brand Union, Landor, Training and development programs remain a key FITCH, Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide, Sudler & focus, as of course does the judicious use of our M&A Hennessey, ghg, OgilvyOne Worldwide, Wunderman, skills to identify the best and most like-minded creative Geometry Global, POSSIBLE and AKQA in high-growth businesses to join us.
markets or where their market share is insufficient.
In 2015, we celebrated our ninth annual internal We will also enhance our leadership position in Data WPPED Cream awards, showcasing what we consider Investment Management by further development of our our very best work.
com is a key online key brands with particular emphasis on North America, destination website for anyone searching for the very Asia Pacific, Latin America and Continental and Eastern best in marketing creative excellence.
We will continue our growth of data panels and have established a Kantar-wide operational capability.
Maybe we should start saying We will reinforce our growing position in media research through Kantar Media and Kantar IBOPE Media, which that in order to be creative you include our investments in television and internet audience research and Marktest, Finpanel and CSM CTR, and need to be effective.
Because which, combined, is the market leader outside North we do appear to have proven America.
Combined with our licensee partners in Europe and Asia Pacific, we currently measure television and or both tenets internet audiences in 52 markets around the world.
In addition, we intend to reinforce our worldwide strength in direct and interactive marketing and research For those of us concerned with marketing that actually through our traditional channels such as Wunderman, works, its common to say that, in order to be effective, you OgilvyOne Worldwide, Geometry Global, Blanc & need to be creative.
Maybe we should start saying that in Otus and Lightspeed.
We will also invest directly in order to be creative you need to be effective.
Because we do new channels through start-ups, particularly as US appear to have proven both tenets.
For a record fifth time and French valuations in search, for example, are still in a row, our peers across the entire industry voted WPP prohibitive.
Other opportunities will be sought to Creative Holding Company of the Year at the Cannes enhance our online capabilities.
Meanwhile, a similarly Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist diverse Effies jury named WPP the Most Effective Holding expertise in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive Company, for a fourth consecutive year, and Warc named and to identify new high-growth areas.
WPP the most effective Holding Company for the second year in a row.
Congratulations to all the WPP companies throughout the world for another amazing year.
Creativity remains paramount Sixth, to build on, still further, the impressive creative reputation WPP now enjoys globally.
The creative capability of the Group is led by John OKeeffe, WPPs worldwide creative director.
John reminds us constantly that while many issues facing WPP are very important margin growth, acquisitions, geographical spread and the like the creative quality of the work will always be priority No.
We live or die by the ideas we deliver to our thousands of clients: design ideas, media and digital ideas, consumer insights and, of course, Millward Browns 42 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Assessing and managing our risks continues to review how the Groups performance rewards support the risk management and internal control systems.
The adoption of clawback provisions during 2015 to take Risk management and internal control effect in 2016 and discussed on page 122 underline the principles of the Code of Conduct.
We recognise that the success of the strategic objectives of the Group discussed in this report depends to a significant Risk assessment extent on the identification, understanding of and response to the risks that the Group faces.
The Board, with support The Group uses a three lines of defence model in relation from the Audit Committee, has overall responsibility for to risk management.
the system of internal control and risk management in the First, each operating company undertakes monthly and Group and has reviewed the design and effectiveness of the quarterly procedures and day-to-day management activities system during the year and up to the date of this report and to review their operations and business risks, supported carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing by Group policies, training and SOX and reviews within the Group.
The system of controls described below is their network.
designed to manage or mitigate, but may not eliminate, the Secondly, the operating network reviews are formally risks of failure to achieve WPPs strategic objectives and communicated to the Group chief executive, the Group is not an absolute assurance against material misstatement finance director and senior parent company executives in or loss.
monthly reports and quarterly review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
At each Board meeting, the Group chief Control environment and culture executive presents a Brand Check review of each of the business operations, including an assessment of the risk in The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, each business, providing feedback on the business risks and ethics and behaviour and the culture embedded within details of any change in the risk profile since the last Board the Group are all vital to the maintenance of the Groups meeting.
The Brand Check includes the possibility of system of internal control.
winning or losing major business, succession and the The Code of Business Conduct, which is regularly addition or loss of a key executive: introduction of new reviewed by the Board, sets out the principal obligations legislation in an important market: sustainability, including of all employees.
Senior executives throughout the Group risks relating to marketing ethics, privacy and employment: are required to sign this Code each year and all employees political instability and changes in accounting or corporate are required on joining the Group, and at regular intervals, governance practice.
to complete the WPP How We Behave, Anti-Bribery and Thirdly, internal audit at the Company, with Audit Corruption and Privacy & Data Security Awareness Committee oversight and external resource as required, training modules, which embed all of the principles of the provides an independent review of risk management and Code in addition to operating company training programs.
The WPP Policy Book which is updated with control bulletins includes required practices in many operational, Control activities and monitoring tax, legal and human resource areas.
Breaches or alleged breaches of the Code are investigated by the director of Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set internal audit, head of compliance, the Group chief counsel out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal and external advisers where appropriate.
Group companies control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application are also required to follow the Data Code of Conduct and of these policies and procedures is monitored within the the Supplier Code of Conduct.
individual businesses and by the director of internal audit, The Group has an independently operated helpline, Right head of compliance and the Group chief counsel.
to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that they Operating companies are required to maintain and feel unable to raise locally, and anonymously, if necessary.
update documentation of their internal controls and Through 60 calls to this helpline, a number of issues have processes.
This documentation incorporates an analysis been raised during 2015, all of which have been followed of business risks, detailed control activities and monitoring, through and investigated where appropriate and reported together with controls over security of data and the to the Audit Committee.
The Compensation Committee 43 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners provision of timely and reliable information to the Board.
The results are compared to budget and the management.
IT and financial controls are also included.
previous year, with full-year forecasts prepared and The internal audit department was responsible for updated quarterly throughout the year.
reviews and testing of the documentation and the relevant At each year-end, all operating companies supply their controls for a majority of the Group during 2015, the full-year financial results with such additional information results of which were reported to the Audit Committee.
This information is consolidated to allow the Group to present the necessary disclosures for Financial reporting International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and issued by the IASB.
Each operating company annually updates a three-year The Disclosure Committee gives further assurance that strategic plan, which incorporates financial objectives.
publicly-released information is free from material omission These are reviewed by the parent companys management or misstatement.
and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant operating company.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the development of operating company budgets, which build The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group financial year, operating companies prepare detailed as at 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this report budgets for the following year for review by the parent and which are described in the table below and overleaf.
The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board These risks relate to the Group and the industry in which before being adopted formally.
Operating company results we operate and the strategic decisions taken by the Board.
are reported monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally A risk dashboard and map are discussed regularly by the and globally by the business groups and by Group Audit committee and bi-annually by the Board.
management on a consolidated basis and ultimately by Potential impact and any Principal risk change from the prior year How it is managed Clients The Group competes for clients in The competitive landscape in the industry Operating companies seek to establish a highly-competitive and evolving industry in which we operate is constantly evolving.
reputations in the industry and an ethical and client loss may have a material adverse Competitors include large multinational culture that attract and retain talent effect on the Groups market share and its advertising and marketing communication and clients, including by improving the business, revenues, results of operations, companies and regional and national quality of their creative output and financial condition or prospects.
marketing services companies, database technical capability.
marketing and modelling companies, telemarketers, information and The Groups different agency networks measurement, social media and limit potential conflicts of interest and the consulting internet companies.
Groups cross-discipline team approach seeks to retain clients.
Service agreements with clients are generally terminable by the client on Brand Check at every Board meeting 90 days notice and many clients put their to identify the potential risk of client loss.
business up for competitive review from time to time.
The ability to attract new clients and to retain or increase the amount of work from existing clients may be impacted by loss of reputation and be limited by clients policies on conflicts of interest.
44 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Potential impact and any Principal risk change from the prior year How it is managed The Group receives a significant portion A relatively small number of clients Global client account managers and the of its revenues from a limited number contribute a significant percentage Team model seeks to ensure the Group of large clients and the net loss of some of the Groups consolidated revenues.
maintains partnership relationship with of these clients could have a material The Groups 10 largest clients accounted major clients.
Operating companies seek to adverse effect on the Groups prospects, for 16.2% of revenues in the year ended establish reputations, talent and technical business, financial condition and results 31 December 2015.
Clients generally are capability in the industry and an ethical of operations.
able to reduce advertising and marketing culture that attract and retain clients and spend or cancel projects on short notice.
The loss of one or more of the Groups largest clients, if not replaced by new Brand Check at every Board meeting and client accounts or an increase in business regular dialogue between executive directors from existing clients, would adversely of the Company and directors of the Groups affect the Groups financial condition.
Data security The Group is subject to strict data The Group may be subject to investigative The Group assists the operating companies protection and privacy legislation in the or enforcement action or legal claims or in developing principles on privacy and data jurisdictions in which it operates and relies incur fines, damages, or costs and client protection and compliance with local laws.
extensively on information technology loss if the Group fails to adequately protect systems.
The Group stores, transmits and data or observe privacy legislation in every Nominated senior executives provide relies on critical and sensitive data such instance.
A system breakdown or intrusion leadership on privacy and data protection.
as strategic plans, personally identifiable could have a material adverse effect on information and trade secrets.
Security of the Groups business, revenues, results of Our people are required to take Privacy this type of data is exposed to escalating operations, financial condition or prospects.
& Data Security Awareness training external threats that are increasing and understand the WPP Data Code of in sophistication as well as internal The risk of a data breach, cyber attack or Conduct and WPP policies on data privacy data breaches.
potential infringement of data protection and security.
Existing and new data protection laws, in The WPP Data Health Checker survey particular the GDPR in the EU concerning is performed annually to understand the user privacy, use of personal information scale and breadth of data collected by WPP and online tracking may restrict some of agencies, so the level of risk associated with the Groups activities and increase costs.
The Group is carrying out an IT The IT transformation project will enhance transformation project and is reliant the Groups data security.
In addition, the on third parties for the performance Group has established a global internal IT of a significant portion of its worldwide company responsible for providing core IT information technology and operations shared services to all Group companies and functions.
A failure to provide these manage external technology providers.
functions could have an adverse effect on our business.
Financial The Group is subject to credit risk through The Group is generally paid in arrears for Evaluating and monitoring clients ongoing the default of a client or other counterparty.
Invoices are typically payable creditworthiness and in some cases within 30 to 60 days.
requiring credit insurance or payments in advance.
The Group commits to media and production purchases on behalf of some The Groups treasury position is a recurring of its clients as principal or agent depending agenda item for the Audit Committee and on the client and market circumstances.
If a client is unable to pay sums due, media and production companies may look to the Group to pay such amounts to which it committed on behalf of those clients.
45 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Potential impact and any Principal risk change from the prior year How it is managed Operational The Groups performance could be Failure to ensure that trading activities are The principles of adherence to the terms of adversely impacted if it failed to ensure compliant with client obligations where client contracts are embedded through the adequate internal control procedures relevant could adversely impact client networks and reinforced by audits at a WPP are in place in relation to the Groups relationships and business volumes.
risks associated with media trading have increased in 2015 as the volume of trading Regular monitoring of KPIs for trading are has increased.
undertaken to identify trends and issues.
An authorisation matrix on inventory trading is agreed with the Company and the Audit Committee.
People and succession The Groups performance could be The Group is highly dependent on the The Groups incentive plans are structured adversely affected if it were unable talent, creative abilities and technical to provide retention value, for example by to attract and retain key talent or had skills of our personnel as well as their paying part of annual incentives in shares inadequate talent management and relationships with clients.
The Group that vest two years after grant date.
succession planning for key roles at is vulnerable to the loss of personnel the parent and operating companies, to competitors and clients leading Operating companies seek to establish including but not limited to the founder to disruption to the business.
reputations in the industry that attract CEO and long-serving members of the and retain key personnel, including by management team.
The founder CEO has over 30 years improving the quality of their creative service with the Company and is identified output and by offering competitive with the success of the Groups strategy performance-based compensation.
and a failure to plan for his succession could impact investor confidence in Succession planning for CEO, CFO the Company.
and key executives of the Company is undertaken by the Board and Nomination and Governance Committee on a regular basis and a pool of potential internal and external candidates identified in emergency and planned scenarios.
Compensation Committee oversight for the Groups incentive plans and compensation.
Regulatory, sanctions, anti-trust and taxation The Group may be subject to regulations Changes in local or international tax rules, The Group actively monitors any proposed restricting its activities or effecting changes for example prompted by the OECDs regulatory or statutory changes and consults in taxation.
emerging recommendations on Base with government agencies and regulatory Erosion and Profit Shifting a global bodies where possible on such proposed initiative to improve the fairness and changes.
integrity of tax systems, or new challenges by tax or competition authorities, may Annual briefings to the Audit Committee expose the Group to significant additional of significant changes in tax laws and their tax liabilities or impact the carrying value application and regular briefings to the of our deferred tax assets, which would executive directors.
The Group engages affect the future tax charge.
advisors and legal counsel to obtain opinions on tax legislation and principles.
These risks to the Group have increased in 2015.
46 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Potential impact and any Principal risk change from the prior year How it is managed The Group is subject to strict antiThe Group operates in a number of Online and in-country ethics, anti-bribery, corruption, anti-bribery and anti-trust markets where the corruption risk has corruption and anti-trust training on legislation and enforcement in the countries been identified as high by groups such a Group-wide basis to raise awareness in which it operates.
Failure and seek compliance with the WPP Code to comply or to create a corporate of Conduct.
environment opposed to corruption or failing to instil business practices that Confidential, independently operated prevent corruption could expose the helpline for WPP staff to raise any concerns, Group and senior officers to civil and which are investigated and reported to criminal sanctions.
the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Due diligence on acquisitions and on selecting and appointing suppliers.
Gift and hospitality register and approvals process.
The Group is subject to the laws of the US, Failure to comply with these laws could Online training on a Group-wide basis the EU and other jurisdictions that impose expose the Group to civil and criminal to raise awareness and seek compliance sanctions and regulate the supply of penalties including fines and the imposition and updates to Group companies on any services to certain countries.
of economic sanctions against the Group new sanctions.
and reputational damage which could materially impact the Groups results.
As Regular briefings to the Audit Committee.
certain EU sanctions in relation to Iran have been lifted the risk of non-compliance has reduced since 2015.
Longer-term viability statement Going concern The directors confirm that they have a reasonable The directors are required to consider whether it expectation that the Group will continue to operate and is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years.
the basis that the Company and the Group are going The directors assessment of the Groups viability for the concerns.
As part of its normal business practice, next three years, has been made with reference to the the Group prepares annual and longer-term plans Groups current position and prospects and changing and in reviewing this information and, in particular, competitive landscape.
This period has been chosen as the three-year plan and budget, the directors believe it aligns with our three-year plan and budget.
Sensitivity that the Company and the Group have adequate analysis has been applied to reflect the potential impact resources for the foreseeable future.
Therefore the of one or a combination of the principal risks on the Company and the Group continue to adopt the going Group and consequential contract breach, loss of concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
reputation, client loss and inability to win new business and the impact of revenue loss.
Based on the results of this analysis and the assumption that the global economy and markets continue to function and there is no flock of black swans, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
47 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Sustainability matters And finally The Groups commitment to, and investment in, WPP companies have always been conscious of the need sustainability supports major business wins, increases for diversity in the workplace: and not just out of a sense access to talent, improves efficiency and reduces risks of moral responsibility, which we take very seriously.
We estimate that clients who engaged On behalf of their clients, our companies people are with WPP on our approach to sustainability were worth responsible for understanding, and appealing to, just about 1.29 billion out of our total revenues of 12.2 billion every one of the worlds seven billion citizens.
And while we to the Group in 2015. have never believed that only a teenager can understand a We are in business for the long term and, like all leading teenager or only a pensioner can understand a pensioner, companies today, we recognise our wider responsibilities there can be no doubt that diversity among our people is and the opportunity to generate value for share owners, a professional necessity.
For us, diversity is not simply a clients, our people and the world at large through our question of race, colour or gender: at least as important is business.
Sustainability at WPP cuts across all areas: from a diversity of attitude, of mind-set, of ways of approaching the work we do for clients, to the time we donate to causes problems.
Uniform, conventional thinking will never of through pro bono work, the way we run our Company and itself meet the demands of our clients.
Clearly, given recent look after our people, and our commitment to respect events at one of our operating companies, we have to human rights.
Sustainability issues are ever more important redouble our efforts to emphasise the importance and to our clients and, as they feel the impact of long-term acceptance of diversity across the Group.
demographic, environmental and social trends, they need a The results reported here, presented in dispassionate marketing services provider who understands the changing numbers, are all the product of the inventive work of tens landscape and shares their values.
Our track record on of thousands of talented individuals and with no two sustainability gives us credibility.
They come from countless different backgrounds A summary of the Groups approach to sustainability and have countless different ways of looking at the world.
can be found on pages 155 to 161, including our They embody skills that range from the statistician to the commitment to respect human rights on page 158.
They represent perhaps the most diverse also see our annual Sustainability Report on the work our example of diversity of any single organisation.
clients and our people do in this important area.
We welcome this opportunity to salute them all and thank them for everything they have done to make 2015, Sustainability performance summary another record year, as good a year as it has been.
2015 2014 2013 Value of client business supported by our sustainability 1 credentials 1.29bn 1.35bn 1.26bn Roberto Quarta Gender diversity % female Chairman employees 54% 54% 54% Gender diversity % female executive leaders 33% 31% 32% Investment in training 41.1m 38.2m 40.0m Sir Martin Sorrell Carbon footprint tonnes of CO 2 per employee 2.07 2.28 2.35 Group chief executive 2 Social contribution 43.8m 46.9m 39.4m 1 V alue of clients who requested information on our sustainability policies and performance through their supplier management process.
2 Includes free media space donations.
Paul Richardson Group finance director 48 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Forward-looking statements In Memoriam In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may include forward-looking statements as defined in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking statements may include, among other things, plans, objectives, projections and anticipated future economic performance based on assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual Roger Agnelli results or outcomes may differ materially from those 1959-2016 discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important factors which may cause actual results to differ include We mourn the loss of Roger Agnelli, his but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material wife Andria, son, Joo, daughter, Anna client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client Carolina and their spouses along with advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of their pilot in a tragic aircraft accident in compensation, regulatory compliance costs or litigation, So Paulo on 19 March 2016.
Roger had natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the Companys been a WPP Board director since 2013. exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived We miss his insight, charm, humour and and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level smile a true Brazilian.
of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In addition, you should consider the risks described under the heading Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 44 to 47, which could also cause actual results to differ from forward-looking information.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forwardlooking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
