40 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our strategy Worldpays strategy is designed to ensure the continued success of our business in a rapidly changing market, creating value for customers, colleagues and shareholders.
We have developed our strategy based on our long experience with our customers, a comprehensive appreciation of the critical success factors in the industry and a deep understanding of our markets.
41 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Our five We focus on understanding strategic pillars: our customers in core market segments.
Read more page 42 We use technology and our products to differentiate from the competition.
Read more page 44 We will expand in existing markets, and enter new ones.
Read more page 46 We will realise the full potential of our business model.
Read more page 48 We will augment our growth through acquisitions and investments.
Read more page 50 42 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We focus on understanding our customers in core market segments 43 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Achievements in 2015 Worldpay is committed to helping all its UK customers to: In the UK, we have the number one market Enabled growth in all key customer share, accounting for approximately 42% segments by deepening our 1.
Increase sales: by opening up new of the UK merchant market.
We provide understanding of customers industries payment channels, accessing new payment acceptance solutions across all 13.1 billion transactions processed in international markets, maximising channels for approximately 300,000 UK 2015: up 14% on 2014 payment acceptance rates and and Ireland-based customers, from SMEs Lower churn rates in WPUK due to providing value-added services such as to larger corporates.
improvements in our merchant insights into their business retention and a focus on improving US the customer experience 2.
Reduce costs: by eliminating the costs In the US market, we provide payments Target verticals growing strongly, with associated with managing cash acceptance across all channels for net revenue up 17% in Global eCom payments and providing a single, US-based customers, including unified solution, removing the need for approximately 109,000 SME customers.
We Good growth in US, with transaction multiple suppliers also provide industry-specific solutions for volumes up 9% our approximately 13,000 enterprise 3.
Reduce risk: by using proprietary customers in the grocery, petroleum, analytical tools to identify and eliminate restaurant and retail industries.
Planned for 2016 fraudulent transactions whilst simultaneously reducing false These markets are the areas where the Continue net revenue growth positives Worldpay business model is most in all business units effective.
It is in these markets where we Drive transaction growth and Worldpay focuses on specific groups of can distinguish ourselves most easily from customer retention through customers in larger corporates, our competition, given our comprehensive continued focus on key verticals particularly those with complex and knowledge of payments, our multi-channel international payment needs, and in SMEs capabilities and our global coverage.
Our larger corporate customers, many of whom Winning in these segments requires a operate internationally, require us to have deep understanding of the fundamental a deep understanding of their strategy for needs and behaviours of our customers growth, to allow us to help them operate and also of their consumers.
We have across countries and currencies.
Our SME therefore developed industry sector customers have needs that are teams within Worldpay around some of predominantly domestic in nature, and the most attractive industry verticals such require products and services tailored to as airlines, digital content and travel.
For example, the solution for a hotel is markedly different Corporate customers with complex needs from that of a clothing store.
typically have to address significant payment complexity, negotiating multiple Worldpay operates in three principal payment methods, currencies, channels markets: and regulatory hurdles, whether locally or globally.
Global eCom In Global eCom, where the market is highly This deep understanding is also relevant fragmented with few global or scale for SMEs: Worldpay helps small business providers, we focus on five market owners and managers to navigate the segments based on their growth potential, increasingly complex world of payments the opportunity created by the complexity by providing products and services that inherent in merchants needs, and the fit are easy to use, that can integrate into with our product and service offering.
We their other business processes and that believe we have significant room to grow maximise their sales opportunities.
44 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We use technology and our products to differentiate from the competition 45 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Achievements in 2015 We have a strong track record of development and innovation.
The Completed the build of our nextexperience of our design teams enables us generation technology platform see to effectively assess markets and rapidly technology section implement new features on our payments Launched significant new or updated platform and develop new products.
customer propositions, e. g. in fraud prevention RiskGuardian, mobileIn order to maintain our position in a friendly payments Hosted Payment dynamic and fast-growing market, we Pages, rich data analytics for SMEs expect to continue to invest in technology My Business Dashboard, ability to sell and products.
We believe that these across sales channels Worldpay Total investments will maintain our competitive New processing licenses obtained in advantage, and that our ongoing research Canada and Japan and development agenda, and our culture Three patent applications for imageof problem-solving for our customers, will based identity, biometric-based allow us to develop more advanced payments security, and software payments solutions for our chosen engineering automation markets than our competition.
While we will continue to develop and refine our products, we will also invest Planned for 2016 internally to improve our engineering Expect to start migrating customers onto capability.
We will equip our engineers with next generation technology platform new tools, increasing developer capacity and improving speed to market, as well as Continue to scale and enhance new embedding insights from our data into the product launches including merchant products and services we offer.
Some of lending Worldpay Business Finance, our new products in development include: and enhanced data analytics My Business Dashboard, Your My Business Hub: a tablet-based smart Marketplace point-of-sale solution.
Extend our capabilities in next generation point-of-sale hardware and Your Marketplace: a data and insights software, and deepen our partner proposition for our corporate customers.
proposition Continue to deepen our geographic Tokenisation: a Token Store and capabilities and additional payment Tokenisation service that replaces the methods, e. g. through new processing shoppers card details with a single-use licenses card number that cannot be used for Continue investment in future any future payments and is therefore payments technology useless to a potential hacker.
Hosted Payment Pages: a secure web payment service which provides a seamless transition upon checkout from a customers shopping website to our own payment pages.
46 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We will expand in existing markets, and enter new ones 47 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Achievements in 2015 We operate in a growing market, and aim to expand with our existing customers, Industry vertical teams in Global eCom helping them to prosper and grow their have driven growth into distinct market businesses.
In order to maximise our sub-segments e. g. flag carriers and opportunities for growth, we target low-cost airlines fast-growing segments in the economies ecommerce solution now being we support, and those customers with delivered to more than 40% of new UK complex needs and therefore the greatest SME customers demand for our existing and new products Transactions up 8% in WPUK, partly and services.
as a result of new customer wins Over 80 new partners signed up with We also seek to grow by winning new US business in 2015 customers in target segments, where we can use our existing expertise to address their specific requirements, and by broadening our expertise into new Planned for 2016 segments, developing products, Expand with our customers partnerships and technologies to adapt our payments platform to their Take existing customers into requirements.
new markets Win new customers in our To do this, we continue to invest in the existing markets capabilities of our sales, marketing and Continue to invest in our people ongoing customer support and advisory teams to deepen and broaden our expertise.
We also expect to increase our addressable market by further broadening our reach, by expanding into new geographies, both with our existing customers, and by winning new customers in these countries.
48 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We will realise the full potential of our business model 49 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Achievements in 2015 Our business is highly cash generative, enabling significant levels of investment to Free cash flow improved by 31.7m deliver better outcomes for customers.
More efficient and flexible capital We have invested heavily in the Groups structure through refinancing after a infrastructure and people, in each of our successful IPO three operating divisions, and in the Culture of the Worldpay Way driving technology separation from RBS.
We significant improvement in employee expect to benefit in the future from this engagement 1 Best Companies to investment by expanding our margins as Work For we grow the business, by improving free 67% of employees are Worldpay cash flow generation as we pass the peak shareholders of investment, and by improving efficiency and productivity.
We also intend to reinvest to support Planned for 2016 future growth and innovation, and to Free up more cash for innovation and embed new technology capabilities in the investment as spend on new platform products and services we offer.
As we reduces continue to build a more integrated, more efficient payments network, the Invest in process and efficiency opportunity for more consistent crossimprovements to enable future selling and up-selling will increase.
This operating leverage upgraded payments network will also Invest in our people to drive further create more opportunity for us to provide improvements in employee end-to-end payments solutions across all engagement, development and of our markets, channels and products.
capability 50 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We will augment our growth through acquisitions and investments 51 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Achievements in 2015 Worldpay has proven M&A capabilities with a demonstrable track-record of Technology integration of SecureNet successful acquisitions that have helped acquisition progressed to plan us further our strategic objectives.
Since Further investment in Pazien joint December 2010, we have invested over venture 300m in acquisitions that have brought Completed consolidation of multiple new technological capabilities and entities into a single UK operation enhanced our geographical presence.
In the future, we intend to continue to pursue selected M&A opportunities that Planned for 2016 create incremental value for us and our Continue to address opportunities to customers by expanding or strengthening deepen our technological and our products, our services, our geographical capabilities technological capabilities, or our geographic reach.
In addition, we will be creative in our pursuit of new growth opportunities.
This means we will look for opportunities to incubate or provide seed funding for attractive and potentially disruptive new payment technologies.
