Strategic Report 35 Segmental performance continued Middle East A strong overall performance with revenue and operating profit up significantly.
Key performance indicators 2015 2014 Change Financial metrics Revenue 216.7m 168.4m 28.7% Operating profit 22.5m 14.4m 56.3% Operating margin 10.4% 8.6% 1.8pp Work in hand 74.2% 62.7% 11.5pp Safety AIR 36 53 -17 People Staff numbers at 31 March 2,668 2,071 28.8% Average staff numbers for the year 2,421 1,985 22.0% Staff turnover 16.1% 16.0% 0.1pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 29% 56% 22% 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Revenue by geography Rail including mass transit 32% Public sector: local government 4% Qatar 41% Urban development 22% Public sector: national government 28% Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 24% Roads 15% Private sector 68% Dubai 15% Buildings commercial residential 11% Abu Dhabi 12% Aviation 4% Sultanate of Oman 5% Other 16% Other 3% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 140.9 171.4 162.2 168.4 216.7 23.8 16.8 11.8 14.4 22.5 1,629 1,758 2,006 1,985 2,421 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 36 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Middle East With a capital cost of approximately Performance Business drivers Our Middle East business had a strong The economic climate in the Middle East 2.5bn, the project crosses the city from east to west and includes 15km of twin overall performance this financial year, is primarily driven by the global oil price, with revenue up 28.7% to 216.7m which affects demand for our services tunnels and 13 underground stations.
There continues to be good demand for 2014: 168.4m and operating profit up since regional spending ultimately flows 56.3% on last year.
This improvement is through to capital investment in metro projects across the region, with further opportunities to work selectively a consequence of our continued strategic infrastructure, transportation and focus on major projects and programmes property.
Regional security issues and for design and build contractors within our core markets.
in rail, infrastructure and property in changes in leadership, whether real or the United Arab Emirates UAE, Qatar anticipated, can also serve to heighten Transport infrastructure, including roads, and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA.
We have also seen very good cash bridges and utilities networks, is of critical strategic importance across the region, performance which is a result of our While we have not seen an immediate continued focus in this area and also short-term impact on our workload from particularly in Qatar, where we continue to work with the Qatari Government, reflects advance payments on our the rapid decline in the oil price, there has strategically important metro projects.
been a consequent slowing of decision advising on infrastructure planning and design projects to meet its National Vision Operating margin improved to 10.4% making and more uncertainty around 2014: 8.6%.
some property and infrastructure projects.
Our major projects include the Central Planning Office, which is making The longer-term need to invest in an important contribution to the Business model coordination of Qatars major transport strategically important infrastructure Our business model is to maintain strong development that supports economic programmes, and a significant framework local resources in our chosen markets, contract to upgrade Dohas roads and growth and diversification will continue complemented by multi-skilled design to drive demand for our services.
centres within the region and in India.
a clear view of well-funded programmes, This provides agility and efficiency by although timing and scope are In KSA, we supported strategic maximising our ability to mobilise for programmes that are driving the increasingly subject to review.
major projects, while minimising exposure Kingdoms long-term economic growth to individual market resource demands and diversification, including an ongoing and constraints.
Operations partnership with Bechtel to advise the Our business built on its strong first half Economic Cities Authority on the to deliver a significant improvement in full Strategy development of four new cities.
In year performance, further reinforcing its Our strategy in the Middle East is to focus addition, we are supporting the Royal position among the Middle Easts leading on what we believe to be the regions Commission of Jubail and Yanbu with design and engineering consultancies.
most robust markets and sectors: namely its major industrial development activity infrastructure, rail and property in the in the Eastern Province, having signed Good progress was made on the UAE, Qatar and KSA.
The region offers a third framework contract to provide mobilisation and design delivery for our good opportunities linked to the drive for technical planning consultancy in the major metro projects, including Riyadh economic diversification and the need to final quarter of the financial year.
Metro, Doha Metro Red Line South and invest in social infrastructure.
Our strategy latterly Doha Metro Gold Line, a notable is aimed at carefully selecting and securing In Abu Dhabi, we have a broad portfolio win in the first half of the year.
critical projects and programmes with of infrastructure projects with clients established key clients.
In addition, local including Abu Dhabi and Al Ain The Gold Line, for which Atkins is lead resources support our energy business in Municipality, the Department of Municipal designer for a consortium comprising the region, which is reported within our Affairs and Musanada.
Notable projects Greeces Aktor, Yapi Merkezi and STFA Energy segment.
include the design of infrastructure for of Turkey, Indias Larsen & Toubro and a 1.3bn, 42 square kilometre Emirati the local Qatari contractor Al Jaber community in North Wathba.
Engineering, is the largest civils package of works to be awarded on Doha Metro.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 37 Segmental performance continued Middle East Property sector activity in the UAE During the course of the year, a Middle Further uncertainty around the oil price experienced an upturn in confidence in presents a principal risk because of the East womens professional network was 2014, linked to Dubais successful bid to established to encourage and enable potential impact on government spending host Expo 2020, resulting in increased and the knock on effect on private sector talented women throughout the region property workloads with selective clients.
to reach more senior roles.
Our focus on strategically Our current key projects include Dubai includes projects to make Atkins an important projects and programmes Opera House and the residential element employer of choice for women in the gives us a relative degree of insulation of Al Habtoor City, a major new region, with engagement and networking from short-term changes, which partially development along Sheikh Zayed Road, sessions, as well as coaching and mitigates this commercial risk.
the citys main arterial highway.
Construction safety remains an elevated Our Faithful Gould business in the Safety and sustainability risk in the Middle East.
We are mitigating Middle East has had a strong year with this wherever possible and have been The improvement in our AIR was driven growth across the UAE, KSA and Qatar.
by an increase in headcount while the instrumental in creating improved The Confluence acquisition in 2013 added standards for the industry.
number of major accidents was unchanged.
project management strength to the business and we have seen a number of We track risks across all our businesses.
We are demonstrating strong leadership successes in the property sector, notably through the implementation of the This process is explained in more detail at the Atlantis 2 super-luxury five star in the Principal risks and uncertainties Atkins minimum requirements AMR for hotel in Dubai, the National Laboratories construction safety in the region, which section page 48. project in Qatar, Mall of the Emirates provides a platform for close engagement extensions and Reem Mall in Abu Dhabi, with clients and their supply chains Outlook and new projects for Majid al Futtaim and for construction supervision projects, We have a strong order book standing at Al Farwaniyah on Al Zahia Mall in Sharjah.
including health, safety and welfare 74.2% of next years budgeted revenue We are also supporting Aramco in KSA regulations.
As discussed in the Corporate 2014: 62.7%, which reflects our success as it undertakes a large programme of sustainability review page 61, the in winning long-term, major projects.
AMR has achieved industry recognition.
Many of these will continue throughout next year and are considered unlikely to People We extended our commitment to be affected by the oil price uncertainty.
Headcount grew strongly, up 597 year sustainability leadership through the We see balanced opportunities across on year, reflecting, in part, deployment continued funding of the chair and senior the key property, infrastructure and rail on our major metro projects.
Improved lecturer of sustainable design of the built sectors in our focus markets of Qatar, market conditions also led to greater environment at the British University the UAE and KSA.
competition for staff, particularly in in Dubai.
important markets such as Qatar and the UAE.
However, we were pleased Risk that staff turnover remained flat at 16.1% Certain countries within the Middle East 2014: 16.0% across the region.
have greater potential for political change.
In addition, it is a region where there is We measure staff engagement through an increased risk of payment delays.
our Group wide Viewpoint survey.
Our Our extensive experience of operating overall engagement score for the Middle in the Middle East over the last 40 years East improved by five percentage points gives us a level of insight into the political year on year, putting us significantly above environment which, combined with our the benchmark for our industry sector.
focused strategy of carefully selecting This is reinforced by the large proportion both the countries in which we operate of people who indicated in the survey and our clients, enables us to mitigate that they are proud to work for Atkins political and commercial risks.
and that they care about the success of the organisation.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
