How were doing Branding & Identity mature markets.
I look forward to working closely with the All five companies in The Partnership delivered global team to build FITCHs opportunities in new markets strong performances in 2015. and in the new offer created by Group XP.
Addison Group SET Under the leadership of CEO Tom Robinson, the company Report by Sabina Teshler strengthened its reputation as a leader in corporate content Founder and chief executive officer and communication, most notably with clients such as British Land and Essentra.
Digital capabilities form a ET, a world-class brand experience agency, joined significant part of the offer and were instrumental in WPP in June 2015.
We design and curate great securing several new client wins.
customer experiences in retail, trade and live event environments.
Lambie-Nairn Operating from our US base in Portland, Oregon, SET Specialists in the creation and management of dynamic was originally established to support major leisure apparel brands, Lambie-Nairns offer proved compelling to brands such as Nike, Oakley and Arcteryx.
In North clients across the world in 2015.
The companys Brand America, SET also has offices in Long Beach, California Optimisation offer a systemised way to manage multiand New York and this has led to the diversification of market, multi-brand, multi-agency brand coherence our offer to win major assignments from Google, TCCC, and its outstanding capabilities in motion graphic design Christian Dior, Beats, Spotify and Microsoft.
helped the company perform strongly.
2015 was a significant year as SET began our international expansion through the acquisition of live events Peclers Paris agency Flourish in London.
The founders, Catherine Smee CEO Eric Duchamp oversaw a successful year.
The and Guy Tremlett, joined the global management board and companys highly-influential trend books sold well globally will look to expand their imaginative expertise into new and its consulting business grew substantially in China, markets.
We also established a presence in Amsterdam.
With long-established strength in 2015s high points included NBA All Stars for Nike, the fashion and beauty sectors, Peclers continues to gain Michael Jordan Paris at Palais Tokyo and the Bentayga traction as a general trend and futures expert with value launch for Bentley at the Geneva motor show.
In 2016, we to a wide-reaching portfolio of clients.
look forward to playing a significant role in Group XP.
The Partners The Partners saw excellent growth across all of its three The Partnership offices London, New York and Singapore.
The companys reputation for a balanced combination of strategic and Report by Jim Prior creative excellence was furthered by its Brand Value Chief executive officer, The Partnership Growth study, produced in conjunction with BrandZ and Millward Brown, and by numerous creative award s a group of five distinct but closelysuccesses around the world.
collaborative companies operating from 20 offices around the world, The Partnership VBAT combines all the benefits of a global brand From its base in the Netherlands, VBATs influence and design network with those of boutique, extended far and wide in 2015, for example with major specialist agencies.
Each company is a reputational leader programs of work for Woolworths in Australia and Pemex in its field and is committed to a relentlessly high standard in Mexico.
Under the leadership of CEO Eugene Bay, and of work delivered through  client with capabilities in retail, packaging and corporate brand relationships led by senior practitioners.
design, VBAT is a leading light in the Dutch market and a global force.
