How were doing J. Walter Thompson Adding to our intellectual capital, we launched Female Tribes, a global initiative that represents our largest effort Report by Tamara Ingram yet in provoking real change in the conversations that Chief executive officer brands have with and about female consumers.
And, of course, in todays business landscape, am both excited and honoured to be leading a delivering Pioneering Solutions requires deep digital and company with more than 151 years of delivering tech expertise.
In 2015, we saw Mirum, our global digital Pioneering Solutions to its clients.
agency network, mark its milestone first anniversary.
As a network of pioneers, J. Walter Thompson Mirum has hit its stride and truly blossomed under the has an innate thirst for transformation that has fuelled fantastic leadership of Dan Khabie.
It has not only been the agencys momentum over the last year.
an incredible collaborative partner for the clients it shares I am eager to continue that journey, and Matt with J. Walter Thompson Worldwide, but its also put its Eastwood, our worldwide chief creative officer, along with unique stamp on work for clients of its own: Mirum led Guy Murphy, our worldwide planning director, have led the development of Hum, Verizons connected vehicle the launch of our new North Star, a new agency creative platform, from inception to product launch.
process that will elevate our creative product and ensure This unified network added Mazda and Getty to its client that we develop more Pioneering Solutions for our clients.
roster in North America, expanded its relationship with In pursuing that goal, I absolutely believe that the Qualcomm globally, picked up ASUS in Asia, and Dubai diversity of people and diversity of spirit will produce Tourism in MEA: and was named a Visionary in Gartners diversity of ideas that will serve as our guideposts as Digital Marketing Services Magic Quadrant Report.
Mirum also grew in India, where Social Wavelength joined the global digital network as Mirum India.
To feed this always-on digital world, we added to our solutions toolkit with Colloquial, our new contentThe Promise of Cuba marketing joint venture with Group SJR that is up and running in Mexico City, Sydney, London and New York.
is the first major agency And we continued to bolster our leadership team to report to explore emerging support our growth objectives.
Stefano Zunino was appointed to the newly created opportunities for North role of CEO of the Americas, overseeing Colloquial, American brands Mirum and J. Walter Thompson in the North America and Latin America regions.
Maria Teresa Arnal was appointed CEO of Harnessing that diversity of ideas was integral J. Walter Thompson Company in Mexico, a testament to the launch of J. Walter Thompson Intelligence, a new to our commitment to deep transformation and the specialised practice offering a unique blend of research, integration of communications and digital innovation innovation and data analytics.
Central to the practice is in Latin America.
the Innovation Group, our trends forecasting consultancy.
We also fortified our creative bench-strength, elevating The Group has offered our client partners invaluable Brent Choi to CCO of our New York and Canada offices, insight into consumer behaviors in The Future 100, and naming Senthil Kumar as the regional CCO and Generation Z Brazil, and most recently, the Promise of creative partner to Tarun Rai, CEO of J. Walter Cuba, the first major agency report to explore emerging Thompson South Asia.
opportunities for North American brands in the country since the normalisation of US-Cuba diplomatic relations.
52 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising And weve invested in training the next generation of Ogilvy & Mather creative leaders.
Our international Helen Lansdowne Resor HLR Scholarship, launched in support of young female Report by Miles Young creative talent, also saw its first group of scholarship Worldwide chairman winners last summer.
and New business and organic growth were equally robust, John Seifert with wins throughout the global network, including Abbott, Worldwide chief executive officer AstraZeneca, Apollo, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Cargill, Challenger, Cobra Puma Golf, Crabtree & Evelyn, Dubai erhaps one of the most interesting statistics Tourism, Egypt Tourism, FindIt Malaysia, Hotels.
com, of 2015 is that by the end of the year we were JPMorgan Private Bank, Special K, KPMG, Northwell operating over 200 content studios for different Health and Treasury Wine Estates, among others.
Nothing illustrates 2015 saw some of the most significant growth in our more graphically how the nature of our business has 151-year history.
We expanded our roster of multinational changed.
The answer is in clients, diversified our offering and broadened our talent base.
various combinations six primary things.
First, they have We created ideas that better connected to human truths a community function, managing social media content and unleashed the strength of our creative potential: and very specifically: then they have an editorial role, playing ultimately, grew our clients businesses.
off the news agenda: next they partner with established As we look forward to 2016, we will put diversity at media to deliver content and scale: they leverage cultural the top of our agenda and continue bolstering our creative buzz in real-time: key curate and crowd-source content: product in order to deliver Pioneering Solutions to our clients.
and, finally, they generate leads using social and research data for effective targeting.
And they do it all seamlessly.
We believe we are at the pioneering edge of driving models such as these: for us this is not the future: it is the present.
We have amazing talent and capabilities for the modern marketing world, and an enviable portfolio of clients and brands to grow with But while we are doing that we are very conscious of what it is all for: for driving the power of the brand.
Last year, we completed some significant research which showed that consumers value brands in the world of content by the degree to which they do, in other words the way in which they provide a real service to the consumer, and behave according to the way in which they talk.
This theme of behavioral branding is one on which we now are working with many clients in all regions and categories.
2015 was another outstanding year for Ogilvy evidenced in terms of creative pre-eminence, new business success, new talent acquisition and discipline advances 53 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising with OgilvyOne, Ogilvy Public Relations and Geometry OgilvyOne New York, Shanghai and our offices in India, Global and H&O all performing strongly.
As we have Neo@Ogilvy Worldwide and The Lacek Group.
It is also moved into 2016 so we are transitioning our leadership.
particularly gratifying to see that three of our newest After eight wonderful years, I am handing over my additions to the OgilvyOne global network were among responsibilities to John Seifert.
Ogilvy born and Ogilvy our top performers: Bottle Rocket, which specializes in bred, John represents the very best of our own brand.
mobile: Social Lab, our social marketing offering: and It is a carefully planned transition, and will be completed Verticurl, which specializes in marketing technology.
All by September 2016. these achievements are testimony to the talent, innovation John writes: and fortitude of our network.
I inherit a company and brand that has revitalized in the last eight years, particularly creatively.
Together with co-chairman, Tham Khai Meng, I am very clear about our We fully appreciate the power opportunity: growth through great work.
We have amazing talent and capabilities for the modern that digital has on how marketing world, and an enviable portfolio of clients and customers shop and buy brands to grow with.
We will continue to adapt our business system to transform how we work: faster, more connected, and more agile and all globally.
Great work demands: sharper Strategically, 2015 was the year in which we thinking through deeper and more relevant brand, business, consolidated our positioning as The Customer Agency.
and market insights: big and enduring ideas that unify, We combine data and creativity to create compelling, breaking out from an explosion of fragmented content and personalized experiences that help clients win more delivery channels: and creative craft skills that enable customers and make them more valuable.
Integral to our irresistible storytelling and deeper audience engagement.
offering is DAVE, our proprietary strategic planning and All this, is for one purpose: to better serve our clients execution methodology.
DAVE stands for Data-inspired, by making their brands matter in our dynamic and Always-on, Valuable Experiences.
Its an innovative ever-changing world.
approach for us globally and the results are clear: offices I wish John and his new leadership team good fortune that embraced the DAVE process for client engagements as they drive us forward into the new world of content and had a substantially higher probability of success.
we will continue to invest in DAVE and bring it to our Ogilvy has been a family for me, not just a workplace, staff and clients every day and everywhere in the world.
While I will continue to remain close OgilvyOne remains a dominant creative force in the to it, I cannot help but feel pangs of sadness, and a great industry.
At the Cannes Lions International Festival of sense of gratitude to all who live the family values of our Creativity, we won a total of 14 awards, including four Silver brand day by day.
We were once again by far the most awarded agency at the global Direct Marketing Associations OgilvyOne Worldwide ECHOs, outpacing the No.
2 agency network by two to one.
Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh Over the course of 2015, we also added 17 Effies, 13 Clios Chairman and chief executive officer and a host of Agency of the Year honors, for entities including Asia Regional ECHOs, Gloo South Africa, t OgilvyOne Worldwide, we measure our OgilvyOne Business in the UK and OgilvyOne Mexico.
success against three core pillars: financial As a customer-centric agency, we fully appreciate the performance, strategic differentiation and power that digital has on how customers shop and buy.
In 2015, we delivered OgilvyOne has been a pioneer in the field of interactive and on our expectations in all three areas.
digital marketing for over three decades and was recently We set new all-time records for revenue and profit, named a Leader in Gartners Magic Quadrant for Global driven by a combination of growth with current clients and Digital Marketing Agencies report.
In 2016, we will new client wins.
Special shout-outs go to several operations deepen our digital capabilities in fast-growing areas such that contributed so significantly to our strong performance: as customer experience design, mobile marketing and e-commerce.
Our future continues to look bright.
54 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising Ogilvy Public Relations Chicago Jennifer Scott and Michele Anderson Report by Christopher Graves respectively, with our US healthcare practice growing Global chairman strongly Kate Cronin.
and Growth also comes from differentiation.
Our role in Dr Stuart Smith the industry, and within Ogilvy & Mather, is to redefine Global chief executive officer the unique purpose of public relations in a world where the lines between marketing disciplines are increasingly 015 was the year we returned to significant, blurred.
This year Ogilvy PR laid claim to the powerful profitable organic growth, further strengthened concept called earned influence, a move recognized as our leadership in creativity and redefined our one of 2015s top innovations in PR.
Earned influence will purpose as a discipline within Ogilvy & Mather.
speed our growth through integration by defining a broader For four consecutive years we have dominated The marketplace for PR services.
It recognizes the increasing Holmes Reports Creativity Index.
We won more Gold Lions, appetite of CMOs for what we do, rejects a narrow supported by the highly effective Chinese Names campaign definition of earned media and goes beyond concepts Visit Britain.
We were named Agency of the Year, in both underpinning other thinking in the PR industry.
the UK and Asia Pacific, by The Holmes Report.
In 2016, we will push forward our aspiration that PR Our return to growth was driven by several factors.
exists to harness the power of earned influence by creating We grew our top 30 clients significantly and four new brands campaign platforms for our clients that matter to the lives entered our top 10.
We lead in the area of social and content, of consumers, customers and key opinion leaders.
In doing benefiting from the scale of the Ogilvy & Mather group.
so we hope Ogilvy PR will increasingly contribute to the We invested in a new global marketing and business effectiveness of all channels, not just earned, and shift development function, improving our visibility and pitch wins.
behaviors, opinions and generate sales.
Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide See report on page 76.
Earned influence will Geometry Global speed our growth through See report on page 78. integration by defining a broader marketplace for PR services We open-sourced our growth strategy, asking over 50 of our brightest minds from across many geographies and demographics to help force the pace of innovation.
Over 65% of our country leaders are women and we improved diversity and inclusion at our highest levels by creating a new Executive Committee and Board.
We invested in new leadership UK, India, EMEA, Germany, Spain and Indonesia through promotions and external hires.
We proudly launched Ogilvy Pride in the UK and Hong Kong.
We demonstrated both our commitment to Latin America and to grow globally through acquisition ConceptPR, Brazil.
Asia Pacific thrives under the leadership of Scott Kronick.
EMEA entered a new phase under the newly-promoted Michael Frohlich.
In North America we saw continued growth in New York and 55 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising Y&R Group consumption.
And we are great storytellers, adept at creating narratives and images and ideas that build brands Report by Peter Stringham that not only live in culture but create culture and resonate Retiring chief executive officer in the minds of consumers.
n my tenure as CEO of Young & Rubicam Group, its been our mission to make collaboration among the companies as productive, as possible, for our Horizontality is a way of clients.
To that end, weve built cross-disciplinary life for us, and always has training programs, expanded our Global Intelligence team and made Rubicam University a robust workshop that been tackles a real client challenge in real-time.
At the same time, we have encouraged each company to develop the capabilities and craft that make them unique.
As I retire and Peter Law-Gisiko succeeds me, Over the next pages, you will read the achievements I am confident that Young & Rubicam Group will of each of the companies.
The Y&R Group remains unique remain a unique offering within WPP.
in our industry as a long-standing group within a group, offering not only some of the worlds strongest and most Report by Peter Law-Gisiko iconic marketing and communications brands but a proven Chief executive officer history of working together and an outlook that embraces horizontality across WPP.
e are all thankful to Peter Stringham for the leadership he has given Y&R Group over Y&R the past seven years.
Peter has helped sustain Report by David Sable the connective tissue that makes working Global chief executive officer together across Y&R Group and WPP on behalf of clients a seamless, productive and natural proposition.
s digital took hold, no matter where you were Horizontality is a way of life for us, and always has or what you did in the industry, the conversation been.
More than four decades ago, Young & Rubicam became all about DIGITAL FIRST.
Then, staked out new territory by creating a way for its companies industry buzz turned to mobile as device and all leaders in their disciplines to connect and collaborate software enabled us to untether and MOBILE in a way that made us, as our mantra said: Best Alone.
Next came wearable, and Better Together.
now virtual reality seems to be following.
And no doubt When you look at Y&R Groups companies Y&R, something else is sure to take its place in due time.
VML, Wunderman, Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, Our belief, our mantra and weve spread the word from Landor and Sudler & Hennessey they are differentiated Davos to Mobile World Congress to DMEXCO is this: by the currency and relevance of their core capabilities.
Its not digital first, or mobile first or wearable first.
They are unified by a set of values, a collaborative ethos Its PEOPLE FIRST.
and a shared experience of more than 40 years of working Without the context, without the insight, without side by side.
understanding basic human need and creating a narrative Looking at Y&R Group as a whole, we are armed rooted in deep human truth, no marketing digital, mobile to address every challenge marketers face today and or otherwise will ever matter.
Our capabilities align in the key areas of market It is important to remember this now, when there are demand: All our companies are digital to the core, with the so many incredible innovations like Facebook and Snapchat digital thinking and technology that redefines the customer and YouTube changing the way we communicate and share experience.
We have big data and analytics that drive content.
They are all intrinsically filled with possibility, insights, innovation, targeting and messaging.
We can but without filling them with stories, they are merely empty create content that keeps pace with real-time, 24 7 media software loops.
56 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising Digital, the basis of it all, makes the things we Cannes awarded us 89 Lions last year, including a do more efficient and creates new opportunities for Grand Prix and a Chimera Lion, placing us as the fourth engagement.
Mobile isnt about devices, its about freedom most-awarded network for the fourth consecutive year.
Virtual reality isnt about glasses or Perhaps even more important, we had more offices across gizmos, its about unleashing imagination.
more regions winning Lions than any other agency, a Being human to the core is what makes todays validation of our creative community and our Global innovations and technology so powerful and efficient.
what gives brands credibility as global citizens.
Its what Not unrelated, since 2015, we were named Agency resonates and activates.
And its what makes things go viral.
of the Year in 19 markets, spanning Europe, Asia, Latin Last year, for example, our New Zealand office came up America and Australia New Zealand.
And our 42 Effies, with an idea for Burger King to support Peace One Day.
It won in every region, reflects the depth of our planning began with an understanding of the burger wars itself a very community.
The strength across our network comes out human and humorous manifestation of brand loyalty.
In an of the same Global Boutique philosophy that recognizes open letter placed in The New York Times, Chicago Tribune the importance of local strength, while leveraging a global and Miami Herald, Burger King offered an olive branch to community that shares values, resources, tools and talent.
McDonalds and suggested that, in the spirit of Peace Day, We promoted Andrew Dimitriou and Phil McDonald for one day they join burger forces and create a McWhopper.
to lead Europe and Australia, respectively.
We brought in A full range of content, digital and otherwise, as well Ramzy Abou-Ezzedine to lead the Middle East and John as online engagement vehicles, events and activation gave Lynn to lead Latin America.
Leslie Sims joined Y&R New people the ability to share, participate, and create struck York as the Chief Creative Officer and Adweek named her such a chord that DIY McWhoppers were created, one of the Top 10 Creatives doing breakthrough work at Instagrammed, Snapchatted, posted on Pinterest and agencies.
Ken Dowling returned to Y&R after many years Facebook, shared all around the world.
Both Peace One to lead the US Navy business won in spring and to launch Day and Burger King benefited.
Earlier this month, the McWhopper was awarded the We began 2016 with the launch of a new platform at GRANDY, the top award at the ANDY awards.
Best Countries, based on BrandAsset Valuator data won the top award for Outstanding Public Service with and created in partnership with US News & World Report GPY&R Brisbanes Melanoma Likes Me.
and The Wharton School, gives exceptional insights on nations as brands.
News of their countries strengths had heads of state, including Justin Trudeau and Benjamin Netanyahu, as well as the German, Swedish, Dutch, Peruvian Creativity is telling the story, and Slovenian governments tweeting and quoting their innovation is how we share rankings, and even merited a mention on Jimmy Kimmels late night show.
Going forward, we believe this an important it and technology is how we tool not only for governments and tourism agencies, but for companies wanting a new filter for understanding markets engage with the story around the world.
This will be annual and we are already working to expand Best Countries to Best Cities thinking.
The most elegant stories are often quite simple.
In the At the Y&R companies, we understand that creativity Philippines, our agency created a print ad for North Face.
is telling the story, innovation is how we share it and Dipped into water, the ad becomes an LED camping light technology is how we engage with the story.
We have with 24 hours of power, giving someone a pragmatic talented people in place who know how to leverage these solution rooted in the brands exploring nature.
incredible opportunities competitively, and we have a way And in Turkey, we worked with Vodafone to create a of working together that drives great creative product and Cannes Grand Prix-winning secret campaign, Between strong business results.
We are optimistic that in 2016 Us, promoting an app to help women alert trusted friends we are positioned to help our clients meet todays market when they are facing immediate domestic violence.
The app challenges, understand their customers in an unparalleled has been activated over 100,000 times.
way, and create compelling stories that are brandand business-building.
57 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising VML Wunderman Report by Jon Cook Report by Mark Read Global chief executive officer Global chief executive officer breakout year is how Advertising Age n January 2015, I joined Wunderman as CEO and described VMLs 2015 performance when began working closely with a team of very talented it recognized the agency in its annual A-List executives to build on Wundermans unique strengths, honors.
We were thrilled to be included as of which there are many, and position us for success one of the top 10 agencies chosen by across a global network of 175 offices in 60 countries.
It was a special recognition to top off a year in As I reflect on our first year together, I am pleased to report which across the VML global network we experienced that 2015 has been a period of tremendous progress.
the best financial growth in our 23-year history.
We established Wundermans positioning as Creatively There were many groundbreaking aspects to the past Driven.
Data Inspired, to showcase our unique ability 12 months notably, becoming an active member of WPPs to combine big, bold, creative ideas and insights with an Global Team Ford.
VML is supporting Ford on a variety unmatched knowledge of data and analytics.
In a world of transformative initiatives, leveraging VMLs maturing where clients struggle to derive value from the mass of data global network of 2,500 employees in 28 locations around they collect, Wundermans offering is distinct, measurable the world.
It is important to clients and true to Increasingly, VML is handling expanded global duties what the agency can deliver.
The success of this messaging for client partners such as Bridgestone, Colgate, Wendys was validated by Forrester Research, which officially and others.
We also initiated major new global client acknowledged Wunderman as a leader in marketing partnerships with FedEx and the International Olympic database operations as well as a strong performer in Committee IOC.
In the US, we dramatically expanded our presence in Chicago to 80 people with significant expertise to support increasing opportunities with Kelloggs, Kimberly-Clark We have committed to and PepsiCo.
Additionally, VML secured significant agency of record relationships with Kashi and Motorola.
building a more dynamic and Our balance between creativity and technology engaging culture for recruiting continues to be VMLs differentiator.
Forrester Research named VML a Strong Performer for Digital Experience and developing top talent Service Providers among the foremost global providers.
At the same time, it was the most creatively-awarded year in our history.
VML received notable recognition from Our outstanding new business efforts with both every top-tier global awards competition, including Cannes existing and new clients are another irrefutable sign that Lions, Webby Awards, Effie Awards, One Show awards, Wunderman is making an impact.
In 2015, Wunderman CLIO Awards and more.
From full television broadcast added more than 100 new assignments from brands, production to enterprise technology solutions, the breadth including Microsoft, T-Mobile, Coca-Cola, Amazon, and scope of VMLs capabilities have never been stronger.
LEGO, IKEA, Legal & General, Shell, Isle of Capri Casinos VML is sincerely grateful to earn Ad Age A-List honors, and the U. S. Navy.
Additionally, Wunderman Health, although what continues to drive us forward is an led by Becky Chidester, has boosted growth by 10% since unrelenting pursuit to be our clients most important partner.
2014, delivering top-quality work for clients including 58 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising GSK, UnitedHealthcare and BlueCross BlueShield Elevate.
Through Elevate, Wunderman content has a testament to the power of Wundermans proven achieved significant visibility in key markets.
Weve also understanding of data, digital and content development.
established a partnership with Uber, another first in our Our continued efforts to build the Wunderman brand industry that has greatly benefited our culture and offering.
through excellent creative work and talent has received For Wunderman, 2015 was the start of a promising tremendous global recognition, with Wunderman offices in new direction that has paved the way for many exciting Colombia, London and So Paulo taking home four Cannes accomplishments with our business results and our culture.
Lions, Wunderman China winning Campaign Agency of By continuing to focus on acquiring top talent, building the the Year, Wunderman London winning The Drum DADI Wunderman brand and developing data-inspired creative Awards Grand Prix and Wunderman Phantasia winning work that inspires action, we are confident Wunderman the 2015 ANDA Agency of the Year Award.
will see success for many years to come.
As a network of more than 7,000 people including 2,200 creatives, 1,300 data scientists and over 3,000 Burson-Marsteller business people and strategists we recognize the Report by Donald A. Baer importance of leveraging our diverse strengths in order to Worldwide chair and chief executive officer deliver the work our clients expect and need to succeed in a competitive environment.
Our wide range of expertise n 2015, we continued our fast-forward progress along has now been simplified as we aim to unite the Wunderman the leading edge of communications, modernizing network as a consistent brand with one very clear message.
and energizing our creativity, our offerings and the As part of our efforts to integrate our creative and data talent that makes it all happen.
Around the globe, capabilities, we rebranded the KBM Groups data-driven Burson-Marsteller teams are delivering on our promise to engagement services under the Wunderman brand.
combine the most creative new integrated communications And to ensure that our strategy of focusing on creativity capabilities with the world-class strategic counsel our and data translates into concrete work for our clients, we developed Collision, a set of proprietary tools and methodologies to enable our creative and analytics teams New growth-generating to work more closely together throughout the entire creative process.
This exciting program has already increased our services include the launch ability to collaborate and significantly improved our of our Cuba Specialty Team efficiency and accuracy across disciplines and throughout our global network.
focused on economic We have also committed to building a more dynamic development and tourism and engaging culture for recruiting and developing top talent.
Recent hires and promotions are already having an impact: Mel Edwards CEO, EMEA, Jamie Gutfreund global CMO, Ian Haworth ECD, UK EMEA, Judy clients have trusted for 63 years.
During the year, we Jackson global chief talent officer, John Lynn CEO, brought to market innovative offerings tapping into the LatAm and Seth Solomons CEO, North America all technology, content and distribution opportunities that are focusing on driving business growth and creativity in are dramatically changing our sector.
Even as we changed, their respective markets.
we stayed true to our enduring commitment to deliver Partnerships with digital leaders have empowered our excellence to our clients and were honored as 2015 Agency people across the network to become more connected of the Year by industry-leading publication The Holmes advocates for our brand.
Wunderman was the first digital Report in Africa, Latin America and the Middle East.
agency partner to participate in LinkedIns pilot program, 59 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
