Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Remuneration policy 1 December 2015.
Details of how the Company will implement the 1.
Introduction existing and revised Policy set out below for this financial year are This section of the Directors Remuneration Report has been provided in the Annual report on remuneration section starting on prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
Committee completed a review of executive remuneration which The overall aim of the Policy is to support and promote the long-term sought to ensure continued alignment with the Companys strategy success of the Company.
Within this, the key objective is to provide and that, going forward, it remains a simplified package more closely a package that is sufficient to attract, retain and treat fairly Executive aligned to the requirements of all stakeholders.
Following the review, Directors currently in position or any new Executive Director, whether the Committee proposes to make a number of changes to the hired externally or promoted from within the Wolseley Group.
Policy, which was approved by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
In determining each element of pay and the package as a whole, the This section sets out the revised Policy, which will be put forward Committee will take into account all relevant factors including, but for shareholder approval at the AGM on 1 December 2015 2015 not limited to, the skills and experience of the individual, the market AGM.
If the revised Policy is approved, it will take effect immediately rate for an individual of that experience, the importance of securing following the 2015 AGM, and it is intended to apply for a period of the best person for the role, as well as considering the wider pay at least three years from the 2015 AGM.
It contains details of the environment both internally and externally.
Companys Policy to govern future payments that will be made to The Annual report on remuneration provides, in the section entitled Directors.
All remuneration and loss of office payments will only be Report for the year ended 31 July 2015, details of the remuneration made if they are consistent with the approved Policy.
paid to Directors in accordance with the Policy approved at the Subject to shareholder approval, this revised Policy will apply to 2014 AGM.
any remuneration and loss of office payments made on or after 2.
Remuneration policy tables Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors Base salary To pay Executive Directors Base salary is normally set at or around the mid-market level of other companies comparable on at a level commensurate the basis of size, internationality and complexity with the opportunity to exceed this level to reward with their contribution to the sustained individual high performance.
Company and appropriately Base salary is paid monthly in cash in the currency specified in the employment contract.
based on skill, experience and Base salary may be increased each year, typically in line with the general level of increase awarded performance achieved.
toother employees in the Group.
The level of salary paid There is an annual review of base salary by the Committee although an out-of-cycle review may be should be set at a level that conducted if the Committee determines it appropriate.
The review will take into account individual is considered appropriate to and corporate performance, percentage increases awarded to the general workforce, prevailing aid the recruitment, retention market and economic conditions and governance practices.
and motivation of high calibre The Committee retains the flexibility to award larger increases than those awarded to the general Executive Directors required to workforce where it considers it appropriate and necessary such as in exceptional circumstances ensure the successful formation or if an individual assumes a new or expanded role with further scope and responsibility.
If it is and delivery of the Groups considered appropriate, larger increases may be phased over more than one year.
strategy and management of The Committee retains the flexibility to review and decide on a case-by-case basis whether it is its business in the challenging appropriate to award increases to allow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base salary international environment in has been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly to or around that mid-market level once which it operates.
expertise and performance has been proven.
The base salaries for the Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: the Committee considers the individual salaries of the Executive Directors at a Committee meeting each year, taking into account the factors listed in operation and opportunity above.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to base salary: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to base salary.
Wolseley plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued Taxable benefits To provide a range of market A range of benefits are provided that, depending on the location of the individual, may include: competitive benefits to life assurance cover: encourage retention and which critical illness cover: enable an Executive Director to private medical cover for Executive Directors and their dependants: perform his or her duties.
car, driver, car allowance: professional tax and financial advice including assistance in relation to tax filings : relocation assistance where necessary : tax equalisation arrangements in relation to additional international tax and social security contributions: and other reasonable ancillary benefits, where necessary.
The travel and other business expenses incurred in relation to their duties as Executive Directors may be reimbursed or paid for by the Company directly, as appropriate including any relevant tax payable.
In addition, the Executive Directors have the benefit of Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and an indemnity from the Company.
It is expected that an Executive Director would receive reasonable levels of benefits consistent with those typically offered in his or her country of residence.
Benefits are typically paid monthly and their value assessed at the end of each financial year for tax purposes.
Benefits are monitored, controlled and reviewed on a periodic basis.
The Committee retains the flexibility to offer additional benefits where appropriate.
This would be reviewed on a case-by-case basis due to the position and circumstances of the relevant Executive Director e. g. if asked to relocate, or is recruited, from overseas.
The benefits for the Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to benefits: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to benefits.
Pension To provide a market-competitive Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the relevant pension arrangements offered by the benefit for retirement which Group or to receive a cash salary supplement in lieu of pension entitlement.
rewards sustained contribution Pension contribution or cash salary supplement is paid monthly.
and to encourage the The entitlement is reviewed annually and may be increased each year in line with salary changes.
recruitment and retention of high The maximum opportunity, either by way of a Company contribution to a Group pension performing Executive Directors.
arrangement or payment of a cash salary supplement, is 32 per cent of base salary.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to pension: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to pension.
Wolseley plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued Annual bonus To reward achievement of annual Executive Directors are eligible subject to invitation at the discretion of the Committee in consultation financial and operational goals with the Group Chief Executive, other than in relation to his own arrangements to receive an annual consistent with the strategic bonus which is based on an assessment of financial and personal performance in the relevant direction of the business.
The annual bonus earned up to the target level of payout by an Executive Director shall be paid in cash and, if shareholding guidelines have been met at the time the bonus is awarded, any amounts of annual bonus earned in excess of target will also be paid in cash.
If shareholding guidelines have not been met, the Deferred Bonus Plan policy on page 82 will apply.
The annual bonus is not pensionable.
The annual bonus is normally reviewed annually and the opportunity available may be adjusted each year up to the maximum.
The maximum opportunity is 150 per cent of base salary.
The annual bonus opportunities for each of the Executive Director roles for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Threshold performance and maximum on-target performance levels are set as a percentage of base salary.
All bonus payments are determined by the Committee.
Details of the actual vesting for threshold and maximum target performance percentages for each Executive Director for the current year, as well as details of performance criteria set for the year under review and performance against them, are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: financial key performance indicators are used.
Performance measures, targets and weightings are reviewed annually.
They will be set each year by the Committee with reference to the Groups annual budget, business priorities at the time and also the long-term strategic business plan, as well as market expectations of the Companys future performance.
They are intended to align the performance of Executive Directors with the Groups near-term objectives of delivering against its strategy, in particular: profit-related measures support the strategic objectives of driving systematic performance across the Group, the acceleration of profitable growth and delivering Group synergies: a cash generation-related measure helps the Group to generate attractive returns for shareholders: and individual personal objectives allow the Committee to prioritise individual initiatives which are particularly relevant in any year to support the Groups strategy.
At least 80 per cent of maximum bonus is weighted to financial performance and not more than 20 per cent of maximum bonus is weighted to personal objectives aimed at driving the strategic objectives of the business.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to annual bonus: for bonuses paid for the 2015 16 financial year, and subsequently, recovery and withholding provisions will apply.
The Committee has the right to recover from Executive Directors any amount of the bonus paid at any time before the second anniversary of the announcement of the results for the financial year to which the annual bonus relates in the following circumstances: a the Committee forms the view that there has been a material financial misstatement of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice and that such misstatement resulted either directly or indirectly in a higher cash bonus payment being made than would have been the case had that misstatement not been made: and or b it is discovered that, during the financial year in respect of which the bonus is paid, the Executive Director: i conducted him herself in a way which resulted in significant reputational damage to the Company: or ii was guilty of negligence or gross misconduct.
The Committee also has the right to recover from an Executive Director any amount of the bonus paid in the event a fraud was effected by or with the knowledge ofthe Executive Director during the financial year in respect of which the bonus was paid.
There is no time limit on the application of recovery or withholding provisions in the event of fraud during a year to which a bonus payment relates.
Wolseley plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued Deferred Bonus Plan DBP To encourage Executive Executive Directors who have not met their shareholding guidelines requirement in any financial year Directors to build up a in which an annual bonus is paid will be granted an award under the DBP as set out below.
shareholding in value equivalent In any given year, the annual bonus earned up to the target level of payout by an Executive Director to a set multiple of base salary shall be paid in cash.
If shareholding guidelines have not been met at the time the bonus is awarded, and to facilitate share ownership amounts earned in excess of target by an Executive Director will be deferred into shares and held to provide further alignment subject to the terms of the DBP DBP shares and subject to forfeiture for three years or such other with shareholders.
period as the Committee considers appropriate from the date the bonus is awarded.
To align interests of Directors Awards of DBP shares will normally be made in the form of nil-cost options but may be awarded and shareholders in developing inother forms allowed under the DBP rules if appropriate.
the long-term growth of the Dividend equivalent payments may be made in relation to the DBP shares in cash or shares equal business and the execution and invalue to the value of dividends that would have been payable on the DBP shares during the period delivery of the Groups strategy.
between grant and vesting of an award.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to DBP: for DBP shares awarded in respect of bonus awards made for the 2015 16 financial year, and subsequently, recovery and withholding provisions will apply.
The Committee has the right to recover or withhold from Executive Directors any award of DBP shares at any time before the second anniversary of the date on which they vested in the following circumstances: a there has been a material financial misstatement of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice : and or b i the Executive Director conducted him herself in a way which resulted in or was reasonably likely to result in significant reputational damage to the Company: or ii was guilty of negligence or gross misconduct.
The Committee also has the right to recover from an Executive Director any award of DBP shares in the event a fraud was effected by or with the knowledge of the Executive Director.
Wolseley plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP subject to shareholder approval of the 2015 LTIP rules and the Policy at the 2015 AGM To align the interests of Executive Directors are eligible to participate subject to selection by the Committee in the 2015 LTIP Executive Directors and those of approved by shareholders.
shareholders in developing the Awards are typically made annually in each financial year in accordance with the plan rules and are long-term sustainable growth of structured as nil cost options, restricted shares, conditional shares or phantom shares.
They are the business and execution and not pensionable.
delivery of the Groups strategy.
Vesting of awards is subject to the Company meeting performance targets measured over at least To facilitate share ownership three financial years, typically starting with the financial year in which the grant takes place.
to provide further alignment The Committee retains the discretion to award up to the maximum award that may be granted with shareholders.
under the 2015 LTIP rules which is 350 per cent of base salary in shares valued on or around the date of grant, although the Committee will not increase awards for each Executive Director role above any prior year award levels under the 2015 LTIP without prior consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
For each performance target, 25 per cent of the award vests for threshold performance 0 per cent below threshold increasing pro rata on a straight-line basis to 100per cent vesting for maximum performance.
The shareholding guidelines require Executive Directors to retain vested shares after taking into account any shares sold to pay tax, social security or similar liabilities received from awards made under the 2015 LTIP on or after 1 December 2015 for two years from the vesting date except in exceptional circumstances and with the approval of the Committee.
For awards granted as options, it will be sufficient to hold the vested but unexercised options for this period.
Dividend equivalent payments may be made in accordance with the 2015 LTIP rules on the shares which are the subject of the award to the extent they vest in cash or shares with a value equal to the value of dividends that would have been payable during the period between grant and vesting ofan award.
The proposed 2015 LTIP awards to be granted to the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: metrics will be assessed each year and will be set by the Committee prior to grant to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee may adjust in limited circumstances the proposed EPS and OpCF targets or introduce alternative or additional measures to those set out in the Annual report on remuneration at page 91 but would consult with major shareholders before doing so.
The Committee may also vary: i weightings between measures provided that no single measure will have a weighting of more than 40 per cent: and ii the targets from a previous year, although the metrics will not be materially less challenging than those contained inthe 2015 LTIP rules.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to LTIP: for awards granted after the 2015 AGM onwards, theCommittee may, in its discretion, at any time before the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, recover from Executive Directors any vested 2015 LTIP shares and or cash paid and withhold any unvested awards or reduce future grants in any of the following circumstances: i amaterial financial misstatement of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice : ii any conduct of the Executive Director which results in or is reasonably likely to result in significant reputational damage to the Company: and iii the negligence or gross misconduct of the Executive Director.
The Committee may, in its discretion, recover from an Executive Director any vested 2015 LTIP shares and or cash paid and withhold any unvested awards or reduce future grants in the event of a fraud effected by or with the knowledge of the Executive Director.
There is no time limit on the application of recovery or withholding provisions inthe event of a fraud.
Wolseley plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued All-employee share plans To foster wider employee Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys all-employee share plan applicable share ownership and to allow tothe jurisdiction in which they are based on the same terms as other eligible employees.
Directors to voluntarily invest in A North America-based Executive Director may make monthly savings over a period of one year the Company.
linked to the grant of an option over Wolseley plc shares with an option price at a discount of up to 15per cent of the market value of the shares at grant.
Grants are currently made under theESPP.
A UK or Europe-based Executive Director may make monthly savings over a period of three or five years or other period set by any relevant tax authority linked to the grant of an option over Wolseleyplc shares with an option price at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the market value oftheshares at grant.
Grants are currently made under the ISP.
Maximum opportunity under the rules of both plans is 500 or local currency equivalent per month.
At the time of this Policy, the Board has currently set the savings limit at 250 per month for both ISP and ESPP plans.
The savings limit used each year will be reviewed by the Board and set annually atan amount up to, but not exceeding, the maximum opportunity.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable as these are all-employee share plans without performance measures offered to all employees.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to all-employee share plans: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to all-employee share plans.
Shareholding guidelines To encourage Executive All Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a prescribed percentage of their Directors to build up a base salary.
shareholding in value equivalent All Directors are advised of the required target percentage, a timeline to achieve the target and to a set multiple of base salary.
requirements for maintaining the shareholding in line with salary or fee increases.
To align interests of Directors For Executive Directors, share ownership may be achieved by retaining shares received as a result and shareholders in developing of participating in a Company share plan after taking into account any shares sold to finance option the sustainable long-term exercises and or to pay tax, social security and similar liabilities.
growth of the business and the Executive Directors are required to retain vested shares after taking into account any shares sold execution and delivery of the to pay tax, social security and similar liabilities received from awards made under the 2015 LTIP Groups strategy.
fortwo years from the vesting date except in exceptional circumstances and with the approval of theCommittee and while employed by the Group.
Details of the actual guidelines and targets set for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable as these are guidelines for holding shares and not a form of remuneration.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to shareholding guidelines: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to shareholding guidelines.
Wolseley plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Non Executive Directors Fees To remunerate Non Executive Directors The Chairman is paid a basic fee determined by the Remuneration Committee.
to reflect their level of responsibility and Non Executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
Additional fees are paid for the roles of time commitments.
Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Fees for Non Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors at a Board meeting.
Additional fees for Non Executive Directors for duties beyond those stated above may be payable, at the discretion of the Board, from time to time to reflect the time and responsibility involved.
The maximum aggregate of fees for all Non Executive Directors, including the Chairman, allowed by the Companys Articles of Association is 1 million per annum or such higher amount as the Company may determine by ordinary resolution.
The Committee, in relation to the Chairman, and the Board, in relation to the other Non Executive Directors, retain the flexibility to increase fee levels to ensure that they continue to appropriately recognise the experience of the individual, time commitment of the role, increases to fee levels generally and in comparable companies.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 August each year.
The fees payable to the Chairman and Non Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to fees: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to fees.
Benefits To enable a Non Executive Director to Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive plan, nor is any pension payable perform his or her duties.
inrespect of their services, and they are not entitled to any benefits, except: they receive assistance with their tax affairs arising from the Companys tax residence inSwitzerland: and the travel and other business expenses incurred relating to their duties as Non Executive Directors may be reimbursed or paid for by the Company directly, as appropriate includingany relevant tax payable.
Shareholding guidelines To encourage Non Executive Directors All Non Executive Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a prescribed to build up a shareholding in value percentage oftheir fees.
equivalent to a set multiple of their All Non Executive Directors are advised of the required target percentage, a timeline to basic fee.
achieve the target and requirements formaintaining the shareholding in line with salary or To align interests of Non Executive fees increases.
Directors and shareholders in Details of the actual guidelines set for the current year are set out in the Annual report developing the sustainable long-term on remuneration.
growth of the business and overseeing the execution and delivery of the Groups strategy.
Wolseley plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration policy continued Notes to the policy table Legacy arrangements In approving this Policy, authority is given for the duration of the Changes made to the Policy Policy to the Company to honour commitments paid, promised to be paid or awarded to: i current or former Directors prior to the Following the review of the remuneration arrangements for Executive date of this Policy being approved provided that such payments Directors, a number of changes to the existing Policy have been or promises were consistent with any Remuneration Policy of the proposed.
The Committee introduced the DBP and made changes Company which was approved by shareholders and was in effect to the annual bonus and long term incentive awards.
atthe time they were made : or ii to an individual who subsequently The aim of and basis of the rationale for those changes is to simplify is appointed as a Director of the Company at a time when the the structure of remuneration, retain alignment between the Policy relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the and the Companys pay philosophy, increase alignment between opinion of the Committee, was not paid, promised to be paid or the Policy and the requirements of all stakeholders, and ensure the awarded as financial consideration of that individual becoming Policy is sufficiently flexible to meet the Companys needs for at least a Director of the Company, even where such commitments are the next three years.
inconsistent with the provisions of the revised Policy.
If the Policy is approved at the 2015 AGM, the components of For the avoidance of doubt, this includes all awards granted under remuneration that will change are as follows: the 2012 LTIP and 2012 ESOP together the 2012 LTI plans in accordance with the Policy approved at the 2014 AGM and all Annual bonus awards granted under the OSP to employees of the Company who Increase in maximum opportunity from 140 per cent of salary are not Directors at the date of grant.
Outstanding share awards that to150 per cent of salary.
remain unvested or unexercised at the date of this report including for current Executive Directors as detailed on page 101 of the Annual Any bonus paid will be subject to a two-year recovery provision report on remuneration, remain eligible for vesting or exercise based previously one year.
on their original award terms.
If an Executive Director has not met their shareholding guidelines Awards granted under the 2012 ESOP are subject to EPS growth at the time that the bonus is awarded, any bonus amount targets measured over three financial years starting with the financial earned in excess of target payout will be deferred into shares year in which they are granted.
Awards granted under the 2012 and held subject to the terms of the DBP, subject to forfeiture, LTIP are subject to relative TSR performance targets measured for three years or such other period as the Committee considers over three financial years starting with the financial year in which appropriate from the date the bonus is awarded.
Any deferred they are granted.
For awards granted under the 2012 LTI plans from shares will be subject to a recovery provision which will apply December onwards, the Committee may, in its discretion, decide for two years after vesting, save that there is no time limit on the that any cash payable or shares awarded be reduced in any of application of recovery or withholding provisions in the event of the following circumstances: i a material financial misstatement fraud during the year to which the bonus relates.
of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice : ii the misconduct of Long-term incentives an award participant which results in or is reasonably likely to No future grants will be made under the 2012 LTIP or the 2012 result in significant reputational damage to the Company: or iii the ESOP to Executive Directors.
In future, awards will be made under negligence, fraud or gross misconduct of a participant.
If the 2015 the 2015 LTIP, subject to its approval at the 2015 AGM.
Under the LTIP and the Policy are approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, 2015 LTIP, the maximum opportunity will be 350 per cent of no further grants will be made under the 2012 LTI plans.
The Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM current Under the shareholding guidelines, Directors will not generally be policy will continue to apply until this proposed Policy is approved permitted to sell any shares from awards made under the 2015 at the 2015 AGM.
If this proposed Policy is not approved at the 2015 LTIP on or after 1 December 2015 that vest other than to satisfy AGM, the current policy will continue to apply in accordance with tax or similar liabilities for two years after the vesting date except in its terms.
exceptional circumstances and with the approval of the Committee and while employed by the Group.
This does not apply to earlier awards granted under historical long term incentive plans.
Awards under the 2015 LTIP will vest based on performance against measures set by the Committee the three performance measures to be applied initially are the relative TSR, EPS growth and OpCF, and are set out in more detail in the Annual report on remuneration.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply to awards granted under the 2015 LTIP for up to two years after they have vested.
There is no time limit on the application of recovery or withholding provisions in the event of fraud.
Wolseley plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Depending on the timing of the appointment, the Committee may Differences in Remuneration Policy for set different annual bonus performance criteria for the first year of Executive Directors compared to other appointment.
Where an appointment is an internal promotion, any employees variable pay element awarded in respect of the individuals previous The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors differs from that of role would continue on the original grant terms.
In addition, any other other Executive Committee members only in respect of the quantum ongoing remuneration including pension obligations existing prior to of the components of remuneration, the non-application of the DBP the appointment would be able to continue.
and that Executive Committee members who are not also Executive One-off buy out cash or share award Directors may also participate in the Groups Ordinary Share Plan OSP.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from outside the Group, the Committee may make a one-off award to the new Executive Currently, the Groups other senior managers broadly receive the Director to buy out incentives and other remuneration opportunities same components of remuneration as the Executive Committee forfeited on leaving his or her previous employer.
The Committee members, except that no awards are made to them under the 2015 retains the flexibility to make such additional payments in the form LTIP.
Awards are made under the Groups OSP to a small proportion ofcash and or shares.
of the Groups employees who are nominated annually based on When making such an award, the Committee will, as far as their performance and potential.
The wider employee population practicable, replicate the structure of the arrangements being of the Group will receive remuneration that is considered to be forfeited and in doing so will take into account relevant factors appropriate for their geographic location, role, level of responsibility including the delivery mechanism, time horizons, attributed and performance.
expected value and performance conditions of the forfeited award.
Recruitment policy The Committee will endeavour not to pay more than the value of theforfeited award.
Executive Directors The Committee will, where possible, facilitate such awards through As noted earlier, the Committee will consider the need to attract the Companys current incentive plans, but it may be necessary to the best talent whilst aiming to pay no more than is appropriate or use the exemption permitted within the Listing Rules.
In determining each element of pay and the package as a whole upon recruitment, the Committee Non Executive Directors will take into account all relevant factors including, but not limited For the appointment of a Chairman or Non Executive Director, fee to, the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate for an arrangements will be made in line with the Policy set out on page85.
individual of that experience, as well as the importance of securing the best person for the role.
Policy on loss of office Fixed pay base salary, benefits, pension All Directors A newly appointed Executive Director will be offered a base salary, benefits and pension package in line with the Policy set out on In the event of termination of a service contract or letter of pages 79 to 80.
The Committee retains the flexibility to review and appointment of a Director, contractual obligations will be honoured decide on a case-by-case basis whether it is appropriate to award in accordance with the service contract and terms of incentive plans increases to allow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base or letter of appointment.
The Committee will take into consideration salary has been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly the circumstances and reasons for departure, health, length of to or around that mid-market level once expertise and performance service, performance and the duty where applicable for Directors to has been proven.
This decision would take into account all relevant mitigate their own loss.
Under this Policy the Committee may make factors noted above.
any statutory payments it is required to make and or settle claims brought against the Company in relation to a termination.
In addition, Variable pay annual bonus and long term incentive awards the Committee may agree to payment of outplacement counselling A newly appointed Executive Director will be offered an annual costs and disbursements such as legal costs if considered to be bonus and long term incentives in line with the Policy set out on appropriate and dependent on the circumstances of departure.
The maximum level of variable remuneration It is the Companys policy for the period of notice from the Company annual bonus and 2015 LTIP awards which may be awarded to to the Executive Directors not to exceed 12 months and for Non new Executive Directors is limited to 500 per cent of base salary Executive Directors to the Company not to exceed six months.
excluding any buy out awards, the policy for which is set out below.
The Committee retains the flexibility to vary the weighting between annual bonus and 2015 LTIP up to the approved Policy maxima.
Wolseley plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration policy continued There are no pre-determined contractual provisions for Directors Executive Directors regarding compensation in the event of loss of office except those On loss of office, there is no automatic entitlement to a bonus.
listed in the table below: Executive Directors may receive a bonus in respect of the year of Chairman and cessation of employment based on, and subject to, performance Details of Non Executive conditions and pro-rated to reflect the actual period of service provision Executive Directors Directors in the year of cessation except pro-ration may not be applied in Notice 12 months notice from the Company.
Six months exceptional circumstances such as death in service or ill-health.
period notice Six months notice from the Executive.
The Committee will take into account the reason for the Executive byeither Directors departure and any other relevant factors when considering party.
a bonus payment ofa departing Executive Director.
Termination The Company may terminate an Fees and payment expenses Executive Directors service contract The treatment of leavers under the 2012 LTIP and 2012 ESOP plans accrued by making a payment inlieu of notice as approved under the 2014 Remuneration Policy and the 2015 LTIP up to the equal to: together the LTI plans, together with awards under all-employee termination plans and, if applicable the DBP, would be determined by the 12 months base salary and date only.
relevant leaver provisions in accordance with the plan rules.
benefits: and 12 months pension contributions or Under the LTI plans, any unvested awards will lapse at cessation cash pension supplement.
unless the individual has good leaver status namely for reasons of The Company would seek to ensure death, redundancy, injury, disability, ill-health, employing business that any termination payment is or company sold out of the Group and any other reason at the mitigated in the event that the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee retains the discretion to Executive Director starts alternative determine when the awards should vest and performance conditions employment within thenotice period.
be tested, for example, at the date of cessation or at the usual In the case of the UK-based Executive vesting date.
In the event of a change of control or takeover, all long Directors, the Company may pay a term incentive awards will vest subject to performance conditions lump sum in respect of six months being met.
In relation to the LTI plans, awards would generally be and the remaining six months in pro-rated to reflect the period of service of the Executive Director: monthly instalments subject to although, if the Committee considers it appropriate, the Committee reductions if the Executive Director has the discretion set out in the plan rules not to pro-rate.
commences alternative employment Under the all-employee plans, any unvested awards will lapse at with a base salary fee of at least cessation unless the individual has a good leaver status for UK 20,000.
Executive Directors this will be specifically as prescribed by HMRC No payment will be made to in the SAYE appendix of the relevant plan rules and for Executive Executive Directors in the event Directors in other jurisdictions as set out in the relevant section of ofgross misconduct.
PostNon-compete and non-solicitation Not Under the DBP, any unvested awards will be forfeited if an Executive termination applicable.
covenants apply for a period of Director ceases to be an employee of the Group by reason of covenants 12 months after the termination date.
misconduct or if the Company becomes aware, after termination, offacts or circumstances which would have entitled it to dismiss the The policy on loss of office and contractual provisions above Executive Director for misconduct.
If an Executive Director ceases would be applied to any new Directors service contract or letter to be an employee for any other reason, an award shall vest in full of appointment.
at the end of the deferral period unless the reason for cessation is death or other circumstances which the Committee considers sufficiently exceptional, the award shall vest in full at the date of death or cessation of employment.
Wolseley plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information 5.
Discretion, flexibility and judgement of 6.
Matters considered when determining theCommittee thePolicy The Committee operates the annual bonus plan, DBP, LTI plans Shareholder views and all-employee plans, according to their respective rules and in The Committees aim is to have an ongoing and open dialogue accordance with tax authorities rules where relevant.
To ensure the with major shareholders.
The Chair of the Committee will usually efficient administration of those plans, the Committee may apply consult at least annually with major shareholders and shareholder certain operational discretions.
These include the following: representative bodies to discuss the business and executive selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: remuneration more widely.
When any material changes are proposed to the Policy, the Chair of the Committee will inform determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: major shareholders in advance, and offer a meeting to discuss determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the the proposed changes.
As part of the detailed review in 2015 of limits set out in the Policy table above : remuneration arrangements, a consultation was undertaken with shareholder views given due consideration when finalising the determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment Policy to be put to the 2015 AGM.
This shareholder engagement of performance: highlights the fact that the Committee recognises the importance making the appropriate adjustments required in certain of understanding shareholders views and ensuring that they are circumstances e. g. change of control, changes to accounting considered when making decisions regarding Policy.
The Committee rules, rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and also considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM special dividends : each year.
determining good leaver status for the purposes of the LTI plans Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group and applying the appropriate treatment: and and other matters determining policy undertaking the annual review of performance measures and Our policy for both Executive Directors and employees across the weighting between them within the limits set out in the Policy Group is to provide remuneration at mid-market levels.
On promotion table, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and LTI plans or appointment, senior executives may be initially remunerated from year to year.
below market levels and then increased to mid-market levels over If an event occurs which results in the performance conditions and time, once performance has been established.
The emphasis on the or targets of the annual bonus plan or LTI plans being deemed no various elements of pay within the Policy varies depending on the longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment, the role of the individual within the Group.
Where possible, employees Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures are encouraged to hold shares in Wolseley, thereby providing and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised alignment with shareholders and benefiting from any growth in value conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The use of the Group but through different delivery mechanisms.
For the of the discretions referred to in the Future policy table and above will Executive Directors, a greater emphasis is placed on performancebe explained as appropriate in the Annual report on remuneration related pay.
and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with The Committee does not consult with employees when determining major shareholders.
The Committee considers the basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the Policy for the Executive Directors.
It also takes account of market developments, the wider economic environment, good corporate governance practices, remuneration data and its responsibilities to its shareholders.
This information is taken into account by providing context and informing the Committee of the market in which they are making decisions.
Wolseley plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration policy continued 7.
Illustrations of the Remuneration Policy Scenario assumptions 2015 16 In arriving at the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made in relation to the fixed elements of remuneration: Group Chief Executive: Ian Meakins 000 Fixed pay Bonus Long term share awards Base salary for 2015 16.
4,809 Benefits received for 2014 15 as set out in the Remuneration table on page 96.
54% 2,702 Pension using the current policy as set out in the Future policy 24% table on page 80 and applied to 2015 16 base salary.
21% 1,198 32% For the non-fixed elements of remuneration: 44% 25% 100% In relation to the annual bonus, the scenarios are based on bonus Fixed pay On-target Maximum opportunity to be made in accordance with implementation of the Policy for 2015 16.
Chief Financial officer: John Martin In relation to long-term incentive awards, the scenarios are based 000 Fixed pay Bonus Long term share awards on the awards to be made in accordance with implementation of the Policy for 2015 16.
In each case the assumptions for on-target and maximum 2,576 performance are applied in the table below.
Annual bonus LTIP 1,515 49% 21% 718 23% 32% On-target 100% 28% 47% Paid at as a percentage Threshold vesting, at 25 per cent of an Fixed pay On-target Maximum of base salary : award expressed as a percentage of 1 the base salary used for calculating 100 per cent for the award: Chief Executive officer, USA: Frank Roach Ian Meakins 000 Fixed pay Bonus Long term share awards 75.0 per cent for Ian Meakins 90 per cent for John Martin 60.0 per cent for John Martin 110 per cent for 68.74 per cent for Frank Roach 3,852 Frank Roach 50% 2,195 Maximum 22% 941 26% 35% Paid at as a percentage Full vesting at 100 per cent of the award 43% 24% 100% of base salary : expressed as a percentage of the base 1 salary used for calculating the award: Fixed pay On-target Maximum 120 per cent for Ian Meakins 300 per cent for Ian Meakins The charts give an indication of the level of remuneration that 110 per cent for 240 per cent for John Martin would be received by each Executive Director in accordance with John Martin 275 per cent for Frank Roach the revised Policy in respect of minimum fixed pay, on-target 140 per cent for and maximum performance and based on assumptions set Frank Roach out on this page and are presented for illustrative purposes only.
The assumptions do not incorporate any share price 1 Awards will be granted by reference to a percentage of the Executives 2015 16 base salary and this table calculates the value of the awards on that basis.
These values are used in the scenarios.
appreciation, any all-employee share plan awards or payment ofdividend equivalents.
Wolseley plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration Performance targets are set as 80 per cent of bonus opportunity on Implementation of Policy for the year ending financial performance 20 per cent is based on cash-to-cash days, 31 July 2016 30 per cent on trading profit and 30 per cent on gross profit and Information 20 per cent of bonus opportunity on personal strategic objectives.
Specific individual objectives were set at the beginning of the For the purposes of this Annual report on remuneration: 2015 16 financial year.
1 any payments made in US dollars have been converted to For the 2015 16 financial year, the threshold for bonus payments in sterling.
The calculations are made based on the annual average relation to ongoing trading profit will be set at or above the outturn exchange rate for the year ended 31 July 2015 of $1.5599:1 trading profit for the 2014 15 financial year on a constant currency forthe year ended 31 July 2014 of $1.6422:1 : and basis, with the exception of Canada.
2 any estimated share values are determined using a share price The Board considers that the performance targets for 2015 16 are of 4099 pence, being the average closing mid-market quotation commercially sensitive and they are not included for this reason.
for Wolseley plc shares for the three-month period ended The Committee will disclose the targets and performance against 31 July 2015. them in the Annual report on remuneration next year, depending on considerations of commercial sensitivity at that time.
Executive Directors Long term incentives Base salary Long term incentive awards will be made after the 2015 AGM The Remuneration Committee agreed to an increase to the base subject to shareholder approval of the 2015 LTIP rules and the salary levels of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 August Policy at the levels set out in the table below: 2015, as set out below.
Current base salary levels, and those which applied during the year ended 31 July 2015, are as follows: 2015 LTIP award value as Annualised base salary % of salary 2015 16 2014 15 3 I Meakins Group CEO 300% 000 000 % increase J Martin Group CFO 240% I Meakins Group CEO 859.8 847.1 1.5% F Roach CEO, USA 275% J Martin Group CFO 531.0 524.7 1.2% 1 2 F Roach CEO, USA 701.6 684.5 2.5% The award levels for Ian Meakins and John Martin are unchanged 1 T he total to be received by Frank Roach in 2015 16 will be paid in US dollars as $1,094,391.
from those granted in 2014 15 under the existing schemes on an 2 T he total received by Frank Roach in 2014 15 was paid in US dollars as $1,067,698.
expected value basis assuming 2.5 options under the 2012 ESOP 3 F or context, the average Group wide salary increase was 1.5 per cent.
For UK-based employees are exchanged for one award under the 2015 LTIP.
However, for the average salary increase was 1.5 per cent, whilst for USA-based employees it was 2.5 per cent.
Frank Roach, a higher level has been set.
This has been done Pension and benefits to rebalance his package towards longer-term performance and reflects the 61 per cent growth in revenues in the US business UK-based Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in since FY2009 10.
This should ensure it remains competitive in the lieu of membership of the Group pension scheme, being 32 context of similarly sized businesses in the USA market if Wolseleys per cent ofbase salary for Ian Meakins and 25 per cent of base long-term performance targets are met.
USA-based Executive Director, Frank Roach, participates in the Ferguson defined contribution pension The extent to which the 2015 LTIP awards proposed to be granted arrangements and receives a Company contribution of 23 per cent in December 2015 will vest will be dependent on the following of base salary.
Frank Roachs current year pension benefits include performance targets: comparative TSR: EPS growth: and cash flow a 401k plan and Ferguson Executive Retirement Plan FERP from operating activities OpCF.
These plans have a normal retirement age of 65.
The awards will be subject to the three performance conditions, Bonus payments are not included in the calculation of the Company each with a weighting of one-third of award opportunity.
Benefits provided to Executive Directors aredetailed inthe Remuneration table on page 96.
The TSR element of the 2015 LTIP awards will vest as set out in the table below comprising one-third of the total award opportunity : Annual bonus Percentage of award 1 Wolseleys TSR position in comparator group subject to TSR which will vest The threshold, target and maximum bonus opportunities for each of the Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
Upper quartile 100% 2 Between median and upper quartile 25100% Threshold Target Maximum As % of salary At median 25% I Meakins Group CEO 80% 100% 120% Below median 0% 1 Full constituent members of the FTSE 100 index at the beginning of the performance period, J Martin Group CFO 70% 90% 110% withno additions or exclusions.
F Roach CEO, USA 80% 110% 140% 2 Awards vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
For relative TSR performance targets, the Committee bases the relative TSR targets on a list of comparator companies, being Wolseley plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued thefullconstituent members of the FTSE 100 at the beginning The OpCF element of the LTIP awards will vest as set out in the table oftheperformance period, with no additions or exclusions.
below comprising one-third of the total award opportunity : Percentage of award subject The TSR measure is considered appropriate as it ensures that 1,3 2 Operating cash flow to free cash flow which will vest the interests of the Executive Directors are closely aligned with 2.65 billion 100% those of the Companys shareholders over the long term and incentivises outperformance of the Company relative to its peers.
Between 2.25 billion and 2.65 billion 25100% The TSR performance condition supports the achievement of 2.25 billion 25% profit growth, cash generation, maximising shareholder value and Below 2.25 billion 0% relative outperformance of its peer group, and is linked in particular 1 Cash generated from operations before interest and tax as presented in the audited annual group to the strategic objectives of driving systematic performance across cash flow statement in the Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts subject to such adjustments the Group, the acceleration of profitable growth, delivering Group as the Committee deems appropriate to ensure it reflects underlying business performance.
synergies and, through cash generation, the maintenance of a strong 2 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
Further details of our strategic objectives can be 3 The cumulative three-year figure for OpCF as taken from the Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts for the last three years equals 2.25 billion.
1 The EPS element of the LTIP awards will vest as set out in the table For OpCF generation, the Committee sets the cumulative OpCF below comprising one-third of the total award opportunity : target having due regard to the Groups budget and strategic plan every year as well as market expectations and the Groups Total margin of EPS growth over Percentage of award 2 UK inflation after three years RPI subject to EPS which will vest trading environment.
30% and above 100% The OpCF measure is considered appropriate as it encourages long-term generation of cash to fund investment and returns to Between 9% and 30% 25%100% shareholders.
It is linked particularly to the strategic objectives 9% 25% of maintenance of a strong balance sheet, driving systematic Below 9% 0% performance across the Group, and delivering Group synergies.
1 Headline earnings per share as presented in the audited Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts subject to such adjustments as the Committee deems appropriate to ensure it reflects underlying Non Executive Directors business performance 2 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
The Companys policy on Non Executive Directors remuneration is set by the Board with account taken of the time and responsibility For EPS growth targets, the Committee sets the EPS growth range involved in each role, including where applicable the Chairmanship having due regard to the Groups budget and strategic business ofBoard Committees.
A summary of current fees is as follows: plan every year as well as market expectations, the Groups trading environment and the consensus of analysts forecast trading profit.
2015 16 2014 15 000 000 The EPS measure is considered appropriate as it requires substantial 1 Chairmans fee 368 360.5 improvement in the Groups financial performance and is a key 2 Non Executive Director base fee 64 63 metric used by investors to assess the Groups performance.
It is 2 linked particularly to the strategic objectives of driving systematic Additional fees : performance across the Group, the acceleration ofprofitable growth Senior Independent Director 12.5 12 and delivering Group synergies, and is aligned to the creation of Chairman of Audit Committee 18.5 18 shareholder value.
Further details of our strategic objectives can be found on page 10.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee 15.5 15 1 The increase in the Chairmans fee for Gareth Davis is the first increase since his appointment in 2010 11.
2 All increases to Non Executive Director fees were broadly in line with Executive increases to base salary.
Our vision, values and strategy The performance conditions under the 2015 LTIP are linked to our strategic objectives which are summarised on page 10.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Wolseley plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Report for the year ended 31 July 2015 Allocation of time spent during the year During 2014 15, the Committee considered, amongst other things, The Remuneration Committee the following at its scheduled meetings: The Committee met regularly during the year.
There were six Sept Nov Mar May July meetings in total and details of attendance are shown in the Governance table below.
Approval of Directors Remuneration The activities of the Committee are governed by their terms Report 2013 14 ofreference which were updated in July 2015 and can be found Annual governance and compliance onthe Wolseley plc website at www.
review The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was Directors Remuneration Report 2014 15 conducted during the year and considered at the July 2015 meeting.
Salary and fees review The review concluded that the Committee was working effectively Review of executive pay and minor recommendations to improve effectiveness were made.
Remuneration proposals for Executive Directors and Executive Committee Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held Review of Chairmans fees 1 during the year ended 31 July 2015 Annual bonus Meeting attendance Committee members and eligibility Assessment of performance against 2013 14 targets and objectives for J Simmonds Chair 6 6 2014 15 targets T Bamford 6 6 Review bonus structure for financial J Daly 6 6 year 2015 16 2 P Lpez 5 6 Discretionary share plans and all-employee plans A Murray 6 6 Agree discretionary share plan awards D Shapland 6 6 for 2014 15 Members who left during the year: Confirmation of vesting of discretionary 3 share plan awards granted in 2011 M Wareing 2 2 Agree process for 2014 15 grants under 1 A s at 31 July 2015, the Committee is made up of six Non Executive Directors.
The Board considers that the Chair and each member of the Committee is independent within the definition set out in all-employee Sharesave plans the Code.
Annual reviews 2 P ilar Lpez was unable to attend the July Committee meeting due to scheduling conflicts.
3 M ichael Wareing stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 25 November 2014.
Remuneration advisers Share headroom in accordance with Investment Association guidelines Effectiveness of the Committee Directors shareholding guidelines Committees terms of reference Other matters Other issues considered as required An additional meeting was held in January 2015 to approve the remuneration package of a senior executive below Board level who was changing roles.
Wolseley plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Freshfields provided legal Advisers to the Committee advice to the Committee during the year in relation to a new LTIP During the year, the Committee received advice and or services plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Fees are charged predominantly from various parties.
Details of such advice and or services, the on a time spent basis and the total fees paid to Freshfields for the remuneration paid for their services to the Committee and other advice provided to the Committee during the year was 53,067. services they provided to the Company are set out below.
Freshfields was appointed by the Company and provided other services to the Company during the year.
The Committee is satisfied New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited and part that the services provided to it by Freshfields are of a technical nature of Aon plc NBS is the Committees independent remuneration and did not create any conflict of interest and therefore the advice consultant.
The Committee has established arrangements to received from them was objective and independent.
If a conflict of ensure that the advice received from NBS is independent of the interest were to arise, the Committee would appoint separate legal advice provided to the Company.
NBS meets and speaks withthe advisers from those used by the Company.
Remuneration Committee Chairman periodically through the year to discuss remuneration matters which are of particular relevance to In addition, by invitation, the Group HR Director and the Group the Company, and how best it can work with the Company to meet Chief Executive attended the meetings during the year, together the Committees needs.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration with other senior Group employees who attended from timetotime.
Consultants Code of Conduct and has confirmed to the Committee They provided relevant advice to the Committee when requested.
that it adheres to the Code.
NBS is appointed by the Committee The Group HR Director and the Group Chief Executive did and its performance is reviewed by the Committee on an annual not participate in discussions concerning the details of their basis.
The Committee reviewed the performance of NBS in own remuneration.
The Committee was satisfied with its performance and that advice received from NBS was independent and objective, Statement of shareholder voting and reappointed NBS as its remuneration adviser.
NBS also At the AGM on 25 November 2014, shareholders voted to approve provided remuneration consultancy services to the Company the Remuneration Report.
The number of votes cast totalled during the year.
Fees are charged predominantly on a time spent 180,107,999.
The number of votes for totalled 177,299,200 being basis and the total fees paid toNBS for the advice provided to the 98.44 per cent of number of votes cast, the number of votes against Committee during the year was159,685.
totalled 2,808,799 being 1.56 per cent of number of votes cast and Alithos Limited Alithos provided information to the Committee for the abstentions votes withheld totalled 11,578,484. the testing of the TSR performance conditions for the LTIP awards At the same meeting, shareholders voted to approve the Policy.
and also provided the TSR performance graphs for the Directors The number of votes cast totalled 182,190,717.
The number of votes Remuneration Report.
They received total fixed fees of 14,250. for totalled 170,538,505 being 93.6 per cent of number of votes Fees were charged as a fixed annual rate.
Alithos was appointed cast, the number of votes against totalled 11,652,212 being 6.4 per by the Company for both services as it was considered to have the cent of number of votes cast and the abstentions votes withheld relevant expertise and experience.
Alithos did not provide any other advice or services during the year and so the Committee considers totalled 9,495,766.
Alithos to be objective and independent.
Wolseley plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Board appointments and service agreements letters of appointment All Executive Directors are appointed to the Board from the relevant effective date of appointment set out in their service agreements.
Appointment dates for all of the Non Executive Directors are set out in their letters of appointment.
Further details are shown in the table below.
Board appointments Date of service agreement Effective date Expiry of Director letter of appointment of appointment current term Chairman G Davis 29 May 2003 1 July 2003 20 January 2011 as Chairman 20 January 2017 Executive Directors I Meakins 8 June 2009 13 July 2009 J Martin 25 January 2010 1 April 2010 1 F Roach 27 February 2006 16 December 2005 2 Non Executive Directors T Bamford 22 March 2011 22 March 2011 22 March 2017 J Daly 21 May 2014 21 May 2014 21 May 2017 P Lpez 18 December 2012 1 January 2013 1 January 2016 A Murray 11 December 2012 1 January 2013 1 January 2016 D Shapland 3 April 2014 1 May 2014 1 May 2017 J Simmonds 21 May 2014 21 May 2014 21 May 2017 1 F rank Roach has been employed within the Group since 1976.
The date of his service agreement is that of his latest agreement.
2 D etails of all Directors can be found on pages 54 and 55.
It remains the Boards policy that Non Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which is then reviewed and, if appropriate, extended for a further three-year period.
All Directors are proposed for re-election annually in accordance with the Code.
Service agreements All Executive Directors service agreements were entered into before 27 June 2012 and have not been renewed or modified on or after that date.
As such, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office are not required to be, but are, consistent with the Policy.
Availability of documents Copies of service agreements and letters of appointment are available for review upon request at the Companys registered office in Jersey.
They are also available at the Corporate Head Office in Switzerland and the Group Services Office in the UK, and will be available forinspection at the 2015 AGM.
Wolseley plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued Remuneration table showing single total figure of pay for year Audited The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, earned by each of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 July 2015.
Benefits comprise private health insurance, car benefit car allowance, car, driver, tax and financial advice and tax equalisation arrangements.
Value of LTI vesting 2015 000 LTIP original value LTIP share price gain ESOP share price gain 2 The ESOP and LTIP grants were made in December 2012 and January 2013 respectively.
The ESOP awards will vest at 100 per cent in December 2015 and the LTIP awards will vest at 75per cent in January 2016.
2,333 1,272 1,473 3 The figure for total remuneration includes share price appreciation for the value of LTI vesting and the value of dividend equivalents on vested LTIP awards.
As the ESOP and LTIP grants made in December 2012 and January 2013 will not vest until December 2015 and January 2016 respectively, the values of long term incentive awards vesting in the graph opposite include share price appreciation determined using the share price of 4,099 pence noted on page 91 under the heading Information.
4 Value shown for 2014 15 represents estimated value of share awards granted in 2012 that are expected to vest in December 2015 and January 2016.
The estimate assumes 100 per cent vesting of ESOP awards and 75 per cent vesting of LTIP awards using the three-month average share price for the period ended 31 July 2015 of 4,099 pence.
Value shown for 2013 14 represents the actual vesting of the ESOP and LTIP awards which vested in November 2014, using the share price of Ian Meakins John Martin Frank Roach 3,434 pence.
6 Frank Roach participates in the defined contribution arrangements of Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. 5 The values in the illustrations of policy charts on page 90 show target and maximum indicative Ferguson receiving contributions of 23 per cent of base salary from Ferguson.
The cost of levels of remuneration for 2015 16, and do not take into account share price appreciation.
employers contributions during the year was 157,427 $245,571.
For the year ended 31 July2014, The figures for the value of LTI awards shown in the table above relate to awards made in 2012 13 the cost was 146,605 $240,755.
During the year ended 31 July 2015, Ian Meakins and John and vesting in 2015 16.
Therefore, the figures above should not be directly compared with those Martin received salary supplements in lieu of Group pension scheme membership.
The chart opposite shows the value of LTI awards disclosed in the single figure table above with share price appreciation included.
The number of shares which vest is determined in accordance with the relevant performance targets.
The value of vested LTIP shares is based on the original grant value together with the increase in share price from grant to vesting.
The value of vested ESOP shares is based on the increase in share price above the exercise price of that award.
The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration received by each of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors who served during the year ended 31 July 2015.
Fees Fees 000 000 Chairman and Non Executive Directors 2014 15 2013 14 G Davis 360.5 360.5 Non Executive Directors current as at the date of this report T Bamford 63.0 63.0 J Daly 63.0 12.3 P Lpez 63.0 63.0 A Murray 75.0 88.0 D Shapland 75.3 15.8 J Simmonds 78.0 12.3 Non Executive Directors who stepped down during the year 1 M Wareing 25.7 81.0 Total remuneration 803.5 695.9 1 The annual fee amount received was pro rated from the beginning of the financial year 1 August 2014 up to the date Michael Wareing stepped down from the Board 25 November 2014.
Wolseley plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Additional disclosures in respect of the Remuneration table Audited Annual bonus The annual bonuses awarded to Executive Directors for the year ended 31 July 2015 are shown in the Remuneration table on page 96 and the bonuses are calculated as follows: Ian Meakins 2014 15 Proportion of total bonus available Actual Resulting bonus outturn performance 1 Performance % of maximum % of salary achieved % of maximum % of salary Group ongoing trading profit 746.6 million 825.2 million 30.0% 36.0% 806.4m 27.6% 33.1% Group ongoing gross profit 3,432.6 million 3,608.7 million 30.0% 36.0% 3,555.3m 27.0% 32.4% Group cash-to-cash days average 49.548.5 days 20.0% 24.0% 49.0 16.7% 20.0% 2 Personal objectives 20.0% 24.0% 15% 15.0% 18.0% Total 100.0% 120.0% 86.3% 103.5% 1 Group ongoing trading profit and Group ongoing gross profit figures adjusted for exceptional items and calculated using Company budgeted foreign exchange rates.
2 Ian Meakins personal objectives were based on achievement of specific organic growth and customer services targets, and on strategic measures in relation to productivity and operating efficiency.
John Martin 2014 15 Proportion of total bonus available Actual Resulting bonus outturn performance 1 Performance % of maximum % of salary achieved % of maximum % of salary Group ongoing trading profit 746.6 million 825.2 million 21.0% 23.1% 806.4m 19.2% 21.1% Canada ongoing trading profit 39.5 million 41.6 million 9.0% 9.9% 39.6m 5.9% 6.5% Group ongoing gross profit 3,432.6 million 3,608.7 million 21.0% 23.1% 3,555.3m 18.7% 20.6% Canada ongoing gross profit 191.4 million 197.3 million 9.0% 9.9% 192.9m 6.6% 7.2% Group cash-to-cash days average 49.548.5 days 14.0% 15.4% 49.0 11.4% 12.5% Canada cash-to-cash days average 69.165.1 days 6.0% 6.6% 65.5 5.8% 6.4% 2 Personal objectives 20.0% 22.0% 17.5% 17.5% 19.3% Total 100.0% 110.0% 85.1% 93.6% 1 Group ongoing trading profit, Canada ongoing trading profit, Group ongoing gross profit and Canada ongoing gross profit figures adjusted for exceptional items and calculated using Company budgeted foreign exchange rates.
2 John Martins personal objectives were based on achievement of specific organic growth and customer services targets, and on strategic measures in relation to Finance departments across the Group based around productivity and operating efficiency.
Frank Roach 2014 15 Proportion of total bonus available Actual Resulting bonus outturn performance 1 Performance % of maximum % of salary achieved % of maximum % of salary Group ongoing trading profit 746.6 million 825.2 million 6.0% 8.4% 806.4m 5.4% 7.5% USA ongoing trading profit 533.4 million 613.7 million 24.0% 33.6% 626.5m 24.0% 33.6% Group ongoing gross profit 3,432.6 million 3,608.7 million 6.0% 8.4% 3,555.3m 5.2% 7.3% USA ongoing gross profit 2,103.8 million 2,233.9 million 24.0% 33.6% 2,249.7m 24.0% 33.6% Group cash-to-cash days average 49.548.5 days 4.0% 5.6% 49.0 3.1% 4.4% USA cash-to-cash days average 60.559.5 days 16.0% 22.4% 59.5 16.0% 22.4% 2 Personal objectives 20.0% 28.0% 19.0% 19.0% 26.6% Total 100.0% 140.0% 96.7% 135.4% 1 G roup ongoing trading profit, USA ongoing trading profit, Group ongoing gross profit and USA ongoing gross profit adjusted for exceptional items and calculated using Company budgeted foreign exchange rates.
2 Frank Roachs personal objectives were based on achievement of specific organic growth and customer services targets, and on strategic measures in relation to the USA business based around productivity and operating efficiency.
The specific targets set for personal objectives are considered to be commercially sensitive as they relate to internal operational and strategic measures which could be used by competitors to gain an advantage if disclosed.
The Committee will consider disclosing the information if these sensitivities fall away in future periods.
When considering the objectives for the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee, the Remuneration Committee takes into account whether specific attention should be given to environmental, social and governance matters.
Directors take such matters into account when considering any investment proposal or operational matters and management is expected to meet performance targets which include compliance with any environmental, social or governance-related standards that have been set.
The overall performance of the businesses and of management is reviewed at the end of the year when considering the award of bonuses and whether operational and personal objectives have been met.
Wolseley plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued Performance conditions applied to awards granted Long term incentives from 2013 to 2014 Long term incentives awarded to Executive Directors under the Performance ESOP and LTIP in December 2012 and January 2013 will vest in Performance conditions December 2015 and January 2016 respectively.
The vesting of both conditions applied to Value of shares under option as detailed in awards granted awards is subject to the performance conditions shown in the tables multiple of salary plan rules since 2013 that follow.
Total margin of EPS growth over UK inflation after three years RPI First 50% of salary 9% 9% ESOP Next 150% of salary 12% 18% In addition to the restatement noted in last years consolidated Next 50% of salary 15% 30% financial statements due to the adoption of IAS 19 Revised, the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year Greater than 250% ended 31 July 2014 see page 104 have been restated to present of salary 1521% n a the French businesses as discontinued operations under IFRS 5.
This affected how EPS is calculated for the purposes of the LTIP performance targets that apply to awards under the ESOP.
In order Vested awards to ensure the Companys EPS is calculated on a like-for-like basis, and is therefore a fair representation of the underlying performance The performance condition which applied to the award made in of the Company over the period, the base EPS numbers for each of January 2013 ended on 31 July 2015 and actual performance the 2012, 2013 and 2014 ESOP awards were restated.
TSR relative to FTSE 100 at date of grant Vested awards Performance % of total Targets set were based on headline EPS growth over three years.
Performance level required award vesting Actual headline EPS was 230.2 pence in 2014 15.
Restated headline Below threshold Below median 0% EPS in 2011 12 was 156.8 pence 168.4 pence prior to restatement, Threshold Median 25% this represents growth of 46.8 per cent.
Over the same three-year Between threshold Between median period RPI growth was 4.0 per cent.
The growth above RPI in the and stretch and top decile 25100% period was therefore 42.8 per cent and accordingly all performance targets have been achieved, as set out below: Stretch or above Top decile 100% 1 Total margin of EPS growth over UK Actual achieved 23rd 75% Performance level inflation after three years RPI Value of shares under option Performance Target Accordingly, the total percentage of shares vesting subject to as a multiple of salary required achieved continued service to January 2016 is set out below: First 100% of salary 9% Yes Total number Percentage Number Value of Second 100% of salary 18% Yes of shares of award of shares shares vesting 1,2 granted vesting vesting 000 Next 50% of salary 27% Yes I Meakins 42,540 75% 31,905 1,384 Accordingly, the total percentage of executive options vesting J Martin 22,834 75% 17,125 742 subject to continued service to December 2015 is set out below: F Roach 29,139 75% 21,854 948 Total number of Percentage Number Value of shares subject of award of shares shares vesting 1 Value determined using the share price noted on page 91 under the heading Information.
1 to option vesting vesting 000 2 Dividend equivalents have accrued on the 2012 share awards and will be paid out in cash after vesting of the awards.
The value above includes the cash payment.
I Meakins 72,803 100% 72,803 949 J Martin 40,582 100% 40,582 529 Unvested awards F Roach 40,278 100% 40,278 525 The performance conditions set out in the table on page 91 1 Value determined using the share price noted on page 91 under the heading Information less apply forunvested share awards made under the 2012 LTIP.
Calculations for TSR are independently carried out and verified before being approved by the Committee.
The following table sets Unvested awards out the indicative vesting percentage of each award based on Vestings of awards under ESOP are subject to performance performance as at 31 July 2015: targets based on growth in the Companys headline EPS above Indicative vesting percentage based on UK RPI over a three-year period.
The ESOP plan rules set out Year of award Year of vesting performance as at 31 July 2015 the EPS performance conditions that apply to awards and are 2013 2016 50% performance at 24 months shown in the tables opposite.
The Committee has discretion to set 2014 2017 73.1% performance at 12 months more challenging EPS targets than those contained in the ESOP plan rules.
Wolseley plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information TSR performance graphs Group Chief Executive pay table The following graphs show Wolseleys TSR performance against The table below shows the total remuneration of the Group Chief 1 the performance of the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 Index has Executive for the six-year period from 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2015. been chosen as being a broad equity market index consisting Annual bonus of companies comparable in size and complexity to Wolseley.
Single figure award rates of total against Long term incentive The graph below is for information and illustrates the performance remuneration maximum vesting rates against ofWolseley for the six years from 31 July 2009 to 31 July 2015.
2 The single figure for all six years is calculated on the same basis as that used in the Remuneration table 150 on page 96.
3 The single figure for the year ended 31 July 2014 has now been adjusted from the value of 100 5,628 million estimated in last years report to reflect the actual value of LTI at the date of vesting in 07 09 07 10 07 11 07 12 07 13 07 14 07 15 November 2014.
Change in Group Chief Executive pay for the The following graph is prescribed by Schedule 8 of the Regulations.
It relates only to the performance of the new Wolseley plc holding year compared tothat of Wolseley employees company created at the time of the redomiciliation to Switzerland The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in base from November 2010 to 31 July 2015. salary, benefits and annual bonus between the year ended 31 July 2015 and the previous financial year for the Group Chief Executive Total Return Indices Wolseley and FTSE 100 1 compared to the average for UK-based employees.
Wolseley Return Index FTSE 100 Return Index % change in % change in % change in 2 base salary benefits annual bonus 250 Group Chief Executive 2.0% 7.8% 9.3% 225 Average for all UK- 200 based employees 3.2% 4.8% 19.0% 175 1 Although the Group Chief Executive has a global role and responsibilities, UK-based employees were chosen as a suitable comparator group as he is based in the UK except to attend Board and Committee meetings in Switzerland or other worldwide locations outside of the UK.
Also pay structures 150 and changes to pay varywidely across the Group, depending on the local market conditions.
2 The Group Chief Executives bonus is determined by both his performance and the performance of the 125 whole of the Wolseley Group, whereas employees bonuses are based on their performance and the performance of the businesses in the countries in which they work.
The percentage change in annual 100 bonus for UK-based employees is based on the best available estimates at time of publication.
07 10 07 11 07 12 07 13 07 14 07 15 Relative importance of spend on pay Payments for loss of office and to past The following table sets out the amounts and percentage change Directors Audited intotal employee remuneration costs, dividends and returns of capital for the year ended 31 July 2015 compared to the year ended No payments for loss of office were made during the financial year 31 July 2014.
No other payments have been made to past Directors that Year ended Year ended have not already been included in the Remuneration table set out on 31 July 2015 31 July 2014 Percentage page 96. m m change Total employee 1 1 remuneration costs 1,832 1,706 7.4% 2 Ordinary dividends paid 222 191 16.2% 2 Special dividends paid 0 298 3 Share buyback 250 0 1 Further details on employee remuneration can be found in note 11 of the consolidated financial statements on page 120.
The 2014 figure has been restated and further details can be found in note11 of the consolidated financial statements.
2 Further details of dividends paid can be found in note 8 of the consolidated financial statements onpage 118.
3 Further details of the share buyback programme can be found in note 26 ii of the consolidated financial statements onpage 136.
Wolseley plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued Directors shareholdings Audited All Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a minimum percentage of their salary or fees as set out in the table below.
The Directors interests in the Companys shares as at 31 July 2015 are set out below and there has been no change in interests since that date and up to the date of this Report.
Shares Shareholding beneficially guideline Vested Unvested share awards owned as at as a multiple of unexercised 1,2 3,4 5 5 5 31 July 2015 salary fees share awards LTIP ESOP Sharesave Executive Directors I Meakins 134,293 2.5 261,012 145,332 198,428 1,277 J Martin 66,044 2 40,582 70,917 110,608 957 F Roach 36,229 2 110,358 82,041 109,449 88 Chairman and Non Executive Directors G Davis 15,346 1 T Bamford 2,048 1 J Daly 2,050 1 P Lpez 2,002 1 A Murray 2,500 1 D Shapland 2,000 1 J Simmonds 2,000 1 1 All Directors have a five-year time period from the date of appointment or promotion to meet the shareholding target.
If not met within that timeframe the individual Director would discuss plans with the Committee to ensure that the target is met over an acceptable timeframe.
Under the proposed Policy, Executive Directors would defer amounts in excess of target bonus into shares under the DBP.
Beneficially owned shares count towards the guideline whilst unvested awards of shares or share options do not.
Vested share awards do not count towards the guideline until exercised.
2 All Directors have met their shareholding guideline targets.
During the year, the opportunity was taken to review and update the shareholding guidelines, as explained on page 78, and the opportunity was taken at that time to retest all of the Directors shareholdings against the guidelines.
Ordinarily, shareholding guideline targets are first set by reference to the salary or fees of a Director as at 1 August in the financial year following appointment to the Board and calculated using the average share price for the two months ended 31 July of the financial year in which the appointment was made and are re-tested annually until met.
Once met, the target is only increased annually in line with base salary or fee increases, if any.
3 T here were no vested unexercised awards under the LTIP or Sharesave.
4 Details of share awards exercised in the year are detailed in the table on page 101.
5 LTIP and ESOP awards are subject to performance conditions but Sharesave awards are not.
LTIP awards are awarded in the form of nil cost options to Ian Meakins and John Martin and in the form of conditional share awards to Frank Roach.
ESOP awards are awarded to all Executive Directors in the form of market value options.
Further details of the LTIP and ESOP awards are set out on page 98.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Audited Awards under the 2012 LTIP and 2012 ESOP were made on 7 November 2014.
Awards are based on a percentage of salary determined by the Committee.
The Committee considers annually the size of each grant, determined by individual performance, the ability of each individual to contribute to the achievement of the performance conditions, and market levels of remuneration.
The maximum vesting is 100 per cent of the award granted.
Details ofperformance conditions for awards which were granted during the year are set out on page 98.
The awards are summarised below: Face 2,3 value Number of of award Performance 1 Director Award Type of award shares 000 criteria period Threshold performance Performance condition I Meakins ESOP Share options 62,992 2,117.8 1August 2014 25% of award vesting Growth in EPS above RPI target and ending LTIP Nil cost options 52,802 1,694.2 25% of award vesting Comparator TSR target 31 July 2017 againstFTSE 100 J Martin ESOP Share options 35,113 1,180.5 1August 2014 25% of award vesting Growth in EPS above RPI target and ending LTIP Nil cost options 24,527 787.0 25% of award vesting Comparator TSR target 31 July 2017 againstFTSE 100 F Roach ESOP Share options 33,842 1,137.8 1August 2014 25% of award vesting Growth in EPS above RPI target and ending LTIP Conditional 26,341 845.2 25% of award vesting Comparator TSR target 31 July 2017 shares againstFTSE 100 1 For each Executive Director, awards during the financial year were based on a percentage of salary as follows: Ian Meakins 250 per cent ESOP and 200 per cent LTIP : John Martin 225 per cent ESOP and 150per cent LTIP : and Frank Roach 175 per cent ESOP and 130 per cent LTIP.
2 The share price used to calculate the face value of the ESOP share option awards granted on 7 November 2014 was 3,362 pence which was the share price at the date of grant.
The exercise price for the ESOP share options was also 3,362 pence The share price used to calculate the face value of the LTIP share awards granted on 7 November 2014 was 3,208.7 pence which was the average share price over a 20 dealing day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
The LTIP awards made to Ian Meakins and John Martin were in the form of nil cost options.
At vesting, the exercise price per share will be nil.
The LTIP award made to Frank Roach was a conditional share award and there is no exercise price.
Face value is calculated as required by the Regulations as the maximum number of shares at full vesting multiplied by either the share price at date of grant or the average share price used to determine the number of shares awarded.
Dividend equivalents also accrue on the LTIP awards and the amount which may be due to an Executive Director is not included in the calculation of face value.
3 The maximum dilution which may arise through issue of shares to satisfy the entitlement to these ESOP and LTIP scheme interests would be 0.0009 per cent calculated as at 31 July 2015.
2 The aggregate value of assets received or receivable by Ian Meakins, John Martin and Frank Roach under long-term incentive plans in the year was 4,609,187.
Wolseley plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued External Directorships Detail of Employee Benefit Trusts Executive Directors are permitted to take on an external Non The Wolseley plc 2011 Employee Benefit Trust Jersey Trust and Executive Directorship.
In order to avoid any conflicts of interest, all Wolseley plc US Trust US Trust together, the Trusts were such appointments are subject to the approval of the Nominations established in connection with the obligation to satisfy historical and Committee.
The Nominations Committee believes that taking up an future share awards under the ESOP, LTIP and OSP and any other external non executive appointment helps bring a wider perspective employee incentive schemes Share Awards.
to the Company and also assists in the development of business The trustees of each of the Trusts have waived their rights to receive skills and experience.
dividends on any shares held by them.
As at 31 July 2015, the Jersey 53 Ian Meakins is a Non Executive Director and Senior Independent Trust held 639,231 ordinary shares of 10 66 pence and 54,527 53 Director of Centrica plc and receives a fee of 85,000 per annum for in cash: and the US Trust held 1,380,146 ordinary shares of10 66 his services 2013 14: 65,000.
The Company allowed Ian Meakins pence.
The number of shares held by the Trusts represented 0.76 to retain this fee.
per cent of the Companys issued share capital at 31 July 2015.
This report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its On 19 November 2014, shares were purchased by both the Jersey behalf by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Trust and US Trust to ensure that they continue to have sufficient shares to satisfy Share Awards.
The Jersey Trust purchased 40,000 On behalf of the Board 53 ordinary shares of 10 66 pence and paid 1.38 million.
The US 53 Trust purchased 390,000 ordinary shares of 10 66 pence and paid 13.39 million.
The Company provided funds to the Trusts to enable them to make the purchases.
The number of shares purchased represented 0.16 per cent of the Companys issued share capital Jacky Simmonds Chair of the Remuneration Committee atthat date.
28 September 2015 Detail of all-employee Sharesave plans The Company operates two all-employee Sharesave plans which Executive Directors can participate in.
In the USA and Canada, the ESPP operates as a one-year savings contract plan.
In all other business units, employees may participate in the ISP saving for a period of three or five years.
Dilution In accordance with the recommendations of the Investment Association guidelines, the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy options granted under all of the Companys employee share schemes is restricted to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company over any rolling 10-year period.
Further, the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy executive options granted under the Companys discretionary share schemes is restricted to 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company over any rolling 10-year period.
As at 31 July 2015, the headroom under the Companys 10 per cent and 5 per cent limits was 4.78 per cent and 2.81 per cent respectively.
Options may be satisfied by either the issue of new shares or by shares purchased in the market.
Awards under the OSP cannot be satisfied by the issue of new shares and therefore donot count towards the dilution limits.
Wolseley plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Section 4 104 Group income statement 105 Group statement of comprehensiveincome 105 Group statement of changes in equity Financials 106 Group balance sheet 107 Group cash ow statement 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 158 Independent auditors report to the members ofWolseley plc in respect of consolidated nancialstatements 161 Company profit and lossaccount 161 Company balance sheet 162 Notes to the Company financial statements 166 Independent auditors report to the members ofWolseley plc in respect of Company nancialstatements Wolseley plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
