s e i t i n u t r o p L p o o w h v t o l w a o t i l r i t g y e v i t c a r t t A Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information We are the worlds leading specialist plumbing and heating distributor focused primarily on the Why invest Repair, Maintenance and Improvement RMI markets.
These markets are attractive and fragmented with excellent growth opportunities.
Our knowledge, local coverage and national scale enable us to operate efficiently and provide a high level of customer service.
Our strategy is to drive profitable growth in our businesses and deliver great, sustainable returns forour shareholders.
Fragmented Our scale brings markets provide substantial attractive growth operating synergies opportunities For more information For more information see page 2 see page 3 Primarily plumbing and heating distribution Principally serving RMI markets Adjacent market opportunities, e. g. building materials, Our business A strong culture waterworks model is highly focusing on cash generative customer service, through the efficiency and economic cycle execution For more information For more information see page 4 see page 5 Great returns Sustained good Excellent returns Dependable and Surplus capital trading proft margins on capital progressive ordinary returns dividends 6.4% 16.9% 90.75p 250m Share buyback 0.1% 2.1% 10.0% completed Trading margin Return on gross Total ordinary dividend this year capital employed Wolseley plc 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S t r o n e g l a e c x s e f c o u t s i t o f n e c n u e l t B u r e Why invest in Wolseley?
Example in the USA: Largest plumbing and heating Expanding in the distributor in the world New York metro area In 2012, our Ferguson business served Benefits of scale in procurement, five per cent of the $6 billion New York metro market with 22 branches and 400 operations, supply chain people.
This presented a great expansion opportunity that our scale has enabled us and technology to capitalise on.
We have now invested 100 million in bolt-on M&A activity and Market leading positions 65 million in building a highly effective supply chain, which we completed this year 83 per cent of revenue with the opening of our Secaucus ship hub.
generated through The ship hub has increased our efficiency as it enables us to operate all outbound logistics, No.
2 market including customer deliveries, from a single site rather than from numerous locations share positions across the branch network.
Today we are the local market leader with nine per cent market share, 40 branches 21 of which are showrooms and 820 people.
There is significant opportunity for growth through this strategy in New York and also in 19 additional regions which we aretargeting forfurther expansion.
Wolseley plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 e l a c s f o s t f e n e B s e i t i n u t r o p p o h t w o r g e v i t c a r t t A Why invest in Wolseley?
Strong sales culture Fragmented markets Low risk bolt-on M&A opportunities Quick, reliable payback frombranch expansion Example in the Nordic region: Combining Starkki and Puukeskus Last year we acquired Puukeskus, a Finnish building materials distributor with a strong market position in timber and related products.
The acquisition was an excellent fit with our existing business in the region, Starkki.
During the year, we integrated the two businesses into a single business Stark Finland, an existing brand with strong values that created a common identity among all the employees.
Three new customer promises were launched: accessibility, availability and a delivery guarantee.
Stark Finland is now the largest building products chain in Finland that serves both professional builders and consumers.
The business now has a strong presence across all the major cities in Finland.
Wolseley plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 L o w v o l a t i l i t y Why invest in Wolseley?
Example in the UK: Investing in the utilities market In May 2015, Wolseley UK completed the integration of Fusion Provida, the UKs leading supply chain partner for utilities and utility infrastructure providers.
The acquisition enabled us to expand our existing distribution model across the utilities and infrastructure marketplace.
The market, which serves civil and utility contractors, is attractive due to its contract nature.
This gives us good order visibility and low volatility through the economic cycle and we achieve similar margins to those available in the plumbing and heating market.
We have improved our offering to our utilities customers and benefited from significant synergies in back office functions and supplier consolidation.
Sustained gross margins Strong investment gradebalance sheet Little pension exposure and low level of operating leases Strong free cash flow throughthe economic cycle Wolseley plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Why invest in Wolseley?
Example in the USA: Moving forward with e-commerce In May, Ferguson launched the new Ferguson.
com website to generate leads, drive professional contractors and potential customers to Ferguson branches, attract new online customers and sell more.
In addition toa new look, the site also has improved functionality, which includes user-friendly navigation and an online catalogue of 50,000 stock products.
Pricing is designed to be competitive with other online retailers.
It will also allow Ferguson to offer a customised shopping experience through a variety of channels: 1 Ferguson Online for our customers with trade accounts.
com for our showroom customers and their clients.
com for new customers that are not aware ofFerguson today.
These changes lay thefoundation of Fergusons e-commerce strategy.
Strong people and service culture Systematically driving performance Best-in-class e-commerce Constantly developing our business model to enhance service and margins Wolseley plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S t r o n g e x e c u t i o n c u l t u r e
