How were doing Advertising Among our innovations, we introduced BursonKraft Heinz Company, S&P Global formerly McGraw Marsteller StudioB, our integrated communications Hill Financial, Marriott International and Raytheon.
approach to providing real-time insightand data-driven In 2015, Landor released The Agility Paradox, a global creativity, content production and distribution.
With research study validating our point of view that todays StudioB, we are cutting across practice groups to give our most successful brands are agile brands.
We found that clients full-service strategic communications results, driven to thrive today, brand managers must embrace seemingly by compelling messages and conveyed through traditional opposing strategies for their brands: staying true to their and social media channels.
core while constantly evolving to keep pace.
Consumers Other new growth-generating services include the particularly millennials expect and prefer brands to launch of our Cuba Specialty Team, which is part of a exhibit these contradictory qualities.
This agility paradox capability focused on economic development and tourism.
demands a new brand management model that abandons We also strengthened our cyber security communications some of the long-held axioms of brand governance and and preparedness capabilities through a strategic alliance replaces them with six key behaviors of agility.
with Ridge Global, led by former U. S. Secretary of Landor has long believed in holistic brand expression.
Our new experience-mapping tool helps us address not only Our relentless commitment to exceed expectations how brands look but also how they feel, behave, talk, and yielded major new clients in 2015, including The Egyptian even dream.
With that in mind, we broadened our offer this Ministry of Tourism, FedEx, Oracle, Pitney Bowes and past year with two acquisitions.
In January we purchased Zebra Technologies.
As we delivered significant business NorthandSouth, an innovation firm in Asia Pacific.
results for our clients, we had a 30% year-over-year In November, Landor acquired a majority stake in increase in awards for our work.
All of this progress ManvsMachine, a multi-award-winning motion design demonstrated we are continuing to play a crucial role studio based in London.
Together, these two acquisitions in the future of communications.
expand Landors depth of offerings, providing the latest in innovation and digital technologies.
Landor Report by Lois Jacobs Chief executive officer Our new experience-mapping n 2015, many Landor offices enjoyed strong growth tool helps us address not only across the network.
This was particularly true in how brands look but also how EMEA, under the direction of regional president Jane Geraghty.
New clients in the region included they feel, behave, talk, and Bayer MaterialScience now Covestro, Experian, Turkish even dream Airlines, Nike and Union Bank of Nigeria.
A highlight for EMEA was the rebrand of Etihad Airways, with Etihad being named Airline of the Year by Air Transport World and Best Airline Livery of 2015 by DesignAir.
Creativity remains top of our agenda, and we were We also saw good performance from our Mumbai proud to be the most-awarded branding agency at Cannes and Tokyo offices, and in Mexico we enjoyed our sixth Lions International Festival of Creativity, winning a total consecutive year of strong growth.
Our US restructuring of 13 Lions across our network.
We also added seven D&AD is showing positive results, with new projects being pencils to our roster, including a much-coveted Black pencil, undertaken for Alcoa, Cracker Barrel Old Country Store, making 2015 our strongest year yet for peer recognition.
60 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising Sudler & Hennessey Bravo Report by Jed Beitler Report by Eric Hoyt Chairman and chief executive officer worldwide President and chief executive officer 015 was focused on connecting the dots across he US Hispanic market continues to all aspects of our geographies and divisions to be growing and vibrant, but changing strengthen our position as one of the pre-eminent demographics and consumer behaviors have global healthcare communications networks.
made the standards of success more complex.
From our Global Managers meeting in New York to the Bravos integrated solutions that span brand-digital-retail launch of Dr. Link, a proprietary web portal developed by channels are helping our clients win by engaging their MDS Sudler for physicians throughout China, S&H has customers all along their purchase-decision journey, with strived to bring meaningful ideas and insights to advance creative activations that drive business and build brands.
Bravos client portfolio continues to be a testament to our success and business-building value.
Existing clients like Wendys, Coca-Cola, Chevron and Pfizer continued to grow and Bravos new business prowess won new clients Sudler introduced Kim like Mazda, Purina, Radio Shack and US Foods.
Kardashian West to this Cohn & Wolfe years Cannes Lions See report on page 71.
Digitally, we have been working across a number of platforms and media, helping further patient education the award-winning, Procrit Health View app, accelerating clinical trial recruitment Apple Research Kit, in collaboration with POSSIBLE, and developing clearer and easier to understand Rx promotional standards across all digital media in partnership with Acquia.
Sudler introduced Kim Kardashian West to this years Cannes Lions, connecting the dots via the virtual world, by pioneering a new form of digital storytelling.
Our presence was strong this year at Cannes Lions Health with Rob Rogers, co-CEO of the Americas, serving as jury president and two writers from Sudler London recognized during the Young Lions Health Competition.
We also co-chaired the inaugural Lions Health session with Google on future trends in mobile marketing.
Always looking to expand our global educational delivery, Sudler acquired UK-based System Analytic, one of the worlds leading key opinion leader engagement companies.
Important new business wins included GSK Vaccines, Novo-Nordisk, Roche Diagnostics and AstraZeneca.
61 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising Grey Group office.
Andreas Dahlqvist joined Grey New York as chief creative officer.
Finally, Diego Medvedocky was promoted to vice president, regional creative director Grey of Grey Latin America.
Report by Jim Heekin Building on our strategic acquisitions of last year, Chairman and chief executive officer we acquired ArcTouch, a leading mobile design and development agency in the US, and Grey nJ United, a e ended 2015 by being named Global Agency pacesetter advertising and digital agency in Thailand.
of the Year by Adweek, for the second time In addition, we expanded our existing resources in in three years.
The magazine wrote: After digital, activation, shopper and healthcare marketing.
a dominant awards season and a slew of Each and every office of Grey has been integral to multinational client wins, Grey is back in control.
Thanks to our people, and many 2015 marked our eighth year in a row of record financial of the most forward-thinking clients in the world, we are and creative performance.
High-profile new business wins breaking new ground in brand experience across every included AT&T DIRECTV, Emirates Airlines, Motorola, platform creating lasting consumer connections.
As our Pandora Jewelry and Procter & Gambles Venus, Braun 100th anniversary beckons in 2017, our future has never and the Art of Shaving lines.
Many of our current clients been brighter.
awarded us significant assignments including Nestl, GSK, Eli Lilly, Vodafone, Volvo, Bausch & Lomb and Best Buy.
It proved to be a watershed year at Cannes.
Our Bates CHI&Partners creative reputation continued to soar with the win of 113 Lions from 18 countries in four regions.
Grey won Report by David Mayo in 20 categories from film, radio and outdoor to the Chief executive officer, Asia newest disciplines of mobile, creative data and pharma.
and Notably, the agency took home a record four Grand Johnny Hornby Prix, a remarkable feat.
The work was powered by big, Chief executive officer non-traditional ideas that combined activation, public relations, social and digital media, true to our Famously he Asia partnership was launched in 2013 with Effective mantra.
nine offices in seven markets, built around the principles of collaboration and open-source.
It is a joint venture between Bates, one of Asias best-known advertising agencies, and The & Partnership, Our creative reputation one of the UKs most respected independent agencies.
continued to soar Our focus in 2015 was on growing new client relationships, attracting talent with new skills, developing new partnerships, developing our product and further Greys forward momentum was reflected in the building our unique open-source positioning in the Asia performance of its flagship agencies in New York and market.
In 2015, we had successes across all of these areas.
Grey received the 2015 Cannes North American In 2015, we began working with new clients such as Network of the Year award and Grey EMEA was named VW, Asia Breweries, Fiat, Standard Chartered, Kimberlythe 2015 Euro Effie Agency of the Year.
Clark, Pearson and Sephora among many others, whilst We continued to enhance our leadership ranks for we deepened our relationships with Pizza Hut, AIA, Nestl the future with the appointment and promotion of several and F&N.
talented executives pivotal to our success.
Michael Houston Most of the people who joined us in 2015 came from was promoted to global president of Grey, an expanded leading digital and creative agencies, bringing with them worldwide management role.
Lucy Jameson was appointed new skills in social, content, media, programatic, data chief executive officer of Grey London and Nils Leonard, and digital.
Our annual Employee Acid Test recorded chief creative officer, added the title of chairman of that some of the highest loyalty scores in the region.
62 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Advertising We launched partnerships with Google, Facebook, Commarco LinkedIn, Squeem, King Content and Sparkline and, in turn, drove deeper engagements between our clients and Report by Christian Tiedemann their customers.
Joint chief executive officer Creative highlights included work for Martell where we worked with the clients R&D team to put holograms n 2015, our top creative brand Scholz & Friends was in bottles, Myanmars most famous advertising campaign rewarded as Agency of the Decade in Germany Neptun of 2015 for Ooredoo, and the Gold Effie-winning campaign Award, launched the new worldwide Astra campaign for Taiwan Noodle, which stole the heart of the nation.
for its top client Opel and achieved a strong new We also forged new relationships with SMU, Miami business performance, winning otelo Vodafone, WDR Ad School, Falmouth UK, AMEs and Lasalle.
In Myanmar the largest broadcasting station in Germany, additional we partnered with Phandeeyar and Facebook to bring new Siemens business and various government accounts.
skills to this breakout market.
We continued our work Our joint venture investment in digital media with The Marketing Society, Warc, Cannes Lions, IAS performance marketing is rapidly growing and will and Portfolio Night.
in future combine with WPP specialists to deliver value In 2015, we published a collection of six original for our clients.
essays, The 6 Pillars of Collaboration, aimed at driving With the newly-established Partnerboard, Scholz & the industry debate on collaboration and this formed the Friends strengthened its entrepreneurial partnerships and basis of our first ever WPP Atticus thought leadership implemented a new management system.
The Board of submission, which was developed and submitted from Partners is now the top strategic and executive decisionour office in Jakarta, Indonesia.
making body of the Scholz & Friends Group.
Our digital brands deepblue networks and KKLD increased our digital share of business by collaborating with other Commarco agencies as well as contributing digital expertise to WPP in Germany.
deepblue developed Most of the people who a highly-successful app for Migros in Switzerland, and joined us in 2015 came from KKLD maintained its status as the international lead agency in social media for MINI.
leading digital and creative gkk Dialog Group iPS our CRM and Dialogmarketing agencies, bringing with them Group successfully retained the BMW Customer Interaction Center business until 2020.
Major clients new skills in social, content, Samsung, ING-Diba, Payback, American Express and media, programatic, data other blue-chips led gkk iPS to its highest revenue level in company history.
and digital United Visions our moving media and creative content producer with a strong footprint in automotive began its expansion in the US in Los Angeles, collaborating with In 2016, we will continue to drive the industry WPP companies and top local creative producers.
discussion in Asia about horizontality and collaboration.
Commarco also acquired a majority stake in Nicole From this we hope to build our reputation, our product Weber Communications NWC, a full-service PR agency and our portfolio of skills as we continue to deliver our specialist at lifestyle, fashion, beauty and automotive.
Hamburg and Berlin, NWC is handling Opel, Olympus, Cadillac and other strong local brands.
63 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing GroupM the US advanced television space, were impacting the digital future of television too.
Report by Irwin Gotlieb Our agencies reports that follow describe new successes Global chairman in 2015.
Our figures show weve grown share globally and and very significantly in North America.
This was achieved via Dominic Proctor the extraordinary dedication of our 27,500 people, whose Global president inquisitiveness about media, consumers and marketing is never satisfied.
roupM has always delivered the advantages of scale in the ever-mutable media marketplace.
Bargaining power is an enduring value, but its not all about Xaxis our size.
As market leader, its our responsibility to see further and more keenly into markets, even across Report by Brian Gleason walled gardens, to give our clients an edge.
Global chief executive officer Our business is hyper-competitive and we continue evolving.
In 2015, we clarified our advantages for clients, axis had one billion reasons to smile in 2015 our people and WPPs stakeholders with new positioning as we passed 10 figures in billings.
underscoring the inextricable role of data and technology Through new products, new locations, in media.
We continued investing in the agency platform of strategic acquisitions and the efforts of our talented the future to be ready for a world where all media is digital team working in 45 markets around the world, we continued and where all audiences can be targeted using data data to extend our dominance of the programmatic space.
were uniquely positioned to harness through our position in WPP.
Our acquisitions of The Exchange Lab and its global Audiences and data remain programmatic platform and Medialets mobile ad serving and measurement technologies are significant in this path, at the heart of everything as is the addition of Essence which, until joining us, was we do the worlds largest independent buyer of digital media.
This largest independent has now joined the worlds largest media group, furthering our objective to create a peerless digital team enabled by the most connected technology.
And the industry has taken notice.
MediaPost named Xaxis as its Media Supplier of the Year citing our dominant market position.
AdExchanger has called our and WPPs investment in technology exceptional.
Its our responsibility to see Technology investment continues to be a key element of our success.
The acquisition of mobile ad-tech start-up further and more keenly into ActionX helped us to nearly triple our mobile revenues markets, even across walled while providing clients with a new suite of proprietary solutions.
To capture a slice of the fast-growing performance gardens, to give our clients advertising market we launched Light Reaction, an entirely an edge new business unit with a unique pay-for-performance model offering guaranteed consumer outcomes.
Weve taken our data expertise into the creative realm Were not just readying for the digital future, were with an expanding focus on programmatic creative or, as embracing our responsibility to shape it, leveraging client we call it, self-assembling ads.
In Asia, we debuted in several influence to drive integrity demanding accountability new markets while launching the regions first product to in viewability, sensible and third party-verified audience guarantee 100% viewability.
And in the US were tackling the measures, fraud remedies and assurances of brand safety.
upcoming 2016 Presidential Election with Xaxis Politics, the And, with our TV ad targeting unit Modi Media leading first ever product to use offline voter data for digital targeting.
