Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Our markets As an international company, we operate across multiple markets with varying characteristics.
We operate in For more information on specific regional markets please see the Regional performance attractive markets section on pages 20 to 29.
Our industry Growing markets Specialist distribution of plumbing and heating and Demand for our products may be influenced building materials principally to trade customers.
by macroeconomic factors such as GDP, The key characteristics of our industry are: unemployment and consumer confidence.
Other key factors supporting long-term growth in the markets are as follows: Many customers Population growth The customer base is fragmented.
Wolseley services Population growth of more than 7 per cent is approximately 1.1 million customers across the Group.
expected in the USA in the next decade.
Population is expected to grow in all the countries we operate in.
Source: United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.
Customers needs are local Professional contractors typically operate within about Ageing housing stock 20 miles of a local branch and may visit it several times per week.
In addition to visiting branches, they are now using The median age of homes in the USA is 40 years.
emerging channels such as e-commerce which complement There is high demand for repairs, maintenance and their working patterns.
improvement in the large installed base of existing homes.
Source: US Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Large supplier base The supplier base is large.
Wolseley distributes the products Increased comfort levels in homes of approximately 60,000 suppliers across the world.
87 per cent of new homes in the USA have two or more bathrooms.
There is a trend towards increasing levels of comfort in homes.
Clear need for distributors in the supply chain Source: US Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Distributors bridge the gap between the large supplier base and the large and geographically dispersed professional Sustainable development customer base.
This is where Wolseley operates.
The EU plans for all new buildings to be nearly zero energy by the end of 2020.
Environmental concerns will Highly fragmented industry with no drive demand for renovation of existing buildings.
market dominated by a single player Source: European Council for an Energy Efficient Economy.
Our markets are typically highly fragmented, with few large players in the industry.
Large aftermarket The size of the building repair market in Western Europe is Benefits of scale forecast to be 567 billion in 2015, which is greater than forecast new construction spend.
Due to scale benefits, market leaders can perform better through the economic cycle.
Wolseley plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
