How were doing AKQA The future inspires us.
We work to inspire 2015 has been momentous year for the work, our people Report by Ajaz Ahmed and clients.
And now, more than ever, were excited about Chief executive officer creating whats next.
Ideas that move the world n 2015, AKQAs collaboration with our clients delivered Geometry Global a continuous stream of imaginative, breathtaking work.
Highlights include Your Year directed by Nike, The Report by Steve Harding Last Shot for Jordan and Dont Look Away for Usher.
Global chief executive officer Momentum n 2015, we made robust efforts to build capabilities We were appointed by 14 new organisations while while expanding our key global client relationships and increasing our responsibilities and expanding relationships creating award-winning, effective work.
Im pleased with existing clients.
to report that these measures bore fruit we achieved an Recognition excellent performance, we are operationally more efficient Breaking all previous records, we won more than 125 and well-positioned to leverage the tremendous growth major awards including 12 Cannes Lions and four D&AD opportunities that lay before us.
making it our most successful awards year to date.
Much of this momentum was sparked early in the year when we articulated our guiding purpose for Geometrys Team future We inspire people to buy well and voiced a The credit for these awards goes to our team around belief system that all our people could embrace.
In addition, 2,000 people across 17 offices.
We opened a new office in leaders from across our network united their ambitions Gothenburg, expanded our spaces in New York and Tokyo, and charted a practical roadmap for success underpinned and welcomed 200 employees in Italy with the addition of by Pivotal Ideas our creative approach, and Leonardo H-ART to our family.
Thought With a renewed vigor in our offering, we significantly As part of our AKQA Insight series, we have hosted broadened the global scope and scale of our relationships speakers from billionaire tech CEOs to visionary with Coca-Cola, Unilever and GSK in 2015.
Simultaneously, astronomers, each sharing their illuminating thoughts with we expanded our footprint in important markets such as our team and clients.
And as a follow-up to our bestselling Mexico, with the acquisition of Cacto Arte e Ideas S. A. title Velocity, Penguin Random House published Limitless: fide C. V. Cacto.
In India, we merged with Encompass to Leadership That Endures.
All proceeds from Limitless are form the Geometry Global-Encompass Network, becoming donated to five charities voted for by our people.
the largest experiential marketing entity in the region.
These strides are large but the one we are most proud The limitless generation of is that we raised the bar on the quality of our client work, We celebrated 10 years of AKQA Future Lions, the official winning more than 300 global and regional awards including student competition we pioneered at Cannes.
Future Lions 19 Lions at Cannes and 48 Effies.
This speaks to our challenges young innovators to create an idea not possible extremely talented team whose creativity and intellect have three years ago.
Attracting more than 2,000 entries from enabled us to be counted among the best in the business.
60 countries, Future Lions is the most popular category at 2016 promises to be action-packed as we uncover new the Cannes Lions Festival.
By providing the next generation opportunities in continued collaboration with our valued with a platform to share their imagination and drive, WPP partners.
We look forward to a steady march towards Future Lions has helped to kick-start hundreds of careers incremental growth as we continue to make a measurable in our industry.
impact on our clients business.
78 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Report by Mary-Ellen Howe experienced strong growth from its long-time client Capital Chief operating officer, Specialist Communications, One, with major assignments for Capital One Home Loans North America and the repositioning of the Capital One Bank.
and Seattle-based Cole & Weber increased revenue by 80% Laurence Mellman after winning new business from Harmonix makers of Chief operating officer, International Specialist the Rock Band video game, Trident Seafoods Americas Communications largest seafood producer and DeVry University among others.
Clients appreciate the nimbleness of a medium-size PPs Specialist Communications division agency that combines the creativity of a boutique with the comprises individual business units with strategic rigour of a business consultancy and the digital separate and distinct marketing expertise prowess of a stand-alone digital shop.
by industry, audience segment, or medium.
Rushmore in Madrid worked to consolidate the Our clients benefit from the depth of knowledge and Vodafone account in 2015 with a win of the digital business strategic focus of these specialists: the Group benefits and the launch of Vodafone One and Vodafone TV.
In through the flexibility these companies offer as partners addition, the agency was named as one of three global for sister WPP companies when serving clients integrated agencies to work on the Coca-Cola global brand a marketing needs.
Our role in managing this portfolio tremendous achievement.
is to help these companies grow on their own terms and to support co-operation opportunities across the Group.
Momentum going into 2016 remains positive with Our clients benefit from continuing growth expected.
WPP Scangroup is listed on the Nairobi Securities the depth of knowledge Exchange, operating a multi-agency model as WPPs and strategic focus of these partner across multiple disciplines in sub-Saharan Africa, with majority-owned offices in Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, specialists: the Group Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and minority-owned operations in Burkina Faso, Cameroon, benefits through the Gabon, Ivory Coast, Namibia, Senegal and Zimbabwe.
flexibility these companies The group also has affiliate partners in Botswana, DRC, Congo-Brazzaville, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, offer as partners for sister Mozambique, Niger, Reunion and Sierra Leone.
WPP companies when 2015 saw the first full-year benefit of new offices in Uganda J. Walter Thompson and Zambia Ogilvy & serving clients integrated Mather, and H K Strategies in Nigeria was launched.
marketing needs The media agencies also became more closely aligned with the GroupM network.
The companys agencies continued to win numerous awards across the region.
The Farm Group had another year of significant activity Alongside collaboration with sister agencies, acquisition in 2015, providing post production solutions for producers opportunities continue to be assessed to broaden service and broadcasters in the UK and US.
The London facilities and geographical offerings.
remain highly utilized on prime-time projects such as In 2015, Berlin Cameron made a strategic move to Downton Abbey for ITV, BBC, Channel 4, and UKTV.
focus the growth engine of the business on strategic A new, state-of-the-art facility is being built in London.
The agency partnered with BAV Activity in 2016 will include coverage of the Rio Summer Consulting and, after several successful collaborations for Olympic Games.
US clients Comcast, Vimeo and the GILT Group, landed its US-based corporate events company MJM created first major global project: the repositioning assignment for inspiration and impact for top-tier clients, including Toyota Motor Corporations Lexus brand.
While consulting Deloitte, NAPA, Discover, Unilever and Pfizer.
MJM took will continue to be a lead focus in 2016, the agency talent development and corporate assembly to the next 79 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Specialist Communications WPP Digital level with creative strategy and production for their clients Report by Mark Read most significant internal-facing events.
Chief executive officer Metro Broadcast continued to invest in game-changing and event technologies and creative skills, combining both Mark Povey to deliver complex, live events in the UK and around the Chief operating officer world.
Clients from a range of sectors including banking, professional services, pharmaceuticals, energy and PP Digital is a group of companies whose government rely on Metros creative and technical strengths capabilities lie at the forefront of digital to find new and exciting ways to engage audiences through marketing, experience development and live or broadcast communications.
In 2015, Mando continued to solidify its position as the worlds with a focus on five key areas mobile, commerce, data No.
1 promotional risk management company with another and technology, content development and social media record-breaking year.
Investment in France, Spain, Australia, marketing, WPP Digital companies continued to win Italy and Germany has enabled key clients such as Nutella, new business, build capability, and receive awards and McDonalds, Coca-Cola and E. Leclerc to construct some recognition from partner and industry organisations.
of the most innovative promotions worldwide.
POSSIBLE, a global digital agency, reinforced its Pace, under new leadership, expanded its reach to position as an innovative, results-oriented agency.
The include real estate projects throughout the New York agency introduced the industry to its winning philosophy metropolitan area as well as the Boston and Ohio markets.
with the publication of the best-selling book, Does It The Green Division continues to expand beyond real estate Work?
POSSIBLE garnered two Cannes Lions awards with additional assignments in the Education sector.
for its work on Microsofts The Collective Project and The Food Group has continued to build its food and was ranked by Advertising Age as one of the industrys beverage marketing business with core clients such as best places to work for the second consecutive year.
Mondelz, Kraft, Heinz and The McIlhenny Co. and the Digital innovation agency Rockfish experienced growth addition of Mars, Regal Springs Trusthouse and Ventura across new and existing clients and evolved its innovation Foods to its client roster.
offerings in retail, omnichannel marketing, business Specialist UK CRM agency, EWA, continued to build marketing and digital design.
The agency was recognised on new services around political polling, surveys and with a win at the TechCrunch Disrupt Ford Hackathon and telephone contact with voters, working on local and was named the innovation agency for Southwest Airlines.
European elections, and the UK General Election.
Core CMO Dave Knox was named to Advertising Ages 40 services focused on improving relationships between clients Under 40 and CEO Kenny Tomlin was named a 2015 and their customers through the delivery of promotions, Tech Titan by Austin Business Journal.
campaign response and customer experience solutions, Blue State Digital strengthened its position as one generating new business from JET, Linden Homes and of the worlds top creative and technology agencies for Wiltshire Farm Foods.
BSD helped raise hundreds of BDG architecture design continued to strengthen millions of dollars and launched new platforms for high its position as a leader in the development and design of profile organisations including The Global Fund, United dynamic and agile working environments.
Its work in Way Worldwide, Google Re:Work, The Barack Obama the UK included the completion of Ogilvy & Mather and Foundation, The Nation magazine, the Natural History MECs new location at Sea Containers House which Museum in London, and the Massachusetts Institute of will accommodate over 2,000 staff as well as Cannington Technology.
For the second year, the agency was honoured Court a highly-sustainable training campus within a with the Digital Campaign of the Year in the Healthcare Grade 1-listed priory in Somerset for EDF Energy.
Marketing IMPACT Awards for its work with the Coalition Significant client wins through the year included Sky, to Protect Americas Health Care.
BSD also won several Palantir and IO Oil and Gas.
2015 also saw the studio Webbys for its work with Google, the British Labour Party increase its international portfolio, the most notable being and EMILYs List.
the three-year co-location project for WPP Madrid.
Johannes Leonardo, a creative-led agency, continued to treat the consumer as the most potent medium which 80 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
