14 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Executive Committee biographies Philip Jansen Andy Doyle Shane Happach Chief Executive Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Managing Director, Global eCom Joined Worldpay Group in April 2013.
Joined Worldpay Group in May 2013.
Joined Worldpay Group in December 2010.
See page 78 for full biography.
Experience Experience Prior to joining Worldpay, Andy worked in a Shane was appointed as Managing number of different sectors in companies Director of Worldpays Global eCom experiencing high growth and change.
He division in January 2016, having joined the Rick Medlock was previously Group Human Resources Group in December 2010.
Shane has over Chief Financial Officer Director for ITV plc, the UKs leading 15 years experience in financial services Joined Worldpay Group in April 2015. commercial broadcaster and a FTSE 100 and has significant experience in treasury, company.
He has worked in operational M&A and foreign exchange.
He has held See page 79 for full biography.
and senior HR executive roles in the UK, various management roles across Europe and the USA in the technology, international markets and developed key real estate, construction and leisure retail strengths in strategy, financial planning, sectors.
Andy is a Chartered Director and and new market entry.
Ron Kalifa a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Vice Chairman and Executive Director Institute of Personnel and Development.
Joined Worldpay Group in August 2010.
See page 79 for full biography.
Mark Edwards Dave Hobday Group General Counsel Managing Director, Worldpay UK Joined Worldpay Group in September 2014.
Joined Worldpay Group in October 2013.
Experience Experience As a qualified corporate lawyer, Mark is the Dave joined Worldpay from British Group General Counsel, with overall Telecom where he was Managing Director responsibility for Legal, Compliance, of BT Enterprises, responsible for a Financial Crime, Data Privacy and worldwide portfolio of businesses and Schemes Franchise Management.
Mark sitting on both the retail and global trained as a lawyer with Simmons & services boards.
Daves career spans a Simmons before joining Barclays Bank as range of sectors and he has a broad the lead corporate lawyer.
Over the next general management background several years he was a member of the including Managing Director at HBOS Barclays Legal Executive and he held a Retail Bank, Deputy Managing Director of number of general counsel roles.
He sat on Telewests consumer division and senior the executive committees in many of the marketing roles at Procter & Gamble.
Prior banks major divisions including for its to BT, he was Founder and Chief Executive Africa and Middle East businesses where of Flutteroo, an online auction site, having he was based in South Africa as the been Chief Operating Officer and regional general counsel.
He also worked Executive Director of Sportingbet plc.
in Barclays Retail and Business Banking and Card issuing and acquiring divisions as the general counsel and as a member of their executive committees.
15 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Mark Kimber Ruth Prior Chief Information Officer Deputy Chief Financial Officer Joined Worldpay Group in September 2014.
Experience Experience Mark joined Worldpay from JP Morgan Ruth was previously Group Chief Financial Chase where he was Chief Information Officer of EMI Group and prior to that Officer for EMEA.
Mark has over 20 years worked for the private equity firm Terra experience in financial services having Firma Capital Partners as a finance held senior technology roles within JP director working across numerous Morgan Chase as well as Bear Stearns portfolio businesses.
Earlier in her career andLehman Brothers.
Mark has extensive she worked at Whitbread and Bass, after experience of building and leading global starting her career at Unilever.
significant finance and operating experience across a broad range of sectors, particularly in business transformation, mergers and acquisitions, and change management.
Ruth is a qualified chartered management accountant.
She serves as Senior Floris fide Kort Independent Director and Chair of the Chief Executive Officer, Worldpay US Audit Committee of Pinewood Group plc.
Experience Floris was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Worldpay US in January 2016, having joined Worldpay Group in 2010.
Floris has over 15 years experience and proven executive leadership in global eCommerce, international payments and fraud.
Most recently, he served as Managing Director of the Groups Global eCom division, where he drove Worldpays growth into new payment types and geographies with innovation in technology and service.
Floris is Co-Chair of the Merchant Risk Council.
