Our vision, values and strategy We have a clear strategy to achieve sustainable profit growth Our vision Our strategic objectives Our vision is to be the worlds best local 1 Develop our great portfolio of specialist distributor of plumbing, heating strong businesses and building materials products.
We will focus and develop those businesses which have, or are capable of, market leadership which will give us the best returns.
2 Our values Drive performance systematically across the Group We will drive revenue growth and margin expansion across all ofourbusinesses.
We act with integrity We conduct all our activities with fairness, honesty and integrity.
3 Accelerate profitable growth We want to grow our businesses profitably and drive growth faster than the competition.
In each business we aim for above market share growth through We drive for results superior customer service to gain agreater share .
andimprovements We listen and respond to the needs of our customers, then exceed their 4 Drive evolution of our expectations.
We are not happy with business model the status quo, and constantly strive to improve.
We aim to operate the most efficient operating model in the industry.
We are focusing on four key areas of the business model customer, supplier, supply chain and branch operations.
We value our people We understand, respect and value 5 Deliver Group synergies personal and cultural differences: weareopen and honest in all our We embed best practice and achieve cost efficiencies by dealings with our people.
sharing functional excellence across the Group.
6 Underpin the strategy with a strong balance sheet We will maintain a strong balance sheet which will enable us to invest in both organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions.
Follow our strategy through this report Our strategic objectives underpin and integrate our global business activities and you will see numerous references and examples of our strategy in action Group Chief Executives overview throughout this report.
Where we discuss a part of our business which is directly see pages 12 to 15 linked to one or more of our strategic objectives, we have referenced this with the specific strategic objective as below.
Key performance indicators see page 16 and 17 1 2 3 4 5 6 Wolseley plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
