What we think Sorry to Disappoint You But the Business Were in is Unusually Low in Risk Which is why experiment and adventure can be so confidently explored By Jeremy Bullmore f all the expenditure decisions that major Its true that the sums involved are huge.
Its true companies make, decisions on advertising that decisions have to be made about advertising content expenditure are surely thought to be some that, unnervingly, may rely at least as much on informed of the most perilous.
experience and subjective judgement as on empirical In last years Annual Report, we picked evidence.
Its true that there seem to be no universally over that apocryphal saying, I know that accepted rules.
When authorising an equivalent sum half the money I spend on advertising is wasted.
My only on capital expenditure, for example, there will be many problem is that I dont know which half.
By contrast, when authorising advertising theres no hard evidence that anyone of authority ever said and promotional expenditure, there will be disturbingly few.
it, the old adage clearly still strikes an instinctive chord Advertising agencies seem to enjoy this sense of living with many.
Apocryphal though it may be, it evidently gives dangerously.
They constantly encourage their clients to be voice to an underlying unease about advertising: that theres brave.
And when an advertising campaign has been shown some elusive, immeasurable element about advertising to be unusually effective, they publicly praise their clients for decision-making thats mercifully absent from other major the courage they displayed in accepting it.
So if the approval investment decisions.
of advertising demands courage, it surely follows that the approval of advertising must demand risk?
If risk were low or non-existent, surely the need for courage would be minimal?
103 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think Sorry to Disappoint You But the Business Were in is Unusually Low in Risk Simply through association, the annual Cannes Lions In most consumer markets, a comfortable brand leader International Festival of Creativity emphasises the showbiz can appropriate generic market benefits and expect to reap aspects of advertising: and everybody knows just how the most reward.
In the agency world, theres never been hazardous and unpredictable the funding and making such an agency: so no one has ever put the generic case for of movies can be.
Agencies, entirely reasonably, assume that their does.
It cost $44 million to make, took $3.5 million at clients or potential clients have already accepted the need the box office and brought its studio, United Artists, to advertise and are concerned only with how much to spend, to the brink of bankruptcy.
in which media, and on what creative content.
So agencies And yet, and yet: if approving advertising were as compete with each other at the margins each claiming that risk-laden as approving the making of a motion picture, how they allocate the clients funds is what will make the wouldnt common sense suggest that there would be at least crucial difference.
But what gets a few notorious examples of major marketing companies neglected is a reminder of the generic benefits that advertising being brought to their knees by high-risk, ill-advised yes, just about any advertising bestow on the advertiser.
I exclude from that claim stunts and promotional In the 150-year history of mass campaigns.
If you inadvertently print too many winning numbers on your bottle tops, you can easily find yourself media advertising, there is no paying for a million five-star vacations in Las Vegas rather single recorded instance of an than the 200 you allowed for in your budget.
Im talking only about conventional, main-media advertising campaigns.
advertiser being brought to the And search as rigorously as you may, you will find no single example of a purely media campaign inflicting Heavens brink of bankruptcy solely Gate-type injury on its sponsoring company.
because of a misguided There are, of course, countless examples of advertising campaigns failing to meet the extravagantly high hopes advertising campaign that were held out for them.
They may even constitute the majority.
And there have been all too many expensive product failures.
But in the 150-year history of mass media advertising, there is no single recorded instance of an Reluctant though the advertising trade may be to advertiser being brought to the brink of bankruptcy solely admit it, the reason that advertising catastrophes are so because of a misguided advertising campaign.
rare as to be non-existent is that just about any advertising, There is, I believe, at least one main reason for this curious as long as it follows a couple of primitive rules, will have fact and its one that doesnt get much attention because some value.
of the nature and structure of the advertising business.
This, then, is the first and most basic truth about From the beginning, the advertising agency market has advertising: always been fragmented.
Because of advertisers concerns If the medium youve chosen reaches the people you about confidentiality, the need to avoid client conflict has want to reach, and if your medium clearly carries the name restricted agencies ability to grow.
The result has been a of your brand, your money will not have been wasted.
great many competing agencies but with even the biggest I am not, please note, suggesting that anyone should seldom enjoying a market share into double figures.
consciously adopt, or indeed settle for, such an unambitious approach.
But its a fundamental, reassuring fact and one to savour.
104 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think Sorry to Disappoint You But the Business Were in is Unusually Low in Risk Billboard advertising carrying a poster design Given this under-recognised and deeply reassuring invisible to the human eye is money wholly wasted.
comfort blanket, we can return to more familiar territory Online advertising that reaches only robots is money the role of something called creativity: or to be precise, wholly wasted.
But for an established, repeat-purchase advertising creativity.
Advertising creativity may borrow brand, if the right people are aware that the brand the tools of the fine arts the words, the sounds, the images is being advertised, it is impossible for money to be but in all other respects it is different.
It exists not for wholly wasted.
its own sake but in order to have a defined and calculated Recent understanding of how much advertising works effect on peoples opinions, feelings or behaviour.
lends power to this belief.
The late Andrew Ehrenberg long argued that the role for advertising for established brands was much more to do with publicity than persuasion: To be reminded just how unlikely people dont need to be talked into buying brands with which theyre already familiar.
But brand values fade we are to make a catastrophic and need to be refreshed and brand equity needs to be error is to be liberated replenished.
Its more and more widely accepted that maintaining salience, topping up fame, providing brand sustenance simply being out there may be the principal contribution that mass advertising makes to mass brands.
There are some who, puzzlingly, still talk of creativity By far the most important decision that an advertiser makes and effectiveness as though they were disconnected is the decision to advertise.
outcomes: as though advertising can be highly creative The purpose of disinterring this truth about while failing to achieve its functional objectives.
Thats like advertisings most basic function is not to encourage honouring a bridge for its aesthetic beauty while closing marketing complacency: not to stop advertisers striving it to traffic for safety reasons.
In advertising, creativity for excellence.
Indeed, its the absolute opposite.
is never an end in itself its sole purpose is to make To be reminded just how unlikely we are to make a commercial communication more telling, more evocative, catastrophic error is to be liberated: liberated to be less of more compelling, more moving, more rewarding, more a slave to caution: liberated to experiment, both in content likeable, more readily understood than any unadorned and in levels of expenditure: liberated to test the waters, to brand name could ever achieve.
try things out, to suck it and see.
The penalties for getting At its most basic, creativity in advertising exists for just it wrong will be barely measurable.
The rewards for getting one purpose: to make an advertisers money go further.
And at its best, as any number of well-documented cases Let me return to this basic truth: If the medium youve celebrate, it can do so in multiple increments.
chosen reaches the people you want to reach, and if your But the conscientious analysis of a thousand case medium clearly carries the name of your brand, your histories will never guarantee the emergence of another.
money will not have been wasted.
Trying to do something thats never been done before doesnt just run the risk of risk: it knowingly invites it.
And thats why the basic truth about advertising, however unheroic it may sound, should be far more openly acknowledged: and indeed celebrated.
It should be the commonplace truth that frees us all to search for the exceptional.
105 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Non-executive chairman Members of the Advisory Board Roberto Quarta Jeremy Bullmore Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee John Jackson Member of the Compensation Committee Bud Morten Koichiro Naganuma Executive directors John Quelch Richard Rivers Sir Martin Sorrell Guiseppe Sala Chief executive Cuneyd Zapsu Paul Richardson Finance director Company Secretary Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Marie Capes Non-executive directors Jacques Aigrain Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Charlene Begley Member of the Audit Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Sir John Hood Chairman of the Compensation Committee Ruigang Li Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Daniela Riccardi Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Nicole Seligman Senior independent director Hugo Shong Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Timothy Shriver Member of the Compensation Committee Sally Susman Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Sol Trujillo Member of the Audit Committee 107 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Board of Directors Jacques Aigrain Non-executive director Age 61 Jacques Aigrain was appointed a non-executive director Roberto Quarta Non-executive chairman Age 66 of WPP on 13 May 2013.
He is currently a partner at Warburg Pincus LLP.
He was on the Executive Committee Roberto Quarta was appointed as a director with effect of Swiss Re AG from 2001 to 2009 including CEO from from 1 January 2015 and became Chairman of WPP 2006, and prior to that, he spent 20 years with JPMorgan in June 2015.
He is Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc, Chase in New York, London and Paris.
In addition, he is a FTSE 100 listed global medical devices company and a non-executive director of London Stock Exchange Group Partner of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice and Chairman of Plc and a Supervisory Board Member of LyondellBassell Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Europe, a private equity firm.
NV and Swiss International Airlines AG.
He was Chairman Previously, he was Chief Executive and then Chairman of LCH Clearnet Group Ltd from 2010 to March 2015, of BBA Group plc, Chairman of Rexel SA and IMI plc and also was a Director of the Qatar Financial Center and a Non-Executive Director at BAE Systems plc, Authorities until March 2015 and Supervisory Board Equant NV, Foster Wheeler AG and PowerGen plc.
Member of Lufthansa AG until April 2015.
He is a dual French and Swiss citizen.
He holds a PhD in Economics Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 71 from Sorbonne University, and a MA degree in Economics from Paris Dauphine University.
Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
He is Charlene Begley Non-executive director Age 49 a non-executive director of Formula One and Alcoa Inc. sirmartinsorrell@wpp.
com Charlene T Begley was appointed a non-executive director of WPP on 1 December 2013.
Most recently, Ms Begley Paul Richardson Finance director Age 58 served as a Senior Vice President of General Electric Company and the Chief Executive Officer and President Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP of GE Home & Business Solutions at General Electric in 1996 after four years with the Company as director Company.
In this role, she had responsibility for $9 billion of treasury.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide of revenue with the GE Appliances, Lighting and Intelligent functions in finance, information technology, procurement, Platforms businesses, as well as served as the companys property, treasury, taxation, internal audit and Chief Information Officer and led the Sourcing Council sustainability.
He is a chartered accountant and fellow and Corporate Leadership Staff.
As CIO, she managed of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
a budget of $3.7 billion and led 10,000 IT professionals paul.
com with a strong focus on business process excellence, simplification, collaboration and security and compliance.
Over her career at GE, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Enterprise Solutions, GE Plastics, and GE Transportation.
In addition, she led GEs Corporate Audit Staff and served as the Chief Financial Officer for GE Transportation and GE Plastics Europe and India.
Ms Begley currently serves as a non-executive director and member of the Audit Committee of NASDAQ OMX and non-executive director and member of the Audit and Nominating Committees of Red Hat.
Ms Begley was a director of Morpho Detection, Inc. and GE Fanuc JV.
She was recognized as a Young Global leader on the World Economic Forum and Fortunes Most Powerful Women in Business.
Ms Begley graduated Magna Cum Laude from the University of Vermont in 1988 with a BS Degree in Business Administration.
