How we comply Corporate governance How we comply We have structured this section around the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code to enable share owners to evaluate how the principles have been applied.
Leadership The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to share owners for the Groups financial and operational performance and risk management.
Responsibility for the development and implementation of Group policy and strategy and for day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board to the Group chief executive and Group finance director.
The list of matters reserved to the Board can be downloaded from the website wpp.
During 2015, the Board met six times formally and held 17 committee meetings throughout the year.
Compensation Nomination and Attendance of directors at meetings Board Audit Committee Committee Governance Committee 1,4 Roberto Quarta Chairman 6 8 4 3 Sir Martin Sorrell 6 Paul Richardson 6 8 1,3 Philip Lader 3 5 2 2,6, 7 Roger Agnelli 6 8 4 2 Jacques Aigrain 6 8 5 Charlene Begley 6 8 4 3 Colin Day 3 5 4 6 Ruigang Li 4 3 1 6 Nicole Seligman 6 5 2,6 Daniela Riccardi 5 3 1 3 Jeffrey Rosen 3 5 4 2 5,6 Hugo Shong 6 5 4 4 Sir John Hood 6 5 2 Tim Shriver 5 5 3 Sally Susman 6 3 6 Sol Trujillo 6 7 4 1 By invitation, and whilst chairman, Philip Lader and then Roberto Quarta attended all of the Audit Committee meetings.
2 Roger Agnelli and Tim Shriver retired from and Daniela Riccardi was appointed to the Nomination & Governance Committee on 10 October 2015.
3 Philip Lader, Colin Day and Jeffrey Rosen retired on 9 June 2015.
4 The chairman was appointed to the Compensation Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee on 9 February 2015.
5 Hugo Shong retired from the Audit Committee on 10 October 2015.
6 R oger Agnelli, Ruigang Li, Daniela Riccardi, Hugo Shong, Nicole Seligman and Sol Trujillo retired from the Compensation Committee on 10 October 2015.
7 Roger Agnelli tragically died on 19 March 2016.
164 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we comply Corporate governance The role of the chairman their duties.
The Company provides insurance cover for its The Board is chaired by Roberto Quarta, who chairs the directors and officers.
Nomination and Governance Committee and is a member of the Compensation Committee and attended all meetings Effectiveness of the Audit Committee at the invitation of its chairman.
The chairman provides the leadership of the Board and is The composition of the Board the main point of contact between the Board and the CEO.
The Board is composed of 13 directors.
Two current The chairman represents the Board in discussions with share members are executive directors and 11, including the owners and investor bodies, ensures that systems are in place chairman, are non-executive directors.
The independence to provide directors with timely and accurate information, of each non-executive director is assessed annually represents the Company in external gatherings, and is also by the Board.
The Board has confirmed that all of the responsible for the Board governance principles.
He has non-executives standing for re-election at the 2016 led the Board evaluation process, restructuring of the AGM continue to demonstrate the characteristics committee membership, and the ongoing emphasis on of independence.
management development and CEO and senior management succession planning.
Succession: Board and committee membership The following changes to the Boards roles and The role of the senior independent director composition took place during 2015 and early 2016: The senior independent director is Nicole Seligman who is Nicole Seligman has succeeded Jeffrey Rosen available to share owners and acts as a sounding board for as the senior independent director.
the chairman and as an intermediary for the other directors Jacques Aigrain has succeeded Colin Day as chairman with the chairman, when necessary.
The senior independent of the Audit Committee.
Jacques Aigrain has been a directors role includes responsibility for the chairmans member of the Audit Committee since joining the Board appraisal and succession.
The Board announced the in May 2013. appointment of Nicole Seligman as senior independent Roberto Quarta succeeded Philip Lader as chairman director on 4 April 2016, following the recommendation of of the Group and as chairman of the Nomination and the Nomination and Governance Committee and succeeding Governance Committee.
Jeffrey Rosen who retired at the 2015 AGM.
Nicole Roger Agnelli, who was a member of the Audit Seligman was appointed to the Board in January 2014 and Committee, tragically died on 19 March 2016. has served on the Compensation Committee and attends the other committee meetings at the invitation of the chairmen Time commitment of those committees.
Letters of appointment for non-executive directors do not set out a fixed time commitment for Board attendance and Non-executive directors duties but give an indication of the likely time required.
It is The non-executive directors have a diverse range of skills, anticipated that the time required by directors will fluctuate experience and backgrounds.
As detailed in their biographies depending on the demands of the business and other events.
on pages 108 to 110, the non-executive directors work across the globe in media and advertising, investment banking and Development investment management, pharmaceuticals, logistics and On joining WPP, non-executive directors are given bioenergy, airlines, FMCG, international management an induction which includes one-to-one meetings with consulting, private equity and angel investing, business management and the external auditors, briefings on the education, manufacturing, consumer products and retail duties of directors of a Jersey company, the Share Dealing management, internet start-ups, government and non-profit Code, WPP Code of Conduct and the UK Corporate organisations.
They provide constructive challenge and Governance Code.
The induction also covers the Board assistance to the Group chief executive in developing the committees that a director will join.
All directors are fully Groups strategy.
All directors have access to the services briefed on important developments in the various business of the Company Secretary and may take independent activities which the Group carries out worldwide and professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting regularly receive extensive information concerning the 165 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we comply Corporate governance Groups operations, finances, risk factors and its people, of non-executive directors, 31% of Board members enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations as and executive leaders in the subsidiaries, 46% of senior directors.
The directors are also frequently advised on managers and 54% of total employees.
As at the date regulatory and best practice requirements which affect of this report, women comprised 31% of the WPP Board the Groups businesses on a global basis.
One Board and 36% of non-executive directors.
meeting a year is held in a location other than London or New York.
In 2015, the Board met in Beijing, where it Directors conflicts of interest received briefings from all the heads of the Groups Asia The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board Pacific operations.
In 2016, in Berlin, the Board will to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where review the Groups European operations.
a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational Evaluation Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for WPP undertakes an annual review of the Board, its directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered committees and individual directors.
The annual evaluation for authorisation by those directors who have no interest of the Boards and all committees effectiveness was in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether commenced at the end of 2015 following the appointment to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted of the new chairman and the realignment of the committee directors must act honestly and in good faith with a memberships.
As outlined in the Nomination and view to the best interests of the Company and they may Governance Committee report on page 117, an evaluation impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, process is being externally facilitated.
Our experts or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
observations from these discussions and meetings are Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any being reviewed by the Board with proposals being made authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant minutes.
to the full Board as to improving Board effectiveness.
The prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding The results of the evaluation will be considered in the 2015 whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational Sustainability Report to be published shortly and discussed Conflicts and the Board believes that the systems it has in as part of the ongoing dialogue with share owners.
place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts continue to operate effectively.
Re-election The directors submit themselves for annual re-election Remuneration at each AGM, if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
Directors may be Non-executive directors do not participate in the appointed by share owners by ordinary resolution or by Companys pension, share option or other incentive plans.
the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination and The Board considers that the non-executive directors Governance Committee and must then stand for re-election remuneration conforms with the requirements of the UK at the next AGM, where they may be re-elected by ordinary Corporate Governance Code.
resolution of the share owners.
The fees payable to non-executive directors represent With only specific exceptions to ensure Board compensation in connection with Board and Board continuity, non-executive directors shall not stand for committee meetings and where appropriate for devoting re-election after they have served for the period of their additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group independence, as determined by applicable UK and US in a wider capacity.
standards and which is nine years.
Details of directors remuneration and service contracts form part of the report of the Compensation Committee Diversity which commences on page 121.
WPP recognises the importance of diversity, including gender, at all levels of the Group as well as the Board.
WPP is committed to increasing diversity across its subsidiaries and supports the development and promotion of all talented individuals.
As at 31 December 2015, women comprised 29% of the WPP Board and 33% 166 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
