26 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model: How it works RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS: ACCESSING OUR AUTHENTICA TING WITH THE PROVIDERS PREVENTING FRAUD AND PAYMENT NETWORK OF THE PA YMENT INSTRUMENT MONITORING RISKS We provide our customers with access We offer our customers the ability As money moves through our to our global payments network toprocess payments in 126 different platform, we detect and prevent through a variety of mechanisms to transaction currencies and accept fraudat each step.
payment from the major international credit card networks and many local Customers can access our network: debit cards.
At the point of sale, e. g. with a We connect to over 300 proprietary We perform due diligence on hardware terminal, a kiosk, a tablet, payment networks, e. g. global card newcustomers to protect or a phone with an app networks Visa, MasterCard, endconsumers regional networks China UnionPay, On a website, through a customers Our platform checks the validity of local domestic networks iDeal in own website, or using our payment the payment instrument, the payer the Netherlands, alternate pages and the customer at the point of a payments Boleto vouchers in transaction Through a wide array of devices Brazil, and emerging networks embedded with our payment We offer software tools for Klarna in Europe, TenPay in China technology, e. g. through gaming customers to set their own We apply a range of real-time fraud consoles, petrol pumps, and apps tolerance for risk, based on factors and risk checks, both on our such as geographic location of customer and the end consumer thepayer, the type of payment We underwrite the risk that the instrument, and dozens of other transaction may not be valid, or that items of data the goods may not be as sold or delivered How we capture value How we capture value How we capture value We collect fees depending on how We collect fees depending on the We collect fees for these services, our customer decides to access the services our customer chooses, ranging from a monthly subscription network, ranging from a pay per ranging from a few basis points fee to a percentage of the value of payment attempt on a website to a fordebit card transaction, to a the transaction.
monthly rental fee for a hardware percentage of the transaction terminal, as well as fees to certify and valuefor a full fraud-checked, secure the connection to our network.
CREATING VALUE: Shareholders Customers We have a clear strategy for sustainable value creation for our We help our customers prosper through optimising business shareholders using our core capabilities to generate growth.
outcomes by reducing the chances of losing a potential sale, allowing them to get a single view of their own customer, and offering ways to save time and discover new ways to sell.
27 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information We use our people, our global reach, modern technology and an unparalleled network of partners and relationships  business model PROCESSING SETTLING FUNDS AND PROVIDING ANALYSING AND VALUE TREASURY AND FX SERVICES INTERPRETING DATA Our payments platform matches and Our platform then applies a complex We store transaction data to analyse verifies tens of millions of transactions set of algorithms and rules to optimise, trends and look for patterns across every day.
price and send funds to customers in payment types, countries, and types of the way they prefer.
We validate the fees and charges A mix of currencies of their We offer payment analytics and owed to the issuers of credit, card choosing in which to settle insights on peer groups and industry networks and other intermediaries, thefunds owed to them benchmarking to our customers to reconciling hundreds of millions help them run loyalty schemes, A range of cross-border bank ofpounds across a vast array of guide their consumers topreferred transfers to send funds to local parties in a few hours overnight payment types and improve their accounts of their choosing performance We manage exceptions, errors and A variety of other treasury services disputes from any of these parties, We also use this data to help including if our customers fail to customers optimise their business provide the product or service to by reducing drop-outs during the the end consumer, and oversee order or online checkout process, theclaim until it is resolved maximising transaction approval rates by configuring an optimal route for a payment, reducing costsby lowering risk of refunds, and optimising fees paid to other payment networks How we capture value How we capture value How we capture value We collect fees depending on the We collect fees in a variety of ways, We charge subscription fees for nature of the agreement with the ranging from a fee for each transfer, to access to advanced reporting and credit issuers, card networks and recurring subscriptions, to a analytics, and we also charge for other intermediaries.
We also charge if percentage of the value of the advisory services for customers.
the customer seeks advice for ways to currency conversion.
lower their costs to these third parties.
Creating sustainable value for our shareholders, our customers and our people People Link to We invest heavily in the development of our people to create the Resources and relationships next generation of leaders who find innovative and practical page 28 solutions for our customers, partners and regulators.
