Our business model Wolseley is a specialist distributor, bridging the gap between 60,000 suppliers and 1.1 million customers.
We market and sell a wide range of products that our customers need and provide our suppliers with access to these customers cost effectively.
Source Distribute Key resources Our distribution and logistics model & relationships In order to sell our products and services, we rely on a range of fundamental assets and partnerships.
Suppliers Capital Suppliers Our people Customers Distribution Distribution network centres E-commerce Showrooms Fleet Call centres 60,000 1 million Suppliers Products We have a diverse supplier base Manufacturers deliver in bulk to our sourcing over one million products from network of distribution centres, to 60,000 suppliers around the world, which branches or directly to our customers.
gives us access to a broad range of Product availability is essential for products.
Our leading market positions customer satisfaction and our scale, enable our central sourcing teams in each logistics know-how, rigorous stock region to leverage our scale to negotiate control and large fleet enable us to competitive prices in return for access to provide reliable product availability and high volume distribution to our 1.1 million flexible delivery options to cater for all our customers.
In plumbing and heating customers needs.
businesses, the model is predominantly distributing from distribution centres and branches to customers.
In building material businesses, the model is more direct from supplier and branch to customer.
Wolseley plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Sell Fulfilment Outcomes Our distribution and logistics model Customers channel As a result of our activities, Sales through Sales through we create value that goes central account e-commerce beyond just the financial 17% of sales management returns for shareholders.
delivered directly from suppliers 9% 13% Great returns for 8% of sales our shareholders delivered 8% See page 9 directly from distribution Engaged and centres well-trained workforce Sales order See pages 17, 37 and 38 channels 44% of sales Loyal, satisfied customers delivered See page 17 from branches 70% Efficient branch and logistics network Branches Sales through 31% of sales See page 2 showrooms collected Sales through from branches Reduced carbon our branch network emissions and waste See pages 39 to 41 Increased adoption of eco-products 2,739 1.1 million See pages 41 and 42 Branches Customers In total, our business units operate 2,739 Our customers need a wide range of branches.
This means our customers products with high levels of availability typically travel fewer than 20 miles to buy often for collection or delivery on the from us.
The knowledge and expertise of same day.
Customers value quality and our employees at this local level is highly speed of service, range and availability valued, as many customers, from sole of products, billing and order accuracy, traders to large businesses, build a strong competitive pricing, knowledge and rapport and visit individual branches relationships.
They also want flexibility several times a week.
While customers in terms of choosing the most suitable are increasingly demanding a 24 7 multisales order channel when they buy from channel experience, the majority of our us.
We aim to deliver a best-in-industry business is still conducted through our service for all of these categories and branch network.
channels and that is why our customers keep coming back to us.
Wolseley plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
