How were doing Data Investment Management Transforming creative deliverables.
In expanding our Optimising marketing spend creative capability through the acquisition of Graphic A key focus has been in helping clients understand and previously Guardian Digital Agency and in putting more optimize the impact of trade action.
Kantar Retail XTELs internal emphasis on our creativity, clients as diverse as EY award-winning promotion optimization software has been and MundiPharma have rewarded us with more work on adopted by clients such as Kelloggs and LOral globally: the back of impactful creative ways of delivering insights.
Kantar Retail Virtual Reality has been adopted after fierce And brands such as Kantar Health have built a reputation pitches by clients such as Unilever and Sams Club to help for delivering complex medical conclusions through optimize supply chain issues.
Similarly, we are focused on relating media consumption Helping society through our public affairs work.
PowerPurchase was launched by and polling work for governments and NGOs has an Millward Brown and Kantar Worldpanel to link brand impact of a different order.
IMRBs work for the Indian equity with purchase behaviour, the first client being JBS Department of AIDS control and TNSs work for the in Brazil.
In many markets we have linked digital tags to Kenyan Government on digital tax collection go to the Kantar Worldpanel panelists to enable us to relate TV, heart of policy making, while the polling we do around Twitter and Facebook campaigns to purchase behaviour, the world informs the public debate.
and to report for clients a measure of direct short-term ROI.
We have done the same in LatAm and the US to link TV and purchase in LatAm linking panels and, in the US, linking big data sets of comScore, Rentrak and Kantar Shopcom.
Our best work often comes from Quality of talent multi-brand multi-skill teams Even more important than technology is the quality of putting aside agendas talent we have across Kantar and our culture of innovation and constant improvement.
We have seen innovation in everything from finance, HR and operations to marketing How digital is transforming brand building and client service.
And we have seen in reviews for clients Measuring content.
A key starting point is Kantar such as Unilever, Treasury Wines and Yildiz that our best Medias ability to measure content on all devices and work often comes from multi-brand multi-skill teams platforms.
The Netherlands became the first market in the putting aside agendas and delivering unique sets of world to roll out cross-media measurement and we were actionable insights and strategies.
thrilled to be chosen as the industrys partner to do so.
We have continued to emphasise the importance of In the UK, we are measuring and reporting content which diversity in our hiring and have expanded our womens is viewed time shifted and or through various players on mentoring program.
We have seen a growing number of units tablets and smartphones.
In Spain, we have built on our awarded an externally assessed best place to work award partnership with comScore to launch an integrated TV including Kantar Health by The Sunday Times in the UK and digital service.
We are currently looking at how we and Kantar Worldpanel by a host of organisations in France, can export real-time ratings the only market in the world theUK, Spain, Ireland, China, Taiwan, Brazil and Mexico.
where these are available being LatAm, through Kantar IBOPE Media to other markets.
And we will continue Kantar into 2016 to roll out our Twitter ratings service which helps clients Our recently-introduced Kantar First program will enable understand the relationship between TV viewing and better collaboration between our operating brands to better Twitter activity and its impact on engagement.
serve client needs by eliminating internal profit silos: by Measuring digital brand building.
Millward Browns encouraging the sharing of data across brands: and by Digital Behaviour Analytics gives clients an understanding facilitating better co-operation at a local level around of the digital path to purchase while our AdReaction and which, increasingly, many important and profitable clients Link for Digital products give clients a way of measuring are organising themselves.
Kantar First will enable us to the impact that advertising and other content is having on bring the best of Kantar to many more of our clients across brands.
Our partnership with comScore has resulted in a the world, while keeping the brands and specialisms which more global, digitally-centred brand lift service.
70 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Hill Knowlton Strategies recently Hill Knowlton Strategies US received WorldatWorks Work-Life 2016 Seal of Distinction.
Report by Jack Martin We continue to be gratified by the confidence in our Chief executive officer and chairman work shown by a growing number of world-class clients.
We are especially proud to have worked with the RFU for n 2016, our 90th year in business, Hill Knowlton the 2015 Rugby World Cup.
The great campaigns built Strategies is renowned as a global source of wisdom, with such long-term partners as adidas, Ford, Intel and led by accomplished executives who can deploy P&G give us a chance to do some of our most strategic and an innovative portfolio of communication services creative work.
And were excited by the new relationship delivered by award-winning creative talent.
H K has with the dynamic brand Huawei.
adapted to the evolving environment involving the 2016 will be a year of accelerating growth and democratization of communications, and in 2015 had increasing momentum for this iconic firm with a grand our third year of notable growth.
legacy for original thinking, service innovations and creative solutions for complex problems.
Our comprehensive content Cohn & Wolfe offering went from strength Report by Donna Imperato to strength in 2015 Chief executive officer t was another year of double-digit growth as Cohn & Five years ago, we made a big bet on digital, content Wolfe reached new heights in our quest to become the creation and social media, and now we are seeing a return best integrated communications agency in the public on those investments, beginning with the Centre of Creative relations industry.
We have advanced well beyond the Strategy in London led by Richard Millar, which has vision we set five years ago.
developed a common H K ideology and is kick-starting our Our new business and organic growth were fueled by own creative movement.
Here we have developed an arsenal our ability to deliver the big ideas that clients want and of proprietary intellectual property to help our clients bring those ideas to life through our growing capabilities develop winning brand narratives.
across mobile, digital, paid and content marketing.
This Our comprehensive content offering went from strength year, we leveraged M. E. -24, our mobile engagement unit, to strength in 2015.
With chief global strategist Alex to launch the worlds first mobile signature analysis tool for Jutkowitz at the helm, our content expert Group SJR Colgates Irish Spring Signature line of products.
We defied continues to pay dividends, from awards for the GE Tumblr category norms with Unbreakable Valor, a limited-edition, site and Txchnologist to the launch of the content marketing interactive comic book series that transformed Panasonics unit Colloquial, a joint venture in Australia combining Toughpad tablet into an unlikely B-to-B superhero.
And J. Walter Thompsons well-known marketing brand with we introduced Mission 31, an underwater exploration with the publishing and audience development experience of SJR, Jacques Cousteaus grandson filmed entirely on Microsofts the 2014 Global Content Marketer of the Year.
In Brazil, Nokia Lumia 1020. we acquired Ideal, a public relations, advertising, digital and These award-winning campaigns were fueled by content firm with 170 professionals, more than doubling initiatives that optimized the quality and consistency of the size of H Ks Latin American operations.
This year, we globally Our continued success is underpinned by great embedded our proprietary DDIM Dig Deeper.
Imagine talent and a commitment to a culture where that talent More.
programming process and enhanced our global is nurtured.
In 2015, the Great Place to Work Institute knowledge-sharing tools.
again named Hill Knowlton Strategies Canada one of the I am incredibly grateful to our talented people around Best Workplaces in Canada.
Last summer, we launched the world for a stellar 2015.
They have been the force our global HER program Helping Executives Rise, and behind a number of prestigious industry honors, including 71 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015
