How were doing WPP Digital led to continued success in 2015.
JL grew via expanded including Audi, Sainsburys and Selfridges.
Salmon relationships with key clients including Google, Mondelz delivered a new global B2B web platform for Premier and adidas Originals, and new business wins including the Farnell in 50 language variants and 20 currencies, and launch of PlayStation Vue, the companys new streaming a new commerce platform for Domestic and General.
In recognition of its work, Salmon was awarded Best Digital agency F. biz had an excellent year.
New business eCommerce Agency at the RAR Digital Awards while wins included America Mvil, Nestl Purina, Nescaf Salmons client DFS won Best Digital Experience and Best Dolce Gusto and all Luxxotica brands.
The agency Omni-channel Experience at the UK Digital Experience launched a marketing tech consulting business unit and Awards.
Salmon also extended its commerce offering via was recognised for its creative capabilities with two Lions a partnership with Magento.
at Cannes for its work with Saraiva and Singulares, as Cognifide, an experience management consultancy well as an Effie Award for its work with Motorola.
that specialises in content management and digital asset Hogarth, a marketing implementation agency, management had a record year of growth in 2015.
The strengthened its position via new business wins in the company built on new WPP relationships by embedding Middle East, APAC and Latin America, and expanded global clients such as Ford and HSBC.
Other new business geographically with the opening of a new office in Istanbul.
wins included recruitment giant Robert Walters, Penguin The agency won and delivered significant new business Random House and GSK.
due to the increase in demand for global digital production WPP entities entered into key partnerships that will efficiency.
Hogarth enjoyed particular success in benefit WPP companies and their clients.
The Data commercial production, engaging globally with some Alliance, a horizontal team that helps WPP companies key new clients.
access and leverage data, made significant progress in 2015.
This group signed partnerships with RAC, Global Webindex, Statista, Facebook and Amazon that will provide access to valuable insights.
Newly-established China-based commerce company Kuvera entered into a By continuing to acquire, partnership with Paipai, Chinas leading social commerce invest in and partner with the platform, that names Kuvera as Paipais strategic partner for developing mobile social commerce platform in China most innovative companies for global brands.
in the world, WPP Digital Our investments contributed meaningfully to performance in 2015.
In April, we made a strategic improves the Groups and our investment in Refinery29, a leading privately-held fashion and lifestyle media company that provides content, clients understanding of the shopping solutions and social networking opportunities digital media and technology targeted toward millennial women.
In 2016, we will continue to explore investment opportunities in line with landscape our strategic priorities to expand our offering.
We are pleased with our progress in 2015 and, looking ahead to 2016, see significant opportunity for growth.
Marketing technology and systems integration By continuing to acquire, invest in and partner with the consultancy Acceleration had another strong year in 2015. most innovative companies in the world, WPP Digital The company won the Data Story Telling Award for Best improves the Groups and our clients understanding of Data Integration and was listed by Ventana Research as the digital media and technology landscape and gives a 2015 Leader in Business Intelligence based on digital them the resources and connections they need to thrive transformation work undertaken with SABMiller.
in an increasingly digital world.
Acceleration also won digital and data transformation initiatives with Standard Bank and T-Mobile.
Global digital commerce consultancy Salmon delivered market-changing commerce solutions for leading brands 81 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Report by George Rogers and Satish Korde PP has created 45 individual Global Client 40 Teams, representing over a third of WPPs 38 39 37 42 41 36 revenue.
Each is led by a single Leader who is 43 44 32 45 31 30 focused solely on the client, quality of the work 35 34 33 29 25 and talent of the team.
26 24 27 23 Teams are custom-built around a clients specific needs 28 22 19 20 and challenges, with an integrated strategy from the get-go 21 18 13 our commitment to horizontality makes that seamless.
15 14 17 16 By extending beyond the verticals, WPP can deliver global 12 scale, extraordinary local insight and an unrivalled ability 9 10 11 for expansion in the faster-growing economies.
7 5 The key to the success of the Team approach is our 8 6 people.
We have diversified our talent this year and our 3 priority is to continue to develop our leaders through 4 a myriad of training programs.
1 2 We live and breathe horizontality in our quest to deliver the most competitive 1 George Rogers 24 John Lynn and innovative solutions for 2 Alina Kessell 25 Michelle Harrison 3 Christian Schroeder 26 Phil Lancaster our clients 4 Satish Korde 27 Jon Cook 5 Gowthaman Ragothaman 28 Deborah Kerr 6 Rose Wangen-Jones 29 Chris Hunton 7 Carolyn Oddo 30 David Chapman We are obsessive about continuous improvement and 8 Carl Hartman 31 Kim Brink learning, achieved by sharing best practice through open 9 Michael Buttlar 32 Daniel Goldberg forums, bringing together our local Regional, Sub-Regional 10 Anthony Wong 33 Peter Dart and Country Managers and our global Team Leaders, and 11 Stephen Forcione 34 Ian Rotherham ensuring that our clients have a seamless connection 12 Heather MacPherson 35 Serene Wong 13 Gnther Schumacher 36 Danny Josephs through to WPP innovation and our latest acquisitions.
14 Joe Rivas 37 Joseph Petyan We live and breathe horizontality in our quest to deliver 15 Rafael Esteve 38 Susannah Outfin the most competitive and innovative solutions for our 16 Iggy Diez 39 John McDonald clients.
We collaborate to compete, and work hard to fuse 17 John Seifert 40 Anders Kinberg 18 Jennifer Graham Clary 41 Jane Wagner our extraordinary creativity with our intellectual firepower 19 Gloria Gibbons 42 Jamie Copas an unbeatable combination that contributed to WPP 20 Erin Byrne 43 Shane Atchison being named Holding Company of the Year at the 21 Malia Supe 44 Stephanos Klimathianos Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity for 22 Lorri Esnard 45 Mike Hudnall five years running, the Effies Most Effective Holding 23 Ida Rezvani Company for the last four and the worlds best parent company by Warc for the second consecutive year.
