How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Large PR Firm of the Year PR News, multiple Best Large Finsbury Place to Work awards Holmes, PRWeek, PR News and two nods for Southeast Asia Agency of the Year Holmes, Report by Roland Rudd Campaign Asia.
Our people have also enabled Cohn & Chairman Wolfe to add or expand great clients, including Alcon, and Barclaycard, Colgate-Palmolive, Danone, Global Blue, Michael Gross InterContinental Hotels Group, Pandora Jewelry and Chief executive officer Treasury Wine Estates.
insbury is continuing to expand its influence as a globally-integrated strategic communications consultancy.
It specialises in managing complex Our new business and organic assignments in corporate reputation, financial and growth were fueled by our transaction communications, public affairs and crisis management.
Finsbury has offices in the UK, the US, ability to deliver the big ideas mainland Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
It provides expert strategic advice and execution to many of the that clients want worlds most successful companies.
In 2015, Finsbury added significant new assignments for Hutchison, Foxconn, Cohn & Wolfe expanded in India, Brazil and China.
Bank of China, EY and IE Singapore, among others, to With majority-stake acquisitions in Indias Six Degrees complement its existing work for major clients including PR and content development and marketing subsidiary, Toyota, UnitedHealth Group, Starbucks, Marks & Spencer, Alphabet Consulting, as well as Brazils renowned Grupo Deutsche Bank and Ahold.
Mquina, we welcomed hundreds of talented new Revenues increased as we managed a number of professionals across Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, So high-profile cross-border deals.
We represented SABMiller Paulo, Rio fide Janeiro and Braslia.
We also added our in its $107 billion acquisition by Anheuser-Busch InBev, twelfth office in Asia, in Guangzhou, to meet growing Royal Dutch Shell in its $70 billion acquisition of BG client demands across China.
Our global specialty Group, UnitedHealth Group in its $12.8 billion acquisition companies, GCI Health see page 77 and AxiCom, of Catamaran and Walgreens Boots Alliance in its also performed well with significant new wins and $9.4billion acquisition of RiteAid.
The company also strong organic growth.
supported Worldpays initial public offering, managed I expect to see Cohn & Wolfe deliver another year major safety and environmental crisis situations for of excellent growth in 2016, as we further leverage our Duke Energy and Toyota, and was appointed as Canada position as an integrated marketing leader and continue Pension Plan Investment Boards first agency in Asia.
to recruit and retain the industrys best talent.
Revenues increased as we managed a number of highprofile cross-border deals In May, The Holmes Report named Finsbury the North America Financial Agency of the Year.
This reflects the increasing success of our M&A and financial communications capabilities in the US.
72 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs HERING SCHUPPENER Report by Ralf Hering Principal partner and chief executive officer n 2015, we celebrated our 20th anniversary with new records, both in revenues and results.
In addition, we remained No.
1 in the Mergermarket rankings for M&A transactions in Germany for 12 years now and ranked in the top 10 in Europe and globally.
We also boosted our business with many high-profile assignments, advising clients on communication policies and regulatory issues in large IPOs, CEO transitions, restructurings and global corporate crises.
Our lead position in the strategic communications consultancy market in Germany has never been stronger.
We are trusted advisors to more than 150 corporations from Germany, Europe and internationally, across all major industries.
Our pioneering digital corporate & transformation practice helps our clients to manage the communication challenges of Industry 4.0.
This key initiative for 2016 Our lead position in the strategic communications consultancy market in Germany has never been stronger started successfully at the end of last year and is already becoming another competitive advantage for our firm.
