How were doing Media Investment Management Audiences and data remain at the heart of everything five effectiveness awards at AMES APAC and Digital & we do.
In 2016, were poised to make great strides in Social Agency of the Year locally.
personalization, creativity and performance as we continue Our East out strategy for new business triumphed, to advance the capabilities of the industry while fulfilling as we welcomed the $200 million Huawei account into our mission of making advertising welcome.
a global remit, having held the business locally in China.
And we continued to secure outstanding new talent, embracing fiercely smart strategy and tech leaders to our Maxus global exco and charismatic leaders in key markets.
2015 has been a stellar year for Maxus: through our Report by Lindsay Pattison behaviours, attitude, work and results we are leading change Worldwide chief executive officer and Im really excited to build on this momentum in 2016. ur industry is undergoing massive transformational change.
In 2015, Maxus carried out a study in MediaCom partnership with the Financial Times into what change means to business leaders.
We discovered Report by Stephen Allan that whilst 90% are experiencing transformational, Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer  change, only 24% feel prepared.
his time last year, I reported that we had stopped calling ourselves a media agency: instead we reinvented MediaCom as The We continued to secure Content Connections Agency, reflecting outstanding new talent, the enormous changes that have occurred in technology, consumer behaviour and, consequently, in the services embracing fiercely smart our clients demand.
Underpinning this is our Systems Thinking philosophy strategy and tech leaders understanding and optimising the total system of content and connections, and not just the individual channels This sharpened Maxus proposition: we lead clients within it.
We bring Systems Thinking to life in every aspect through change to deliver meaningful business results.
In 2015, of our business we achieved this through a mix of smart organic growth and Firstly, it means we focus on interrelationships.
In fact, a steadfast focus on strengthening existing client relationships.
weve collaborated more than ever with our sister companies We expanded specialist services for clients like NBCU, Valeant, in 2015, working across pitches and clients with the likes Church & Dwight, BT, Huawei and Aldi to name but a few.
of Grey, Geometry, Hogarth, Johannes Leonardo, Salmon, Key to our evolution is the launch of a new planning Wunderman and its KBM Group and, of course, Kantar approach Change Planning which starts with the simple and GroupM.
question: Where are you today where do you want to Secondly, it means we plan for outcomes.
and results in a plan that informs strategic closely with our sister companies has helped us unlock our change.
To embed this, we trained 180 senior client leaders, ability to target consumers individually at scale, enabling developing skills of resilience, curiosity and presence.
us to deliver highly-targeted, outcomes-based campaigns We continue to pioneer in high-growth regions, for our clients.
launching Maxus Mesh in Asia as a marketing command And thirdly, it means our people are Systems Thinkers.
centre to leverage the combined power of big data, content With all the complex levels of data at our disposal today, and advanced analytics to drive accountability in real, or its our people who turn it into insights and strategies, close to real-time.
which ultimately translates into the growth were delivering In the US, we saw super-strong performance with huge for our clients and for ourselves.
topline growth under Steve Williamss leadership, and we Last year, we saw strong growth from existing clients were delighted to win an Effie for our work on NBC Sports.
across new geographies including AB-Inbev, GSK-Novartis, India continues to be our most-awarded market, winning Mars, P&G, Subway, The Coca-Cola Company and, most 65 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How were doing Media Investment Management recently, Sony, which included the new PlayStation Group in the UK, AT&T in Mexico and GoDaddy.
Additional new business included Actavis, Agoda, globally were all hugely important.
American Airlines, Bank of China, JG Wentworth, Pernod The dramatic shift of our business to digital and data Ricard, Tempur Sealy and Tesco.
Altogether, this growth continues to drive growth and reshape our operations.
totalled $2.6 billion in annualised billings, which means Digital and data revenues now represent 53% of the total, we now work with a third of the worlds top 30 advertisers and thats a 60% increase since 2013.
Its a similar story in 20 markets.
on the profile of our people.
Digital businesses obviously have a huge impact on our development.
Clients like Netflix, Uber, Vodafone, AT&T, Flipkart in India, BGL Comparethemarket.
com are all Weve collaborated more fast-growing businesses that also influence and challenge than ever with our sister our structure and future direction.
Some key moves will play a big role for us in 2016. companies in 2015, working We named Stuart Bowden as global chief strategy officer, responsible for designing, integrating and championing across pitches and clients MECs strategic product.
We also appointed Pele CortizoBurgess as global chief creative officer: a new role and one Our repositioning has led to further industry that recognises how much our creative leadership has recognition, notably being named in June 2015 as the become an essential part of the agencys future globally.
1 media network in RECMAs Network Shortly, we will launch a new division globally, MEC Diagnostics Report, which evaluates overall agency quality.
Wavemaker, which brings together our content, Additionally, we won over 290 awards, including Global partnerships, social and search capabilities: built around Agency of the Year at the M&M awards.
We were the the growing importance that content plays in our business.
most-awarded media network at the Cannes International It starts life as a $100 million division with 700 people.
Festival of Creativity, and earned the Grand Prix at the International Content Marketing Awards.
Our mission, as ever, remains the same: to grow our It was an infamously big year clients businesses.
But to continue achieving this, weve had to change.
As more and more brands continue to look for media pitches.
We battled to marketing to drive their topline growth, we think our hard and the highs certainly transformation into The Content Connections Agency means were well placed to continue to do just that.
outweighed the lows MEC These are clearly interesting times.
And MEC is positioned firmly at the crossroads where data, technology Report by Charles Courtier and creativity merge.
Chief executive officer 015 has been a very strong year for us.
We delivered Mindshare double-digit growth across all regions, with the US leading the way as the best performer.
We Report by Nick Emery joined the WPP Billion Dollar Club one of only Global chief executive officer nine companies and in October we moved up to become RECMAs No.
e set out with some big ambitions for 2015 across It was an infamously big year for media pitches.
We new business, product innovation, our creative battled hard and the highs certainly outweighed the lows.
output and driving automation and invention Game changing wins like LOral in the US, Lloyds Banking across the network.
