Matt Herring How were doing 15 13 16 17 14 12 11 10 9 8 6 7 5 1 3 4 2 1 Geoff Wild AM Australia & New Zealand 2 Shenan Chuang Greater China 3 Andrew Scott UK & Continental Europe 4 Bessie Lee Greater China 5 Pierre Conte France 6 JP Donnelly Ireland 7 Ranjana Singh Indonesia & Vietnam 8 Demet Ikiler Turkey 9 Massimo Costa Italy 10 Ruslan Tagiev Russia 11 Polo Garza Mexico 12 Roy Haddad Middle East & North Africa 13 Roberto Coimbra Andina region 14 Sung Lee South Korea 15 TB Song Greater China 16 Ranjan Kapur India 17 Manuel Maltez Portugal More regional heads of our operating brands at wpp.
com annualreport2015 84 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Matt Herring What we think The case for sticking your neck out WPP CEO Sir Martin Sorrell reports hen President Obama began the long and difficult process of normalising US relations with Cuba, he took a significant political risk.
Half a century of hostility is not easily brought to an end, and many people remain bitterly opposed to any rapprochement with Ral Castros administration.
Politicians, perhaps unfairly, are often accused of not sticking their necks out, for fear of being decapitated by the electorate.
Obama, approaching the end of his second term, has no such concerns, but the restoration of ties with Cuba alongside the nuclear deal with Iran will shape his legacy and the ongoing identity of the Democratic Party.
It is, in other words, a courageous step and, as overseas investors rush to strike deals in Havana, one that is already delivering progress.
If political leaders are wary of risk-taking, the appetite for it in the corporate world is smaller still.
Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 and the economic crisis and recession that followed, boardrooms have become ultra-conservative in their decisionmaking.
In a world of zero-based budgeting, activist investors and ubiquitous disruption by tech start-ups, there is little encouragement to be bold.
87 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out his is a regrettable, if understandable, WPP was the first in our industry to publish a corporate fact of contemporary corporate life.
Twenty-two years ago we launched It is both a reflection of our lowthe Atticus Awards and Atticus Journal to celebrate the inflation, low-pricing power, lowbest original thinking published by people within the growth world, and one of the reasons Group, and it remains unique to our business.
We were it is proving so hard to break out of it.
the first and, still, only parent company to introduce Calculated risks are necessary for the long-term health of a graduate recruitment scheme, the Fellowship, which a business, because without them innovation, development is harder to get into than Harvard Business School.
We were the first to invest in applied technology, and The danger of losing your head notwithstanding, at we are the only group with its own data business, Kantar.
WPP we are very much in favour of sticking your neck out.
We have the industrys only tech unconference, Stream, Establishing an office in Havana, the day after Washington described by WIRED magazine as one of the best in the announced the reopening of the US Embassy last July, no world.
We pioneered the Team model of global account doubt caused palpitations in the internal audit department service, breaking down the barriers between our individual and red lights to flash all over the risk dashboard.
We agency networks and disciplines in order to offer clients did much the same in Myanmar three years earlier the best talent and capabilities, no matter where they when sanctions were lifted.
It is not beyond the realms sit within the Group.
And we are alone in making a of possibility that Iran will become our 113th country focus on data, technology and content central to our of operation in the course of the next year or so.
For some these are risky moves.
We see them as The point is that building a business for the long-term, market leadership.
as we have tried to do at WPP, requires differentiation, It is all too easy to construct an argument for holding innovation and, more often than not, a degree of risk.
It is much harder to step out of The same can be said of brands.
Differentiation through line or do something unexpected.
WPP has never had a advertising and marketing services is the single most motto, and 30 years of sticking our neck out would be powerful means of driving a brands growth.
A short-term, a deeply unwise temptation to Fate.
But it has been a risk-averse approach based primarily on cost management solid guiding principle.
will harm a brand just as surely as wise investment in marketing will ensure its enduring success.
It is all too easy to construct Leader of the resistance an argument for holding your The good news is that corporate short-termism is facing current position.
It is much increasingly organised opposition, led by the worlds most harder to step out of line or powerful investor.
At the beginning of the year Larry Fink, the chief do something unexpected executive of BlackRock, once again wrote to every company in the S&P 500, along with major European corporations, encouraging them to take a longer-term From WPPs entrepreneurial beginnings, with two view of their businesses.
The letter began as follows: people in one room and a stake in a manufacturer of Over the past several years, I have written to the wire baskets and teapots, to the acquisition of J. Walter CEOs of leading companies urging resistance to the Thompson and Ogilvy & Mather, to the consolidation powerful forces of short-termism afflicting corporate of media buying under Mindshare and later GroupM, behavior.
Reducing these pressures and working instead the identification of the digital and data revolutions to to invest in long-term growth remains an issue of come, and our unique, cross-Group, horizontal approach paramount importance for BlackRocks clients to serving clients, the Companys story has been one of as well as for the entire global economy.
88 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out An end to earnings hysteria?
a story or putting out a note in the next five minutes is more important than where the company will be in five years.
Fink is particularly critical of todays culture of quarterly Fink also sits on the advisory board of an initiative earnings hysteria, which he describes as totally contrary launched in 2013 by McKinsey & Company and the Canada to the long-term approach we need: Pension Plan Investment Board, called Focusing Capital on the Long Term.
Its argument is that when companies forgo profitable investments to meet quarterly earnings expectations, investors and savers lose potential future returns.
And all of us In our own reporting we have miss out on the benefits of long-term economic growth.
It highlights research that lays bare the extent of the always tried to provide the problem.
One survey found that over three-quarters of bigger picture to set out the executives would take actions to improve quarterly earnings at the expense of long-term value creation.
market context in which we Another showed that companies that expressly seek to operate and a clear sense of manage short-term earnings in order to narrowly beat consensus also underperform peers after two years.
Given where we are heading that more than half of a typical companys value is created by activities that will take place in three or more years time, such short-term focus seems wholly perverse.
CEOs should be more focused on demonstrating To counter this destructive trend, Focusing Capital progress against their strategic plans than a one-penny on the Long Term argues for structures and measures that deviation from their EPS targets or analyst consensus encourage longer-term behaviour, both in the investment estimates.
community and in companies boardrooms.
It is a project This is music to the ears of every CEO who, sitting in WPP alongside organisations like the Wellcome Trust, front of analysts and media four times a year, has despaired Unilever, Barclays, Harvard Business School and Dow of the lunacy of extrapolating from one quarters numbers Chemical is happy to support.
a definitive conclusion about the performance, health and future prospects of a company.
According to Fink, it is far more important that a business articulates a long-term strategic narrative, and quarterly earnings reports should be primarily a means of measuring how that business is performing against long-term goals.
In our own reporting we have always tried to provide the bigger picture to set out the market context in which we operate and a clear sense of where we are heading.
More than half of a typical companys value is created by activities that will take place in three or more years time In todays frantic world of instant reaction and instant judgement, however, no company can expect analysts or journalists to thank them for providing a longer Outlook section in their results announcement.
Filing 89 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out BrandZ Portfolio vs S&P 500 and MSCI World Index 2006-2015 100 102.6% BrandZ Strong o Brands Portfolio 80 S&P 500 o 63% 60 MSCI o 40 30.3% 20 0 -20 -40 -60 April April April April April April April April April April October 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 The BrandZ Strong Brands Portfolio is a subset of the BrandZ Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands.
How to beat the market The worlds most successful investor, Warren Buffett, has consistently backed stocks in the biggest global brands, If I were an independent financial advisor which, for the from IBM to Coca-Cola to American Express.
As he said in sake of clarity and legality, I should say I am not I would Berkshire Hathaways 2011 Letter to Shareholders: Buy advise you first to buy shares in WPP, and second to buy commodities, sell brands has long been a formula for shares in those companies with a history of sustained business success.
It has produced enormous and sustained investment in their own brand.
profits for Coca-Cola since 1886 and Wrigley since 1891.
Investing in competitive differentiation through marketing communications as Jeremy Bullmore so eloquently put it, polishing the apples is a prerequisite It is abundantly clear, both from for a companys success, especially if it wants to be successful external analysis and our own over a long period of time.
To quote Jeremy again: No competitive enterprise, in whatever field of endeavour, proprietary BrandZ survey, that can leave its apples unpolished and still expect to win.
investing in brands works According to The Economist, brands are the most valuable thing that companies as diverse as Apple and McDonalds own, often worth much more than property and machinery.
WPPs Millward Brown estimates that brands account for more than 30% of the stock market value of companies in the S&P 500.
It is abundantly clear, both from external analysis and our own proprietary BrandZ survey, that investing in brands works.
In the last 10 years, a measurement of the strongest brands from the BrandZ Top 100 as a stock portfolio shows their share price has risen over three times more than the MSCI World Index, a weighted index of global stocks, and substantially outperformed the S&P 500 too.
90 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out Worldwide communications services expenditure 2015 $m Market Public Direct & specialist Advertising research relations communications Sponsorship Total North America 182,847 19,200 4,210 104,105 21,400 331,762 Latin America 32,261 1,960 440 35,548 4,300 74,509 Europe 102,915 16,400 2,600 111,722 15,300 248,937 Asia Pacific 161,856 6,400 4,700 59,213 14,000 246,169 Africa & Middle East 17,531 750 151 2,082 2,500 23,014 Total 497,410 44,710 12,101 312,670 57,500 924,391 Source: GroupM Note: Healthcare communications $4.8 billion is distributed pro-rata in Direct & specialist communications.
Polishing WPPs apples The agnostic ad tech alternative WPP is, of course, itself a brand, and it is important that West Coast giants such as Google and Facebook like to we continue to differentiate ourselves too in the eyes of describe themselves as tech companies, when in reality our clients, investors, current and future people and other they are media owners.
For all their eye-catching side stakeholders.
projects, such as driverless cars and flying to the moon, In the advertising and marketing services business the their core business is monetising inventory, just like any traditional points of difference have been talent and price other media owner.
and their twins, creative effectiveness and efficiency.
They If anyone doubts that, look at the numbers.
The leading remain critical, but we are also increasingly focused on recipient of our media spend on behalf of clients is Google, three areas that help WPP and our operating companies to at around US$4 billion in 2015.
21st Century Fox, News stand apart from our peers: technology, data and content.
Corp and Sky between them amount to US$2.5 billion.
For the record, and to pre-empt the howls of protest Facebook is US$1 billion.
from traditionalists everywhere: this absolutely does not Where the tech companies differ from other media mean that creativity, in all its forms, is not important owners, though, is in their desire for clients and anymore more on that later.
It is simply a reflection of the intermediaries to use their proprietary platforms principally changing nature of our business, of media owners and of Googles DoubleClick and Facebooks Atlas to determine the behaviour of the consumers we help brands to reach.
where media spend is allocated.
Given that they are in business to monetise inventory, they are hardly neutral.
You wouldnt hand your media plan to Rupert Murdoch or Bob Iger, so why hand it to Larry and Sergei or Mark and Sheryl?
91 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out We provide an agnostic alternative.
Xaxis is WPPs digital revenues stand at 37.5% of total turnover and, in global digital media platform that programmatically line with one of our four strategic objectives, we expect this connects advertisers to audiences across all addressable to grow to between 40% and 45% over the next five years.
Towards the end of 2014 we injected part of With greater digital scale comes greater scrutiny as clients Xaxis its publisher ad server platform, XFP into the demand more certain guarantees from media owners about worlds largest independent ad tech provider, AppNexus.
the effectiveness of their digital marketing spend.
There are At the same time, we invested $25 million in AppNexus.
increasing concerns, for example, about viewability, fraud As a result, we cemented our leadership position in ad and brand safety.
In this case WPP acts not only as a neutral tech and programmatic targeting, while supporting an intermediary but also as an agent for change in the industry.
independent ad tech ecosystem that is of considerably more GroupM has led the way in championing more stringent value to clients than one dominated by the walled garden standards, based on the hardly unreasonable principle solutions offered by the tech media behemoths.
that our clients should only pay for an ad that is seen In fact, WPPs focus on ad tech is nothing new we by a real human who is in our target in an appropriate have long been a leader in the application of technology editorial environment.
In 2007, WPP was the first company in the sector to invest in applied technology with the acquisition of 24 7 Real Media, which was to become the base on Data: big, getting bigger which Xaxis was built.
Other companies, like Acceleration the marketing technology consultancy, Cognifide which A focus on data and more measurable marketing services is provides content management technology, Salmon another of our four main strategic priorities.
What we once ecommerce agencies and Hogarth digital production called market research or consumer insight we now describe are all applying technology to marketing to help clients as Data Investment Management.
Contrary to what the transact and build relationships with their customers.
resulting acronym might suggest, we think this is not so dim.
We have investments in a number of innovative This sector of our business has always been about technology services companies, such as Globant and gathering and interpreting information, but the internet Mutual Mobile, and in advertising technology companies has created a new, ever-expanding universe of data, the including eCommera, DOMO, Percolate and Say Media.
sheer volume and complexity of which demands ever more We were also investors in Buddy Media, Jumptap and sophisticated approaches, tools and techniques.
During the course of the last year we acquired It also demands a fundamental shift in how we think about the worlds largest independent media buyer, Essence, the business itself, hence the new definition.
Managing clients and programmatic marketing solutions company The investment in data in a fragmented, complicated world is Exchange Lab.
what we do, just as we manage their investment in media.
These two areas are increasingly linked within our Group, as we integrate data and media to provide clients with the most WPPs focus on ad tech is telling insights and the best return on their investment.
Some dislike the new terminology and not only for the nothing new we have long admittedly unfortunate abbreviation, because they believe it relegates the role of insight.
Data collection and been a leader in the application analysis is nothing, unless it produces actionable insights.
of technology to marketing Unearthing and communicating valuable insights remains the core purpose, and the traditional disciplines of market research remain very important in doing that.
However, as The context for all these changes is, of course, the digital technologies change the world, we need to be at the continued growth of digital channels and advertising.
As TNS puts it, Advances in GroupM, our Media Investment Management arm, social media analytics, data flows from connected, internet forecasts net global advertising growth in 2016 of of things devices and many other technological innovations $22billion, 90% of which will be from digital.
This mean that the toolkit the researcher can use to find insights is despite the fact that digital media investment growth has expanded way beyond the survey.
in 2016 is expected to be 14%, compared to 17% in 2015, One manifestation of this new reality is Kantars the first deceleration in the post-Lehman recovery.
2 Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam.
North America -0.1 1.9 0.0 -4.3 -3.2 -0.3 3 2014 Latin America growth figure affected by method change and therefore Latin America 10.9 3.0 -6.5 -8.9 -9.1 -3.8 not shown.
Central & Eastern Europe 0.7 -4.1 -11.6 -10.4 -19.5 -6.7 Asia Pacific all 1.5 0.3 -2.5 -8.2 -9.3 -5.9 1 North Asia 13.2 4.9 -1.7 -12.5 -16.8 -13.3 2 ASEAN 4.4 -1.9 -5.7 -10.0 -10.5 -7.7 Middle East & Africa 2.2 -12.3 7.7 -4.7 -0.3 2.5 World -0.1 -1.6 -2.6 -5.3 -5.4 -1.8 93 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out data, since expanded to a broader collaboration on new Five years ago, for example, we invested $36 million in research products in the areas of advertising effectiveness, Vice Media, the global youth media brand.
Today our stake consumer insight, brand equity, customer satisfaction and is worth some $300 million as the digitally-led Vice brand media measurement.
Others include the sophisticated social attracts readers, viewers, advertisers and investors in ever media analysis engine behind TNSs social products, and greater numbers.
our partnerships and investments with both comScore known primarily for its web measurement capabilities and Rentrak the leader in TV set-top box data, which The public has always had a have now come together.
huge appetite for quality content, WPP supported the comScore-Rentrak merger and now holds 18.6% of the combined entity.
With the growth of and digital platforms have only out-of-home and multiscreen viewing, and the changes in intensified that hunger millennial and centennial media consumption habits, clients and media owners want better measurement.
The industry is crying out for a stronger currency and comScore and Rentrak will help to provide it.
Our other content investments include Media Rights Capital producer of Netflix smash hit House of Cards : Time spent per adult user per day with Refinery29 the fashion and lifestyle site aimed at millennial digital media USA 2008 vs 2015 women, and one of the fastest growing media companies in the US : Fullscreen the multiplatform youth network with Mobile more than 600 million subscribers and five billion monthly o 5.6 6 Desktop laptop o views : China Media Capital Chinas first sovereign private 5 Other connected o 2.8 51% of total 4 equity fund dedicated to media and entertainment sector devices 2.7 3 investment : Indigenous Media the next-generation digital 0.3 12% of total 2 content studio founded by acclaimed film-makers Jon Avnet, 2.4 42% of total 2.2 79% of total 1 Rodrigo Garcia and Jake Avnet : The Weinstein Company 0.4 7% of total 0.2 9% of total 0 2008 2015 the studio behind The Hateful Eight, Django Unchained and The Kings Speech : Imagine Entertainment headed by Brian Source: KPCB Grazer and Ron Howard, the producers behind A Beautiful Mind and Empire : and a joint venture with award-winning producer, songwriter and director Alex Da Kid.
We have also focused on the rapidly-growing sector of My crown is calld content sports content and sports marketing.
In 2015, WPP led a syndicate investing US$250 million in Bruin Sports Capital, I imagine there are still people in our industry whose a global sports marketing firm launched by George Pyne, LinkedIn profiles dont include the word content but they the former president of IMG Worldwides global sports and are surely becoming a minority.
The term may be faddish entertainment business.
And at the beginning of this year and frequently abused see the subheading above, but its we backed an investment by Bruin in Courtside Ventures, ubiquity does reflect a very important trend.
a venture capital fund that specialises in sports-related, The public has always had a huge appetite for quality early-stage technology and media companies.
content, and digital platforms have only intensified that In addition, during the last year GroupM launched ESP hunger.
At the same time, the changing dynamics of the Properties, a commercial and creative advisor to sports and market mean that the traditional producers of such content entertainment rights holders, which counts iconic have been joined by many other kinds of producer organisations such as the All Blacks and Cleveland Cavaliers from consumers themselves to web start-ups, advertisers among its growing client list.
They join the large number and agencies.
of premium sports organisations and properties already WPP has placed itself at the centre of these changes, working with WPP operating companies, such as the IOC, not only through the diversified services offered by our UEFA, Premier League, La Liga, F1, Manchester United, operating companies but also through strategic investments City Football Group, NASCAR, NBA, PAC-12, the NFL in exciting content businesses.
and Brazilian football legends Ronaldo and Pel.
94 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Hours per day What we think The case for sticking your neck out A team of all the talents?
by digital, data and technology fields in which achieving gender balance has been even tougher.
On page 50 of this report is a wonderful piece of art Below the very highest level, the picture is a little by Peter Blake, featuring our own Ronaldos and Pels brighter: women now make up 33% of executive leaders the team of stars who run WPPs global operating within our operating companies and 47% of senior company networks.
But theres clearly a long way to go.
It underlines the fact that WPP is an organisation driven Within our companies we operate various schemes to help by talent.
David Ogilvys famous remark about his agency the development of female leaders, including training, raising that the assets go up and down the elevator every day awareness of unconscious bias, networking, sponsorship is just as true today of WPP.
To describe us as a people and mentoring programs.
Examples include Team Detroits business is no empty clich: our biggest investment is in recently launched Returnship program, which gives women people over $10 billion a year, or 54% of total revenues.
the chance to restart their careers and is designed to increase Our long-standing mission statement is: To develop the number of women in leadership positions.
and manage talent: to apply that talent, throughout the world, for the benefit of clients: to do so in partnership: to do so with profit.
This philosophy applies at every level Companies with greater gender within WPP and its operating companies.
As exalted as they are, the 67 executives shown in the centrefold are balance in their leadership merely the representatives of the great army of talented, teams outperform their peers creative people responsible for our collective success.
There are also many external-facing initiatives, such As in many sectors, women as J. Walter Thompsons Female Tribes, a new, proprietary continue to be under-represented study about women around the world, and an associated documentary the agency co-produced for the BBC called in the top jobs in our industry Her Story: The Female Revolution.
At Group level we have schemes such as The X Factor, a mentoring and development program for senior women Our commitment to developing that talent, laid out in run by Charlotte Beers, the former CEO of Ogilvy & detail in our Sustainability Report, is broad and deep, but it Mather and chairman of J. Walter Thompson.
This would be remiss of me not to acknowledge one area where has recently been supplemented by Women In Leadership we still have work to do.
Lessons, again led by Charlotte, for those currently in As brilliant as it is, the Blake artwork has a flaw, and mid-level management roles.
that is the lack of diversity on display both in terms of In the UK, WPP Stella is a network that supports efforts gender and national and ethnic background.
As the to achieve gender balance and encourages the sharing of best fast-growth markets of Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa, practice between our companies.
We aim to roll it out in the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe become a other markets soon.
WPP also supports Women On Boards, larger part of our business, I would expect the make-up of which encourages women to take on non-executive board our senior management team to change accordingly over roles across a range of private and public organisations.
This inevitable geographic shift clearly wont provide The business imperative for improving our record is all of the solution again, our Sustainability Report covers crystal clear: companies with greater gender balance in our approach in detail, but it will be part of it.
The gender their leadership teams outperform their peers.
We will question may be more difficult.
renew our efforts in this critical area over the coming year, As in many sectors, women continue to be underparticularly given recent events.
represented in the top jobs in our industry, and WPP is no exception.
In some ways its going to get harder still, because marketing services are becoming more influenced 95 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out Staying creative, effective and relevant Clients under pressure For the last five years WPP has been named the worlds most Those clients are under increasing pressure as the global creative holding company at the Cannes Lions International economy faces what former US Treasury Secretary Larry Festival of Creativity.
Just as importantly, perhaps more Summers and the International Monetary Fund have so, we have also won the Effie for most effective holding described as secular stagnation, a long-term slump in the company in each of the last four years.
And this year, growth of economic output.
Mega mergers such as DuPont for the second time in a row, WPP was named the topand Dow, or AB InBev and SABMiller, reflect this, as performing parent company in the highly regarded Warc companies find top-line growth elusive and instead look 100 ranking, which reflects our agencies success in to efficiencies of scale.
strategy and effectiveness competitions around the world.
Boards are being squeezed by a triumvirate consisting Together this trio of awards is the perfect endorsement of of zero-based budgeters like 3G, Valeant and Endo, activist our peoples collective abilities, and the perfect encapsulation investors like Nelson Peltz, Bill Ackman and Dan Loeb, and of what we deliver for clients: creative effectiveness.
disruptors like Airbnb and Uber.
But every company and every industry needs to develop At the same time, the slowdown in the BRICs and other constantly to maintain success.
Cannes has recognised fast-growth countries has dented confidence across the this and, responding to the stark fact that, very recently, worlds markets, which had a rocky start to 2016, to say only 3% of creative directors were women, has made the least.
However, certainly in the context of our business, gender diversity a key theme of its annual event.
I expect these markets to bounce back over the mediumto From whichever angle you look at it, its an long-term as the explosion in the number of  statistic.
Its also one that runs counter to and middle-class consumers continues unabated.
Women account for 60% Although China will continue to be volatile, I remain of university graduates and are responsible for 80% of a raging Chinese bull over the long term.
India is currently consumer purchasing decisions, so it damages our access the jewel in the fast-growth crown and markets like to both talent and markets.
Vietnam, the Philippines, Indonesia and Colombia continue If the advertising and marketing services business to prosper.
Increasing the proportion of our revenues from wants to remain relevant, and to carry on producing the faster-developing markets to 40-45% of the total over the best, most creative and most effective work for clients, it next five years remains one of our core strategic priorities.
needs to prioritise tackling these issues and support the Nonetheless, it seems highly unlikely that global GDP efforts of organisations like Cannes.
growth will escape the doldrums any time soon.
We may be stuck with a slower-growth world for a while yet.
BrandZ top 10 most valuable Chinese brands 2016 Shape of global recovery % change Category Brand value Year-on-year Rank Brand 2016 $m change 1 Tencent Technology 82,107 24% Advertising o 20 2 China Mobile Telecoms 57,157 2% Global nominal o 15 GDP 3 Alibaba Retail 47,605 -20% 10 4 ICBC Banks 34,276 -1% 5 5 Baidu Technology 26,849 -13% 0 -5 6 China -10 Construction f f 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Bank Banks 19,270 -6% 7 Huawei Technology 18,501 NEW Source: GroupM 8 Agricultural f: Forecast.
Bank of China Banks 16,239 5% 9 Ping An Insurance 15,624 41% 10 China Life Insurance 15,504 53% Source: BrandZ Millward Brown 96 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out f Contributions to 2016 media growth by country $m UK 1,731 China Germany US 261 7,101 4,728 India Vietnam 1,157 310 Brazil 1,174 Australia 428 Source: GroupM f: Forecast.
f f Contributions to 2016 media growth by country Nominal GDP projections 2015-2017 % change Contribution Contribution $m % f 2015 o Asia Pacific all 11,536 51.6 f 2016 o NORTH ASIA 7,563 33.8 f 2017 o China 7,101 31.8 World NORTH AMERICA 4,767 21.3 output US 4,728 21.1 US WESTERN EUROPE 3,121 14.0 LATIN AMERICA 1,914 8.6 China UK 1,731 7.7 Brazil 1,174 5.2 Japan India 1,157 5.2 ASEAN 1,119 5.0 Germany Japan 1,110 5.0 MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA 650 2.9 UK Philippines 507 2.3 Australia 428 1.9 France CENTRAL & EASTERN EUROPE 375 1.7 Vietnam 310 1.4 India GCC and Pan Arab 297 1.3 Spain 280 1.3 Germany 261 1.2 Italy Mexico 221 1.0 Canada Greece 217 1.0 Colombia 207 0.9 South Korea 197 0.9 Brazil Gulf Cooperation Council Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and UAE.
97 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we think The case for sticking your neck out A prescription for global ills The united nations of WPP Last year, under the auspices of the Turkish G20 In WPPs early days I doubt even the UN could have presidency, a new business group was established to support persuaded our companies to put down their cudgels and the G20s efforts to build confidence in the global economy.
work together, but happily they have now discovered that The B20 Business 20 International Business Advisory peaceful co-existence and cooperation is not only possible, Council, chaired by Coca-Colas Muhtar Kent and backed but very fruitful.
by a range of companies including WPP, was set up to Getting our 190,000 people including associates to enhance dialogue between the corporate world and collaborate as seamlessly as possible across company, governments.
functional and national boundaries for the benefit of clients The first was that governments should ratify and is our fourth and final core strategic priority.
We call this implement the World Trade Organizations Trade Facilitation horizontality an ugly word for an increasingly effective Agreement to remove red tape and delays when moving way of working.
The second priority was to improve access to finance for SMEs, which are disproportionately affected by adverse credit market conditions.
Peaceful co-existence and The third was to ask the G20 to commit to a comprehensive strategy to boost youth and female cooperation is not only participation in the workforce, not least through better possible, but very fruitful public-private collaboration on national skills strategies and education plans.
Finally, the B20 said that the worlds leading economies must articulate coherent national We have been pursuing this strategy for some time, strategies to attract the huge levels of private investment largely in response to demand from clients.
Our biggest needed to plug the global spending gap on infrastructure.
client, Ford, has been served through a dedicated crossTo the B20s four I would also add a fifth: collaboration Group team since 2006.
We now have 45 such teams, between businesses, and between businesses and responsible for over a third of WPPs revenues and involving governments, to support the United Nations Sustainable nearly 40,000 of our people, working for clients as diverse Development Goals SDGs, the ambitious targets to end as American Express, Unilever, Coca-Cola, IBM and poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all.
Team wins in the last year included Emirates, WPP has been working with the UN to support the SDGs, General Mills and Bayer.
with a focus on fostering such partnerships, and this will For the first time our Annual Report has a section be a key project for the Group in 2016. devoted to our Global Client Teams, featuring a collage of all their leaders almost half of whom, it is encouraging to note, are women.
