Strategic report Our markets Property Services The majority of ZPGs Property Services revenues are generated from its property partners estate agents, lettings agents and new homes developers spending a growing proportion of their marketing budgets online, where over 90% of property searches begin.
ZPGs property partners advertise across the Groups websites in order to build their brand, market their clients properties and gain exposure to and enquiries from our huge audience of property-interested and .
Property consumers Both groups benefit from the convenience and Property advertisers continuing  increased transparency that the portals have shifttowards online marketing The UKs obsession with property continues to brought to the market such as real-time alerts In 2014, property advertisers spent 450 million fuel huge volumes of traffic to property portals and sold prices.
On top of this the proliferation on brand building and marketing their clients with our property websites and apps attracting of smartphones and the optimisation of mobile properties.
However, despite over 90% of over 40 million visits per month.
Property portal content are driving increased user engagement, property searches starting online, they spent users can besplit broadly into two categories: transforming the way property consumers just 55% of their marketing budget on digital movers and non-movers.
andadvertisers interact with each other and advertising.
Industry experts anticipate that the themarket.
amount spent on digital marketing will continue f Movers rely on property portals intensely to grow as property professionals recognise the during their property search.
They are hungry Property transactions volumes increased marketing efficacy available online.
In for the latest available properties and up-to-date remainbelow long-term average addition, the overall amount spent on marketing local information with which they can make In 2014, there were 1,219,000 residential is expected to grow as the volume of UK the most informed property-related decisions.
property transactions in the UK, worth over residential transactions continues to recover f Non-movers, who are the movers of 303 billion.
Although the property market over the long term towards pre-crisis levels.
tomorrow, account for a significant share wassubdued in the run up to the UK General ofproperty portal traffic.
They are propertyElection, industry experts expect the number interested consumers who want to know ofproperty transactions to continue to recover allof the latest housing market trends from over time towards the long-term average of recent house prices to local area information.
1.35 million before the financial crisis, after falling by over 50% during the 2007 credit crisis.
Property Services Market position Industry experts expect transaction volumes to recover towards the 90% of property long-term average of searchesstart online 1.35million before the financial crisis Brands Market position #2 Zoopla #3PrimeLocation Revenue 79.9 million Leads 25 million 10 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Comparison Services The majority of ZPGs Comparison Services revenues are generated from its comparison partners energy suppliers, communications providers and financial services companies.
These partners display their offers across the Groups websites in order to gain exposure to and enquiries from consumers who are looking to switch to the best deals in the market.
Price Comparison Websites PCWs engagement and increase competition amongst Credit cards is anticipated to be one of the key important role in the consumer journey suppliers to promote better choice, value and growth areas as consumer confidence increases PCWs have transformed the way people research innovation for consumers.
in line with economic recovery.
They enable consumers to 6million new credit card accounts were opened Communications broadband, shop around and compare offers on thousands with more than half of consumers shopping TV, homephone and mobile of different products from broadband to utilities around and of those 66% used a PCW.
In 2014 there were 23.7 million broadband in just a matter of minutes, and by offering free contracts and 89.9 million mobile phone and simple comparison they give consumers Price comparison sites have played a crucial subscriptions, with an annual switching rate the platform and confidence they need to role in stimulating competition, offering a cost ofaround 7%.
switch to a better deal for their needs.
effective solution for large energy companies In the rapidly evolving communications space to acquire customers and providing a means Consumer engagement comparison is about more than just price.
PCWs for smaller suppliers to enter the market.
structural growth opportunity play a crucial role in helping consumers understand Ourbusiness continues to perform well and Consumer engagement and switching rates and take advantage of the latest technologies Iam excited about the opportunities ahead as vary across each of the verticals within the from super-fast broadband to the latest mobile part of ZPG, helping more consumers make Comparison Services division.
phone handset to emerging technologies and informed decisions about their choiceof consumer offerings such as quad play.
property andhow they run it.
Energy gas and electricity In 2014 there were 50.1 million energy contracts The increasing complexity of packages, Steve Weller inthe UK.
There were 5.3 million energy switches interdependency of products and planned upgrade CEO, uSwitch during the year, which equates to an annual of the UKs digital infrastructure is expected consumer switching rate of only 11%.
PCWs tofuelcomparison and switching viaPCWs as accounted for 44% of these switches.
consumers seek a better deal fortheir household.
In the UK, households that switch energy providers Financial Services banking and insurance Comparison Services via uSwitch saved an average of 292 per year.
Financial Services is one of the most established Despite the opportunity for huge savings, energy Market position comparison and switching markets in the UK.
switching has low penetration with over 50% of Itcan be divided into two broad areas: banking UK households saying they have neverswitched.
credit cards, loans, mortgages, current There is the potential for significant structural accounts and credit reports and insurance growth in the volume of switches as PCWs motor, home, life and health insurance.
empower consumers to overcome the barriers Motor insurance has the highest penetration to switching, such as the perceived complexity of switching.
Over 20 million households involved in completing a switch and a lack of holda motor insurance policy, of which 33% awareness of the benefits of switching regularly.
switch annually due to the fixed-term nature At the same time, regulators and Government are ofthe policies and the legal requirement for active in trying to encourage greater consumer drivers in the UK to hold insurance.
Brands Market position #1 Energy #1 Communications uSwitch saved consumers Consumers could save 165million off their Revenue 80.2 million morethan 1,000 if they of which 27.7 million is energy bills between switched all their home attributable tothe Group 1October2014 and in 2015 services through uSwitch 30September 2015 Leads 24 million Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 11 Strategic report Our markets continued Q&A with AnnRobinson, Director of Consumer Policy Ann Robinson joined uSwitch 10 years ago and has spent her career fighting for the rights of consumers.
She is passionate about encouraging consumers to get the best out ofcompetitive markets.
She sees her role at uSwitch as a continuation of the work she did as Executive Chair of the electricity and gas consumer council, Energywatch, and is particularly vocal on social issues such as fuel poverty.
Previously, Ann has been a senior civil servant, Chief Executive of Scope leading it through a major strategic change of direction and Director General oftheBritish Retail Consortium.
How has uSwitch helped change thingsforconsumers?
I want to arm them with all the As a consumer champion, we look to influence industry, regulators information and tools they need to engage with markets whether that is and Government to make changes to practices, policies and regulations helping them cut hundreds of pounds off their energy bills, save on a new that will ensure people get a better deal.
For example, this year we broadband package, or switch to a more competitive currentaccount.
helped encourage the big energy suppliers to start bringing down bills for the majority of customers who languish on expensive tariffs.
We continue to expose Britains broadband speed postcode lottery, putting What did you think when you heard that pressure on local authorities to roll out improvements in some of the uSwitch was to become part of ZPG?
Weve also lobbied for free credit reports I thought it was fantastic news as it will help millions more of us access to help consumers improve their credit ratings, giving them more access the information and support we need to make life more affordable.
to the markets best deals.
Buying or renting a property marks a new stage in peoples lives, so isthe perfect point to review the household finances and get better deals across all home services.
How do you think regulators are viewing consumer markets at themoment?
Well, Im pleased to see both regulators and Government putting an Why are comparison sites soimportant?
ever increasing emphasis on competition as the most effective way of Buying a financial product or utility is not like going to the supermarket for a making markets work for consumers as seen in the approach that the can of beans.
We cant see it, we might not understand the small print, and Competition and Markets Authority is taking in both its energy and retail we may not know how to compare products and prices.
This is so much more effective than simply adding and confidence go hand in hand towards helping consumers make additional red tape.
However, businesses cannot afford to be complacent.
educated choices and feel in control.
But getting more of us engaging They must continue to do everything possible to demonstrate theyre with the market is not only good for consumers its vital for competition working in the best interests of their customers, by offering great and, in my view, this is what makes markets work.
Competition puts service and competitive prices or risk the threat of extraregulation.
pressure on providers to improve service, increase choice and lower prices.
What three things should consumers do in 2016 to help themselves?
If youve not switched insurance, energy, Help your friends, family and neighbours Dont put up with poor customer credit card, broadband or mobile who are less able to switch.
If youre not happy, dont be contracts for years youre most likely to be fact that many of the people in most afraid to complain.
If need be, take massively overpaying.
Use a comparison need of reducing their costs are also your custom elsewhere.
site to shop around, switch and save over those who lack the knowledge and 1,000.
12 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 13
