The Strategic Report 35 Our lines of business pErFOrMANCE IN THE yEAr Deliver superior customer service Underlying revenue excluding transit was down 1% due to lower line We have made progress on the plans we outlined last year to become and call volumes.
But we have increased EBITDA for the third year the market leader for customer service.
We have improved service running through our continued focus on cost transformation.
Our through a range of group-led programmes and specific BT Business fibre broadband base has increased 61% and we have launched a initiatives.
We have: new range of IP voice products.
And we have improved our customer moved more customers onto our new UK Business Solution service.
This brings all the core products and services that we sell in large volumes onto a single system, making it easier to Operating performance serve customers who buy multiple products from us: Our order intake of 2.1bn was broadly level.
We achieved a number created a new dedicated team and improved processes to help of customer wins and re-signs this year including: businesses when they move premises: invested in 35,000 hours of training to improve the skills of our Customer Contract service teams: and leigh Academies Trust Providing the parents of learners, improved our online self-service capabilities for customers uK SME across 11 schools in the Trust, the who prefer to deal this way with any issues they encounter.
opportunity to purchase tablets or We have improved the percentage of faults repaired within target laptops in school and at home via a timescales by 5%, weighted across all products.
We have introduced dedicated parental engagement portal.
new messaging to ensure customers are aware of and are ready for Morgan Sindall Group A new three-year IT Managed Service their appointment, which has helped reduce the number of missed uK Corporate contract to support all of the Morgan appointments for installations.
And we have improved our process Sindall Group companies.
for providing Ethernet services, but we still need to do better on this.
Our transactional customer net National Trust Telephony and networking services promoter score measured from customer feedback has increased uK Corporate plus public wi-fi services in their 7.5 percentage points and satisfaction with our advisers has historic sites.
Kerry Group Contract for a global SIP voice solution.
Our Right First Time measure was up 5.1% 2013 14: 1.5% driven BT Ireland by faster repair and provision times and 4.4% more customer calls resolved at the first point of contact.
NI Direct To deliver a contact centre for the Northern Ireland Northern Ireland public sector and Transform our costs to drive digital transformation in the Operating costs were down 5%.
Underlying operating costs provision of government services in excluding transit were down 4% due to savings from our cost Northern Ireland.
The main reason for the lower costs is a Go Outdoors Rollout of a full retail technology 10% reduction in our total labour resource.
Some of this resulted BT Expedite solution to all 52 stores and 350 tills to from the creation of BT Business last year, with benefits flowing replace the customers current estate.
We have also reduced our headcount through specific initiatives.
The number of business lines we provide reduced 7% as customers For example we have reduced the number of operational sites continue to migrate to VoIP.
But the net line loss in the year slowed, across BT Business.
And we merged BT iNet and BT Engage IT which down 14%.
But the number of IP lines we provide has increased eliminated some duplicated activities.
26% and take-up of our new BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone We have also continued to make savings by renegotiating supplier services is growing.
New broadband pricing and a free Business hub with BT Business Infinity, have helped drive fibre sales and encouraged customers Invest for growth to migrate from copper to fibre broadband for higher speeds.
Our We have continued to invest in our product portfolio, with VoIP a key business fibre broadband base has increased by 61%.
BT One Phone, BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone were all launched in the year.
In Northern Ireland we have now passed 91% of premises with fibre broadband and at 25%, take-up is the highest of any major region BT Tikit launched Carpe Diem Mobile, a mobile time-recording in the UK.
application aimed at the legal profession.
Our mobile customer base has decreased 6% 2013 14: 3%.
In Northern Ireland, we have completed the first three phases of the During the year we started migrating customers from Vodafones DETI-funded Northern Ireland Broadband Improvement Project.
network to EE after we changed MVNO provider.
This resulted in We are continuing to invest further.
We have improved the speed, some additional churn and we were also less focused on acquiring reach and quality of broadband services in many rural areas by new customers during this process.
But we are now starting to drive investing in both copper and fibre infrastructure.
In the Republic of sales of BT One Phone following its launch this year.
Ireland, we have continued to invest in network infrastructure for business and wholesale customers, including national fibre backhaul and cloud services.
We have replaced a large number of vehicles in BT Fleet.
This will improve reliability, reduce maintenance costs and deliver greater fuel efficiency.
We have also purchased a number of more  electric vehicles, mainly to support Openreach.
