26 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 EE ACquISITION: rISKS realising synergies following integration The proposed acquisition of EE by BT Group plc creates additional BT is targeting significant synergies from the acquisition.
The risks for BT beyond those captured in our principal risks and financial planning for the enlarged group is based partly on realising uncertainties.
In the section below we highlight those risks relating these synergies, which include expected operating cost savings and to the acquisition, and new risks that would be relevant to the capital expenditure savings of 360m per year, to be realised in enlarged group.
These risks were described in the shareholder the fourth full year following completion.
Combining the respective circular in relation to BT Group plcs proposed acquisition of EE and businesses is also expected to give rise to further benefits.
These we repeat them below.
include among other things, fixed-mobile convergence, the ability to serve customers through a single, seamless platform supported risks related to the acquisition by a single IP network, and being able to offer BT products to EE In the period through to completion of the acquisition there are customers and EE products to BT customers.
risks relating to the deal itself, as well as business risks during this The success of the enlarged group will depend, in part, on the transitional phase.
effectiveness of the integration process and the ability to realise the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining the businesses.
Approval of the acquisition Completion of the acquisition is conditional upon satisfaction or, Some of the potential challenges in combining the businesses may where capable of being waived, waiver of various conditions.
In not be known until after completion.
If these challenges cannot the event that these conditions are not satisfied or, where they can be overcome, for example because of unforeseen difficulties in be waived, waived by the long stop date or a later date which implementing fixed-mobile convergence or a lack of customer BTGroup plc agrees with the sellers, the Share Purchase Agreement demand for the offerings, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will automatically terminate.
There can be no assurance that the will not be fully achieved.
conditions will be fulfilled or waived, or that the acquisition will becompleted.
Realisation of synergies will depend partly on the rapid and efficient management and co-ordination of the activities of the enlarged The acquisition is subject to merger control approval from the groups businesses.
BT may experience difficulties in integrating Competition and Markets Authority CMA in the UK.
Approval EE with our existing businesses and may not realise, or it might from the CMA may take longer than expected to obtain, may not take longer than expected to realise, certain or all of the perceived be granted, or may be granted subject to conditions or remedies, benefits of the acquisition.
There is also a risk that synergy including BTs or EEs divestment of assets or businesses and or benefits and growth opportunities from the acquisition may fail to restrictions on the conduct of the enlarged group.
Any of these could materialise, or may be materially lower than have been estimated.
delay or jeopardise completion, impose sustained additional costs for In addition, the costs of generating these synergies, which are the enlarged group and or materially reduce the anticipated benefits expected to be around 600m, may exceed expectations.
including synergy benefits of the acquisition, or result in a material adverse effect on the enlarged groups business, financial condition Failure to deliver the anticipated synergies and business and results of operations.
opportunities could have a material adverse effect on the enlarged groups businesses, financial conditions and results of operations, EEs performance prior to completion of the acquisition including its ability to support its pension deficit.
The anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition have been developed based on assumptions regarding among other things, Increased cost of debt EEs financial and operational performance, including in the period The enlarged group may face increased costs when it seeks to before completion when EEs performance is outside BTs control.
refinance or repay its debt as a result of its increased level of debt During this time, EEs performance and that of BT could be following the acquisition.
negatively impacted by one or more of the following: The acquisition will be funded in part by a 3.6bn debt bridge an adverse event, or events, affecting EE which would not give facility, which may be extended for an additional 12 months rise to a right of BTGroup plc to terminate the acquisition: following its one year maturity.
as a result of the planned acquisition, some of BTs or EEs The costs and other terms on which the enlarged group is able customers or strategic partners may terminate or reduce their to refinance the debt bridge facility and other longer-term business relationships with the enlarged group, for example to indebtedness will depend partly on market conditions: unfavourable avoid sourcing too great a proportion of services from a single economic conditions could impact the cost and terms on which company: the enlarged group is able to access capital markets to refinance its potential customers of BT or EE may delay entering into, or indebtedness which may increase its cost of capital.
decide not to enter into, a business relationship with BT or EE until completion because of perceived uncertainty over the risks to the enlarged business acquisition: Although a number of the risks EE faces are similar in nature to those EE may fail to retain key personnel and other employees: and potentially impacting BT today, there are also a number of distinct third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts with EE risks that the enlarged group will face that we do not currently as a result of the acquisition, in particular where change of perceive to be significant threats to BT.
control or similar clauses apply.
This section outlines some of those new risks and uncertainties, but If any of these happen, the value of EE may be less than the it is not exhaustive.
These risks have the potential to impact the consideration paid by BT Group plc and, accordingly, the net assets enlarged groups business, people, brand, assets, revenue, profits, of the enlarged group could be reduced.
This could have a material liquidity or capital resources.
adverse effect on the enlarged groups financial position.
BTs Enterprise Risk Management framework will continue to operate in the enlarged group and provides reasonable but cannot give absolute assurance that significant risks are identified and addressed.
There may be some risks which are unknown to us at 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 26 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM The Strategic Report 27 Delivering our strategy present.
And there may be some that we consider less significant As demand for smartphone and tablet products increases around now but become more important later.
the world, there could be shortages in the volume of devices produced as a result of insufficient manufacturing capacity, the lack Handset and network development of availability of internal components such as processors or major The enlarged groups operations will depend partly on the successful supply chain disruptions.
This may result in delays in the supply chain deployment of continuously evolving telecommunications which in turn may have an adverse effect on the enlarged groups technologies.
Delays in the development of handsets and network compatibility Spectrum pricing and regulation and components may hinder the deployment of new technologies Regulators, including Ofcom, set annual licence fees for spectrum for the enlarged group.
bands used by EE for voice calls, 3G and 4G services and EE is a EE uses technologies from a number of vendors and incurs party to an ongoing consultation with Ofcom in relation to this.
Any significant capital expenditure deploying these technologies.
There significant increases in spectrum pricing applicable to the enlarged can be no assurance that common standards and specifications group could have a material adverse effect on its business and results will be achieved, that there will be interoperability across BTs, EEs of operations.
and other networks, that technologies will be developed according Ofcom may, after consultation, vary conditions in relation to to anticipated schedules, that they will perform according to spectrum licences.
EE will monitor any developments from regulators expectations or that they will achieve commercial acceptance.
relating to the allocation of mobile spectrum in the UK.
The introduction of software and other network components may also be delayed.
The failure of vendor performance or technology The scope and form of the regulation of wholesale services is performance to meet our expectations or the failure of a technology reviewed every three years and can include controls on the level of to achieve commercial acceptance could result in additional capital prices charged for regulated inputs.
expenditure by, or a reduction in profitability of, the enlarged group.
As technology and market dynamics develop and as the mobile business of EE is integrated into BT then a wider range of existing Technological change and market acceptance regulations will apply to the enlarged group and a broader range of The enlarged group may not succeed in making customers new and or modified regulations may be directed at us.
sufficiently aware of existing and future services or in creating customer acceptance of these services at the prices we would want Network and licence investment to charge.
Also, the enlarged group may not identify trends correctly, EE as well as BT to a lesser extent, has made substantial or may not be able to bring new services to market as quickly or investments in the acquisition of licences and EE has invested in its price-competitively as its competitors.
mobile networks, including modernising its 2G network, the upgrade These risks exist in the mobile telecommunications area such as of its 3G network and the continued expansion of its 4G network mobile data services or other advanced technologies which are which was launched in October 2012.
EE expects to continue to supported by advanced smartphone products.
They also exist in make significant investments in its mobile networks due to increased the non-mobile telecommunications areas such as mobile payment usage and the need to offer new services and greater functionality.
services based on contactless technology where there is a risk that It may acquire new spectrum licences with licence conditions which differences in the regulatory treatment of different operators based may include network coverage obligations or increased licence fees.
on their choice of technology could put the enlarged group at a Accordingly, the rate of the enlarged groups capital expenditure and competitive disadvantage.
costs in future years could increase and exceed those expected or experienced to date.
Further, as a result of rapid technological progress and the trend towards technological convergence, new and established There can be no assurance that new services will be introduced information and telecommunications technologies or products according to anticipated schedules or that the level of demand for may not only fail to complement one another but in some cases, new services will justify the cost of setting up and providing new may even become a substitute for one another.
An example of services in particular, the cost of new network spectrum licences this is the risk that over-the-top services being those which are and network infrastructure, eg for 4G services and subsequent provided by a third party to the end user device develop substitutes evolutions.
Failure or a delay in completing networks and launching for BTs and EEs own products and services.
Another example new services, or increases in the associated costs, could have an is VoIP, a technology that is already established in the business adverse effect on the enlarged groups business and operations customer market and which has now reached the consumer market.
and could result in significant write downs of the value of network The introduction of mobile handsets with VoIP functionality spectrum or other licences or other network-related investments.
may adversely affect the enlarged groups pricing structures and If the current economic climate worsens, the enlarged group may market share in its mobile voice telephony business.
If we do not decide, or be required, to scale back capital expenditures.
A lasting appropriately anticipate the demand for new technologies, and reduction in capital expenditure levels below certain thresholds adapt our strategies, service offering and cost structures accordingly, could affect our ability to invest in our mobile telecommunications the enlarged group may be unable to compete effectively, which may network including additional spectrum, new technology and our have an adverse effect on our business and operations.
other businesses and therefore could have an adverse effect on our future growth and the value of radio spectrum.
Supplier failure EE has a number of suppliers identified as critical.
EE is also party to a complex and critical network-sharing arrangement with hutchison Whampoa Limited.
The failure of this joint operation to fully support the enlarged groups interests and goals, or any material disruption to the operation of EEs network sharing arrangement, could cause significant harm to the enlarged groups business.
indb 27 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM 28 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Transmission of radio waves Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless mobile devices and mobile telecommunications sites may cause health issues, including cancer, and may interfere with some electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers.
Research and studies are ongoing.
The World health Organisation has declared that, on the basis of current scientific knowledge, there are no known adverse effects on health from emissions at levels below internationally recognised health and safety standards.
however, the enlarged group cannot provide assurance that research in the future will not establish links between radio frequency emissions and health risks.
Whether or not research or studies conclude that there is a link between radio frequency emissions and health, popular concerns about radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless devices, impairing the enlarged groups ability to retain customers and attract new customers, and may result in restrictions on the location and operation of mobile communications sites and the usage of the enlarged groups wireless technology.
These concerns could also lead to litigation against the enlarged group.
Any restrictions on use or litigation could have an adverse effect on the enlarged groups business and operations.
