32 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 BT BuSINESS We also opened two retail experience showcases, one in New BT Business provides communications and IT services in the UK and York and one in Milan: and the Republic of Ireland RoI.
We serve around 900,000 customers, BT Advise.
We have simplified our offers, improved our with a leading position in fixed-voice, networking and broadband consulting methodologies and are better at aligning our services.
advisory services with our products and industry sectors.
BT Business has four customer-facing divisions: UK SME: UK Financial performance a a 2015 2014 2013 Corporate: BT Ireland: and BT Business Solutions.
Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 6,779 7,269 7,392 uK SME Underlying revenue excluding transit 4 % 1 % 6 % UK SME supplies small businesses in Great Britain typically up to Net operating costs 5,732 6,228 6,442 100 employees with fixed-voice, broadband, mobility, networking and IT services.
It also has three specialist businesses: EBITDA 1,047 1,041 950 Depreciation and amortisation 519 616 634 Business Providing: Operating profit 528 425 316 Capital expenditure 468 516 535 BT redcare Fire and security alarm signalling Operating cash flow 349 499 314 services, surveillance networks and a control room services.
Restated, see notes 1 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
BT Directories Directory Enquiries, The Phone Book, Revenue decreased 7% 2013 14: 2% including a 206m website services, operator services and negative impact from foreign exchange movements and a 9m call handling for the emergency services.
Our key revenue measure, underlying revenue excluding transit, decreased 4% 2013 14: 1% primarily BT payphones Public, private and managed payphone reflecting lower UK public sector revenue.
We generated growth in underlying revenue excluding transit of 9% in the high-growth regions 2013 14: 16% reflecting the uK Corporate signing of key deals and the benefit of newly-launched capabilities, UK Corporate supplies larger businesses in Great Britain typically products and services.
Continental Europe generated 2% growth 100-1,000 employees with fixed-voice, broadband, mobility, in underlying revenue excluding transit 2013 14: 2% decline networking and IT services.
We offer bespoke solutions in addition to reflecting higher spending by our existing customers.
our core portfolio of products.
UK revenue decreased 11% 2013 14: 4% mainly reflecting BT Fleet also sits within this division.
It is one of the UKs leading continued declines in public sector trading.
Underlying revenue providers of fleet management, vehicle maintenance and accident excluding transit in the US and Canada declined 3% 2013 14: 2%.
Underlying BT Ireland operating costs excluding transit decreased 5% 2013 14: 2% In Northern Ireland, we are the largest provider of communications reflecting the impact of lower revenue and our cost transformation services for SMEs and a leading supplier of networked IT services for programmes.
public sector and corporate customers.
EBITDA increased 1% 2013 14: 10% and was up 3% excluding In the Republic of Ireland, we provide networked IT services for the foreign exchange movements.
Depreciation and amortisation public sector and large businesses and we provide wholesale services decreased 16% 2013 14: 3% as a result of lower depreciation to other communications providers.
on some UK public sector contracts and the impact of some assets becoming fully depreciated.
EBITDA less capital expenditure increased by 54m to 579m compared with an increase of 110m last year.
Our operating cash inflow of 349m was 150m lower than last year.
This was largely driven by a year-on-year impact of around 120m from early customer receipts in the fourth quarter of last year.
Key priorities We are focused on strengthening our position as a global leader.
Our future priorities include: building broader and deeper relationships with our major customers: improving our award-winning products and services with a particular focus on security, mobility and cloud-based services: transforming our customer service through improving customer journeys end to end, increasing automation and launching new service propositions: and driving down cost to become a more efficient organisation, letting us invest in the things that set us apart from our competitors.
indb 32 5 19 2015 1:07:19 AM The Strategic Report 33 Our lines of business BT Business Solutions Fixed-lines We have four specialist IT services businesses: There are 7.7m 2013 14: 8.3m business lines in the UK, including those used by both SMEs and large corporate businesses.
Some of Business Providing: these lines are provided by BT Global Services.
There are more lines than individual businesses as many customers buy more than one BT IT Services IT equipment and networked IT line.
solutions, managed and support The number of business fixed-lines has gone down over the last few services, and consulting services.
Companies have replaced some of them with VoIP or mobiles.
BT Business Direct IT and communications hardware and Businesses have also made fewer calls over their fixed-lines because software, including computing and of the growth in email and other online communication such as networking equipment, sold online.
Call volumes in the market are 12% lower than a year earlier.
BT Expedite IT services for the retail sector.
BT has a 43% market share of business lines excluding VoIP, down BT Tikit IT products and services for legal and two percentage points in the year.
Broadband The market for broadband continues to grow, but more slowly now BT IT Services was created from the former BT iNet and BT Engage IT, that most businesses already have it.
In contrast, demand for fibre which were integrated into one unit and rebranded this year.
For BT broadband is growing strongly, as customers migrate from copperBusiness customers, it sells its products through the UK SME and UK based broadband to benefit from the higher speeds.
Corporate channels mainly the latter.
It also sells to customers of BT Global Services and BT Wholesale.
BT Business Direct, BT Expedite We are the largest business broadband provider in the UK, with over and BT Tikit have their own direct sales functions.
a third of the market for businesses with one or more employees ie excluding sole traders who mostly buy from consumer providers.
Markets and customers Networking There are 5.2m businesses in the UK with up to 1,000 employees We are the leading provider of fixed networking services in the UK the main market addressed by BT Business.
This is higher than last with around a quarter of the market.
The overall market continues year, mainly reflecting growth in the number of small companies to grow but the mix within it is changing.
Ethernet and dedicated and sole traders.
Excluding sole traders many of whom buy from internet access services are growing most strongly, while the market consumer-focused suppliers such as BT Consumer, there are 1.3m for leased lines continues to decline.
The types of services that companies buy from us depend on their Mobility size, number of locations, maturity and the industry in which they This market is growing in importance for us.
Small businesses typically buy fixed-lines, mobile and want to bring their fixed and mobile services together for more broadband.
Larger customers buy a broader range of products and flexible ways of working.
Around 70% of SMEs use both fixed and services from our portfolio, which is the widest on offer in the UK.
We have around 900,000 customers including more than half of The part of the mobility market that we target is worth around FTSE350 companies.
We have just a 1% share of this.
This small share gives us a sizeable opportunity for growth.
retailers like Fat Face, WHSmith and Pets at Home: charities like Barnardos and Oxfam: The overall business mobile market continues to grow, driven by service organisations like glh Hotels and Odeon Cinemas: sales of tablets and 4G smartphones.
Market revenue from the financial organisations like International Currency Exchange: sale of voice and data services is fairly flat.
Small but growing and areas include mobile device management solutions for companies educational institutions like University College London.
to manage their mobile estate, applications that let companies give employees mobile access to their enterprise systems, and We are focused on three main markets: fixed-voice and data: communication between networked-devices machine-to-machine mobility: and IT services.
We expect these markets to increasingly such as cash machines and vending machines.
converge over the next few years as technology and customer needs change.
Our main competitors are O2 and Vodafone.
They offer fixed products as well as mobile and are increasingly targeting Fixed-voice and data opportunities for converged services.
The proposed acquisition of The fixed-voice and data market for businesses with up to 1,000 EE will allow us to accelerate the sale of converged fixed-mobile a employees is worth around 4.0bn.
services to business customers and offer new services, using both We compete against more than 300 resellers and fixed network companies product portfolios, skills and networks.
Our main competitors are Alternative Networks, Azzurri, Colt Group, Daisy Group, KCOM Group, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, IT services Vodafone and XLN.
The IT services market is very diverse, ranging from off-the-shelf a This is lower than we reported last year because we now include a broader definition of unified hardware sales to large outsourced solutions.
Competition is communications services in the total market size and we exclude revenue from customers with more fragmented with providers often focusing on specific customerthan 1,000 employees in our market share calculations.
types, industry sectors or technologies.
Our main competitors are Computacenter, Dimension Data, Kelway, Logicalis, Phoenix, SCC and Softcat.
indb 33 5 19 2015 1:07:19 AM 34 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 We focus on those products and services which best fit our IT services capabilities or have the potential to drive cross-selling opportunities.
Our specialist IT services offer design, delivery, management and We typically target businesses with 250 to 5,000 employees.
For support, and are built around seven key portfolio practices: the larger ones, BT Global Services sometimes sells our IT services on our behalf.
Professional and consulting services We estimate that the parts of the market we serve are worth End-user computing around 8.4bn, of which we have around 6% share.
Those areas of the market that are growing include cloud services, hosting, infrastructure and security.
We see these as attractive opportunities Unified communications andcollaborations for us to grow our share of the overall market.
Security products and services We offer a wide choice of fixed, mobile and IT services.
These range Networking from standalone products to managed services and customised solutions in order to suit the needs of customers from small start-ups to large enterprises.
Data centre, cloud and hostedsolutions Fixed-voice services Managed and support services Our fixed-voice services range from standard calls and lines, to fullymanaged office phone systems and contact centre solutions.
This These services are supported by partnerships with vendors such as year we launched BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone to add to our Cisco, hP and Microsoft.
growing portfolio of VoIP services.
BT Cloud Voice provides cloud-based unified communications Mobility capabilities such as call-routing, conferencing, call-recording, We sell mobile voice and data services through a mobile virtual online management and mobile and desktop applications network operator MVNO agreement.
We offer a range of handsets delivered over a BT internet connection.
and tablets and a choice of tariffs to suit different customer BT Cloud phone is also a hosted communications service segments.
delivered over a BT internet connection, but it is tailored for This year we relaunched BT Business Mobile, adding 4G access and those smaller SMEs with simpler needs, delivered through unlimited wi-fi for all new and re-signing customers.
We launched BT an easy-to-use suite of portals and mobile and desktop One Phone and we added the Apple iPhone to our range of handsets.
BT One phone Broadband and internet This year we launched a number of innovative products aimed at We provide a range of internet access options including BT Business small and medium-sized enterprises in the UK.
Broadband over copper connections, BT Business Infinity over fibre-to-the-cabinet FTTC and  FTTP and One of these products is BT One Phone.
It brings together all of BTnet dedicated internet access.
a companys office phone system and mobile phone needs into a single service, hosted in the cloud and delivered on a mobile phone.
We refreshed our broadband portfolio this year, introducing three All of an individuals numbers are linked to their work mobile simplified pricing tiers for BT Business Broadband and BT Business phone, so whether somebody calls their fixed-line, extension or Infinity.
For the latter we launched the Business Hub 5, which uses mobile number, all calls go to one phone.
This helps businesses be the latest wireless technology to deliver faster wi-fi.
We now include more responsive to their customers and less likely to miss calls.
Microsoft Office 365 for free with higher-tier broadband options.
As the system is cloud-based, all the feature-rich call management Networking services services of a phone system such as call forwarding and hunt groups, which are typically available on a desk phone, are now Our voice and data networking services support customers who need available on an employees mobile, wherever they are.
to connect more than one site.
Products include Ethernet, IP Virtual Private Network services which connect sites using IP connections, BT One Phone works with a full range of mobile phones.
Combined SIP trunking which transports voice calls over IP networks, leased with 4G and unlimited access to over 5m BT Wi-fi hotspots, lines, cabling infrastructure and local area networking solutions.
our customers employees now have both the data and voice This year we launched an integrated proposition that offers BTnet connectivity to be as productive outside the office as they are at their desk.
dedicated internet access together with a managed firewall.
