The Strategic Report 47 Group performance GROUP PERFORMANCE In this section we discuss the performance of the group.
We Trend in underlying revenue excluding transit explain how we have done this year against our key performance Our key measure of the groups revenue trend, underlying indicators.
We set out the financial results of the whole group revenue excluding transit, was down 0.4%, in line with the and we look at our performance as a sustainable and responsible outlook we set at the start of the year.
BT Consumer revenue was up 7%, with strong growth in the We judge and explain our performance using certain alternative broadband and TV customer bases helped by BT Sport.
These include trends in underlying growth was offset by declines in our other lines of business, revenue and operating costs excluding transit, and adjusted mainly reflecting regulatory price changes and lower UK public and reported EBITDA.
Adjusted means that a measure is before sector revenues.
We explain more about the performance of our specific items.
We describe on page 128 what we mean by specific lines of business from page 29. items and we have disclosed specific items for this year and the Underlying revenue reflects the overall performance of the group last two years in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
that will contribute to long-term profitable revenue growth.
We These alternative performance measures are not defined under exclude the impact of acquisitions and disposals, foreign exchange IFRS so they are termed non-GAAP measures.
But they are movements and specific items from this measure.
We focus on the consistent with how management measures the groups financial trend in underlying revenue excluding transit because transit traffic performance.
We have defined each of these measures on pages is low margin and affected by reductions in mobile termination 128 to 129, where we have provided more detail, including rates, which are outside our control.
reconciliations to the nearest measure under IFRS.
Adjusted EBITDA Our prOGrESS AGAINST Our KpIs Adjusted EBITDA grew 3% this year reflecting the impact of our We have made good progress on our two financial KPIs again this cost transformation activities.
But our customer service needs to improve further.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as group profit before depreciation, We have outlined our performance against each of our KPIs amortisation, net finance expense, taxation and is before specific below, together with the definition of the measure, set out in items.
We consider adjusted EBITDA to be a useful measure italics.
We have provided reconciliations of the financial measures of our operating performance because it approximates the to the closest IFRS measure in the Additional information underlying operating cash flow by eliminating depreciation and section on pages128 and 129. amortisation.
Customer service improvement Our customer service improvement measure, Right First Time was up 4.7% compared to 1.5% last year.
We have improved our customer service this year, but we are not satisfied and still want to do better.
All of our lines of business contributed to this improvement.
We delivered significantly better repair performance and shorter lead times for providing UK lines and broadband.
BT Global Services made large gains in delivering more of its products within target times.
Looking forward, we need to improve our provision of Ethernet services and recover more quickly when we do fail to meet our promises.
Right First Time is our key measure of customer service.
This tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our customers.
This could be about keeping to appointment times, fixing faults within an agreed period or answering calls promptly and dealing with queries or orders efficiently.
As well as improving service and the customer experience, keeping our promises should mean that there is less work to do in correcting our mistakes, and so reduces our costs.
