The Strategic Report 39 Our lines of business BT Group plcs proposed acquisition of EE will bring together the EBITDA increased 24% 2013 14: 14% decrease.
Depreciation UKs most advanced 4G network and most extensive superfast and amortisation was flat 2013 14: 12% down, leading to an broadband network.
This will help create the UKs leading converged operating profit increase of 32% 2013 14: 15% decrease.
communications provider and allow us to provide a full range of Capital expenditure was down 2% 2013 14: 12% and operating innovative communications services to both EE and BT customers.
cash flow increased 72% 2013 14: 28% decrease mainly We have continued to invest in our BT TV platform and content, reflecting the stronger EBITDA and last years deposit of around including BT Sport, reflecting the importance of providing high 60m for the UEFA broadcast rights.
quality bundled offerings that appeal to a wide customer base.
We Key priorities have strengthened our content and channel distribution deals and Over the coming year we plan to broaden and deepen our customer built new capabilities that mean our customers can watch in ways relationships by: that best suit them.
driving BT Infinity and BT TV deeper into our customer base: In November, we introduced Netflix on BT TV.
Customers can increasing penetration of BT Mobile amongst our customers: subscribe to Netflix directly with BT and pay for it alongside launching our exclusively live UEFA Champions League coverage their other BT products, on a single BT bill.
on BT Sport: and We have redesigned the look and feel of our TV service, and driving improvements in customer service.
launched two new set-top boxes, for a more responsive, better viewing experience.
BT WHOlESAlE We have made it easier for our customers to watch what they BT Wholesale provides services in Great Britain to more than 1,400 want, when they want, around the home and on-the-go.
Each one has its own ambitions, strategy and strengths.
Our TV customers with BT Infinity can get a second YouView box role is to help them achieve their goals by offering them innovative, with an Extra Box subscription.
In addition, films and TV shows reliable and cost-effective products and services that complement purchased on our set-top boxes are now automatically available their own capabilities.
This means that we can share in their success.
for customers on their smartphone, tablet or PC, at no extra cost.
And with our new TV Everywhere service, customers can We are organised around our main customer groups: watch a selection of channels on up to two devices at the same Fixed network serviceproviders.
International call providers, Media & Broadcast, Network In December we launched Sky Sports 1 and 2 on YouView, operators, Resellers.
adding to our existing offering of BT Sport, ESPN and Mobile network serviceproviders.
In February, we won rights to show even more FA Premier League matches, as discussed on page 38.
We also have teams that develop and run our products and provide We also extended our deal with Aviva Premiership Rugby.
top flight of English club rugby will be live on BT Sport until at least the end of the 2020 21 season.
We now have broadcast Outside Great Britain, BT serves CPs in Northern Ireland and the rights for up to 80 live matches each season starting from Republic of Ireland through BT Ireland and elsewhere through BT 2017 18.
This is 11 matches more per season than under our Global Services.
BT is Europes largest wholesale telecoms provider.
Markets and customers Financial performance BT Wholesale is Great Britains leading provider of wholesale 2015 2014 2013 Year ended 31 March m m m telecommunications services.
We are recognised for our innovation as well as for our scale.
For example, according to Current Analysis Revenue 4,285 4,019 3,846 December 2014, BT Wholesale is maintaining a firm grip on its Operating costs 3,254 3,186 2,878 leadership status in the UK wholesale segment with aggressive EBITDA 1,031 833 968 development of new services and a strong IPX story.
Depreciation and amortisation 218 219 248 Our customers include: broadband and TV providers such as Sky, Operating profit 813 614 720 TalkTalk and Virgin Media: the mobile operators EE, O2, Three and Capital expenditure 207 211 241 Vodafone: and other service providers such as Daisy Group, Gamma Operating cash flow 813 472 655 Telecom and KCOM Group.
Major overseas operators use our services to provide solutions in Great Britain too.
Revenue increased 7% 2013 14: 4%, mainly driven by broadband Customers of our Media & Broadcast unit, which operates a specialist and TV.
fibre and satellite media network worldwide, include the BBC, ITV Broadband and TV revenue was up 16% 2013 14: 18% as a result and Star TV.
of a higher broadband ARPU, as customers migrated from copper We operate in a dynamic and challenging market.
The key market to fibre products, and a full year of BT Sport revenue BT Sport trends are as follows: launched in August 2013.
The market for wholesale services is shrinking.
This is Calls and lines revenue increased 1% 2013 14: 2% decrease because some CPs are building more of their own network reflecting changes to some of our prices.
infrastructure, or are sharing what they already have.
This growth reflects example, Sky and TalkTalk continue to use local loop unbundling strong sales of the BT8500 phone, our most sophisticated nuisance buying directly from Openreach to extend their networks.
call blocking phone to date.
And Vodafone is expanding its own national network.
The impact of this trend is magnified where operators decide, as Operating costs were up 2% 2013 14: 11% reflecting the first full Virgin Media did this year, only to serve customers within their financial year of BT Sport programme rights charges.
indb 39 5 19 2015 1:07:19 AM 40 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 own network footprint.
This means CPs need less help from us Voice to support their customers.
We provide a wide range of wholesale voice products.
The most The market remains very competitive.
TalkTalk, Virgin Media basic, Transit, carries calls across our network from one CPs network and Vodafone are our biggest competitors for connectivity to another.
Direct Conveyance carries calls from a CPs network to products.
Gamma Telecom competes with us for IP voice BTs own end customers, while International Direct Dial carries calls services.
While our customers value the performance and from Great Britain to end-users overseas.
reliability we can provide, we continue to see price pressure CPs without their own voice network, but wanting to offer voice in the Ethernet market in particular.
We expect this trend to calls, can use our Wholesale Calls product.
they need, on a white-label basis.
But the market for next-generation services is expanding.
Ethernet is now the fide facto choice for networks that serve Ip Exchange IpX businesses and demand is growing.
And the market for hosted All the voice products above use traditional Time Division IP voice services grew by more than 20% this year.
This is a Multiplexing TDM technology.
By contrast, CPs can use our young and exciting area and one which we expect to grow IPX platform to deliver voice calls over Internet Protocol IP.
ensures that calls get to their destination, at the correct level of quality, whatever the network technologies used along the way.
Regulation is an important part of our environment.
Around twoBT Wholesale sells IPX in Great Britain.
BT Global Services sells it thirds of our revenue comes from products that are regulated or elsewhere around the world.
This year BTs work on IPX won the have substantial regulated components.
Regulatory decisions can Queens Award for Innovation.
have a major impact on both our short-term trading performance and our longer-term business model.
As we explain below, Ofcoms Hosted Communications Services Narrowband Market Review had a significant effect on our financial We provide a set of IP voice, contact centre and unified results this year.
communications services for CPs to offer to their business customers.
It includes IP Centrex, SIP Trunking, hosted Contact Centres and products and services Inbound Call Services.
These services, which we host and manage By using our portfolio, CPs can serve their customers without having end to end on CPs behalf, are intended to help businesses increase to invest in their own assets and capabilities.
We offer connectivity, their productivity and improve their customer service while reducing voice and hosted communications services, and a range of bespoke their investment costs.
We also offer industry-specific services to media companies and broadcasters.
This year we launched new versions of our IP Centrex and SIP Trunking propositions.
And we formed a new partnership with Broadband Avaya Inc. to sell its Avaya Cloud Solutions portfolio through systems We provide CPs with broadband connections between their network integrators and other service providers.
With Wholesale Broadband Connect, CPs can serve 92% of all premises with copper-based broadband, and more Managed solutions than three-quarters of premises with fibre broadband.
Our older We combine our products with third-party components and our own broadband network brings our total copper-based coverage to over professional services to create managed solutions that solve specific 99%.
For CPs without any network, our Managed Broadband option We design, plan and build transmission networks.
We provide provides everything they need to offer a broadband service, white-label solutions, combining broadband, calls and lines products including internet access and IP addressing.
with billing and customer support.
We also provide more tactical project management services, or bespoke capabilities, to fill a Ethernet particular need.
By using our expertise and economies of scale we We supply Ethernet connections between CPs own networks and aim to reduce customers deployment risk, operating cost, capital their customers.
For example, this helps major overseas operators to expenditure and or time to market.
provide services wherever they need to.
Media and Broadcast services We can provide Wholesale Ethernet to 81% of business premises Our media network can carry every kind of content, from liveover existing copper circuits 2013 14: 55%, and to over 99% to-air television through to very large media production or postwith fibre.
An increasing number of the UKs major data centres and production files.
It handles all of the UKs digital terrestrial TV telehouses are also on our network.
It also provides outside broadcast services from Customers can choose Ethernet speeds ranging from 2Mbps to more than 150 sports and news locations across the UK.
Those needing higher bandwidths are now able to order Our new wireless Media Live service means news crews can send our Wholesale Optical product, which offers speeds of 10Gbps to live content straight from their cameras to the BT Tower for onward 100Gbps and is due to be fully launched next year.
distribution, without needing an outside broadcast vehicle.
This We supply a Managed Ethernet Access Service MEAS specifically for service is currently available in London and more cities will be added mobile operators to connect their cell sites to their core networks.
Ethernet services are gradually replacing Partial Private Circuits, a Our media network also links the main locations around the world legacy connectivity service which we also offer.
where broadcast or film content is created or distributed.
And, through local partnerships, it links TV stations to major sports venues worldwide.
indb 40 5 19 2015 1:07:19 AM The Strategic Report 41 Our lines of business performance in the year These improvements were driven by three areas of innovation in Underlying revenue excluding transit fell 7% and EBITDA fell 9%.
particular: This reflects the impacts of a large contract termination, regulatory Business Zone.
We launched a self-service portal through price reductions following Ofcoms 2013 Narrowband Market which CPs can manage their orders and any faults.
Customers Review and a generally tougher trading environment.
however, we who used this portal were a lot more satisfied than those who have strengthened our position for the future.
For those customers who prefer their systems to deal is higher and our cost base is lower.
Our order book was stable and with ours directly, without human intervention, we introduced we enriched our portfolio of hosted Communications Services.
a new gateway for placing Ethernet orders: process improvements.
We improved our repair and billing Operating performance processes, so we could answer repair calls and sort out billing This year we signed orders worth 1.9bn 2013 14: 1.9bn.
The queries more quickly: and biggest deal we signed was a multi-year extension to a contract to colocation.
We moved our service colleagues into fewer service provide fixed broadband, calls and lines as a white-labelled managed centres, with a view to increasing the level of expertise available service.
We also signed major deals to provide: to each caller.
network planning, field engineering and co location services for Our service performance on Ethernet was mixed.
It took us longer to a number of mobile network operators: provide Wholesale Ethernet and MEAS circuits than we would have managed data solutions incorporating leased lines and liked.
But their in-life failure rates fell by 9% and 24% respectively.
Ethernet for a major US telecoms provider.
This followed similar And greater automation enabled us to improve our response times to contracts with two other US-based customers last year: the faults that did arise.
broadband, Ethernet, calls and Hosted Communications Services for a major reseller: Transform our costs IPX for two mobile network operators: Operating costs fell 12% 2013 14: 9% or 7% excluding transit global broadcast distribution for the BBC World Service, our 2013 14: 3%.
We achieved this primarily by: new Media Live news gathering service for ITN and transmission of the ICC Cricket World Cup for Star TV in India: and reducing selling and general administration costs which were Hosted Communications Services to a range of CPs such as 20% lower year on year: Claranet and MainTel.
We signed dozens of contracts for CPs to improving our diagnostic tools for identifying broadband faults.
resell our IP voice portfolio IP Centrex and SIP Trunking and This meant we did not need as much help from Openreach dozens more to resell Avaya Cloud Solutions.
to understand the cause of the faults.
This saved us time and money and meant we could resolve faults more quickly: We also extended our partnership contract with KCOM Group to limiting third-party costs by rationalising our supplier base and include the management and maintenance of its  our supplier contracts: and premises network in hull and East Yorkshire.
removing unnecessary capacity from our network.
The number of Ethernet circuits we provide grew by 28%.
We Invest for growth achieved this by improving our order-taking process, simplifying our Given the increasing price pressure in the market, we have sought pricing and expanding our network.
however, we saw less demand to stand out from the competition by providing new services and a from mobile operators for Ethernet services this year and it took us better customer experience.
This year we invested in: longer to deliver new orders.
We connected fewer MEAS circuits as a result.
We are developing new connectivity products, using optical fibre and small cell IPX carried 19bn UK-originated voice minutes, up by two-thirds on technologies, which we will start offering next year.
While these minutes partly replace calls previously carried adding new capabilities to IPX including 4G and wi-fi roaming, over our non-IP network, the service is now used by almost all of which we are now launching next year, and are extending the UKs biggest CPs.
This is testament to our ability to support our our hosted Communications Services portfolio.
We have customers in an IP world.
also started rolling out new fibre cabinets to major sports In the broadband market, the number of lines we provided on a grounds around the country, giving a low-cost option for event wholesale basis fell by 1%.
This reflected some larger CPs preference broadcasts: to use their own networks instead of ours.
But our smaller customers our network.
We have been extending our Ethernet network.
bought more copper broadband from us, as they won business from This improves its unit cost as well as its availability.
We intend to other wholesale providers with our help.
And our fibre broadband extend that coverage even further next year: base grew by over 80%.
We have carried out trials of 4K Ultrahigh Definition TV for a number of broadcasters over our global Deliver superior customer service media network.
One of those trials has already led to a contract This year we revised our customer satisfaction measures to align for the live 4K transmission of seven ICC Cricket World Cup them more closely with our customers priorities.
Despite setting matches: and more stretching targets, customer satisfaction rose from 72% in the better service.
Launching Business Zone had a noticeable and first quarter to 80% in the fourth quarter.
And our Right First Time immediate impact on customer satisfaction.
