36 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 We have invested in improving our internal IT systems.
The largest improving our managed services capabilities to help us win investment was in our UK Business Solution system mentioned more major deals: and above.
We will continue to invest in it next year and migrate more transforming customer service to give customers a better customers and products onto it.
experience and differentiate ourselves from competitors.
Financial performance BT CONSuMEr a a 2015 2014 2013 We are the largest provider of consumer fixed-voice and broadband Year ended 31 March m m m services in the UK.
We are focused on top and bottom-line growth Revenue 3,145 3,213 3,220 through selling broadband, TV, sport channels and mobile services to Underlying revenue excluding transit 1 % 1 % 2 % our customers.
Operating costs 2,104 2,211 2,280 We supply BT-branded services directly to UK homes.
We also sell EBITDA 1,041 1,002 940 devices like telephones, baby monitors and set-top boxes through Depreciation and amortisation 180 197 233 third-party high street retailers.
Commercial premises, such as pubs Operating profit 861 805 707 and hotels, can buy BT Sport and BT Wi-fi from us too.
Capital expenditure 187 127 142 We also sell services through our Plusnet brand.
This helps us grow Operating cash flow 874 799 816 our market share across the UK by addressing more price-conscious a Restated, see notes 1 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue declined 2% 2013 14: flat including a 24m negative Markets and customers impact from foreign exchange movements arising from our business There are around 26m households and around 64m people in the in the Republic of Ireland.
Underlying revenue excluding transit UK.
Our products are available to almost all of them.
very competitive, with over 12 major bundled product suppliers, 113 fixed-line operators, four major TV providers and four mobile UK SME & Corporate voice revenue declined 5% 2013 14: 2%.
Our main competitors for fixed-line, broadband This reflects the ongoing reduction in business call and line volumes, and TV services are Sky, Virgin Media and TalkTalk.
as customers move to data and VoIP services.
We have responded to this shift through the launch of BT One Phone, BT Cloud Voice and Fixed-lines BT Cloud Phone this year.
The number of fixed residential lines in the UK increased by 524,000 UK SME & Corporate data and networking revenue increased 2% in the year to December 2014, to 25.5m, as more people took 2013 14: 1%, with continued growth in our networking products fixed-lines to get broadband.
Our share of the consumer market for including fibre broadband.
fixed-lines is 38%, the same as last year.
BT Ireland underlying revenue excluding transit increased 2% Residential fixed-line call volumes in the UK fell by 13% in 2014, as 2013 14: 1% driven by software sales and fibre broadband.
more people used mobiles, VoIP, instant messaging and social media to keep in touch.
IT services revenue declined 1% 2013 14: up 8% with a decrease in lower margin hardware sales as we continue to focus our strategy Broadband towards providing higher-margin managed services.
There were around 24m DSL, fibre and cable broadband connections Operating costs decreased 5% 2013 14: 3%.
Underlying to homes and small businesses in the UK, as at 31 March 2015. operating costs excluding transit decreased 4% 2013 14: 4% This is up 4% from last year.
We have a 32% share of the fixed reflecting the impact of our cost transformation programmes.
Excluding foreign exchange Average broadband download speeds have continued to get faster, movements, underlying EBITDA was also up 4% 2013 14: 6%.
This is 28% above a year Depreciation and amortisation decreased 9% 2013 14: 15% as a earlier.
Demand for superfast broadband continues to grow as more result of lower capital expenditure in recent years.
Operating profit people consume media online through over-the-top services such increased 7% 2013 14: 14%.
as Netflix, ITV Player and BBC iPlayer.
59% of UK adults used video streaming services in 2014.
And 32% of all broadband connections Capital expenditure increased by 60m 2013 14: 15m decrease in the UK are now superfast.
as we replaced a number of BT Fleet vehicles to support Openreach.
TV Operating cashflow was an inflow of 874m 2013 14: 799m.
The pay-TV market has continued to grow.
61% of UK households This was higher than last year driven by the growth in EBITDA and take a pay-TV service, compared with 58% a year earlier, while the timing of working capital movements which offset the higher 34% watch only free-to-air digital TV Freeview.
Live channels as capital expenditure.
opposed to catch-up or on-demand are still the most popular way Key priorities for people to watch television.
Our future plans include: People can take pay-TV services over: developing our portfolio to add new converged services, satellite Sky : enhancements to our VoIP products and more IT service cable Virgin Media : or capabilities: DSL or fibre mainly BT and TalkTalk, with their TV service driving sales of hosted VoIP, converged fixed-mobile services provided over both broadband and Freeview.
and fibre broadband services to attract new customers and reduce losses to competitors: People can also take services from online or over-the-top content developing more bundles and integrated solutions to increase providers, such as Netflix and Amazon Prime, although these cross-selling, helped by improvements in our systems and sales services typically do not offer live channels.
indb 36 5 19 2015 1:07:19 AM The Strategic Report 37 Our lines of business For many years Sky has had exclusivity over much of the UKs BT Wi-fi, offering free and unlimited access to more than 5m premium content.
We continue to pursue commercial, legal and wi-fi hotspots in the UK and 7m abroad: regulatory avenues to obtain access to Skys sport channels on a fair BT Cloud, providing secure online storage and on-the-go access basis, to increase competition and consumer choice.
to data and photos: and BT Family protection, BT Netprotect plus and BT parental Mobile Controls, to help keep our customers and their families safe Around 95% of households in the UK have mobile phones, and 16% online.
Of the more than 83m active mobile In August 2014, we introduced a broadband package specifically for subscriptions in the UK, an increasing number are post-pay and BT Basic customers, providing them with low-cost internet access.
Three out of four adults in the UK use a smartphone, and nearly half of mobile owners also have a tablet.
TV While SMS MMS volumes have continued to decline, over 137bn Our TV business consists of our TV service BT TV and our live sports minutes of outgoing calls were made on mobiles in 2014, up 2% channels BT Sport.
More people are also using their mobiles to BT TV surf the web, listen to radio and watch TV.
BT TV is available exclusively to our broadband customers.
It brings products and services together free-to-air channels, extra paid-for channels, BT Sport, We sell four types of product: fixed-voice, broadband, TV and Netflix, catch-up content and on-demand TV shows and movies.
We win and keep customers by offering differentiated Customers with BT TV can watch standard definition SD and high packages.
And we have a range of add-ons customers can choose definition HD channels.
They can also use the programme guide from, offering flexibility and extra value for money.
to scroll back seven days for easy access to catch-up TV from BBC iPlayer, ITV Player, All 4 formerly 4oD and Demand 5.
Fixed-voice Customers can choose from the following BT TV viewing packs: We provide a range of fixed-line products and calling plans.
Our customers can choose from different options and ways to pay, TV Starter.
This is our entry-level offering.
With our YouView depending on what suits them best.
For example: box, customers can pause and rewind live TV and receive up to 70 Freeview TV and radio channels.
line rental Saver gives customers a discount on their line TV Essential.
This provides everything that comes with rental if they pay for a year upfront: TV Starter, but with our YouView box instead which can line rental plus comes with priority phone line fault fixes, Call record up to 300 hours of live TV.
Barring and Choose to Refuse, and gives customers the choice TV Entertainment.
This is made up of TV Essential plus 20 extra of paying bills when they arrive instead of by Direct Debit: channels not available on Freeview such as Comedy Central, Home phone Saver offers line rental, inclusive calls and extra Discovery and Gold.
It is only available to BT Infinity customers.
calling features in one simple package at a discounted price that is guaranteed until 2017: BT TV customers can add extra channel packs such as Kids Extra BT Basic offers discounted line rental and inclusive calls to those which also includes on-demand content, BT Sport, Sky Sports on low incomes and in receipt of certain state benefits such as 1 and 2, and Sky Movies.
We also offer on-demand only content, income support.
We are the only company to offer a service like including Netflix, Curzon Home Cinema, Music and Kids.
this: Customers can also rent or buy other TV shows and films.
right plan is a free service our customers can use to find out whether they are on the right calling plan for the kinds of calls BT Sport they make: and Our live sports channels, BT Sport 1, BT Sport 2 and ESPN are BT SmartTalk is a free app that allows our customers to use available in both SD and hD.
BT Sport is broadcast on BT TV, the their home calling plan on a range of mobile devices.
For BT Sport app, the btsport.
com website and the Sky Digital Satellite example, they can use it to make inclusive or low-cost calls Platform.
The channels are also available through wholesale when overseas.
Calls appear on their BT bills as if they had been agreements to Virgin Media customers, and in the Republic of made from their fixed-line.
Our unlimited call packages let customers choose from inclusive BT Sport is free for customers who renew or take out a new BT evening, weekend or anytime calls to fixed-lines, and discounted broadband contract.
Customers who are out of contract can get the calls to mobiles.
Sky TV customers without BT broadband can subscribe to the SD or hD channels for full price.
We offer products and services that help our customers avoid nuisance calls.
Our BT8500 phone uses award-winning technology BT Mobile to help customers block unwanted calls.
We also offer calling BT Mobile offers SIM-only plans to UK consumers.
Anyone who lives features such as Caller Display, Anonymous Call Reject and Choose to in a home with BT Broadband can get the best price on BT Mobile.
Customers can choose from one of three plans, with different Broadband combinations of data and minutes to suit their needs.
With We are the UKs largest broadband provider.
BT Broadband, our customers able to take up to five SIMs per account, BT Mobile is a DSL service, is delivered over copper lines.
BT Infinity, our superfast convenient option for families wanting to consolidate their mobile broadband service, uses fibre to deliver enhanced speed and services with one provider and to add attractively priced 4G services.
All our mobile plans come with 4G, unlimited texts, and unlimited To suit our customers diverse needs and interests, we offer a range access to BT Wi-fi hotspots in the UK and to the BT Sport app, at no of broadband options, with different usage limits and speeds.
Customers can use the BT Mobile app to monitor their are usually bundled with fixed-voice call plans and typically come account.
with free or discounted add-ons, like: BT Sport, providing premium sports content: 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 37 5 19 2015 1:07:19 AM 38 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Mobile is a key strategic focus for us, and we will continue to build Deliver superior customer service our mobile offering in the coming years.
We are delivering on the commitments we made in last years annual report.
We hired hundreds of new contact centre staff.
We are improving our processes so that a single adviser can more efficiently FA premier league football broadcast rights The auction for the 2016 17 to 2018 19 FA Premier League broadcast diagnose a problem and make sure it gets fixed.
We are introducing rights took place in February 2015. dedicated case management for complex issues.
And we were able to resolve 20% more customer issues in a single call.
We were very pleased with the rights that we won.
We will be showing 42 Premier League matches in each season, four more than we currently These improvements contributed to our Right First Time show.
This The new rights will see BT Sport show a live Saturday evening game improvement was despite a different mix of products sold, which almost every Premier League weekend.
This will allow us to build on our impacted our average speed of delivery compared with last year.
current Saturday programming and appeal to an even larger audience, having secured the prime evening TV viewing slot.
Ofcoms latest UK fixed-line broadband performance report shows BT Broadbands overall performance was better than Sky and These new Premier League games will be added to the 350 exclusive live TalkTalk.
however, our copper customers relative perceptions of matches from the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League that BT Sport will show from both tournaments, for three seasons speed were affected by the increased promotion of fibre broadband starting in the summer of 2015.
We also have live rights to the FA Cup in the market.
Increasingly aggressive pricing by competitors also for the next three years.
affected customers perceptions of value for money, contributing to a decline in our overall customer advocacy score to 34% at the end BT Sport currently shows around 50 live matches each season featuring Premier League clubs.
We expect this to more than double to around of Q4 Q4 2013 14: 39%.
115 from the 2015 16 season onwards when all competitions featuring Our strategy to have more of our customers taking fibre, TV and Premier League clubs are taken into account.
mobile services from us is reinforced by the customer advocacy when they do.
BT Infinity has had a positive effect on loyalty with lower performance in the year churn relative to copper broadband.
Customers with BT Infinity Our revenue grew 7%, reflecting the growth in our broadband and BT and BT TV are more than twice as likely to recommend us than our Sport customer bases, while EBITDA increased 24%.
We grew our share customers who take only fixed-line and copper broadband.
And of the DSL and fibre broadband market for the sixth year in a row and customers with BT Sport are around 60% more likely to recommend we have added the most broadband customers of any operator for six us than those without.
We are delivering on our commitment to improve customer service and continue to invest in this area.
We are continuing to invest in our customer service capabilities, systems and processes, with key investments in: Operating performance At 31 March 2015 we had around 9.6m consumer fixed-lines insight, to help make sure we can see the customers full 2013 14: 9.9m, with around 9.4m active voice lines where a experience and work to improve it: customer buys calls from us as well as paying for the line.
Our total online and new mobile tablet apps such as BT Mobile, so we number of fixed-line customers is down 275,000 from last year can serve more customers through their channel of choice: 2013 14: 314,000.
We lost 203,000 net active lines, compared better diagnostics, to help us detect and resolve faults with 196,000 last year.
proactively and more quickly: uK support, so we can answer more calls in the UK, supporting We achieved 432,000 broadband net additions this year, 51% of local jobs across the country: and the DSL and fibre broadband market net additions.
This took our empowering our people to support our customers, by overall market share to 40%, up from 39% a year ago.
investing in better training and job redesign, better aligning We have continued to grow our fibre base, and now have 3m fibre skilled people to customer needs.
customers including business lines, a 43% increase from last year.
Transform our costs 39% of our retail broadband customers are now on fibre, compared Operating costs increased 2% reflecting the first full financial year of with 29% last year.
BT Sport programme rights charges.
We achieved 140,000 BT TV net additions and now have 1.14m This year, we particularly focused on: BT TV customers.
And 3.3m households have access to BT Sport, a number that rises to 5.2m when wholesale deals are taken into reducing the number of engineer visits to install fibre account.
We are the biggest supplier of sport channels to UK pubs.
broadband for our customers, by launching our self-install More than 25,000 commercial premises, including 30% of all UK proposition: pubs, have access to BT Sport.
continued efficiencies across our sales, service and commercial BT Sports average daily audience figures increased 15% year on functions: and year, from the start of the football season in August to the end of launching a lower-cost BT TV set-top box without a Personal March.
More than half the FA Premier League matches we showed Video Recorder PVR.
this season reached over 1m viewers.
Invest for growth Our ARPU this year was 415, up 24 from last year, driven mainly In March we moved back into the consumer mobile market with the by take-up of fibre broadband, upselling of BT TV and changes in our launch of BT Mobile using our MVNO agreement with EE.
