Report of the Directors 55 Statutory information REPORT OF ThE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION Introduction So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant The directors submit their report and the audited financial information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and of the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit 2014 15 financial year.
information and to establish that the auditors have been made aware of that information.
The audited consolidated financial statements are presented on pages61 to 109 and 127.
Capital management and funding policy The capital structure is managed by BT Group plc, the ultimate Dividend parent company of the group.
During the year a final dividend of 1,200m 2013 14: 1,300m has been paid to the parent company, BT Group The objective of BT Group plcs capital management and funding a Investments Limited.
The directors have declared a final dividend policy is to reduce the groupsnet debt while investing in the of 1,450m for 2014 15. business, supporting the pension fund and paying progressive dividends.
principal activity The BT Group plc Board reviews the groups capital structure The company is the principal trading subsidiary of BT Group plc, regularly.
Management proposes actions which reflect the which is its ultimate parent company.
groupsinvestment plans and risk characteristics as well as the BT Group plc is one of the worlds leading communications macro-economic conditions in which we operate.
In the UK, we sell products and services BT Group plcs funding policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to to consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
meet the groups anticipated requirements.
We use a combination Around the world, as well as in the UK, we provide managed of capital market bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing, networked IT services to large multinational corporations, committed borrowing facilities and investments.
These are planned domestic businesses and the public sector.
We also sell wholesale so as to mature at different stages in order to meet short, medium telecoms services to communications providers in the UK and and long-term requirements.
Details of our treasury policy are included in note 24 to the Directors consolidated financial statements.
The directors, who served throughout 2014 15 and continued to be directors as at the date of this report, were Tony Chanmugam, Financial instruments GlynParry and Sean Williams.
Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity liquidity risk and foreign exchange are given in note 24 to the BT Group plc purchases insurance to cover the directors, officers consolidated financial statements.
and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries against defence costs, civil damages Credit risk management policy and, in some circumstances, civil fines and penalties following We take proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market an action brought against them in their personal capacity.
The conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments insurance operates to protect the directors and officers directly in and derivative financial instruments, the groups central treasury circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide an indemnity and function monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the and actively manages any exposures which arise.
This central team cost of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of insurance is continually reviews any credit exposures, whether arising from ring-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
centrally-managed financial instruments or from the groups traderelated receivables.
Management within the lines of business also As at 13 May 2015, and throughout 2014 15, BT plc, has actively monitors any exposures arising from trading balances.
provided an indemnity in respect of a similar group of people to those covered by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance off-balance sheet arrangements nor the indemnity provides cover where the person has acted Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities fraudulently or dishonestly.
disclosed in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements, there are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably Financial statements likely to have, a current or future material effect on: our financial A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing condition: changes in financial condition: revenues or expenses: the financial statements is included in the Statement of results of operations: liquidity: capital expenditure: or capital directors responsibilities on page 58. resources.
Our critical accounting estimates and key judgements, and significant accounting policies are set out on pages66 to 72 of the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These policies and applicable estimation techniques have been reviewed by the directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the preparation of the 2014 15 consolidated a Net debt is a measure of BT Group plcs consolidated net indebtedness that provides an indicator financial statements.
of the overall balance sheet strength of the group.
Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non-current, less current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
