The Strategic Report 29 Our lines of business OUR LINES OF BUSINESS This section explains more about our lines of business.
We provide We provide specific solutions and expertise to ten key industry information on the products and services we sell.
We explain the sectors through four regional operations: UK: Continental Europe: US different customers and markets we serve, thetrends we are seeing and Canada: and high-growth regions Asia Pacific, Middle East and in our markets and how each of our lines of business performed this Africa, and Latin America.
We also describe the role and responsibilities of BT TSO, our Markets and customers internal service unit.
We work for around 6,500 large corporate and public sector Our business is structured to best serve our customers responding customers in more than 170 countries worldwide.
We provide to their needs and delivering value to them.
services for: 98% of the FTSE100 companies: HOW WE ArE OrGANISED 82% of the Fortune 500 companies: We have five customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, 96% of Interbrands annual ranking of the top 50 most valuable BT Business, BT Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
They are brands in the world: supported by our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & over 90% of the worlds top financial institutions: and Operations.
public sector organisations in 22 countries around the world.
BT Global Services is our largest line of business by revenue, Across the world, our main competitors are global telecommunications generating 38% of the groups external revenue.
BT Consumer is the companies such as AT&T, Orange, Telefnica, Verizon and Vodafone.
We also compete against IT and business process management Around 60% of Openreachs revenue is generated from other BT companies, the latter particularly in the UK public sector.
lines of business so its contribution to external group revenue is We generate over two-thirds of our revenue from corporate the smallest, at 11%.
Total Openreach revenue is equivalent to customers.
Of these, financial institutions are our largest segment, 28% of group revenue.
It is the groups largest EBITDA contributor, generating 18% of our revenue in the year.
generating 41% of the total, reflecting the return it earns on its extensive network assets.
But as a capital-intensive business, The public sector generated 20% of our revenue.
As a leading Openreach incurs costs relating to depreciation, which are not supplier to the UK Governments Public Services Network PSN, we reflected in this EBITDA contribution.
are helping the Government to drive its digital agenda.
however, we expect to face continued declines in the revenue we earn from the BT Global Services EBITDA margins are below those of the other UK public sector due to lower levels of government expenditure.
At 17%, its proportion of group EBITDA is therefore below its overall revenue contribution.
Around 10% of our revenue comes from providing a range of services to other telecoms companies, of which half is transit Almost 40% of our people work in Openreach.
engineers, responsible for maintaining and upgrading our networks.
A quarter of our people are in BT TSO and within group functions, Our top 1,000 customers generate around 90% of our revenue.
supporting all the customer-facing lines of business.
And 20% These companies typically allocate less than 10% of their total IT work in BT Global Services, with many supporting and serving our and communications spend with us.
So we see an opportunity to customers worldwide.
grow our share of their spending.
The UK is our largest region by revenue.
Financial institutions and Internal reorganisation government and healthcare customers are particularly important in With effect from 1 April 2014 BT Conferencing and BT Security were this market.
We have been ranked by Current Analysis as the number moved into BT Global Services from BT Business and our central one provider in the UK public sector, as well as a leader in the UK IP group functions respectively.
We did this to help us simplify the telephony and unified communications market.
way we provide integrated collaboration solutions to our global customers, better compete in the market and take full advantage of We have a strong presence in Continental Europe, with national global opportunities.
networks and metropolitan fibre rings in most major markets, including Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and These organisational changes did not impact the results of BT Spain.
In this region we serve a large number of customers in the Consumer, BT Wholesale or Openreach and had no impact on the pharmaceutical, retail, financial services and automotive industries.
We have restated the comparative results for BT Global Services, BT Business and Other to present them on a The US and Canada region is important for us because of the high consistent basis.
We have provided further information, including proportion of multinational corporations headquartered there.
the amounts involved, in note 4 to the consolidated financial However our biggest challenge in the US continues to be ineffective statements on page 73. regulation of wholesale access to incumbent operator networks.
The US regulator is taking steps to analyse this market, and we are actively engaged in the process.
BT GlOBAl SErVICES We are a global market leader for managed networked IT services.
The high-growth regions of Asia Pacific, the Middle East and We help around 6,500 large corporate and public sector customers Africa AMEA and Latin America are increasingly important for across more than 170 countries embrace the digital age, innovate our customers.
We are helping multinationals expand into these and work more efficiently.
areas and supporting local companies as they grow internationally.
By combining our strengths in networks, IT and innovation, with We continue to invest in these markets by adding products and our global reach, local delivery, industry expertise and professional services and improving our network and IT infrastructure.
services, we help our customers to make connections and create This year, we launched an innovative global campaign the Art new possibilities.
62% of our people are based outside the UK, in of Connecting to help our customers address their key business 60 countries.
challenges in areas such as cloud, mobility and security.
indb 29 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM 30 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 the way we provide integrated solutions to our global customers, the way they interact with their customers, colleagues, partners and BT Security and BT Conferencing moved into BT Global Services in suppliers.
BT Contact Influential analyst firms recognise us in the markets for global Our contact centre services help our customers build stronger network services and communications outsourcing and professional relationships with their customers.
We offer a number of ways for services.
This year we were positioned as a Leader in Gartners them to communicate together, including email, web chat, video, 2015 Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global for the 11th social media and the phone either via automated systems or time.
We have also been recognised as a Leader in Gartners 2014 dedicated advisers.
Our cloud solutions give companies more control Communications Outsourcing and Professional Services Magic over their costs, allowing them to change capacity in response to a Quadrant for the fifth consecutive year.
The markets we operate in are competitive and we continue to BT Compute face pricing pressure.
But we see good growth potential in the Businesses want reliable but flexible IT platforms and services for areas where we are investing.
For example, Ovum predicts unified their applications, data storage and security.
We provide IT services communications services will grow at a rate of 18% a year globally across our network, from 46 data centres around the world.
Our b over the next three years.
Gartner forecasts that cloud computing services range from traditional telehousing and colocation to the services will grow globally at a rate of 31% a year over the next three latest public, private and hybrid cloud solutions.
And it expects managed security services to grow at a rate of d 15% a year globally over the same period.
BT Advise We have experts around the world who provide consulting, products and services integration and managed services to our customers.
They have a We deliver value to our customers by bringing together a broad range of specialisms, certifications and accreditations to make sure portfolio of products and services with industry-specific solutions our customers get the best out of our products and services.
Our network is at the core of what we approach looks beyond technology to create solutions that work provide.
We have simple product categories organised around what across all areas of an organisation.
These are: Industry propositions BT Connect Our innovative sector-specific solutions help our customers Our network services connect our customers to their people, to overcome challenges unique to their industry.
For example, our BT their own customers, to the cloud and to the world.
We offer a for Retail portfolio enables retailers to enhance shoppers in-store range of flexible, intelligent and secure IP, Ethernet and internet experience by sending targeted messages to mobile devices and virtual private network services.
We deliver these in more than using intelligent in-store signage.
And our Field Force Automation 170 countries over a range of access technologies including DSL, solutions provide mobile employees such as field engineers with Ethernet and satellite.
access to corporate applications wherever they are.
BT Assure Our customers often use our products and services to reduce Customers are prioritising security as cyber-attacks become more their impact on the environment.
For instance, our BT One unified common and potentially more disruptive.
We provide a range of communications and collaboration services helped Sasol achieve products and services to help protect organisations against these travel savings of more than a million kilometres, preventing 40 threats including firewalls, web security, intrusion prevention and metric tonnes of carbon emissions, in the first six months of the threat monitoring.
BT One Organisations also look to us to help them innovate to enhance Businesses communicate in a number of different ways by phone, their customers experience and engagement.
We are working instant messaging, email, audio and video conferencing and with Alder hey Childrens hospital in Liverpool to develop a data-sharing solutions.
They want these channels to be integrated patient entertainment system for their new hospital.
We are also and work together easily and reliably.
Our collaboration services help partnering with Coca-Cola in South Africa to set up wi-fi on their customers simplify their communications channels and transform drinks machines, providing free internet access to impoverished communities.
a Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Communications Outsourcing and Professional Services, Christine performance in the year Tenneson, Eric Goodness, Bjarne Munch, 04 November 2014.
Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global, Neil Rickard, Bjarne Munch, 14 January We have consolidated our position as a global leader for managed 2015. networked IT services.
We have improved our customer service.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and e does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other We grew revenue in the high-growth regions of the world and designation.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners research organisation Continental Europe, but lower public sector revenue in the UK and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a resulted in overall revenue declining.
Despite this, we grew EBITDA particular purpose.
driven by our cost transformation activities.
Our operating cash b Hosted and Managed Unified Communications Services Forecast, 2014-19 Ovum, January 2014. c inflow of 349m was lower than we achieved last year, when we had Forecast: IT Services, Worldwide, 2013-2019, 1Q15 Update March 2015. d Forecast: Information Security, Worldwide, 2013-2019, 1Q15 Update April 2015. benefited from some early customer receipts.
The Gartner Report s described herein, Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global, Neil Rickard, Bjarne Munch Gartner, January 2015 and Magic Quadrant for Communications Outsourcing and Professional Services, Christine Tenneson, Eric Goodness, Bjarne Munch Gartner, November 2014 Operating performance and Forecast: IT Services, Worldwide, 2013-2019, 1Q15 Update March 2015 and Forecast: We achieved an order intake of 6.5bn, down 7% after last year Information Security, Worldwide, 2013-2019, 1Q15 Update April 2015 represent s data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, benefited from some large contract re-signs.
In line with our strategy Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original to grow our share of wallet, we increased our new business order publication date and not as of the date of this Filing and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
intake with our top priority customers.
indb 30 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM The Strategic Report 31 Our lines of business likelihood to recommend BT and their perception of BT as a business Contracts we won in the year include: partner were offset by changes in spending patterns and a greater focus on value for money among some of our customers.
Customer Contract We try to make a positive difference to the communities where we Cathay pacific To provide the airlines global call do business.
Through our Connecting Africa project and our work BT Contact centre infrastructure.
with international charity SOS Childrens Villages, we launched a programme to develop a healthcare management IT system.
This will Genome Institute Cloud compute infrastructure to be deployed at seven SOS Medical Centres in six African countries in of Singapore create a cloud-based next generation 2015 16.
BT Compute genome sequencing environment.
We are also helping the United Nations and Nethope in Sierra Leone Kimberly-Clark To implement and manage cloudto tackle the Ebola crisis by quickly extending satellite capability to BT One based solutions for a global network of improve communications.
Transform our costs procter and Gamble Managed network and security We reduced our underlying operating costs excluding transit by BT Connect services in more than 80 countries.
5%, reflecting the impact of lower revenue as well as our cost transformation programmes.
We have driven costs down by applying Sasol BT Connect Managed security, conferencing, best practice from other parts of the group and by taking our collaboration and other network forensic UK approach overseas.
In the year we continued to: services connecting 118 sites across the world.
We simplified our organisational structure in Switzerland and Eastern Europe by rationalising Smart DCC, subsidiary A security solution for the UK smart management layers.
This will save 5m a year, and has removed of the Capita Group metering programme.
process failures and improved customer service: BT Assure reduce failures in our processes.
For example, we have reduced the lead times for ceasing third-party access circuits that we no Socit Gnrale Voice and data communication longer need, saving over 20m a year: BT Connect services across 30 countries.
We will transform and optimise our global network.
We are building also deploy wi-fi services across new network infrastructure that supports our core products, 70 sites in France.
increases coverage and lowers the cost of long distance access royal Mail Provision of 76,000 handheld devices lines: and mobility services to UK postmen and women for improve third-party supplier value for money by negotiating scanning parcels.
We are also directly insourcing the delivery of some of our products and services.
Welsh Government To provide the country-wide public BT Connect sector broadband network, supporting Invest for growth more than 80 public service We have continued to invest to enhance our global capabilities in line organisations across 4,000 sites.
with the plans we shared last year.
For example, we have invested in our global account management capabilities and made our products and services more flexible and better at working together.
Deliver superior customer service We have also invested in: We gather feedback from our customers in many different ways, the high-growth regions.
We have extended the reach and including through our global account management teams and by features of our services.
We launched new, cloud-based, unified using surveys.
communication and collaboration services in AMEA, and added This year we have made progress on improving customer service cloud-enabled data centres in countries including Argentina, by enhancing our systems, processes and the way we manage our Colombia and South Africa: relationships with customers and suppliers.
however, our customers our network.
By building acceleration and security features tell us there is still more we can do to keep them better informed and into the network we are increasing application performance, further improve our speed of service delivery, particularly in the UK.
reducing bandwidth costs and improving security for our customers.
We extended Ethernet Connect to ten new countries, During the year we: bringing the total to 60.
We launched Internet Connect Reach improved the speed of service delivery of our main products by to expand internet coverage in more than 190 countries and 25%.
We will continue to act on feedback and focus on this in territories.
And we added ten new IP Connect points of presence 2015 16: PoPs in countries including Iceland and Malaysia: reduced a backlog of orders for IP Connect Global our main our core products and services.
We added an innovative new global MPLS product by more than 70%, which will mean we service to our BT Contact portfolio which allows businesses can deliver services more quickly in the future: to send short, personalised videos to their customers.
We introduced new service packages to make it easier for introduced BT Assure Threat Defence to help our customers customers to choose the level of service support they need: and better identify and react to sophisticated cyber-security introduced new processes for our major accounts to make sure threats.
We also made BT MeetMe with Dolby Voice available in we deal with issues quickly.
more countries, integrated it with Cisco WebEx and Microsoft Lync and launched the Dolby Conference Phone: As a result of these improvements, we increased our Right First industry-specific solutions.
We launched BT Netrix hiTouch, a Time measure 8.6% this year 2013 14: 0.6%.
While we saw an new touchscreen device for financial markets.
It allows traders improvement in loyalty among our top global customers, overall to tap into hundreds of applications, market data feeds and customer loyalty declined 2% to 75%.
Improvements in customers communications services, all delivered by the BT Radianz Cloud.
