Report of the Directors 55 Statutory information REPORT OF ThE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION Introduction So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant The directors submit their report and the audited financial information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and of the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit 2014 15 financial year.
information and to establish that the auditors have been made aware of that information.
The audited consolidated financial statements are presented on pages61 to 109 and 127.
Capital management and funding policy The capital structure is managed by BT Group plc, the ultimate Dividend parent company of the group.
During the year a final dividend of 1,200m 2013 14: 1,300m has been paid to the parent company, BT Group The objective of BT Group plcs capital management and funding a Investments Limited.
The directors have declared a final dividend policy is to reduce the groupsnet debt while investing in the of 1,450m for 2014 15. business, supporting the pension fund and paying progressive dividends.
principal activity The BT Group plc Board reviews the groups capital structure The company is the principal trading subsidiary of BT Group plc, regularly.
Management proposes actions which reflect the which is its ultimate parent company.
groupsinvestment plans and risk characteristics as well as the BT Group plc is one of the worlds leading communications macro-economic conditions in which we operate.
In the UK, we sell products and services BT Group plcs funding policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to to consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
meet the groups anticipated requirements.
We use a combination Around the world, as well as in the UK, we provide managed of capital market bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing, networked IT services to large multinational corporations, committed borrowing facilities and investments.
These are planned domestic businesses and the public sector.
We also sell wholesale so as to mature at different stages in order to meet short, medium telecoms services to communications providers in the UK and and long-term requirements.
Details of our treasury policy are included in note 24 to the Directors consolidated financial statements.
The directors, who served throughout 2014 15 and continued to be directors as at the date of this report, were Tony Chanmugam, Financial instruments GlynParry and Sean Williams.
Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity liquidity risk and foreign exchange are given in note 24 to the BT Group plc purchases insurance to cover the directors, officers consolidated financial statements.
and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries against defence costs, civil damages Credit risk management policy and, in some circumstances, civil fines and penalties following We take proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market an action brought against them in their personal capacity.
The conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments insurance operates to protect the directors and officers directly in and derivative financial instruments, the groups central treasury circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide an indemnity and function monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the and actively manages any exposures which arise.
This central team cost of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of insurance is continually reviews any credit exposures, whether arising from ring-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
centrally-managed financial instruments or from the groups traderelated receivables.
Management within the lines of business also As at 13 May 2015, and throughout 2014 15, BT plc, has actively monitors any exposures arising from trading balances.
provided an indemnity in respect of a similar group of people to those covered by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance off-balance sheet arrangements nor the indemnity provides cover where the person has acted Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities fraudulently or dishonestly.
disclosed in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements, there are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably Financial statements likely to have, a current or future material effect on: our financial A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing condition: changes in financial condition: revenues or expenses: the financial statements is included in the Statement of results of operations: liquidity: capital expenditure: or capital directors responsibilities on page 58. resources.
Our critical accounting estimates and key judgements, and significant accounting policies are set out on pages66 to 72 of the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These policies and applicable estimation techniques have been reviewed by the directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the preparation of the 2014 15 consolidated a Net debt is a measure of BT Group plcs consolidated net indebtedness that provides an indicator financial statements.
of the overall balance sheet strength of the group.
Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non-current, less current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
indb 55 5 19 2015 1:07:21 AM 56 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material legal proceedings misstatement or loss.
The process in place for reviewing our We do not believe that there is any single current court action that systems of internal control includes procedures designed to would have a material adverse effect on our financial position or identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in the case operations.
During 2014 15, the aggregate volume and value of of any classed as significant, we have procedures to ensure that legal actions which we are party to reduced.
necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
Going concern BT has enterprise-wide risk management processes for The Strategic report on pages 2 to 54 includes information identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by on the group structure, the performance of each of the lines of the group.
These processes have been in place throughout the business, the impact of regulation and competition and principal year and have continued up to the date on which this document risks and uncertainties.
The Group performance section on was approved.
The processes are in accordance with the Revised pages 47 to 54 includes information on our group financial Guidance for Directors on the UK Governance Code published by results, cash flow, loans and borrowings and balance sheet the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
Notes 20, 21, 22 and 24 of the consolidated financial statements include information on the groups investments, cash Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, derivatives, financial BT Group plcs annual strategic planning cycle.
There is a detailed risk management objectives, hedging policies and exposure to risk management process, culminating in a BT Group plc Board interest, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
review, which identifies the key risks facing the group, each line of business and our internal service unit, BT TSO.
This information Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered is reviewed by senior management as part of the strategic review.
BT Group plcs cash flow forecasts, as they relate to the group, in Our current key risks are summarised in the purpose and strategy particular with reference to the period to the end of May 2016. section Our risks on pages 17 to 25.
The directors are satisfied that these cash flow forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities associated with The key features of our enterprise-wide risk management and these forecasts and BT Group plcs current funding and facilities, internal control process covering financial, operational and alongside BT Group plcs funding strategy, show that the group compliance controls are: will continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors Senior executives collectively review the groups key risks therefore continue to have a reasonable expectation that the group and have created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for owners and mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by BT Group the foreseeable future and continue to adopt a going concern basis plcs Group Risk Panel and Operating Committee before it is in accordance with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity reviewed and approved by the BT Group plc Board: Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the The lines of business and BT TSO carry out risk assessments Financial Reporting Council in preparing the consolidated financial of their operations, create risk registers relating to those statements.
operations, and ensure that the key risks are addressed: There has been no significant change in the financial or trading Senior executives with responsibility for major group position of the group since 31 March 2015. operations report quarterly their opinion on the effectiveness of the operation of internal controls in their areas of Auditors responsibility:  and its predecessor firms have been The internal auditors carry out continuing assessments BTs auditors since BT listed on the London Stock Exchange of the quality of risk management and control, report to in 1984.
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead management and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee partner every five years and other partners who are responsible on the status of specific areas identified for improvement and for the group and subsidiary audits must change at least every promote effective risk management in the lines of business seven years.
Such changes are carefully planned to ensure and BT TSO: and business continuity without undue risk or inefficiency.
The The BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the partner responsible for BTs audit is completing his sixth year BT Group plc Board, considers the effectiveness of the groups within the group audit team and his third year as lead partner internal control procedures during the financial year.
It reviews which is a role he can continue for a further year.
reports from the internal and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the BT Group plc Board.
The BT Group plc Audit We are aware of the relevant regulation and guidance on audit & Risk Committee has carried out these actions for 2014 15. tendering.
EU regulations and the Competition and Markets Authoritys ruling will impose rotation requirements meaning We have not dealt with joint ventures and associates, which BT that the groups auditors must be changed by 2021. does not control, as part of the group risk management process.
They are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
The BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee will continue to consider annually the timetable for audit tendering and rotation, Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 68 to 72. taking into account the annual review of the effectiveness of the The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing auditors and other relevant factors such as change programmes verification through management review and independent impacting the business.
As the group engages a number of audit review by internal and external auditors.
firms for non-audit services the rotation will be carefully planned to ensure that the new auditors are independent.
uS SArBANES-OXlEy ACT OF 2002 The company has debt securities registered with the US Securities Internal control and risk management and Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply The Board of BT Group plc is responsible for the groups systems with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable of internal control and risk management and for reviewing to foreign issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory the effectiveness of those systems each year.
These systems requirements introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of they are applicable.
failure to achieve business objectives: any system can provide 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 56 5 19 2015 1:07:21 AM Report of the Directors 57 Statutory information There were no changes in the companys internal control over Disclosure controls and procedures financial reporting that occurred during 2014 15 that have The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially after evaluating the effectiveness of the companys disclosure affected, BTs internal control over financial reporting.
Any controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by significant deficiency, as defined by the US Public Company this Annual Report & Form 20-F, concluded that, as of such date, Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control over the companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective financial reporting, is reported to the BTGroup plc Audit & Risk to ensure that material information relating to the company was Committee.
made known to them by others within the group.
The principal executive officer and principal financial officer  LLP, which has audited the consolidated concluded that the companys disclosure controls and procedures financial statements of the group for 2014 15, has also audited are also effective to ensure that the information required to the effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial be disclosed by the company in reports that it files under the reporting under Auditing Standard No.
Their Securities Exchange Act 1934 Exchange Act is recorded, report is on page60.
processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
CrOSS rEFErENCE TO THE STrATEGIC rEpOrT As permitted by the Companies Act, we have chosen to include in The principal executive officer and the principal financial the Strategic report the following information required by law officer also provided the certifications required by the Sarbanesto be included in the report of the Directors : Oxley Act.
an indication of likely future developments in the business of internal control over financial reporting the company see the Strategic report on pages 2 to 54 : BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an indication of our research and development activities adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
page10 : Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide information about our people page 7 : and reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial information about greenhouse gas emissions page 16. reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Management By order of the Board conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework for internal control evaluation contained in the Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Governance Code published by the Financial Heather Brierley Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
Secretary 13 May 2015 Based on this assessment, management has concluded that at Registered Office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ 31 March 2015, the companys internal control over financial Registered in England and Wales No.
