6 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY This section explains how we deliver our strategy.
We describe our Outcomes business model and the importance of our people, assets and the The financial outcome of what we do hinges on the performance research and development we do.
We report on the status of our of our lines of business.
Together they contribute to the overall brand and outline our relationships with our main stakeholders.
performance and key performance indicators KPIs of the group.
We also explain our approach to human rights and describe the But there is more to what we do than just financial value.
What regulatory environment and risks that affect us.
We help millions of people communicate, be entertained, do business and generally live their lives.
We help our Our BuSINESS MODEl customers reduce their carbon footprint, for example by providing Our business creates value for shareholders, by delivering for conferencing facilities, which mean they do not have to travel as customers, society and our people.
And we contribute directly to communities and the health of the UK by providing jobs, working with suppliers and paying tax.
We invest to build and maintain communications networks in the UK and overseas: we develop products and services that run over All of which contribute to the strength of our brand a key asset for those networks: and then we sell them on a subscription basis to us as it can influence whether a potential customer buys from us or consumers, businesses and the public sector.
By selling services, one of our competitors.
we are able to make a return on our network investments and create value for our stakeholders.
This means we can reinvest in the How we create value business to keep creating value over the short, medium and long Delivering a superior customer service, transforming our costs and term.
investing for growth in our five strategic areas are central to both our strategy and business model.
They are key business activities.
The way we describe our business model is evolving.
This year, Better customer service means that we spend less time and money for the first time, we include elements of the IIRCs Integrated putting things right.
These cost savings, combined with savings from Reporting IR Framework.
In the Framework, the resources used working more efficiently and the cash that we generate from sales, and the relationships affected by an organisation are collectively mean we can invest in the future of our business.
referred to as the capitals.
The IIRC defines the capitals as: financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social, and natural.
We have Our ability to deliver our strategy is as much about how we do adopted a similar approach by using a common set of icons for the things, as what we do.
That is why being a healthy organisation see inputs, outputs and outcomes of our business model, although we page 7 and living our corporate values page 7 are so important describe them in terms that are most meaningful to our business.
Our values reflect how we work together in BT to create a healthy, high-performing business.
And that is why our people are so Inputs key to the success of our business.
Our business model starts with the things that set us apart from our competitors.
We have a strong combination of people, technology, Our sustainable business model networks and other physical assets.
Our research and development Communications markets are very competitive, particularly in the activities support innovative new ways of doing things and UK.
There are both opportunities and risks.
We make sure we stay in advancements in our technology.
And we have the financial strength tune with market and competitive trends through teams dedicated to invest in these areas to stay ahead of the competition.
And we undertake an annual materiality review to understand the societal and environmental issues that are important Then there are the relationships we have with our stakeholders such to our stakeholders.
as our customers, and the natural resources we consume as part of doing business.
BTs Enterprise Risk Management framework see page 17 helps us identify and mitigate the challenges and risks we face.
And we use Outputs governance committees to make sure we make the right investments The main output of our business is our portfolio of products and and deliver products and services that customers want to buy.
We make money by selling these in the UK and around the see more and more demand for our products and services because world through our customer-facing lines of business.
they play such an integral role in modern life.
We sell through a range of channels including online, contact centres Being able to anticipate and respond to changes in our environment and desk or field-based account managers.
Our revenue is mostly makes for a flexible and sustainable business model.
And by subscription or contract-based.
People, households and SMEs pay continuing to reinvest in the business, we are confident that we will for standalone or bundled services monthly, quarterly or annually be able to deliver value both today and in the future.
typically on 12 to 24 month contracts.
Large corporate and public sector customers usually buy managed networked IT services on FINANCIAl STrENGTH contracts spanning several years.
Our wholesale customer contracts We have the financial strength to make bold decisions and to range from one month in length for regulated products, to five years invest in the things that set us apart.
or more for major managed services deals.
Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
Improving the skills and expertise of our people, both through Together with further transformation of our costs, we aim to grow on-the-job experience and our investment in their training and our EBITDA and cash flow over the long term.
development, is another output of our business.
We also generate We have a prudent financial policy that governs how we use the cash intellectual property like patents.
Finally, the waste and emissions we generate.
produced by our operations are considered to be outputs more details of what we are doing to minimise these can be found on We want to continue to invest in the future of our business and in page16.
particular in our five strategic growth areas see page 5.
At the same time as investing in these areas, BT Group plc intend to reduce the groups net debt over the medium term and are targeting 802639 BT Group PLC.
