10 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 In the UK we continue to drive our programme of disposing of office US, Tsinghua University China, Khalifa University UAE and over and operational buildings we no longer need while consolidating 30 other universities globally.
We continue to support a programme office space in the remaining properties.
This year we completed of co-innovation with start-ups in Londons Tech City.
And our the closure of Keybridge house, a former international telephone teams work with customers and other companies in the US, Asia, Europe and the Middle East.
They help us track the very latest global and telex exchange in London.
We sold this surplus building to developments in new technologies, business propositions and Mount Anvil for 93m in February 2015 realising a profit of 67m.
In addition, we have recognised a 45m charge in specific items for onerous leases as a property rationalisation cost see page 48.
Our people help us innovate and improve our service to customers.
Outside the UK, 91% of our buildings are operational, housing our This year our award-winning internal New Ideas Scheme had more hosting and telecoms equipment.
As a result, we have identified more than year we opened new offices in Gurgaon, Bangalore and Kolkata, as 30m of benefit through new revenues and lower costs, and it is part of our strategy to invest in high-growth regions and support helping us provide a better service to our customers.
We also closed 25 offices around the We run innovation showcases for our major customers, where they world that we no longer needed and delivered a net reduction of can discuss applications and solutions with our experts.
And we get 14 operational sites which helped our cost transformation.
to hear first-hand what they need.
Under the brand of Ingenious we are sharing BTs innovation story rESEArCH AND DEVElOpMENT with thought leaders, governments and the media.
You can read BT has a long history of innovation, starting from our roots as The more about Ingenious on page 11.
Electric Telegraph Company the worlds oldest telecommunications company in 1846.
Examples of our activities this year include: For example, in 1926 we held the worlds first two-way, transWorking on how to improve the future 4G mobile experience for Atlantic conversation by radio telephone from our wireless our customers through the use of femtocells.
These are lowstation near Rugby.
And in 1943, Tommy Flowers, working in the cost, easy-to-install, low-powered devices that could be placed telecommunications division of the General Post Office, developed in customers homes or offices and in some cases offer a viable the worlds first programmable electronic computer, Colossus.
In alternative to traditional mobile masts.
1968, we installed the worlds first digital telephone exchange.
And Performing extensive lab evaluations and field trials in the we laid the worlds first purpose-designed optical fibre submarine access network.
This will help us provide higher broadband cable in Loch Fyne, Scotland in 1980. speeds even further from the exchange.
We have been instrumental in the ratification of the ITU G. fast standard that In the 30 years since the privatisation of BT in December 1984, we paves the way for the next generation of ultrafast broadband pioneered many of the technologies that our business now relies over copper.
For example, we were at the forefront of defining the global IP Investigating new ways to deliver TV services over our and broadband standards which mean our networks are capable broadband network.
Our trial of Ultra hDTV, streaming the of supporting the advanced video, business and internet services 2014 FIFA World Cup, was a world first.
We were the first company to commercially launch Focusing on many aspects of customer service, such as single-mode fibre optics the technology that underpins todays increasing the number of quality of experience nodes in the high-speed networks.
And we pioneered a technology that uses network where we monitor service performance.
These help us compressed air to blow fibre optic cables through conduits, which make sure that services like Netflix, BBC iPlayer and YouTube are speeds up network installation.
performing well on our network.
Innovation, supported by our global research and development Examining how we can use our technology in new ways.
We are R&D, enables us to offer the new services that customers want, a major partner in MK:Smart, a UK-based Internet of Things and to find ways of doing things more efficiently and at lower cost.
IoT programme in Milton Keynes.
It is addressing the challenge This year we invested 502m 2013 14: 530m in research and of supporting economic growth without exceeding the capacity development.
We are one of the largest investors in R&D of any of urban infrastructure.
For example, by using sensors that a company in the UK, and globally in the telecoms sector.
assist city centre vehicle parking and reduce traffic congestion.
Since BTs privatisation we have had over 13,000 patents granted BrAND AND rEpuTATION and in 2014 15 we filed patent applications for 93 inventions Innovation is an important part of our history and an essential 2013 14: 89.
We routinely seek patent protection in different ingredient for our future.
It is also key to our brand one of our countries and at 31 March 2015 we had a worldwide portfolio of most important assets and a vital source of competitive advantage.
more than 4,500 patents and applications.
We believe that well-managed brands drive business performance because they stand out in crowded markets.
We bring together expertise and resources both our own and third-party at our six global development centres.
Adastral Park, our Our brand promise is about creating possibilities for customers.
technology headquarters, is home to over 65 high-tech companies.
It is rooted in our company purpose of using the power of It is a world-leading innovation campus, employing around 3,700 communications to make a better world.
This year we have continued to grow our development centres in Kuala Lumpur and Bangalore.
These give us local technical Valuation consultancy Brand Finance reported in February expertise and spread our development more evenly around the 2015 that the BT brand is now worth US$16.2bn.
improvement on a year earlier and makes us the eighth most valuable telecoms brand in the world.
We are keen to work with people outside BT, from small start-up companies to some of the best universities around the world.
We Our own brand tracking analysis, provided by the research agency have extensive, long-standing, joint-research programmes with Populus, also shows good progress.
Among opinion leaders for Cambridge University UK, Massachusetts Institute of Technology example, more than two-thirds agree that BT is a company that is heading in the right direction.
a Comparison based on total R&D spend over 2004 05 to 2013 14.
Data taken from EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard, http: iri.
