The Strategic Report 29 Our lines of business OUR LINES OF BUSINESS This section explains more about our lines of business.
We provide We provide specific solutions and expertise to ten key industry information on the products and services we sell.
We explain the sectors through four regional operations: UK: Continental Europe: US different customers and markets we serve, thetrends we are seeing and Canada: and high-growth regions Asia Pacific, Middle East and in our markets and how each of our lines of business performed this Africa, and Latin America.
We also describe the role and responsibilities of BT TSO, our Markets and customers internal service unit.
We work for around 6,500 large corporate and public sector Our business is structured to best serve our customers responding customers in more than 170 countries worldwide.
We provide to their needs and delivering value to them.
services for: 98% of the FTSE100 companies: HOW WE ArE OrGANISED 82% of the Fortune 500 companies: We have five customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, 96% of Interbrands annual ranking of the top 50 most valuable BT Business, BT Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
They are brands in the world: supported by our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & over 90% of the worlds top financial institutions: and Operations.
public sector organisations in 22 countries around the world.
BT Global Services is our largest line of business by revenue, Across the world, our main competitors are global telecommunications generating 38% of the groups external revenue.
BT Consumer is the companies such as AT&T, Orange, Telefnica, Verizon and Vodafone.
We also compete against IT and business process management Around 60% of Openreachs revenue is generated from other BT companies, the latter particularly in the UK public sector.
lines of business so its contribution to external group revenue is We generate over two-thirds of our revenue from corporate the smallest, at 11%.
Total Openreach revenue is equivalent to customers.
Of these, financial institutions are our largest segment, 28% of group revenue.
It is the groups largest EBITDA contributor, generating 18% of our revenue in the year.
generating 41% of the total, reflecting the return it earns on its extensive network assets.
But as a capital-intensive business, The public sector generated 20% of our revenue.
As a leading Openreach incurs costs relating to depreciation, which are not supplier to the UK Governments Public Services Network PSN, we reflected in this EBITDA contribution.
are helping the Government to drive its digital agenda.
however, we expect to face continued declines in the revenue we earn from the BT Global Services EBITDA margins are below those of the other UK public sector due to lower levels of government expenditure.
At 17%, its proportion of group EBITDA is therefore below its overall revenue contribution.
Around 10% of our revenue comes from providing a range of services to other telecoms companies, of which half is transit Almost 40% of our people work in Openreach.
engineers, responsible for maintaining and upgrading our networks.
A quarter of our people are in BT TSO and within group functions, Our top 1,000 customers generate around 90% of our revenue.
supporting all the customer-facing lines of business.
And 20% These companies typically allocate less than 10% of their total IT work in BT Global Services, with many supporting and serving our and communications spend with us.
So we see an opportunity to customers worldwide.
grow our share of their spending.
The UK is our largest region by revenue.
Financial institutions and Internal reorganisation government and healthcare customers are particularly important in With effect from 1 April 2014 BT Conferencing and BT Security were this market.
We have been ranked by Current Analysis as the number moved into BT Global Services from BT Business and our central one provider in the UK public sector, as well as a leader in the UK IP group functions respectively.
We did this to help us simplify the telephony and unified communications market.
way we provide integrated collaboration solutions to our global customers, better compete in the market and take full advantage of We have a strong presence in Continental Europe, with national global opportunities.
networks and metropolitan fibre rings in most major markets, including Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and These organisational changes did not impact the results of BT Spain.
In this region we serve a large number of customers in the Consumer, BT Wholesale or Openreach and had no impact on the pharmaceutical, retail, financial services and automotive industries.
We have restated the comparative results for BT Global Services, BT Business and Other to present them on a The US and Canada region is important for us because of the high consistent basis.
We have provided further information, including proportion of multinational corporations headquartered there.
the amounts involved, in note 4 to the consolidated financial However our biggest challenge in the US continues to be ineffective statements on page 73. regulation of wholesale access to incumbent operator networks.
The US regulator is taking steps to analyse this market, and we are actively engaged in the process.
BT GlOBAl SErVICES We are a global market leader for managed networked IT services.
The high-growth regions of Asia Pacific, the Middle East and We help around 6,500 large corporate and public sector customers Africa AMEA and Latin America are increasingly important for across more than 170 countries embrace the digital age, innovate our customers.
We are helping multinationals expand into these and work more efficiently.
areas and supporting local companies as they grow internationally.
By combining our strengths in networks, IT and innovation, with We continue to invest in these markets by adding products and our global reach, local delivery, industry expertise and professional services and improving our network and IT infrastructure.
services, we help our customers to make connections and create This year, we launched an innovative global campaign the Art new possibilities.
62% of our people are based outside the UK, in of Connecting to help our customers address their key business 60 countries.
challenges in areas such as cloud, mobility and security.
