42 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Financial performance Key priorities 2015 2014 2013 Our future plans include: Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 2,157 2,422 2,608 launching new connectivity products, using optical fibre and Underlying revenue excluding transit 7 % 3 % 3 % small-cell technologies: Operating costs 1,596 1,808 1,988 further extending our Ethernet and Wholesale Broadband Connect coverage: EBITDA 561 614 620 offering new access options for our Mobile Ethernet Access Depreciation and amortisation 224 245 254 Service: Operating profit 337 369 366 adding new features to our Hosted Communications Services: Capital expenditure 210 244 233 launching new IPX features: and Operating cash flow 278 372 348 adding new capabilities to Business Zone.
This included 113m or 41% Openreach provides the vital infrastructure that is the foundation of less transit revenue 2013 14: 119m or 30%, as network the UKs vibrant internet economy.
We are responsible for providing operators sent fewer voice calls over TDM and exchanged more of services over the local loop or local access network, sometimes those calls directly rather than via our network.
referred to as the last mile.
This consists of the copper and fibre We billed and partially collected the payments due from mobile connections between our exchanges and homes and businesses.
operators following the Supreme Court judgment on ladder pricing Openreach is firmly focused on building Britains connected future, in July 2014.
As a result, we recognised around 30m of trading playing our part in creating the infrastructure needed to underpin revenue for this year in addition to the revenue treated as a specific growth.
During the year we took our fibre broadband network item relating to prior years, as explained on page 15.
We expect to a coverage beyond 75% of UK premises over 22m.
recognise additional trading revenue relating to ladder pricing of around half this amount in the income statement next year.
We have also extended fibre coverage to rural communities.
We have been working in partnership and co-investing with the Governments Underlying revenue excluding transit was down 7% 2013 14: 3%.
Broadband Delivery UK BDUK programme.
Being part of a larger This was primarily due to lower revenue from traditional calls, lines group gives Openreach the confidence in future demand to make and circuits, including the regulatory price changes as a result of long-term investments.
Ofcoms last Narrowband Market Review NBMR.
According to European Commission data, the UK has the highest The NBMR greatly reduced the price that CPs can charge each other coverage of next generation access NGA broadband of the five to deliver calls made to their fixed-line customers.
This meant we largest countries in Western Europe.
Coverage of 82%, including had to charge less for Direct Conveyance, which as explained earlier Virgin Medias network, is above the European Union average of delivers other CPs calls to BTs own customers.
Broadband revenue declined 17% 2013 14: 15% as the major We keep the UK connected through a network which links more retail broadband providers continued to make more use of their own than 5,500 exchanges, around 98,000 street cabinets primary networks instead of ours.
connection points, or PCPs and around 4.7m distribution points.
Managed solutions revenue fell 11% 2013 14: 7% growth as Our network is used by nearly 80% of UK homes and businesses.
the Post Office completed the migration of services off our whiteWe do not sell our products directly to the public.
We work on behalf labelled broadband, calls and lines solution.
And mobile network of communications providers.
Our network and services are available operators bought fewer new MEAS circuits, generating lower to all of them, and in turn, they compete to provide phone and connection revenue.
Managed solutions revenue accounted for 37% internet services to consumers and businesses.
A recent European of total revenue, in line with last year.
Union report stated that The UK now offers the most affordable We continued to see strong growth in IP services, with revenue up broadband in Europe.
IPX and Ethernet showed double-digit growth, following We offer our main products on the same terms, to all CPs, including continued investment in these expanding markets.
We expect our other BT lines of business, in line with our commitments under new hosted Communications Services to contribute good growth in BTs Undertakings more on page 14.
As a result, Openreachs the year ahead.
operational, engineering and systems capabilities are separate from EBITDA declined 9% 2013 14: 1%, driven by lower revenue the rest of BT.
More than 99% of Openreach revenue is subject to including the impact of the NBMR and a changing product mix.
These effects were partly offset by our cost transformation activities, and the ladder pricing revenue recognised in the year.
Depreciation Markets and customers and amortisation was down 9% 2013 14: 4% and operating Openreach, along with BT Wholesale, serves wholesale telecoms profit fell 9% 2013 14: 1%.
Wholesale customers in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland are served by BT Ireland.
Capital expenditure was 14% below last year 2013 14: 5% higher, partly driven by lower spend on our Wholesale Broadband We have around 540 CP customers, the largest of which are Sky and Connect rollout programme.
TalkTalk and other BT lines of business particularly BT Consumer and BT Business.
Operating cash flow decreased 25% 2013 14: 7% increase, largely driven by working capital movements as last year benefited We are seeing continued demand for data and bandwidth which is from the timing of customer receipts.
driving growth in our products.
a This includes 790,000 premises in Northern Ireland, provided by BT Ireland.
indb 42 5 19 2015 1:07:19 AM The Strategic Report 43 Our lines of business The overall number of fixed-lines in the UK is growing, helped by product aimed at businesses.
We added new features including: new homes being built, as well as the trend for customers to connect a new service level providing prioritised repair: a dedicated UKtheir mobile devices to fixed broadband lines via wi-fi.
based specialist helpdesk: and call diversion to an alternative number.
CPs can also choose from a range of options such as Our main competitor for consumer services is Virgin Media.
Its shorter appointment windows and visits by a named engineer, proprietary cable network covers around half of UK homes, although which is helpful when secure or sensitive sites are involved.
it announced this year significant expansion plans to reach an local loop unbundling llu gives CPs a choice of ways to additional 4m premises by 2020. invest in a broadband network.
LLU involves CPs installing their We also saw other companies investing in their own fibre access own equipment in our exchanges and renting the copper line networks, reflecting the competitive nature of the market.
CityFibre, to the customer premises.
CPs can use our shared metallic path hyperoptic and IFNL all expanded their footprint deploying fibre facility SMPF product to offer broadband over a WLR line or to the building to address different market demands for superfast our metallic path facility MPF product to offer both phone and broadband.
CityFibres joint venture project with TalkTalk and Sky broadband services using just their equipment.
is at an early stage of development, but has the potential to pose a Infrastructure competitive threat going forward.
passive Infrastructure Access pIA products offer all CPs The market for Ethernet and optical service products, providing access to Openreachs basic infrastructure.
For example, they business-quality connectivity, is particularly buoyant, more than can rent space in our ducts or on our telephone poles.
CPs can doubling in size between 2011 and 2014.
This is due to businesses use PIA to help them build their own fibre networks instead of need for greater speeds, capacity and reliability, and also the buying fibre broadband services directly from us.
migration from old style private circuits.
Mobile Infill Infrastructure Solution MiiS enables MNOs to improve localised mobile coverage.
We install antennas on Our many competitors in the business market include Virgin Media, selected telephone poles linked to a special street cabinet to Colt Group and Vodafone.
Pricing, service delivery and product which we provide power and backhaul.
Mobile operators can innovation have been the key competitive themes over the past year.
then install their radio equipment and use their spectrum to The price per Gbit is being driven down by intense competition, help reduce mobile signal black spots.
Buoyant market demand for Ethernet has placed pressure on the delivery of circuits for all those competing in We also offer specialist products to connect CPs networks to our this market.
products and services Ethernet We offer four principal products and services: fibre broadband, Our Ethernet products offer dedicated fibre connections with speeds copper-based services, infrastructure and Ethernet.
CPs use them in their own networks and to provide high-quality, high-bandwidth services to businesses and the Fibre broadband public sector.
Our wholesale fibre broadband product is called Generic Ethernet Access.
We offer a number of different fibre services: During the year we launched a number of new products which are available nationwide and offer flexible pricing and routing options.
Fibre-to-the-Cabinet FTTC takes fibre from the exchange to the street cabinet and uses the existing copper network performance in the year for the final link to the customer.
It provides speeds of up to We have expanded our superfast fibre broadband network, making 80Mbps and has proved to be a highly effective way of rolling it available to a further 3m premises.
We began testing G. fast out superfast broadband at scale and pace.
When CPs connect technology which will be able to provide ultrafast broadband speeds.
a new customer, they can either choose to have an Openreach We achieved all the minimum service levels set by Ofcom, though engineer visit a home or business site or use a self-install our ambition and plans are to further improve customer service.
FTTC is our most widely-used service.
help us do this, we hired more than 2,500 new engineers.
Revenue  FTTp provides faster speeds of up declined 1% and EBITDA was flat with regulatory price reductions to 330Mbps.
This is achieved by laying fibre all the way to the offsetting the impact of broadband revenue growth.
CPs can offer voice services over FTTP which are similar in functionality to copper-based voice services.
Operating performance FTTp-on-Demand lets end customers in areas served by FTTC The UK DSL and fibre broadband market grew by 851,000 and the obtain an FTTP connection if they are prepared to pay for the number of Ethernet services we provide grew 3% in the year.
This is in the process of being rolled out and We have now passed more than 22m premises with our fibre is currently available to nearly 9m premises.
broadband network, over three-quarters of the UK and ahead of our original schedule.
Our fibre broadband network can carry broadcast and on-demand internet protocol television IPTV services.
We provide a multicast We achieved 1.5m fibre broadband net connections in the year.
This service which cuts the cost of delivering broadcast TV over our means that around 4.2m homes and businesses in the UK are now network and means CPs can choose to prioritise TV over other web connected, 19% of those passed.
Of the net additions in the year, traffic.
40% were provided to our external CP customers, an increase from 31% last year, demonstrating the market-wide demand for fibre.
Copper-based services Under the BDUK programme we are co-investing alongside public Wholesale line rental Wlr lets CPs offer own-brand funding to bring fibre broadband to rural communities.
We cannot phone services with their own pricing and billing using our use this funding in urban areas as there are a number of EU state-aid equipment and network.
They pay to use the copper lines rules that restrict the groups ability to use funding for superfast between our exchanges and the customer premises but services in cities.
do not need to invest in their own network equipment or infrastructure.
During the year we improved our premium WLR 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 43 5 19 2015 1:07:20 AM 44 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 We are also bidding for further contracts, known as the Superfast Openreach performance against service responsibilities Extension Programme SEP.
This aims to make superfast broadband available to 95% of the country.
Q4 Q4 Movement 2014 15 2013 14 Deliver superior customer service Openreach serves end customers on behalf of CPs, managing Home and work users installations and repairs for their consumer and business customers.
New lines installed ontime 92.98% 93.11% As the internet becomes an increasingly important part of daily life, customer demand for our products continues to rise, as do customer Average time to install with an 13.46 16.87 expectations of our service performance.
engineer working days Over the last 12 months we have hired more than 2,500 engineers, Average time to install without 9.77 9.44 including over 300 apprentices, to help us deliver improved levels of an engineer working days service.
Installation requiring an 0.00% 11.96% In February 2015 we changed the way we are organised so that engineer where wait is 22 days we are better aligned with our customers.
While field engineers will or longer forappointment continue to be based close to customers, our dispersed office-based support roles will be transferred to regional Centres of Excellence, Average time for first available 6.70 11.18 appointment date for new with our people equipped with better tools, systems and career installation working days opportunities.
New lines requiring an 1.23% 0.66% We are providing more information on our service and engineer visit not installed performance, to both our CP customers and their end customers.
after 31 days past target date We have launched a website where CP customers can see detailed performance information for each UK region.
We have also Average time to fix faults 2.67 2.78 introduced an incident checker to help consumers identify problems Maintenance level 1 with our network in their area.
And we have upgraded our fibre workingdays broadband website so that people can see when fibre is coming to Average time to fix faults 1.79 2.12 their area.
Maintenance level 2 workingdays The table to the right shows Openreachs service performance, on a number of key measures.
We publish this data, with additional Faults fixed within agreed time 75.10% 67.78% levels of detail, on a quarterly basis, as part of our move towards Maintenance level 1 greater transparency and visibility.
co. uk our-responsibilities Faults fixed within agreed time 75.66% 64.63% Maintenance level 2 To help us improve further, we launched a new customer survey in December, gathering data from some of our largest CPs.
The Faults not cleared after 0.86% 0.46% 31days or more Maintenance survey is designed to gauge end-customer perception about level 1 their experience of an Openreach engineers installation or repair visit.
This will help us better understand what opportunities for Faults not cleared after 0.84% 0.49% improvement exist.
31days or more Maintenance level 2 We are making significant progress.
We have improved our response times, fixing faults on average 14% faster than last year.
Despite Business users rising demand for our services, we improved our installation leadtimes for copper services by four days.
We have reduced the number Average time to install on-net 33.49 40.37 of complaints by 25% and reduced the number of appointments services working days missed by our engineers by 28%.
Average time to install 69.95 68.74 During the year we exceeded all of the 60 new minimum service where new build is required levels for copper products for the installation of new lines and workingdays repairs to existing services introduced by Ofcom.
They become more Faults fixed within agreed time 92.79% 96.21% stretching in 2015 16. percentage Our focus on service helped us manage volatility in demand.
Thanks Note: this compares performance in the quarter and is not an annual measure.
to improved planning, work allocation, resource deployment and increased capacity as a result of our recruitment programme, we were able to deal with more repairs and deliver a better level of Improvement service to our customers.
Steady performance maintaining focus We were also better able to cope with extreme weather conditions, Further improvement needed plans in place to get back on track including severe storms in the South West and Wales in October and Storm Rachel, which particularly affected Scotland.
On our key customer service measure of Right First Time, we exceeded our target by improving 3.5% 2013 14: down 1.9%.
02c 802639 Report of the Directors Strategy p29-46.
indd 44 5 19 2015 5:31:43 AM The Strategic Report 45 Our lines of business Although we made progress on improving our service this year, we ultrafast broadband vision recognise that there is still more we need to do.
For example, we In January 2015 we set out our ultrafast broadband vision for have been unable to install lines on new sites as fast as we would the UK.
We are now working with house builders and developers to make sure that our processes are as good as they can be and that Using G. fast technology, we expect to offer initial speeds people can get our service in their new homes promptly.
of a few hundred megabits per second to millions of homes and businesses by 2020.
Speeds are expected to increase We are not satisfied with how quickly and reliably we provide to up to 500Mbps to most of the UK within a decade from new Ethernet circuits, but we are pleased with our performance now, as further industry standards are secured and new kit is on repairing them.
We are hiring more people to help us improve developed, subject to there continuing to be a stable regulatory this.
We are also working with our CP customers on a new process environment that supports investment.
We also plan to offer a which recognises that different customers have different needs.
For 1Gbps product for those that want ever faster speeds.
example, some prioritise certainty of delivery timing, others care more about speed of provision.
G. fast is an innovative technology that uses higher frequencies than FTTC to provide faster broadband speeds over copper.
We Transform our costs will test it in two trial locations huntingdon, Cambridgeshire Operating costs reduced 2% 2013 14: 1% as cost efficiencies and Gosforth, Newcastle this summer.
offset an increase in volumes, pay inflation and the additional The trials will build on tests at our innovation centre at Adastral engineering resource we recruited.
These have shown that G. fast has the potential to deliver We have increased our efficiency by proactive investment in process significant speed increases from existing and new fibre street improvements and new systems and tools that will reduce the cabinets as well as from other points closer to the customer.
number of engineering jobs and unnecessary customer contacts.
We This is an important development as it means the technology have recruited additional engineers using new terms and conditions can be deployed in a more efficient and rapid manner than which offer greater operational flexibility.
Where possible we have previously thought.
If the trials are successful, we will start to deploy G. fast across This year we: the network in the 2016 17 financial year.
created innovative apps that improve engineer efficiency and Financial performance have a direct impact on our costs.
These apps also give us better 2015 2014 2013 data about engineer visits and direct feedback from customers, Year ended 31 March m m m which should help reduce customer complaints and avoid repeat Revenue 5,011 5,061 5,115 visits: Operating costs 2,411 2,460 2,473 trialled the View my Engineer app which allows CPs and end EBITDA 2,600 2,601 2,642 customers to see the engineers progress towards their job.
It Depreciation and amortisation 1,348 1,406 1,428 means they can contact the engineer if they need to change the appointment, avoiding wasted visits and costs and customer Operating profit 1,252 1,195 1,214 dissatisfaction: and Capital expenditure 1,082 1,049 1,144 invested in proactive maintenance of our copper network Operating cash flow 1,502 1,492 1,475 to reduce faults in key trouble hotspots, saving engineer interventions.
We prevented more than 100,000 faults during Revenue declined 1% 2013 14: 1%.
Regulatory price changes the year thanks to improved targeting and increasing our had a negative impact of around 180m, the equivalent of around financial investment by 10%.
This helped stabilise our network, 4% of our revenue.
This was partly offset by 41% growth in fibre although we were also helped by the kinder weather.
broadband revenue due to strong market demand.
Invest for growth Revenue from fibre broadband accounted for 10% of total revenue Our plan to invest over 3bn in our fibre broadband infrastructure this year compared to 7% last year.
is a critical part of our investment for growth, but we know we Operating costs reduced 2% 2013 14: 1%.
Cost efficiencies from must continue to innovate to meet customers changing needs.
We improving engineer efficiency and reducing the number of tasks and announced large-scale trials this summer of ultrafast broadband customer contacts were partly offset by a smaller benefit from the with G. fast technology see below.
In the year the sale of redundant copper Since we launched our superfast programme we have introduced generated net income of 29m, and we expect no benefit from this nearly 250 innovations and improvements as we continually try to in 2015 16. expand the reach of our network or make it easier to build.
EBITDA was flat 2013 14: 2% down, and with depreciation We also invested in our copper network, which grew by 215,000 and amortisation down 4% 2013 14: 2% driven by a lower lines this year, and continues to underpin the services we provide.
depreciation charge on core network assets, operating profit was up And we continue to develop our Ethernet portfolio and offer 5% 2013 14: 2% decrease.
