2 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 ThE STRATEGIC REPORT PURPOSE AND STRATEGY OVErVIEW Our purpOSE British Telecommunications plc is the principal operating subsidiary BTs purpose is to use the power of communications to make a of BT Group plc.
We are a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group better world.
The BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the We are here to meet the needs of our customers, delivering the management of the group and the Operating Committee of BT experience, products and services that matter to them.
Millions Group plc is the key management committee.
It monitors the of individuals connect through us to their friends and family, and groups financial, operational and customer service performance have huge amounts of information and entertainment at their and has cross-business oversight of BTs lines of business.
The smallest companies right through to multinational reviews the groups key risks and considers the potential threats corporations use our services every day to conduct their business and opportunities to the business.
and compete in the global marketplace.
Many public services rely The purpose and strategy, Delivering our strategy, Our lines of on our technologies, and in the UK the telecoms industry operates business and Group performance sections on pages 2 to 54 form across our networks.
Our success as a business depends on the Strategic report.
delivering value to all our customers, enabling them to fulfil their needs and aspirations.
We present the audited consolidated financial statements on pages 61 to 109 and 127.
The connectivity we provide every day plays an essential role in modern society and economies.
Our core business represents a significant part of the social infrastructure in the places where we operate.
The diagram below shows how our strategy supports our goal and purpose.
It sits at the centre of our business model.
External environment Governance Our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world Our goal A growing BT: to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Our strategy Broaden and deepen our customer relationships Transform Invest for Deliversuperior our costs growth customer service Outputs & Value creation Inputs Outcomes Mobility Leading TV and UK business Fibre and future global content markets voice companies Our culture A healthy organisation Our values Customer Team Honesty Change Pride We are We help We are honest We all make We are proud here for our each other andrespectful change to make a customers achievemore happen difference risks The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 13 May 2015.
By order of the Board Tony Chanmugam Director 802639 BT Group PLC.
