2 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 ThE STRATEGIC REPORT PURPOSE AND STRATEGY OVErVIEW Our purpOSE British Telecommunications plc is the principal operating subsidiary BTs purpose is to use the power of communications to make a of BT Group plc.
We are a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group better world.
The BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the We are here to meet the needs of our customers, delivering the management of the group and the Operating Committee of BT experience, products and services that matter to them.
Millions Group plc is the key management committee.
It monitors the of individuals connect through us to their friends and family, and groups financial, operational and customer service performance have huge amounts of information and entertainment at their and has cross-business oversight of BTs lines of business.
The smallest companies right through to multinational reviews the groups key risks and considers the potential threats corporations use our services every day to conduct their business and opportunities to the business.
and compete in the global marketplace.
Many public services rely The purpose and strategy, Delivering our strategy, Our lines of on our technologies, and in the UK the telecoms industry operates business and Group performance sections on pages 2 to 54 form across our networks.
Our success as a business depends on the Strategic report.
delivering value to all our customers, enabling them to fulfil their needs and aspirations.
We present the audited consolidated financial statements on pages 61 to 109 and 127.
The connectivity we provide every day plays an essential role in modern society and economies.
Our core business represents a significant part of the social infrastructure in the places where we operate.
The diagram below shows how our strategy supports our goal and purpose.
It sits at the centre of our business model.
External environment Governance Our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world Our goal A growing BT: to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Our strategy Broaden and deepen our customer relationships Transform Invest for Deliversuperior our costs growth customer service Outputs & Value creation Inputs Outcomes Mobility Leading TV and UK business Fibre and future global content markets voice companies Our culture A healthy organisation Our values Customer Team Honesty Change Pride We are We help We are honest We all make We are proud here for our each other andrespectful change to make a customers achievemore happen difference risks The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 13 May 2015.
By order of the Board Tony Chanmugam Director 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 2 5 19 2015 1:07:16 AM The Strategic Report 3 Purpose and strategy It is because we recognise how important connectivity is today that key processes relating to installations and when customers move we also work to extend the value we can add to communities where house.
we operate and to society at large by finding new ways that our We have made some good progress in these and other areas, products and services can bring social and economic benefits.
We including: are committed to using our technologies to respond to the climate change challenge.
And we enable our people to contribute their skills recruiting 2,500 new engineers: and energies to make a positive impact in areas of social need.
over 1,000 system and process changes to make it easier for our customers to deal with us and to help our people support It is by creating value for our customers and society that we will them.
This includes improving our websites so that it is more satisfy the needs of our shareholders and deliver sustainable straightforward to make and track orders, and find information profitable revenue growth.
and help more easily: investing in our network to make it more resilient to extreme Our GOAl weather conditions in both summer and winter : Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
specialist diagnostic equipment, alarms and new handheld Previously, we have had to depend on cost transformation to grow devices to help our engineers find faults quickly, increasing their our cash flows.
In the years ahead, revenue growth, combined with ability to get to the root of the matter and fix more issues in one continued transformation of our costs, will provide a powerful go: and platform for long-term and sustainable cash flow growth.
deploying a new appointment booking system for calling customers back and providing training in communication skills We will reinvest some of the cash we generate back into the business, for our advisers.
to enable us to grow over the long term.
And we will also use it to reward our shareholders and other stakeholders.
But we still want to do better.
Looking ahead, we are focusing on five key areas: Our STrATEGy Our strategy is founded on broadening and deepening our Acting on We are using the insight of our customers, our customer relationships.
insight people and other companies to guide decisionmaking and create products and services based To deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth, we need stronger on the changing demands and priorities of our relationships with our customers.
That means making sure we stay customers.
And as we explain below, we are relevant to them as markets, lifestyles and technologies change.
developing a new way to analyse the effectiveness of The three pillars of our strategy help us do that: delivering superior our processes from the customers perspective.
We will use this insight to improve the way we do things.
customer service: transforming our costs: and investing for growth.
The better our customer service, the more we will sell and the less Keeping our We are making our products and networks more time and money we need to spend putting things right.
Monitoring our networks and ordering better we manage our costs, the better value for money we can connected systems will help us identify issues sooner in many offer our customers and the more we can invest in giving customers cases before the customer is even aware there is an what they need, today and tomorrow.
And these principles in turn issue.
drive our business model see page 6.
Creating great We are improving the way we keep customers Deliver superior customer service tools and informed.
We continue to develop our websites, Every day we touch the lives of millions, providing services that systems offering more self-help features and online support.
Engineers are letting the customer know they are help people get the most out of their working and personal lives.
on the way before arriving at the premises.
And We recognise how important it is to improve service as the impact we are trialling an app to help customers track the when things go wrong is greater than ever before.
Getting the whereabouts of their engineer before a visit.
customer experience right will not only benefit our customers, it will make our business more cost effective too.
Customer service Working better We are changing the way our customer-facing teams and cost transformation go hand-in-hand.
across our are organised so that our people can take greater organisation ownership when they are dealing with customers To make sure we are equipped to meet the changing and enquiries.
Wehave adopted a new approach to help growing demands of consumers and businesses, a group-wide us analyse and improve how we perform in typical transformation, to put the Customer First, is underway.
You can customer interactions, like ordering a service from us find out more on page 7. or reporting a fault.
And further analysis of our repair process is helping us to understand what we need to Right First Time RFT is our key measure of customer service and do to make the customer experience better.
tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our customers.
Our overall improvement of 4.7% 2013 14: 1.5% reflects Supporting As well as redesigning processes, systems and positive contributions from each of our customer-facing lines of our people policies, we are urging our people to put themselves in their customers shoes, take personal ownership business.
We achieved significantly better repair performance of issues and make it easy for our customers to order and delivery times for providing UK lines and broadband.
Within and use our products and to contact us when they BT Global Services, we made large improvements to our speed of need to.
You can find more details in the line of business section on operating performance.
The wellbeing of our people is important to us and helps them deliver a good service to our customers.
Customer service is one of the factors used in determining the This is particularly true in Openreach which has annual bonus of executives.
It is made up of the RFT metric and a experienced a rise in sickness absence rates among new customer perception measure.
some of our older workers.
We are focusing on early intervention to address this and we provide support In last years Annual Report we outlined a number of specific areas services to help all our people return to their roles.
that we would focus on this year, including investment in our You can find more details on page 7. network, improving our online capability and changing some of the 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 3 5 19 2015 1:07:16 AM 4 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Looking ahead, we are focused on a number of areas including: Transform our costs We run large and complex cost transformation programmes which reviewing the effectiveness of our sales teams: to reduce are led by a team of internal consultants.
This administrative effort and focus people on what really matters makes sense because they know our business better than anyone.
selling to customers: ensuring we have the right people, with Their approach is based on a methodology honed over ten years and the right skills, aligned to the best opportunities in the market: underpinned by forensic data analysis, strong governance and the and by revising our incentive schemes to better align with support of senior management to make change happen quickly and desired outcomes: sustainably.
large end-to-end programmes specifically focused on improving customer experience in a number of delivery and This year, our underlying operating costs excluding transit were repair journeys through reducing waste in the process and down 2%, reflecting an 8% reduction in net labour costs and lower making it easier for our customers to interact with us: payments to other telecommunications operators.
These were partly rationalising and standardising our products, networks, offset by increased programme rights charges reflecting a full year applications and platforms to remove complexity and reduce of BT Sport.
We reduced our operating costs by around 600m this the cost of failure: and year.
Over the last six years we have reduced our operating costs and reviewing the effectiveness and efficiency of the back-office capital expenditure by around 5.5bn.
teams that support our customer-facing people.
Our largest cost transformation activities are driven top-down.
We benchmark what it costs us to do business against other large They might be end-to-end programmes spanning multiple lines telecommunications companies.
We keep making progress but we of business or complex changes contained within a single line of can still see more that we can do.
We also look beyond the world business.
Continuous Improvement CI provides a complementary of communications to see what lessons we can learn from other bottom-up approach.
CI makes small but important changes to industries.
We are confident that there are plenty of opportunities to how we do things every day and has the added benefit of improving reduce costs further.
You can read about cost transformation within our lines of business To strengthen cost transformation CT and its application from page 29.
And the groups performance on operating costs is throughout the business we have an in-house CT Academy.
CT Academy is responsible for the continued development of our change professionals.
This year alone it has trained and coached more than 1,800 people.
BT is the only UK organisation currently licensed by the British Quality Foundation to certify qualifications to the most advanced levels in Lean, Six Sigma and Change Management methodologies on such a scale.
Programmes this year included: taking tried-and-tested methods from the UK and using them overseas to reduce cost of failure, improve efficiency, streamline organisational structure and get better value for money from suppliers: identifying how we can improve the utilisation of our engineering teams and standardise the way they work.
We can reduce the number of engineers required at a particular location by investing in their training to make sure they are multi-skilled.
This programme has identified opportunities to reduce costs while shortening delivery times on core products like Ethernet: tightening up our contact centre operations by closing down small, inefficient centres, standardising technology and processes and rebalancing and reprioritising activities between the UK and overseas.
Better tools, training and utilisation of our service colleagues have made them more productive and helped them answer enquiries from customers more effectively : reducing the cost of failure across the lifecycle of our IT systems.
Bydesigning and developing them better, they fail less often, improving service and reducing cost: and launching our new group-wide Central Business Services capability, effectively a shared service centre, to support contract management and accounting, procurement, financial services and hR.
This simplifies the way we work and means we can share best practice to improve efficiency and service.
indb 4 5 19 2015 1:07:16 AM The Strategic report 5 Purpose and strategy Invest for growth proposed acquisition of EE by BT Group plc In February 2015 our ultimate parent, BT Group plc, announced that we had We are investing in five strategic areas.
These are the things we agreed definitive terms to buy EE, the leading mobile network operator in the believe will deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth which UK, for a purchase price of 12.5bn.
will deliver value for our shareholders: The deal, which is still subject to merger clearance, will be transformational Fibre Customers are asking for faster broadband.
It will allow us to accelerate our mobility strategy.
And it will increase delivering that with our superfast fibre broadband our capacity for future investment and innovation in networks and services, deployment.
It covers more than three-quarters of as we continue to build world-class digital infrastructure in the UK.
the premises in the UK and we are working to extend We believe the deal will generate considerable value for BT Group plcs its reach even further see page 42. shareholders.
We expect net cost synergies to be worth 3.0bn after integration costs and we expect to generate revenue synergies with a total We have long been at the forefront of fibre a net present value of approximately 1.6bn.
innovation and investment and we aim to keep it that way.
In January, we set out our vision for Thetransaction should be accretive to free cash flow per share in the first full ultrafast broadband.
With the right regulatory and year post completion of the deal.
investment environment, we plan to transform the UK broadband landscape through the widespread By combining EE with BT, we will be able to provide customers deployment of G. fast.
We expect G. fast to deliver with innovative, seamless services that combine the power of fibre speeds of a few hundred Mbps by 2020 and up to broadband with wi-fi and advanced mobile capabilities.
500Mbps to most of the UK within a decade.
We will also introduce a 1Gbps premium fibre broadband Our CulTurE service see page 45.
To deliver strong performance we have to be healthy.
A healthy organisation is made by the structures and processes that help TV and content We have improved our TV proposition this year.
people do their jobs effectively: and the attitudes and actions of all We redesigned its look and feel and enhanced the individuals.
service adding things like TV Everywhere, buy-tokeep movies and TV shows, Netflix and the BT Sport We have defined our values to guide how we want to work.
We also launched Sky Sports 1 and identified the changes we need to make: putting the customer first 2 on YouView.
in everything we do, simplifying how we work and developing a We won the rights to show more live FA Premier leadership style which helps to drive change and gives people the League football matches for three years from August confidence to take responsibility.
We believe people want to work 2016, and extended our Aviva Premiership Rugby with a company that recognises what they have to offer, supports rights to the end of the 2020 21 season.
their ability to grow and is a positive force in wider society.
By making all of this happen we will create an environment that brings This summer, BT Sport will become the new home of UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League the best out of our people.
football for the next three seasons.
Becoming a healthy organisation will enable us to deliver our Read more about these developments in the BT strategy.
It is about ensuring we can be resilient and agile in a Consumer section on page 36. changing world and, at the same time, make BT an exciting place where our people can all be proud to work.
Mobility and 2014 15 was a watershed year for us.
We launched future voice three new products in our business IP voice portfolio see page 34, returned to the consumer mobile market see page 37 and our ultimate parent company agreed definitive terms to acquire EE.
As explained below, this deal will make us the UKs leading converged communications provider CP.
uK business There are clear opportunities for us to grow our share markets of the UK business market and increase the revenue we get from each customer.
So we have improved our product portfolio and are focusing on selected areas of IT services where we can grow, such as data centres, cloud, managed hosting and security see page 34. leading global We are investing in our services, network and companies expertise to increase our share of spending by our large multinational customers.
By extending our global network and data centre footprint see page31, we are expanding the reach and features of our services, making them more flexible and better at working together.
Weare helping our customers address their challenges in the world of digital business, from cloud and collaboration, to mobility and security.
By investing in customer service and global account management capabilities, we continue to support leading global companies as they expand into new markets.
And help public sector organisations to better serve citizens.
a For the assumptions underlying our synergies estimates, see Additional Information on page 139.
