The Strategic Report 9 Delivering our strategy Service platforms Our NETWOrKS AND pHySICAl ASSETS We run a number of service platforms that combine our network and Our networks, service platforms and IT systems are the foundations IT resources to underpin many of the key products we offer.
These of the products our customers rely on around the world.
include: Network platforms Our global reach BT Conferencing, which we offer to our customers around the Our global network provides service to more than 170 countries world.
BT MeetMe is our audio conferencing service.
It is also and is supported by in-country networks and infrastructure.
Most available with Dolby Voice for higher quality sound and a better of our network assets are in the UK and Europe.
We continue to user experience.
selectively expand the reach of our network to support multinational BT Cloud Contact, one of our contact centre solutions.
For companies in other regions.
example, this has helped Etihad Airways better serve their customers.
Callers from 37 different countries are automatically The scale and reach of our global multi-protocol label switching directed to the right language team, in any one of three global MPLS network is a key competitive differentiator.
IP-based network lets our customer-facing lines of business launch Our BT TV platform, which we have invested further in to and sell products and services quickly and cost-effectively, without support a growing number of customers and to increase the needing to invest in dedicated infrastructure for each product.
range of services we can deliver.
We have added red button interactive features.
Our new Extra Box service provides To serve our multinational customers we offer our virtual private multi-room viewing.
And our people have implemented the network VPN services.
To provide these, we use our MPLS network technology to support our TV Everywhere service, and ensure and a combination of owned and leased fibre connections to Chromecast and Netflix services are compatible with BT TV.
interconnect our points of presence PoPs around the world.
For the final connection into the customers premises, we either use our own IT systems existing circuits, or rent connections from telecoms operators in that Our internal IT systems enable us to manage our processes, handle country.
We also have an extensive satellite network which provides customer information and deliver our products and services.
They customers with connectivity around the world, including to remote are critical to serving our customers and running our business.
For example, our customer management systems hold our customer Our global IP Exchange platform GIPX continues to do well.
They include the technology that is used 400 service providers are connected to it globally and this year we when customers call a contact centre, and behind our online launched a new node serving the Middle East.
In-country networks We are making our systems simpler.
And we are continuing to We have extensive networks in the UK, as well as in Germany, Italy, innovate.
Last year we launched a system to analyse our own Big the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
We have seen the benefits of it this year.
It has provided Our UK fixed-line network is one of our most valuable assets and our greater insight into potential line faults which has reduced the investment in fibre broadband is key to delivering modern, superfast number of unnecessary engineer visits.
To meet the demand from businesses, we We currently have around 25 petabytes of data storage are continuing to expand the availability of Ethernet.
And when our infrastructure spread across several sites.
If this storage was full of customers are away from their home or office, they can use one of MP3-encoded songs they would take about 50,000 years to play.
more than 5m BT Wi-fi hotspots.
We expect the amount of data that we store to grow.
Despite this, Developments this year we are working on reducing the number of data centres we run, This year we have: removing older server technology and using fewer IT applications.
We are able to do this while increasing our storage capacity by using improved our UK broadband network at the same time as virtualisation.
This increases our data centre utilisation by running reducing its running costs.
We have made it more resilient to many virtual machines on each server.
faults and it can now better cater for increases in traffic.
And we We are incorporating many innovations into our data centres to have continued to extend the reach of our fibre network see improve performance and power efficiency, as well as reduce cost.
page 42 : Developments such as adaptive power management and hot engaged with our MVNO partner, EE, to develop new mobile cold aisle isolation help us to reduce power usage.
These and other services that have allowed BT Consumer to re-enter the mobile programmes will help us cut our IT energy use over the coming years.
market: been developing the core network systems and radio properties infrastructure to be able to use our own 4G spectrum.
This work We occupy around 6,350 properties in the UK and around 1,730 in focuses on small-cell, in-building solutions: the rest of the world.
Most of our UK properties are owned by and built the systems that will lay the foundation for the next leased from Telereal Trillium, part of the William Pears group, after generation of IP-based communication and future voice we entered into a sale and leaseback arrangement with them in services: 2001. rationalised our voice and legacy data networks so we are using less equipment and less energy: and Our freehold sites include our main strategic buildings: BT Centre: simplified the technology we use to provide all of our global the BT Tower: and our R&D facility, Adastral Park in Suffolk.
network services IP Connect, Ethernet Connect and Internet Of our UK properties, 95% are operational, housing telecoms Connect.
By using a single network router, rather than one for and broadband equipment.
The rest are offices, customer contact each service, we are able to reduce the cost of introducing these centres, engineering depots, data centres and our BT Sport TV services.
This has enabled us to offer Ethernet Connect and studio.
Internet Connect in eight new countries and 38 new cities on our own network this year.
