Review of investments Elenia Performance in the year Cost 194.8m Closing value 238.5m Equity interest 39.3% Opening value 235.7m Net capitalised interest in the year 2.8m Income in the year 19.9m Value movement in the year 29.5m 1 Net exchange movement in the year 3.1 m Asset total return in the year 46.2m Valuation basis DCF 1 Exchange movement of 29.5 million net of allocated foreign exchange hedging movements of 26.4 million.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 42 Review of investments Description Achievements in the period of Developments in the year Elenia owns the second largest ownership Overall, both businesses continued to perform electricity distribution network in Finland.
well operationally and financially, despite The businesses were rebranded with the Headquartered in Tampere, it serves around warmer than average weather conditions Elenia name in May 2012, reinforcing 412,000 customers in the south west of reducing demand.
the separation from Vattenfall to the country and has a market share of domestic audiences.
Secondary market pricing for Elenias debt has approximately 12%.
The business is regulated continued to tighten since its Whole Business on a four-year cycle, delivering a set return The business successfully completed the Securitisation, which it completed in December on its regulated asset base.
The electricity post-acquisition corporate reorganisation in 2013.
During the year, Elenia was able to take distribution business accounts for early January 2013.
This allowed Elenia to advantage of these positive market conditions approximately 90% of Elenias overall value.
begin distributing dividends to shareholders.
to issue new bonds, with maturities to 2026 and In December 2013, Elenias original acquisition Elenia Lmp owns and operates 16 2034, on attractive terms, which it has used to debt was fully refinanced through a Whole local district heating networks, each with repay bank debt.
Business Securitisation, the first of its kind strong market shares in their local areas.
to be applied to a non-UK European utility.
Elenias regulatory allowed return weighted District heating, which involves the pumping of This was an important milestone for the average cost of capital, or WACC is determined hot water directly into homes and businesses business, with positive implications for value, annually with reference to the 10-year Finnish from central hubs, is not regulated in Finland.
as it provided a platform for access to the longgovernment bond yield in May of the preceding This business accounts for approximately 10% term capital markets and reduced the ongoing year.
The 10-year Finnish government bond of Elenias overall value.
yield fell significantly during the year, driven The investment is held through 3i Networks principally by the ECBs monetary policy and Elenias governance was enhanced through the Finland LP, an intermediary limited partnership by geopolitical tensions, which have led some appointment of new independent chairmen to which is managed by the Investment Adviser.
investors to seek the safe haven of Finnish the boards of each business, as well as through sovereign debt.
This has had a negative impact a number of management appointments on returns.
Investment rationale to further strengthen the executive teams.
In addition, management incentives were put In February 2015 the Finnish Energy Authority, The Company purchased Elenia from Vattenfall in place to align management incentivisation to which regulates electricity distribution in AB in January 2012 in a consortium with 3i the objectives of the shareholders.
Finland, announced draft guidelines for the Group plc, GS Infrastructure Partners and next two regulatory periods beginning in Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company.
The consortium has engaged with the January 2016 which, if implemented in their management team of Elenia to update and Elenia has strong infrastructure characteristics current form, would have a positive impact enhance its capital expenditure plans to and operates in an attractive market: on the valuation of the networks business.
Since acquisition Among other matters, the draft guidelines the electricity distribution business in January 2012, Elenia has invested more suggest changes to the calculation of the operates in a stable and transparent than 250 million in developing its electricity WACC, addressing the issue of the low allowed regulatory environment, with regulatory network, with a particular emphasis on return.
These guidelines are still in draft incentives providing opportunities for valueimproving service reliability and weather form and the regulator is consulting with the accretive growth: proofing.
The rate of underground cabling industry in anticipation of the publication of has improved from 23.3% to 30.9% as at the businesses are profitable and provide the final regulatory settlement, expected by 31 December 2014.
A number of acquisitions inflation linkage.
This is likely to support a December 2015. have also been examined, with the first bolt-on robust yield to 3i Infrastructure over the long acquisition of an adjacent network completed in In July 2014, Elenia became the first electricity term: and August 2012. distribution network in Europe and second in Finland is an attractive market, providing the world to receive ISO 55001 certification.
opportunities for consolidation over the Throughout the period of ownership, the ISO 55001 is a set of international standards medium term.
consortium has supported the management establishing best practice for the systems team in its dialogue with the regulator.
and operations of companies in assetThe regulator introduced a new security of intensive industries.
supply incentive, aimed at improving the reliability of electricity supply in response to Elenia, supported by the consortium, continues outages caused by severe weather conditions to monitor potential acquisition opportunities in 2011 and 2012, effective from January in the fragmented electricity distribution 2014, and more recently confirmed a revised market.
Consolidation of the existing approach to asset depreciation.
These had a network would allow Elenia to leverage its positive effect on returns.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 43
