Review of investments PPP portfolio Performance in the year Cost 78.3m Description Primary project portfolio Closing value 109.0m Mersey Gateway Bridge, a project involving the design, build, finance, operation and maintenance of a 1km tolled bridge across Opening value 107.8m the river Mersey in Liverpool, as well as Investment in the year 2.7m 9km of approach roads, against availabilityIncome in the year 8.9m based payments commencing from 2017.
Value movement in the year 0.8 m Construction commenced in April 2014, with 1 Net exchange movement in the year 0.1 m completion expected in the spring of 2017.
Asset total return in the year 8.0m 3i Infrastructure, alongside partner Fomento Valuation basis DCF and LP share of funds for Dalmore fide Construccin y Contratas, a Spanish Note: In addition to the value of the investments shown above Octagon, Elgin, construction company, is invested in a vehicle Dalmore and NMM, the Company also has undrawn commitments to primary that holds a 25% interest in the project.
The total invested and committed portfolio value at 31 March 2015 was 158.7 million.
Ayrshire College, a project to build a new 1 Exchange movement of 0.6 million net of allocated foreign exchange campus for Ayrshire College in Kilmarnock, hedging movements of 0.5 million.
The project, procured by Ayrshire College, involves the design, build, finance, operation and maintenance of a new college campus, against availability-based payments over a concession period of 25 years.
Completion of construction is expected in May 2016.
3i Infrastructure has a 100% interest in the project.
RIVM, a project to build the new premises of the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment and the Dutch Medicines Evaluation Board in Utrecht, the Netherlands.
The project scope involves the design, build, finance, maintenance and operation of 2 70,000m facility comprising an office building and laboratories on the site of Utrecht Science Park.
Completion of construction is expected in November 2018.
3i Infrastructure has a 28% interest in this project through Heijmans Capital BV.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 48 Review of investments A12, a project involving the refurbishment, Dalmore Capital Fund is a 25-year LP fund Developments in the year widening and maintenance of an 11km section managed by Dalmore Capital Limited, investing All assets in the operational PPP portfolio of the A12 motorway in the Netherlands, as in equity and subordinated debt in secondary performed well operationally during the year, well as the maintenance of an additional PFI transactions which are operational delivering good levels of income: 8km section.
Construction is expected to be and do not have volume-based payment completed by the end of 2016.
The fund can invest across the All 16 projects in Elgin are performing in has an 80% interest in the project, through social infrastructure sector and targets gross line with expectations.
All service providers Heijmans Capital BV.
returns of 10% for its investors.
At 31 March are performing well, with no significant 2015, Dalmore had total commitments of new operational issues arising at any of the A9, a project involving the design, build, 249 million, 100% of which were drawn.
management, maintenance and financing of the existing and new infrastructure of National Military Museum is a project Octagon continues to perform well the A9 motorway between Diemen and procured by the Dutch Ministry of Defence financially and operationally and has Holendrecht in the Netherlands.
The project comprising the design, build, finance and maintained its strong working relationship will reconstruct and expand the A9 motorway maintenance of a museum facility on the site with the NHS Trust despite significant between these junctions, including a bridge of the former Soesterberg Airbase, located pressures on the Trust as a result of over the river Gaasp.
It will also include approximately 60km south east of Amsterdam.
increased budgetary constraints and with the construction of an approximately 3km The construction of the project was completed Serco, which continues to provide a good overground tunnel.
The facility exhibits service to the Trust.
45% interest in the project, with the balance military equipment and holds various related NMM became operational in September held by Heijmans NV, Ballast Nedam and Fluor events including workshops and symposia 2014, and the Companys remaining Infrastructure BV.
The project is owned by 2.4 million investment in the project was Heijmans Capital BV, a joint venture in which drawn upon the completion of construction.
La Sant, a project involving the design, build, 3i Infrastructure has an 80% interest, with The Dalmore portfolio now comprises 46 refurbishment, finance and maintenance of the balance held by Heijmans NV, the Dutch investments, which overall are performing various buildings for La Sant prison in Paris.
well, resulting in cash generation ahead The project will also include the provision of projections.
of facilities management services once construction is complete, which is expected to Investment rationale The Investment Adviser has been active in be by the end of 2018.
3i Infrastructure has an sourcing and making investments on behalf Exposure to social infrastructure through PPP 80% interest in the project, with the balance of the Company in the primary PPP market, projects provides the Companys portfolio held by subsidiaries of Vinci Construction adding to the holdings in the Mersey Gateway with lower risk, index-linked cash flows.
Bridge and NMM projects acquired last year.
Investments in primary projects also tend to During the year, the Company committed to generate capital uplifts as the investments are Operational PPP portfolio invest a total of 37 million in five new primary managed from the construction phase through PPP projects: Ayrshire College in Scotland, the ramp-up.
Elgin is a portfolio of PFI project investments, A9 and A12 motorways and RIVM laboratories comprising five schools projects and 11 in the Netherlands and La Sant Prison community healthcare schemes, all of which Achievements in the period of in France.
are fully operational, under concessions of up ownership The Companys primary PPP portfolio is to 32 years.
The portfolio companies receive performing well, with construction proceeding inflation-linked payments to cover services All assets in the PPP portfolio have performed to plan and within budget, except in relation and buildings maintenance, which are subject well through their period of ownership, in line to Mersey Gateway Bridge, where there have to performance deductions for service failures with, or ahead of, expectations providing a good been minor delays due principally to high winds and unavailability.
Facilities services are subreturn to the Company since inception.
This has affecting the scheduling of some construction contracted to Robertson Facilities Management been due to engaged portfolio management activities.
The Companys commitments in 15 projects and Carillion Facilities on the part of the Investment Adviser and to the Mersey Gateway Bridge, Ayrshire Management in one project.
other shareholders, as well as more general College, RIVM, A9 and A12 motorways and La factors, including higher than expected Octagon is a concession company under a 35- Sant projects will be drawn at completion inflation.
The Investment Adviser has a strong year PFI contract to build, operate and maintain of construction.
track record in managing the development the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital.
and construction risks for the primary The Company expects to reach financial close Construction of the hospital was completed PPP portfolio.
on the West of Duddon Sands OFTO project in August 2001.
Octagon receives RPI-linked when it is commissioned in the summer payments from the NHS Trust to cover services The Investment Adviser generated significant of 2015, with an expected commitment of and buildings maintenance, which are subject value through the sale of the Companys approximately 25 million.
to performance deductions for service failures 2 holdings in Alma Mater, I and Alpha Schools and unavailability.
Octagon sub-contracts the at material uplifts over cost in 2008, 2009 and provision of facilities services to Serco.
2013 respectively, generating an aggregate IRR of 30%.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 49 Review of investments 3i India Infrastructure Fund Performance in the year Cost 91.9m Description The 3i India Infrastructure Fund the India Fund is a US$1.2 billion fund which closed Closing value 63.2m in 2008, investing in a diversified portfolio of equity or equivalent investments in India, focusing on the port, road and power sectors.
Partnership interest 20.9% 3i Infrastructure committed US$250 million to Opening value 73.9m this fund.
Divestment in the year 9.2m The investment period for the India Fund ended Capital profit in the year 1.0m on 30 November 2012 and the Board expects Value movement in the year 6.3 m that the Companys remaining commitment Exchange movement in the year 4.8m of US$37.5 million will not be substantially Asset total return in the year 0.5 m drawn.
As at 31 March 2015, the India Fund was Valuation basis LP share of funds invested in a portfolio of seven assets in the Note: Opening cost was 106.8 million.
Transportation The investments in the Transportation sector accounted for 68% of the India Funds value at 31 March 2015.
Krishnapatnam Port has a concession to develop, operate and maintain the port of Krishnapatnam in the state of Andhra Pradesh.
KMC Roads is developing an approximately 850km portfolio of  BOT road projects, one of the largest portfolios of its kind in India.
Supreme Roads is building a portfolio of BOT road projects.
Soma Enterprise is an infrastructure developer in India, which focuses mainly on BOT road projects, but also on projects in the hydro power, irrigation, railways, power transmission and urban infrastructure sectors.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 50 Review of investments Power Transportation Achievements in the period The investments in the Power sector The India Funds transportation assets were of ownership accounted for 32% of the India Funds value at valued in aggregate at 42.9 million at 31 March The India Fund reached the end of its 31 March 2015.
investment period in November 2012 and Adani Power focuses on the development The road investments continue to be now has a diversified portfolio of assets in the and operation of power plants and the sale of adversely impacted by challenges in project power, ports and roads sectors, in line with power generated.
With operational capacity of execution, due to delays in land acquisitions its mandate.
3i Investments, which manages 9,240MW, it is currently the largest independent and environmental approvals.
The road the India Fund, is focused on monitoring the private power producer in India in terms of construction companies are also facing portfolio and on realising value from the operating capacity.
cash flow constraints due to an increase in portfolio over the next two to three years, if raw material costs and pending claims with market conditions allow.
GVK Energy is developing a portfolio of power the National Highway Authority of India the generation projects 4,047MW, diversified by The valuation of the India Funds assets has concessioning authority, leading to severe fuel type, stage of development and geography.
been affected by a number of market and working capital constraints.
A number of In addition, GVK Energy is developing two other external factors over its life, including the the construction companies have opted mining projects to supply coal to its own depreciation of the Indian rupee.
At 31 March to restructure their debt obligations.
2015, the India Funds net asset value was These pressures are affecting all three of our 0.85x its investment cost in rupee terms, and Ind-Barath Utkal is building a 700MW coalroad assets, Soma Enterprise, KMC Roads and 0.68x in sterling terms.
Overall, the Board fired power plant in the state of Odisha.
Supreme Roads, and the Investment Adviser is satisfied that appropriate action is being continues to work with the companies to taken to manage the performance of the India Investment rationale address them.
Funds assets within the constraints of the The investment case underpinning the Krishnapatnam Port continues to witness macroeconomic and market challenges.
Companys commitment to the India Fund in strong growth in traffic, led by the increase 2007 can be summarised as follows: in coal imports, particularly by power plants Developments in the year located in the immediate vicinity of the there was much need for infrastructure Overall, the investments in the India Fund port.
On 30 September 2013, the India Fund investment in India, with the current have continued to face challenges in the year.
exercised a put option over its holding in the infrastructure deficit in the country The Modi government, elected in May 2014, has company.
The consideration due under the put providing opportunity for private investment: made a number of important policy statements option has not been paid and the India Fund in support of investment in the infrastructure the Indian Government was actively seeking is seeking to enforce its rights through legal sector.
However, these statements have and encouraging private investment in action.
There were no material developments yet to translate into concrete initiatives infrastructure development: in the year.
that can improve the performance of the the investment in the India Fund offered 3i portfolio materially.
Infrastructure exposure to a diversified pool of assets and larger investments than the During the second half of the year, the Indian Company could access on its own account, rupee increased in value against the US dollar at no additional cost to the Company: and and other currencies, resulting in a modest the India Fund was well positioned, with an foreign exchange gain, which more than established presence in its market through reversed the losses incurred in the first half of its investment manager.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 51 Review of investments 3i India Infrastructure Fund The Indian government has been working to Power resolve some of these issues, increasing the The power sector investments were valued in regulated price of gas to encourage increased aggregate at 20.3 million at 31 March 2015 exploration and production and developing 2014: 34.5 million.
The factors affecting a mechanism to allow power producers to their performance have remained broadly pass through increased fuel costs through unchanged, and include: higher tariffs under existing long-term power purchase agreements PPAs.
However, the availability of domestic coal: Coal India the Supreme Court has ruled against these continues to struggle to match supplies proposed changes to PPA tariffs, and the with the contracted demand from power matter has been referred to the Regulator.
producers and the resulting shortfall is being made up with expensive imports.
During the year, the India Fund sold In addition, during the year, the Supreme approximately 54% of its holding in Adani Court confirmed the cancellation of over Power, a listed company.
The sale capitalised 200 coal licenses awarded to private sector on the rally in the share price of that business operators, which is expected to exacerbate around the time of the Indian general election the problem in the short term: and more recently.
Proceeds due to the the availability of gas: production from Company in relation to the sale totalled Indias main gas fields has declined 10.2 million.
During the first half of the dramatically in recent years and today little year, the Company received a distribution of gas is available for power production.
proceeds from the India Fund of 7.4 million: at the year end the Company had a debtor balance for the remaining 2.8 million which will be received by the Company with the India Funds next scheduled distribution.
The Companys residual holding in Adani Power was valued at 7.9 million at the end of the year, based on the closing bid price at 31 March 2015 of 47.3 rupees per share.
GVK continues to face gas availability issues, further delays in completion of its construction projects and was one of the companies to have a coal mining licence withdrawn by the Supreme Court in a recent ruling covering the historic allocation of Indias coal mining rights.
These factors together have increased funding requirements and caused a material reduction in its valuation in the year.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 52 Governance Governance
