Strategic report Changing market conditions Core infrastructure The sustained growth in demand for long duration assets in a low interest rate environment has continued to drive increased competition for infrastructure investments.
The asset class continues to attract interest from existing specialist financial investors, but also increasingly from large pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and insurance companies, a number of which have developed direct investment capabilities over recent years.
Underlying investors have continued to increase their allocations to the infrastructure sector and overall remain under-invested relative to target allocations.
This increase in demand, combined with the availability of debt finance for infrastructure investment on attractive terms, continues to drive the price of some infrastructure assets materially higher and therefore projected returns lower.
This trend has been most evident in the market for large Core infrastructure assets over recent months, where the Company has participated in several competitive processes where the pricing and resulting risk-adjusted returns have not been consistent with the Companys targets.
This compression in returns has, however, had a materially positive impact on the value of the Companys portfolio.
Primary PPP and low-risk energy projects In contrast to the Core infrastructure investment market, returns available from primary PPP and low-risk energy projects have remained relatively stable over the last five years.
The market opportunity remains good, particularly in Continental Europe, as resource-constrained governments open up the provision of a number of services through PPP-type transactions.
We expect that it will grow further over time, as programmes are expanded across a broader spectrum of sectors, although the near-term pipeline has reduced recently.
Our approach in these changing markets In this highly competitive environment, we have remained disciplined in targeting new investment.
As competition for large Core infrastructure assets has increased, we have sought more attractive riskadjusted returns in other areas of the infrastructure market, such as mid market Core infrastructure and primary PPP and low-risk energy projects.
During the year, we committed to invest 114 million in two further Oiltanking terminals and in five primary PPP projects, leveraging the Investment Advisers broad investment platform.
The Company aims to be a long-term investor in its portfolio assets, but it will sell investments from time to time if this generates material additional value for shareholders above that achieved by holding the assets.
In line with this approach, during the year we assessed and executed the sale of our investment in Eversholt Rail, realising a significant profit for shareholders.
Through this sale, we crystallised an IRR of over 40% during our ownership period of four years and a money multiple of 3.4x over our initial investment.
While we have actively participated in a number of bidding processes during the year, our priority is to maintain a disciplined approach towards making new investment and focus selectively on those investments that are enhancing to the Company and its shareholders.
The Investment Adviser continues tomonitor and assess opportunities in adjacent markets, including new sectors and geographies.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 8
