Overview Our largest investments Anglian Water Group Limited AWG is the parent company of Anglian Water, Anglian Water Group the largest water and water recycling company in EnglandandWales by geographical area and the fourth largest as measured by regulatory capital value.
The majority of the groups revenue is earned through tariffs regulated by Ofwatand linked to RPI.
The current regulatory period started on 1 April 2015 and runs to 31 March 2020.
See page 40 Elenia owns the second largest electricity distribution network in Finland.
Elenia Headquartered in Tampere, it serves around 412,000 customers in the south west of the country and has a market share of approximately 12%.
The business delivers a set return on its regulated asset base.
The electricity distribution business accounts for approximately 90% of Elenias overall value.
Elenia Lmp owns and operates 16 local district heating networks, each with strong market shares in their local areas.
District heating, which involves the pumping of hot water directly into homes and businesses from central hubs, isnot regulated in Finland.
This business accounts for approximately 10% of Elenias overall value.
See page 42 Oystercatcher is the holding company through which the Company invested in Oystercatcher 45% stakes in three subsidiaries of Oiltanking GmbH Oiltanking, located in the Netherlands, Malta and Singapore.
These businesses provide over 3.5 million cubic metres of oil, petroleum and other oil-related storage facilities and associated services to a broad range of clients, including private and state oil companies, refiners, petrochemical companies and traders.
Oiltanking is one of the worlds leading independent storage partners for oils, chemicals and gases, operating 72 terminals in 22 countries with a total storage capacity of 19 million cubic metres.
In February 2015, the Company announced the acquisition of 45% stakes in two further oil storage facilities in the Netherlands and Belgium.
These will be acquired through Oystercatcher.
The transaction is expected to complete by June 2015.
See page 44 Cross London Trains is a company established to procure and lease the rolling Cross London Trains stock for use on the Thameslink passenger rail franchise.
As part of a wider upgrade of the Thameslink rail network, Cross London Trains is investing 1.6 billion in a fleet of new Siemens Desiro City commuter rail carriages to be leased to the Thameslink rail franchise operator, with the continued leasing of the trains underpinned by the Department for Transport for a period of 20 years.
Siemens will manufacture and deliver the trains over a period of five years, withthe first delivery into service expected in early 2016.
See page 46 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 4 Strategic report Strategic report
