Review of investments Anglian Water Group Performance in the year Cost 161.9m Closing value 242.3m Equity interest 10.3% Opening value 234.5m Income in the year 10.5m Value movement in the year 7.8m Asset total return in the year 18.3m Valuation basis DCF 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 40 Review of investments Anglian Water ranked joint first on a combined Description Achievements in the period of qualitative and quantitative basis among Anglian Water Group Limited AWG is the ownership the water and water recycling companies parent company of Anglian Water, the largest in Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism, AWG has flourished under private ownership.
water and water recycling company in England which measures the performance of water It has refocused on its core business, selling and Wales by geographical area and the fourth companies against the experience of Morrison Utilities Services, Morrison Facilities largest as measured by regulatory capital customers, for the year ending 31 March 2014.
Services and much of its property portfolio.
The majority of the groups revenue is The company has been able to optimise its The final determination for the 2015-2020 earned through tariffs regulated by Ofwat and capital structure compared to listed peers regulatory period, or AMP6, which began linked to RPI.
and to distribute a higher proportion of cash on 1 April 2015, was delivered by Ofwat in The investment is held through 3i Osprey LP, flows to shareholders, resulting in a strong December 2014 and accepted by AWG in an intermediary limited partnership whose yield.
The regulated capital value has grown February 2015.
This was a tough determination partners comprise other third parties including steadily, underpinned by a comprehensive for the sector as a whole, although Anglian 3i Group, which has a small interest and which capital expenditure programme, which will Waters business plan was well received is managed by the Investment Adviser.
be maintained for the 2015-2020 regulatory by Ofwat and praised by customer groups.
A new management incentive scheme Customer bills will fall by an average of 8.8% in was put in place post investment, aligning real terms next year, the largest decrease of all Investment rationale compensation with long-term value growth, water and sewerage companies.
This is in large AWG was taken private in 2006 by a group asset quality and customer service rather part due to the efficiencies delivered by Anglian of investors, including 3i Group, which than short-term earnings and share price Water in AMP5, with that outperformance seeded part of its AWG holding into 3i performance.
The management team now benefit now being shared with customers.
Infrastructure when the Company was balances long-term planning, for example, to The business is now focusing on implementing set up in 2007.
The business has strong respond to the challenges of climate change, the capital spending programme for AMP6 and infrastructure characteristics: with a clear focus on operational efficiency and on achieving its cost efficiency targets through customer service.
a regulated near-monopoly position in its geographical area for the provision of water The Water Act became law in the year and sets and water recycling services: Developments in the year out a number of changes to the structure of stable and predictable earnings and cash the industry, including placing water supply AWG performed well during the year, with flows through RPI-linked tariffs: and resilience at the heart of decision-making in operational performance and income the sector, extending competition for business largely predictable operating costs.
levels broadly in line with expectations.
customers and changing the abstraction The business achieved its cost efficiency and In addition, AWG has attractive fundamentals: regime to encourage more efficient use of capital spending targets in the final year of water resources.
Most of the changes in the a strong management team: the 2010-2015 regulatory period, driven by Water Act had been well signalled and, as a several initiatives including changes to working a well maintained asset base: top performing water and water recycling practices, better maintenance, improved operations in a geographic region with company, AWG is well placed to accommodate sourcing, industrialised construction and lower high population growth and relatively them.
However, the structural nature of market energy consumption, all underpinned by a low industrial exposure, limiting cyclical liberalisation means that increasing amounts focus on customer service.
correlation: and of management time will be consumed over the a track record of strong The core water business continues to perform next few years as AWG works towards the nonoperational performance.
well operationally, despite continued pressure household retail market opening in April 2017. on residential and small business demand Sir Adrian Montague stepped down as during the year.
Compared with recent chairman of AWG in January 2015 and was years, which were affected by wet weather replaced as chairman on an interim basis and flooding, the more benign conditions by Robert Napier, previously the senior experienced in the year to March 2015 have independent director.
Stephen Billingham, led to a more typical profile, resulting in lower formerly CFO of British Energy and currently underlying operating costs.
chairman of Punch Taverns, took over as chairman from Robert Napier with effect from 1 April 2015.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 41
