Governance Introduction This section describes how 3i Infrastructure is Board of Directors and Committees governed.
It explains how the Board is organised and The Board is assisted in its activities by a number of standing operates, including the roles and composition of each committees of the Board and, in undertaking its duties, it delegates certain authorities and decisions to these Committees.
The Board of its Committees, and provides details on our Board committee structure, together with a summary of the roles and members and how they are remunerated.
composition of the Committees, is outlined in the diagram below.
3i Infrastructures Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall The Committees have terms of reference, which are available on management and oversight of the Company, for agreeing its strategy, www.
com monitoring its financial performance, setting and monitoring its risk The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and appetite and maintaining an effective system of internal controls.
He is also responsible for organising the business of the Board and setting its agenda.
In addition to the Chairman, 3i Infrastructure has no employees, and its investment and portfolio there are currently five independent, non-executive Directors and one 3i monitoring activities are carried out by 3i Investments plc, its Investment Group plc nominee.
Adviser, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
As such, it is the Boards responsibility to ensure that the Company has a clear strategy Further details on the key responsibilities and areas of focus of the and that its Investment Adviser has the resources and structures to Board and its Committees, as well as details on attendance at full Board support the delivery of this strategy.
meetings, are set out on pages 59 and 62 to 63.
The Board also has direct access to the Companys external advisers, including the Companys corporate brokers, financial adviser and legal advisers.
The Board receives advice on a range of subjects but particularly on the infrastructure market, UK and Jersey legal matters and equity market issues.
3i Infrastructure plc Board Committees Audit and Risk Management Investment Remuneration Nominations 1 Committee Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial reporting, Monitoring of the Acquisition, Director Board appointments risk and internal performance of the monitoring remuneration and size, balance and controls Investment Adviser and disposal of composition of the investments Board Steven Wilderspin Peter Sedgwick All Directors Philip Austin chair Peter Sedgwick chair chair chair Peter Sedgwick Philip Austin Philip Austin Philip Austin Doug Bannister Doug Bannister Doug Bannister Paul Masterton Wendy Dorman Paul Masterton Wendy Dorman Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Steven Wilderspin Steven Wilderspin 1 Renamed Audit and Risk committee with effect from 21 January 2015.
Note: The table shows the current membership of the committees.
Details of membership throughout the year are on page 62.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 54
