Governance Board of Directors Peter Sedgwick Philip Austin Non-executive Director, Doug Bannister Non-executive Chairman SeniorIndependent Director Non-executive Director Between 2000 and 2006, Peter was a member of the Philip spent most of his career in banking with HSBC in Doug has over 20 years of experience in the management committee and a Vice President of the the UK and Jersey and, from 1997 to 2001, was Deputy transportation sector, having lead businesses trading European Investment Bank EIB, one of the largest Chief Executive of the banks business in the Offshore around the world for P&O Nedlloyd and Maersk.
multinational lending institutions in the world.
In 2001, he became the founding CEO of Jersey He became Group CEO of the Ports of Jersey Airports also a director of the European Investment Fund from Finance Ltd, the body set up as a joint venture between & Harbours in 2011, with responsibility for the Islands 2002 to 2006.
Before joining the EIB, he was a career the government of Jersey and its Finance Industry, strategic airport and maritime assets.
Skilled in HM Treasury civil servant in the UK.
He was a trustee to represent and promote the Industry in Jersey and turnaround, restructuring and transformation of capital and director of Dyslexia Institute Limited trading as internationally.
Between 2006 and 2009, he was at intense transportation businesses, he has been Dyslexia Action between 2007 and 2011 and has been Equity Trust where he had direct responsibility for responsible for all manner of transportation in both the appointed Chairman of Bowel Cancer UK from 2013.
Jersey, Guernsey and Switzerland as well as being a freight and passenger segments.
Board member since Chairman since 29 January 2007, resident in the UK.
member of the Group Executive Committee.
He has 1 January 2015, resident in Jersey.
since taken a number of directorships in companies in the financial services sector.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and a Fellow of the Institute of Management.
Board member since 16 January 2007, resident in Jersey.
Wendy Dorman Ian Lobley Paul Masterton Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Wendy is a chartered accountant who went on to Ian joined 3i in 1987.
He has been a Partner since Paul spent most of his career in the printing and specialise in financial services taxation.
In 2001 she 1994 and an active investor and board member communications industry, holding various appointments moved from London to Jersey and leads the Channel across Europe, Asia and the USA.
In his role as in the UK, the US and Asia.
From 2008 to 2013, Paul was Islands tax practice of PwC.
Wendy has over twenty five Partner Asset Management, Ian has responsibility the chief executive of the Durrell Wildlife Conservation years experience in taxation gained both in the UK and for investments in companies across a variety of Trust, an international wildlife charity.
Paul has a the offshore environment, working both in practice and sectors and is an experienced board member across number of directorships in banking, insurance and in industry.
Wendy is Chairman of the Jersey branch of multiple geographies.
He is a member of the 3i Group property development and, in 2012, was appointed as the Institute of Directors and was awarded the 2011 IOD Investment Committee and is a member of the BVCA UK the founding chairman for Digital Jersey, a partnership Female Director of the Year.
She is also a non-executive and European Capital Committee.
Board member since between the Government of Jersey and the digital sector director of Jersey Finance.
She is a former President 6 May 2014, resident in the UK.
to represent and promote the industry.
Appointed with of the Jersey Society of Chartered and Certified effect from 4 April 2013, resident in Jersey.
Board member since 1 March 2015, resident in Jersey.
Steven Wilderspin Non-executive Director, Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee Steven has been the Principal of Wilderspin Independent Governance, which provides independent directorship services, since April 2007.
He was previously a director of fund administrator Maples Finance Jersey Limited.
He has served on a number of private equity, property and hedge fund boards as well as the boards of special purpose companies engaged in structured finance transactions.
Before that, from 1997, he acted as Head of Accounting at Perpetual Fund Management Jersey Limited.
He also sits on the boards of two of 3i Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg subsidiaries, 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. He is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
Board member since 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 20 September 2007, resident in Jersey.
