Financials and other information Investment policy The Company aims to build a diversified portfolio of equity investments No investment made by the Company will represent more than in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Company 20% of the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, at seeks investment opportunities globally, but with a focus on Europe, the time of the making of the investment.
It is expected that most North America and Asia.
individual investments will exceed 50 million.
In some cases, the total amount required for an individual transaction may exceed the The Companys equity investments will often comprise share capital maximum amount that the Company is permitted to commit to a single and related shareholder loans or other financial instruments that investment.
In such circumstances, the Company may consider entering are not shares but that, in combination with shares, are similar in into co-investment arrangements with 3i Group or other investors who substance.
The Company may also invest in junior or mezzanine debt in may also be significant shareholders, pursuant to which 3i Group and infrastructure businesses or assets.
its subsidiaries or such other investors may co-invest on the same Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted companies.
financial and economic terms as the Company.
The suitability of any However, the Company may also invest in entities owning infrastructure such co-investment arrangements will be assessed on a  and assets whose shares or other instruments are listed by-transaction basis and would be subject to Board approval.
on any stock exchange, irrespective of whether they cease to be listed Depending on the size of the relevant investment and the identity of the after completion of the investment, if the Directors judge that such an relevant co-investor, such a co-investment arrangement may be subject investment is consistent with the Companys investment objectives.
to the related party transaction provisions contained in the Listing Rules The Company will, in any case, invest no more than 15% of its total and may therefore require shareholder consent.
gross assets in other investment companies or investment trusts which The Companys Articles require its outstanding borrowings, including are listed on the Official List.
any financial guarantees to support subsequent obligations, to be The Company may also consider investing in other fund structures in limited to 50% of the gross assets of the Group valuing investments on the event that it considers, on receipt of advice from the Investment the basis included in the Groups accounts.
Adviser, that that is the most appropriate and effective means of In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Company will only investing, which may be advised or managed either by the Investment make a material change to its investment policy with the approval Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests in another fund advised of shareholders.
or managed by 3i Group, the relevant proportion of any advisory or management fees payable by the investee fund to 3i plc will be deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the relevant proportion of any performance fee will be deducted from the annual performance fee, if payable, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
For the avoidance of doubt, there will be no similar set-off arrangement where any such fund is advised or managed by a third party.
For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain representation on the board of directors of the investee company or equivalent governing body and in cases where it acquires a majority equity interest in a business, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 94
