Strategic report Investment Advisers review It was a busy year across the business.
We announced thesale of the Companys holding in Eversholt Rail, which underpinned a very strong return for the year.
We were alsoactive on the investment front with investments in the Oiltanking companies, as well as in a number of primary PPP projects.
Given market conditions, we continue to take adisciplined approach towards making new investments and are focusing selectively on those investments that are value-enhancing to the Company and its shareholders.
The European portfolio continues to perform well and we continue to manage actively our investments to drive further value for shareholders.
Ben Loomes and Phil White Managing Partners, Infrastructure, 3i Investments plc 11 May 2015 The investment advisory team is managed as About the Investment Adviser a separate business line within 3i Group and 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a operates from offices in London, Paris and wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc Mumbai.
The team of investment professionals 3i Group, acts as the investment adviser has significant experience of investing the Investment Adviser to the Company in, and managing, infrastructure assets.
through its infrastructure investment team the The investment advisory team can also draw investment advisory team.
The investment on 3i Groups broader network of investment advisory team provides advice to the Company professionals and relationships to originate on the origination and execution of new infrastructure investment opportunities.
investments, on the management of the 3i Group was among the subscribers to the portfolio and on realisations, as well as on Companys Initial Public Offering in 2007 and funding requirements.
subsequent Placing and Open Offer in 2008 and owns approximately 34% of the equity in the Company.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 16 Strategic report Profiles of senior members of the investment advisory team Ben Loomes Phil White Stephen Halliwell Managing Partner, Infrastructure Managing Partner, Infrastructure CFO, Infrastructure Ben is Managing Partner, Co-head of 3is Infrastructure Phil joined 3i in 2007 and is Managing Partner, Co-head Stephen has been Chief Financial Officer for 3i Groups business as well as 3i Group Strategy Director.
He has of Infrastructure and a member of 3is Executive Infrastructure business since April 2007.
He manages been a member of 3is Executive Committee and Committee and Investment Committee.
Prior to joining the operational, financial and reporting requirements Investment Committee since 2012 and hasexperience 3i, he was Division Director in Macquaries Infrastructure for the Infrastructure business within 3i Group, as across all of 3is business lines.
In his role as Group Funds business where he managed investments in wellas performing CFO duties for 3i Infrastructure plc.
Strategy Director, Ben has been heavily involved in the transport sector.
Phil has over 20 years of He is also a director of Cross London Trains Limited.
As Co-head of investment, advisory and finance experience from Stephen joined 3i Groups Finance Team in 1998.
3is Infrastructure business, Ben is responsible for the earlier roles at Barclays and WestLB.
Phil leads asset Between 2001 to 2005 he was Operations Director management and strategic development of the business.
management for the Infrastructure business and holds for 3i Groups businesses in the Benelux countries.
Ben also leads the relationship with the Board of board positions at Anglian Water Group, Elenia, and the He qualified as a Chartered Accountant while at Binder 3i Infrastructure plc.
Prior to joining 3i, Bens experience Oiltanking companies.
Hamlyn London and Arthur Andersen between 1991 included mergers and acquisitions, financing advisory and 1998. and restructuring, including roles at Goldman Sachs, Greenhill and Morgan Stanley.
Stphane Grandguillaume Nigel Middleton Scott Moseley Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Stphane is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team Nigel is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team in London Scott joined 3i in 2007 and is a Partner in the in Paris and joined 3i in November 2013, following and joined 3i in November 2013, following 3is acquisition Infrastructure team, leading investment origination 3is acquisition of Barclays Infrastructure Funds of Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management Limited.
He has 14 years experience in European Management Limited, which he joined in 2006.
He joined that business in 2002, having previously been Infrastructure, spanning utilities, transportation and Stphane leads 3is Infrastructure team in Paris and is head of PFI PPP Advisory Services at PwC.
Whilst at 3i, Scott has been involved in the origination and execution of investment theinvolvement of that business in the formation and responsible for the investments in Elenia and Cross 2 opportunities in PPP and low-risk energy projects management of Infrastructure Investors I, a pioneering London Trains and was a senior deal team member for across Europe.
Previously, Stphane was head of secondary market infrastructure fund, in which Barclays the investment in Eversholt Rail.
Infrastructure Funds Management had a joint venture interest alongside Socit Gnrale and 3i.
He was also instrumental in establishing, and continues to manage, BIIF, a long-term buy and hold PPP fund which acquired 2 I in 2009.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 17 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Driving value from the Core infrastructure Building partnerships for new investment, Implementation of our portfolio.
During the course of the year, leveraging the Investment Advisers network investment approach the Investment Adviser worked with AWG and expertise.
During the year our strategy to on finalising its business plan for the 2015- build strong partnerships delivered the new throughout the year 2020 regulatory period AMP6 and in investments in the Oiltanking companies and in The Investment Adviser was disciplined in the assessing the impact of Ofwats draft and final three additional primary PPP projects through implementation of the Companys strategy for determinations.
The Investment Adviser is now our joint venture with Heijmans NV, a leading new investment throughout the year, operating focusing with the management team on the Dutch construction contractor.
within the constraints of increased competition implementation of the capital expenditure and Continuing to manage the assets in the India and higher asset pricing, particularly in the efficiency programmes to drive value through Fund, with the objective of realising value Core infrastructure market.
Elenia will enter a new regulatory period over the next few years.
During the year, the constraints, the Board and Investment Adviser in January 2016 and the Investment Adviser is Investment Adviser sold approximately 54% focused on: working with the business to assess the impact of the India Funds holding in Adani Power, as of draft guidelines for the next regulatory Crystallising exceptional value for our described on page 23. settlement issued in February 2015 by the shareholders.
The Investment Adviser Finnish Energy Authority.
The Investment identified the opportunity to realise the Adviser continued to work with the Companys Outlook Companys holding in Eversholt Rail at a portfolio companies to optimise their capital material uplift, as a result of the increase Projected returns in the European structure and was able to take advantage of in the markets interest for rail leasing infrastructure market have compressed, positive market conditions for debt issuance assets.
The Board and Investment Adviser particularly in the market for large Core to complete refinancings for Oystercatcher carefully evaluated the price offered against infrastructure investments.
However, there and XLT in October 2014 and February 2015 their assessment of the potential for the are areas of the market, including mid market respectively, while Elenia issued two new business, as well as the impact on the Core infrastructure and primary PPP, where we bonds under its Whole Business Securitisation Companys investment portfolio of selling this have successfully originated new investments programme see pages 43 and 45. investment.
The sale of the Companys holding for the Company.
We have the network, skills in Eversholt Rail generated net proceeds of The Investment Adviser continues to work with and investment track record to enable us 365 million which, including the dividend of portfolio companies to assess new investment to access attractive opportunities in these 15.5 million paid in December 2014, as well and capital expenditure programmes, as well market segments, as demonstrated by the as the settlement of all interest receivable, as value accretive acquisitions.
investments in the Oiltanking companies and represent an uplift of 139 million compared primary PPP projects announced this year, Diversifying the portfolio in mid market to the valuation of the Companys holding in which will contribute to the delivery of the Core infrastructure and primary PPP the business at 30 September 2014.
The Company committed to invest crystallised an IRR of over 40% and a money 114 million in the year to the end of March In this competitive environment, we will multiple of 3.4x.
This is described in the case 2015, in 45% holdings in two oil terminals in remain focused on investing at prices that study on page 20. the Netherlands and Belgium alongside its are consistent with the Companys new total existing partner Oiltanking as described in the return and dividend targets.
Following a case study opposite and in five new primary period of significant bidding activity and with PPP projects see page 23, taking advantage several investments secured in the year, of the Investment Advisers capabilities we are building the Companys pipeline of across a broad spectrum of the infrastructure investment opportunities.
The Investment Adviser has the skills remains a key area of focus for the Company and network to continue to access attractive and we are assessing a broad set of early investment opportunities and, as a result, stage opportunities in this market, as well whilst remaining disciplined in its approach, the as assessing opportunities in new sectors Company is well placed to continue to invest at and geographies.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 18 Strategic report Oiltanking Terneuzen and Oiltanking Ghent Core infrastructure investing leveraging the Investment Advisers network and expertise Our partnership with Oiltanking Oiltanking is one of the worlds leading oil products storage operators with an excellent reputation for being a trusted guardian of valuable product, for running safe operations and for providing high levels of customer service.
These two terminals are good additions to the Companys existing investments in Oiltanking Amsterdam, Malta and Singapore, completed in 2007, which have generated strong returns.
Our experience with these three terminals provided us with insight into the drivers and risks of the investments in OTT and OTG.
Our excellent working relationship with Oiltanking proved an advantage in securing the investment in a competitive process.
A strong investment case The key elements of the investment case for OTG and OTT are consistent with the investment case for the three existing The investment Oystercatcher terminals: On 20 February 2015, 3i Infrastructure announced that it had signed there is strong projected demand for oil and oil-related products.
an agreement with Oiltanking GmbH Oiltanking to acquire a 45% Demand has increased further as a result of current market interest in each of Oiltanking Terneuzen B. V. in the Netherlands conditions, which have seen a steepening of the forward curve OTT and Oiltanking Ghent N. V. in Belgium OTG, for an aggregate for oil and oil products: consideration of 107 million 77 million.
Oiltanking will retain storage capacity remains scarce and is a key component of the the remaining 55% equity in the companies.
The investment oil and oil product supply chain, resulting in high occupancy: remains conditional upon receiving clearance from the European the two terminals are located in the  under the EU Merger Regulation and is expected to Antwerp region, one of the global trading hubs for oil and oil complete by June 2015. products, and have a strong market position.
The region benefits OTT is a modern, state of the art, 0.5 million cubic metre storage from its proximity to North Sea oil production and European terminal located near the Scheldt River estuary in the Netherlands, refinery capacity, its high quality ports infrastructure and its strong connectivity via pipeline, road, rail and inland waterway, providing storage and related services for refined oil products and toEuropean consumers of refined products: chemicals to a small number of clients under long-term contracts.
As it was built only recently, the terminal has limited investment both businesses provide essential services and the terminals requirements, and offers potential expansion opportunities.
benefit from facilities and operational capabilities that make them attractive to existing and potential clients: while their OTG is an older, but well maintained, 1.0 million cubic metre storage facilities are almost fully let, they are well placed to benefit as terminal on the Terneuzen-Ghent canal in Belgium, providing contracts are renewed: storage and related services for oil products, chemicals and biofuels both businesses are profitable, with resilient cash flows: to a diverse portfolio of customers, including strategic stockholding agencies and traders, as well as local industries and their suppliers.
this transaction allows 3i Infrastructure to build on its existing successful partnership with Oiltanking: and through this investment, the Company will diversify its portfolio Financing of the transaction of oil storage investments, adding two storage terminals to the Since signing the transaction, the Company has sought to finance three existing investments in Oystercatcher.
part of this investment through additional debt in Oystercatcher.
In April 2015, Oystercatcher secured approval for this additional financing, which will reduce the Companys equity commitment requirement for this transaction to 72 million 52 million.
Upon completion of the transaction, the investments in OTT and OTG will form part of the Oystercatcher portfolio.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 19 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Eversholt Rail Group Crystallising exceptional value for our shareholders The realisation On 20 January 2015, the Consortium announced it had agreed to sell Eversholt Rail to CK Investments S. A R. L. a company jointly owned by Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Limited and Cheung Kong Holdings Limited together, CKI, subject to certain regulatory approvals.
This sale generated net proceeds of 365 million, which were received in April 2015.
The total proceeds, including the dividend of 15.5 million paid in December 2014, as well as the settlement of all interest receivable, were 381 million.
These proceeds represent an uplift of 139 million compared to the valuation at 30 September 2014.
The IRR through the period of ownership was over 40% and the money multiple was 3.4x.
Cost 151m Income received in the period of ownership 104m Capital receipts in the period About Eversholt Rail Group of ownership 36m Eversholt Rail is one of the three leading rail rolling stock Net realisation proceeds after companies in the UK and owns approximately 28% of the current UK transaction costs 365m passenger train fleet.
Its 19 fleets are leased to 11 Train Operating Companies TOCs.
The Company, in a consortium with Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Partners and STAR Capital Partners the Gross IRR 40% Consortium, acquired 100% of Eversholt Rail in December 2010.
Each had an equal interest in the business.
Total return over cost 354m The rationale for the investment was compelling, as Eversholt Rail has strong infrastructure characteristics: Gross money multiple 3.4x strong market fundamentals, with its fully utilised fleets likely to retain value in the long term, due to strong passenger demand While the Company aims to hold its Core investments over the long and the high cost of new trains: term, it will sell investments from time to time where this generates high quality cash flows contracted for the medium term through material additional value for shareholders.
lease agreements with the TOCs: and defensive fleet portfolio, predominantly weighted towards electric trains, with a good operational history, leased to a diversified customer base.
The drivers underpinning the investment case were proven through the period of ownership: passenger demand, particularly in the south east of England where Eversholt Rail has a strong market share, has been growing: and the electrification of the network is proceeding, potentially creating more re-leasing opportunities for Eversholt Rails predominantly electric-powered fleets.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 20 Strategic report as more informally, to develop strategies that support investment Value creation through engaged in the asset base over the long term, continued improvements in assetmanagement operational performance, disciplined cash management to drive yield for shareholders, an efficient capital structure and the alignment of As set out on page 18, our engaged asset management approach interest between management and shareholders.
is key to driving value from our investments during our ownership.
After making each investment, the Investment Adviser engages with In the case of Eversholt Rail, the Investment Adviser together with our the management team of investee companies at board level, as well consortium partners achieved the following: The Consortium engaged closely with the management team to support the Investment to promote growth business in the ongoing re-franchising programme and to assess a range over the long term of capital investment opportunities, both to add further trains to the overall fleet and to invest in upgrading existing assets to provide better passenger experience and improved reliability, at good value for money for operators.
Eversholt Rail was repositioned as an asset management business, capable of renewing its asset base in perpetuity, and not as a lessor of depreciating fleets.
Eversholt Rail added to its capabilities through securing a long-term contract to manage the new Thameslink train fleet with the Companys other investment, Cross London Trains.
Eversholt Rails capital structure was fide-risked through the issuance of An efficient capital structure long-dated public bonds and a private placement, priced on attractive terms, significantly reducing the ongoing debt servicing costs and refinancing risks.
The residual acquisition debt was refinanced in November 2013 and November 2014, on attractive terms, which leaves Eversholt Rail in a strong position for future growth.
The Consortium worked with the management team to transform Eversholt Separation from HSBC and Rail into a fully functioning stand-alone business, compared to its previous renewed focus on business reliance on HSBC.
This included developing a full finance function and making further executive appointments to bolster Eversholt Rails technical, financial and legal resources, positioning it well to manage the significant increase in workload as the pace of rail franchise re-tendering accelerated.
The Consortium strengthened Eversholt Rails governance through several Strong corporate governance new appointments to the board, including a new chairman, a highly and incentive structure experienced non-executive director, a CFO and COO and the establishment of audit and remuneration committees with investor representation.
In addition, Eversholt Rails management incentives were restructured post acquisition, with a strong link to the long-term value of the business and returns to shareholders.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 21 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Portfolio Table 1 summarises the valuation and movements in the portfolio, as well as the return for each investment, for the year.
As a result of the adoption of new accounting standards, described in detail in the 2014 Annual Report, Investments at fair value through profit and loss, as reported in the Consolidated balance sheet includes, in addition to the portfolio asset valuation, the cash and other net assets held within intermediate unconsolidated holding companies.
These amounts are set out at the foot of the table below, to provide a reconciliation between the Directors valuation of the portfolio assets and Investments at fair value through profit and loss reported in the Consolidated financial statements.
The basis of the portfolio information set out below is consistent with analyses in previous years.
2 Income statement adjustments explained in Table 4 and Balance sheet adjustments explained in Table 5 in the Financial review.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 22 Strategic report A12: an 80% holding in a project, Primary PPP and low-risk energy Investment and realisation procured by the State of the Netherlands, The Companys remaining commitment of activity comprising the refurbishment, widening 2.4 million to the Dutch National Military and maintenance of an 11km section of the The Company was active in its markets in the Museum NMM primary PPP project was motorway, as well as the maintenance of year to March 2015, selling its investment in drawn down in December 2014 following an additional 8km section.
The 5.3 million Eversholt Rail, which crystallised a very strong completion of construction in September 2014.
3.8 million commitment is expected to return for shareholders, and committing over This investment is now part of the Companys be drawn at the completion of construction, 114 million to new investments in the Core operational PPP portfolio.
The NMM project anticipated to be by the end of calendar infrastructure and primary PPP markets.
was procured under a typical PPP framework year 2016.
The project is also held through The 77.6 million investment in the Oiltanking by the Dutch Ministry of Defence and comprises Heijmans Capital BV.
companies in the Core infrastructure mid the design, build, finance and maintenance A9: a project including the design, build, market and the 36.6 million commitments to of a museum facility on the site of the former management, maintenance and financing five new primary PPP projects across northern Soesterberg Airbase, located approximately of the existing and new infrastructure Europe are a demonstration of the Investment 60km south east of Amsterdam.
The project of the A9 motorway between Diemen Advisers ability to make investments in is held through Heijmans Capital BV, a joint and Holendrecht in the Netherlands.
attractive areas of the infrastructure market in venture with the construction contractor, The project will reconstruct and expand these very competitive market conditions.
Heijmans NV, in which 3i Infrastructure has the A9 motorway between these junctions an 80% interest.
The investment was made in including a bridge over the river Gaasp.
Core infrastructure November 2013, when the project was under It will also include the construction of an construction.
The Investment Adviser worked On 20 January 2015, 3i Infrastructure approximately 3km overground tunnel.
with its JV partner to manage the construction announced it had agreed to sell its entire The Company committed 22.3 million phase successfully.
The new facility is now fully holding in Eversholt Rail.
The realisation 16.2 million to a 45% holding in this operational and exhibits military equipment, as generated net proceeds of 365 million upon project, with the remaining equity in the well as holding various related events including completion on 16 April 2015: no proceeds were project held by Heijmans NV, Ballast Nedam workshops and symposia on military research.
received in the financial year under review.
During the year, 3i Infrastructure committed La Sant: a project involving the design, On 20 February 2015, the Company announced to invest 36.6 million in five new primary PPP build, refurbishment, finance and that it had signed an agreement with Oiltanking projects.
As these commitments will be drawn maintenance of various prison buildings.
GmbH to acquire a 45% interest in each of at the completion of the construction phase, The project will also include the provision Oiltanking Terneuzen B. V. in the Netherlands the initial cash equity investment in this of facilities management services once and Oiltanking Ghent N. V. in Belgium together financial year for these projects totalled less construction is complete, which is the Oiltanking companies.
These include: expected by the end of calendar year 2018. excluding transaction costs, was 107 million The Company committed 11.7 million or 77.6 million from 3i Infrastructure.
Ayrshire College: a 100% holding in a 8.5 million to acquire an 80% holding in Completion of the transaction remains project, procured by Ayrshire College, to this project.
The remaining equity in the conditional upon receiving clearance from the design, build, finance, operate and maintain project company is held by subsidiaries of European Commission under the EU Merger a new college campus, against availabilityVinci Construction France and GDF-Suez.
Since signing the transaction, based payments over a concession period the Company has sought to finance part The Company expects to complete an of 25 years.
The 4.6 million commitment is of this investment through additional investment in the West of Duddons Sands expected to be drawn at the completion of debt in Oystercatcher.
Since the year end, OFTO project approximately 25 million in the construction, anticipated to be in May 2016.
Oystercatcher secured approval for this summer of 2015.
RIVM: a 28% investment in a project to build additional financing, which will reduce the the new premises of the National Institute India Companys expected equity commitment for Public Health and the Environment During the year, the 3i India Infrastructure Fund requirement for this transaction to 72 million and the Dutch Medicines Evaluation Board sold approximately 54% of its investment in 52 million.
in Utrecht, the Netherlands, procured by Adani Power.
Proceeds due to the Company the State of the Netherlands.
The project The 16.1 million investment in Core in relation to the sale totalled 10.2 million.
scope comprises the design, build, finance, infrastructure shown in Table 1, relates to During the first half of the year, the Company 2 maintenance and operation of a 70,000m capitalised interest in Eversholt Rail and received a distribution of proceeds from the facility comprising an office building and Elenia.
The Company also received proceeds India Fund of 7.4 million: at the year end laboratories.
The 4.8 million 3.5 million of 3.9 million as a result of a shareholder loan the Company had a debtor balance for the commitment is expected to be drawn at the repayment from Eversholt Rail and 8.2 million remaining 2.8 million which will be received completion of construction, anticipated to from Elenia relating to income capitalised in the by the Company with the India Funds next be in November 2018.
The project is held previous financial year.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 23 Strategic report Investment Advisers review The 107 million 77 million investment In addition, the Company received proceeds of Movements in portfolio value commitment in the Oiltanking Terneuzen and 8.2 million from Elenia relating to repayment As set out in Chart 1, the portfolio assets Oiltanking Ghent terminals is not reflected, of interest capitalised in the previous financial were valued at 1,223.1 million at 31 March as it remains subject to clearance from the year and a 3.9 million and 0.1 million partial 2015, compared to 996.0 million at 31 March European Commission under the EU Merger shareholder loan repayment from Eversholt 2014.
The significant increase in portfolio Regulation.
It is expected that the equity Rail and Elgin respectively.
value was attributable to the uplift in value of investment by the Company in these two The net proceeds of 365 million from the Eversholt Rail, as well as to valuation gains for terminals will be approximately 52 million, realisation of the Companys holding in the other investments in the Companys Core as it is anticipated that part of the commitment Eversholt Rail were received on 16 April 2015, infrastructure portfolio.
This was offset in part will be funded by further debt raised after the financial year end, and are therefore by unrealised foreign exchange retranslation in Oystercatcher.
not shown in Chart 1. movements, although these losses were significantly mitigated by gains in the foreign Divestment proceeds capital Unrealised value movement exchange hedging derivatives.
repayments The unrealised value movement in the year The Company received aggregate proceeds of Investment totalled 229.7 million 2014: 5.1 million.
Unrealised value movement represents the The Company invested 18.8 million in the change in the portfolio valuation within a During the year, the India Fund sold year to 31 March 2015.
Of that, 5.1 million and measurement period.
Changes to portfolio approximately 54% of its shares in Adani Power, 11.0 million related to capitalised interest valuations arise due to several factors, as a listed company.
This resulted in a distribution for Eversholt Rail and Elenia respectively.
shown in the table opposite.
of proceeds due from the India Fund of In addition, 2.4 million was invested in the 10.2 million, at a premium to the opening NMM project in the Netherlands as it became value of the shares divested of 1.0 million.
The Dalmore Of this amount, 7.4 million was received by Capital Fund Dalmore also drew a final the Company in the first half of the year and is 0.2 million from the Companys 15.0 million reflected in Chart 1, while the balance will be total commitment, which is now fully drawn.
received with the India Funds next scheduled The remaining 0.1 million was the aggregate distribution.
The sales were achieved at small initial cash investment to acquire equity an average price of 54.7 rupees per share, in the five new primary PPP investments compared to the closing price at 31 March 2014 announced by the Company during the year, of 48.7 rupees per share and the closing price as described on page 23.
The remaining of 47.3 rupees per share at 31 March 2015. investment commitments to these five investments will be drawn at the completion of their construction.
Chart 1 Reconciliation of the movements in portfolio value year to 31 March 2015, m 1,300 269.9 1,223.1 6.3 1 1,200 33.9 1,100 18.8 21.4 996.0 1,000 Total: 229.7m 900 800 700 Opening Net Divestment Unrealised Unrealised Exchange Closing portfolio investment capital value value movement portfolio value at repayment movement movement value at 1 April Europe India 31 March 2014 2015 1 The foreign exchange loss of 33.9 million was mitigated significantly by gains of 28.9 million on the hedging programme, designed to protect the NAV from foreign exchange movements.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 24 Strategic report Table 2 Components of value movement yearto 31 March 2015, m Value Value movement in movement in Total value Value movement the first half the second half movement component of the year of the year for the year Description Planned value growth 28.4 2.4 26.0 Net value movement resulting from the passage of time, consistent with the discount rate and cash flow assumptions at the beginning of the year, less distributions received in the year.
Asset 40.1 140.4 180.5 Net movement arising from actual performance in the year performance and changes to future cash flow projections, including financing assumptions and changes to regulatory determination assumptions.
It also includes uplift to sales basis from last valuation.
Discount rate 57.1 73.9 131.0 Value movement relating to changes in the discount rate applied to movement the valuations.
Macro economic 14.5 59.4 73.9 Value movement relating to changes to macro economic out-turn or assumptions assumptions, eg inflation, interest rates on deposit accounts and taxation rates.
This includes changes to regulatory returns that are directly linked to macro economic variables.
Total value movement 111.1 152.5 263.6 before exchange Foreign exchange 20.6 13.3 33.9 Movement in value due to currency retranslation to year-end rate.
retranslation Total value movement 90.5 139.2 229.7 The key driver of the increase in portfolio Eversholt Rail was valued at 359.8 million determination on AWGs performance and value in the second half of the year was asset at 31 March 2015 2014: 160.3 million.
projected cash flows in this new regulatory performance, which includes the uplift in The investment was valued on a sales basis period, as well as greater medium-term value from the most recent carrying value for at 31 March 2015, based on the expected net certainty following the acceptance of the final Eversholt Rail.
Discount rates were reduced sales proceeds of 365.2 million, which were determination.
These factors are described in for all Core infrastructure investments received in April 2015 when the transaction the investment review on pages 40 and 41. with the discount rates for AWG, Elenia and completed, and after the deduction of: Elenia was valued at 238.5 million at the Oystercatcher being reduced in the second i accrued interest of 3.9 million, which is end of March 2015 2014: 235.7 million.
The main driver of the changes recorded as an interest debtor at 31 March The significant value growth in the year of in macroeconomic assumptions was the 2015: ii 0.7 million to be recognised as 29.5 million was offset by foreign exchange reduction in returns assumed for Elenia due to income in the financial year to March 2016: losses of 29.5 million as the euro weakened the fall in the Finnish 10-year gilt.
Low inflation and iii a provision of 0.8 million for the costs against sterling, although these foreign also had a negative impact in the second half associated with the wind up of the investment.
exchange losses were broadly hedged.
AWG was valued at 242.3 million at the end of The business continues to perform well both March 2015 2014: 234.5 million.
In December operationally and financially and the valuation Core portfolio 2014, AWG received its final determination increase reflects: i lower near-term allowed The Core portfolio generated a strong from Ofwat for the regulatory period beginning WACC, as Elenias regulatory allowed return unrealised value gain of 270.7 million in the on 1 April 2015, which it accepted in February is determined annually with reference to the year or 232.6 million after exchange losses.
The valuation of the holding in AWG at the 10-year Finnish government bond yield, which This was driven principally by Eversholt end of March reflected: i the revised business fell further in the year: ii the positive impact Rail, which was valued on a sales basis as at plan based on the final determination, the on the business of draft guidelines for the next 31 March 2015.
The other Core infrastructure continued robust operational performance two regulatory periods issued by the Finnish investments, other than Oystercatcher, of AWGs core water and waste water Energy Authority in February 2015: and iii a also showed valuation gains in the year, business, and the progress achieved in the reduction in the discount rate applied to value reflecting the returns compression in the implementation of a broad range of efficiency the investment.
These factors are described in European Core infrastructure market which initiatives for the 2010-2015 regulatory period: the investment review on pages 42 and 43. led in turn to a reduction in the discount ii revised assumptions for the allowed WACC rates applied to asset valuations across the in future regulatory periods: and iii a reduction portfolio, as well as robust performance and in the discount rate applied to value the regulatory developments.
investment, to take into account the Investment Advisers assessment of the impact of the final 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 25 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Oystercatcher was valued at 110.5 million at PPP portfolio Foreign exchange impact the end of March 2015 2014: 119.8 million, The PPP portfolio was valued at 109.0 million There was significant volatility in exchange including net foreign exchange losses of at the end of March 2015, compared to rates in the financial year, which impacted 8.6 million.
The three terminals continue to 107.8 million at the end of March 2014, portfolio valuations in sterling terms.
As shown perform well both operationally and financially, reflecting the continued solid operational in Table 3, the reported net foreign exchange with capacity substantially let and a good level performance of the investments, offset in loss on investments of 33.9 million related of throughput.
The valuation was influenced by part by income receipts in the year and by the mainly to euro and Singapore dollar exchange a number of factors: i the positive benefit of impact of lower than expected inflation.
movements, which are broadly protected the refinancing in October 2014 on improved 3i India Infrastructure Fund by a hedging programme.
The Indian rupee terms: ii a reduction in the discount rate The India Fund was valued at 63.2 million increased against sterling in the year and this applied to value the investment, reflecting the at the end of March 2015, compared to currency exposure is not hedged.
lower financing risk following the completion of 73.9 million in March 2014, which includes the the refinancing, as well as the pricing of recent In March 2014, the Board extended the disposal of approximately 54% of the Funds transactions in the oil storage market: and Companys existing hedging policy to partially holding in Adani Power 9.2 million of opening iii more cautious assumptions for future cover the Singapore dollar exchange rate risk value, as described on page 23.
The negative storage tariffs, reflecting increasing capacity that arises from the underlying investment in value movement of 6.3 million was due to a in the greater Singapore region and reduced Oiltanking Singapore.
number of factors, including continued delays demand for certain products in Europe.
in project execution and funding constraints The euro spot exchange rate, which is used These are described in the investment review for the road projects, and the pricing and to translate the euro-denominated assets, on pages 44 and 45. availability of fuel for the investments in the depreciated by 13% against sterling in the year, XLT was valued at 99.8 million at the power sector.
The Indian rupee increased by leading to a significant reduction in the value end of March 2015 2014: 64.0 million.
8% against sterling over the course of the of euro-denominated assets.
Against this, The investment is performing well and the financial year, resulting in foreign exchange movements in the overall hedging programme manufacturing of the trains is proceeding gains, as shown in Table 3. contributed to a total value gain for the year ahead of schedule.
The increase in valuation of 29.8 million, providing protection against was due to the reduction in the discount rate these exchange losses.
The euro element applied to the valuation of the investment in of the hedging programme is valued using September 2014, in light of evidence of returns euro forward exchange rates which only compression in the market for the provision of partly benefited from the spot exchange finance for the procurement of new rail fleets.
rate depreciation as a result of decreases in The valuation also increased in the second half Eurozone interest rate expectations relative to of the year due to XLTs share of the benefit the UK.
In addition, the valuation of Oiltanking of a refinancing completed by the business Singapore is influenced by euro Singapore in February 2015.
These are described in the dollar forward rates over the long term, while investment review on pages 46 and 47. the Companys hedging programme only provides protection against forward exchange rate movements over a shorter time frame.
Table 3 Impact of foreign exchange movements on portfolio value yearto 31 March 2015, m rupee SGD Net impact Translation of assets rupee 4.8 4.8 Translation of assets SGD 38.7 38.7 Foreign exchange gains losses on investments 4.8 38.7 33.9 Movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments SGD hedging 29.8 29.8 Net foreign exchange gains losses 4.8 8.9 4.1 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 26 Strategic report Market risks Portfolio risks Summary of valuation Interest rates remained low throughout The portfolio was affected by a number of methodology the year.
This had positive implications for specific regulatory and market risks during the Investment valuations are calculated at some of the portfolio assets, including Elenia year, several of which are expected to continue the financial year-end by the Investment and Oystercatcher, which have been able to to have an impact over the next financial year.
Adviser and then reviewed and approved continue to raise debt on attractive terms.
Investments are reported at However, Elenias regulatory allowed return Regulatory risks the Directors estimate of fair value at the isdetermined annually with reference to reporting date.
In light of the compression in The UK water sector was the subject of a the 10-year Finnish government bond yield.
returns and changes in asset pricing across regulatory review during the year, which There is continued downward pressure on the infrastructure sector, and the consequent determined the allowed return for industry Finnish 10-year government bond yields, driven changes to asset valuations within the participants for the 20152020 regulatory by stimulus measures adopted by the European Companys portfolio in this financial year, the period.
AWG received its final determination Central Bank in response to the low growth, low Board and Audit and Risk Committee received from Ofwat in December 2014 and accepted inflation environment across Europe, as well as additional independent advice in relation to it in February 2015.
This was a tough by continued macroeconomic and geopolitical the valuation of the Core infrastructure assets determination for the sector as a whole, uncertainty, which has led some investors Elenia, AWG, Oystercatcher and XLT at although Anglian Waters business plan to seek the safety of Finnish sovereign debt.
31 March 2015, which included comparison to was well received by Ofwat and praised by The Finnish Energy Authority has taken steps relevant valuation benchmarks.
The Investment Adviser is to address the low allowed return in its draft working with AWG to implement the business guidelines for the next two regulatory periods.
The valuation principles used are based on plan for the regulatory period to 2020. International Private Equity and Venture The current low interest rate environment Capital valuation guidelines, generally using In February 2015, the Finnish Energy Authority, is also one of the factors contributing to the a discounted cash flow DCF methodology which regulates electricity distribution in continued returns compression in the except where a market quote is available, Finland, announced draft guidelines for the next Core infrastructure market, as detailed on page which the Board considers to be the most two regulatory periods beginning in January 8.
These conditions have had a positive impact appropriate valuation methodology for 2016 which, if implemented in their current on the valuation of the Companys portfolio of unquoted infrastructure equity investments.
form, would have a positive impact on the Core infrastructure investments, which were performance and valuation of Elenias networks acquired in a more favourable prospective Where the DCF methodology is used, the business.
Among other matters, the draft returns environment.
As a result, the Board resulting valuation is checked against other guidelines suggest changes to the calculation of has reviewed the Companys return objectives, valuation benchmarks relevant to the particular the WACC, addressing the issue of the current as outlined on page 9. investment, including, for example: low allowed return.
These guidelines are still in Inflation also remained below previous earnings multiples: draft form and the regulator is consulting with expectations in the year, continuing to impact the industry in anticipation of the publication recent transactions: the assets with inflation-linked revenues, of the final regulatory settlement, expected by quoted market comparables: and including AWG and the operational PPP December 2015. regulated asset base multiples.
However, cost inflation has also been Oystercatchers Amsterdam terminal is low across the portfolio.
implementing a major programme of facilities upgrades to accelerate compliance with India higher standards being applied to the oil The India Funds portfolio continued to be products storage sector in the Netherlands.
affected by a number of specific risks, which This programme resulted in an increase in are set out in the asset review on pages 50 capital expenditure and tank maintenance to 52. downtime and a reduction in throughput levels, impacting the Companys valuation of its holding in Oystercatcher.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 27 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Chart 2 shows the movement in the weighted The sales basis is used when an investment Investment track record average discount rate applied to the portfolio is in a sale process and a price has been As shown in Chart 3, since its launch in 2007, at the end of each year since the Companys agreed or offers have been received, but the 3i Infrastructure has built a portfolio that inception.
The weighted average discount rate transaction has not completed or settled.
has provided: reduced from 11.8% at the beginning of the year The investment is then valued on the basis to 10.2% at 31 March 2015. of the contracted sale proceeds for the significant income, supporting the transaction, or the best estimate of those consistent delivery of the Companys annual As noted previously, the discount rates applied proceeds.
Where appropriate, the valuation dividend objective: to the Companys valuation of AWG, Elenia may include a marketability discount to reflect and Oystercatcher were reduced at 31 March strong capital profits from realisations: and any uncertainty on the completion of the 2015 and the discount rate applied to value consistent capital growth.
transaction, which was not material in the XLT was lowered in the first half of the year.
These have underpinned a 17% annualised case of Eversholt Rail and as at the date of In the first half of the year, the Dalmore Capital IRR since the Companys inception.
The Core the approval of this report, the proceeds had Fund reduced the discount rate it uses to infrastructure and PPP portfolios, in particular, been received.
value its portfolio and this was reflected in have generated strong returns, in line with, the Companys valuation of its LP interest in or in many cases significantly ahead of, 3i India Infrastructure Fund and that fund.
This discount rate is now in line expectations.
Dalmore Capital Fund with that used to value the Companys other These returns were underpinned by substantial operational PPP investments.
In addition to The Companys investments in the India Fund cash generation in the form of income or these reductions, there were small increases in and in the Dalmore Capital Fund were valued capital profits.
Indeed, most investments have the discount rates used to value assets within as the Companys share of net assets held by returned a significant proportion of their cost the India Fund.
Eversholt Rail was no longer those funds.
through income in a relatively short time.
valued on a DCF basis at the end of March 2015 Within the India Fund valuation, Adani Power, see below.
The value created through this robust which has been a listed company since August investment performance was crystallised in 2009, was valued on a mark-to-market basis Eversholt Rail a number of instances through well managed using closing bid prices and Krishnapatnam realisations, shown as Realised assets in The Companys holding in Eversholt Rail was Port was valued on the basis of consideration Chart 3.
While the Company is structured to valued on a sales basis at 31 March 2015 as the due under a put option.
All other investments hold investments over the long term, it has sale was announced on 20 January 2015 and were valued on an underlying DCF basis.
sold assets on an opportunistic basis, where proceeds were received on 16 April 2015.
All of Dalmores underlying investments were compelling offers have generated additional valued on a DCF basis.
shareholder value, as was the case with Eversholt Rail in 2015, which generated an IRR in excess of 40%, as well as through the 2 realisations of Alma Mater in 2008, I in 2009, the junior debt portfolio in 201112 and Alpha Schools in 2013.
The aggregate IRR generated through these realisations was 26.8%.
The valuation of the India Fund has, however, been volatile, and has continued to be affected by currency and macroeconomic issues, as well as a number of issues related to specific investments.
Chart 2 Portfolio weighted average discount rate 31 March 2015, % 13.8 13.2 12.5 12.6 12.4 12.0 11.8 10.2 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 28 Strategic report Chart 3 Portfolio asset returns throughout holding period since inception, m Existing portfolio 1 Eversholt 151 17% 364 36 104 Annualised asset IRR from AWG 173 inception to31 March 2015 24312 127 Elenia 195 240 49 Oystercatcher 85 110 68 Cross London Trains 62 101 8 Existing PPP portfolio 80 1 110 39 3i IIF 107 668 Realised assets Realised PPP assets 173 250 22 Junior debt portfolio 120 135 24 T2C and Novera 18 10 Total cost Value including accrued income accrued disposal proceeds Proceeds on disposals capital returns Cash income 1 Sale completed in April 2015 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 29
