Review of investments Oystercatcher Performance in the year Cost 84.5m Closing value 110.5m Equity interest 45% Opening value 119.8m Income in the year 4.3m Value movement in the year 0.7 m 1 Net exchange movement in the year 5.7 m Asset total return in the year 2.1 m Valuation basis DCF 1 Exchange movement of 8.6 million net of allocated foreign exchange hedging movements of 2.9 million.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 44 Review of investments Description Achievements in the period of Developments in the year Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. Oystercatcher ownership Market conditions for trading customers is the holding company through which remained difficult for much of the year, with The 2007 investment case has largely been the Company invested in 45% stakes in squeezed trading margins.
This increases confirmed, with the investment performing three subsidiaries of Oiltanking GmbH traders attention on storage costs during well.
Storage capacity has been substantially Oiltanking, located in the Netherlands, Malta contract renewal negotiations.
Together with let throughout the period of investment, and and Singapore.
some reduction in demand for storage in throughput levels have been high.
All three parts of Europe, and increasing competition in These businesses provide over 3.5 million cubic terminals were largely unaffected by the Singapore, this put pressure on renewal rates.
metres of oil, petroleum and other oil-related global economic slow-down, even though the However, the strong market position of the storage facilities and associated services to a flattening of the forward curve in recent terminals has continued to ensure that capacity broad range of clients, including private and years has squeezed oil trading margins and at each terminal remains substantially let and state oil companies, refiners, petrochemical increased customers focus on storage costs that contract renewals have been agreed on companies and traders.
Oiltanking is one of the worlds leading The Investment Adviser was actively The Singapore and Malta terminals performed independent storage partners for oils, involved in the assessment of a range of in line with expectations during the year, chemicals and gases, operating 72 terminals capital expenditure project proposals that facing no significant operational issues.
in 22 countries with a total storage capacity of have delivered long-term value accretion.
The Amsterdam terminals performance 19 million cubic metres.
In Singapore, a 160,000 cubic metre continues to be affected by the implementation expansion project was approved in 2008 of a major programme of infrastructure to accommodate increasing demand from Investment rationale process and safety upgrades, to accelerate adjacent refineries and petrochemical compliance with new regulations being The investment was completed in August 2007. industries.
This was completed in June 2009, applied to the oil products storage sector in the The key elements of the investment case were: with the capacity let on a use-or-pay basis Netherlands.
This has resulted in increased under a long-term contract to an existing strong projected demand for oil and oiltank maintenance downtime, as well as in a customer.
In Amsterdam, a 42,000 cubic metre related products: reduction in throughput levels at the terminal.
expansion project to provide dedicated storage storage capacity is scarce and a key for biodiesel products for a new production As noted above, in October 2014, the component of the oil and oil product supply facility adjacent to the site was completed Investment Adviser completed a refinancing chain, resulting in low customer turnover: in June 2011.
This capacity was pre-let on a of the debt in Oystercatcher, extending the three terminals are defensively use-or-pay basis.
Several smaller investments the maturity profile and reducing interest located in key trading hubs in Amsterdam, were approved to upgrade throughput and costs.
Since the year end, further debt was Malta and Singapore and have a strong customer service.
In Malta, investment in a raised to finance the Companys acquisition, market position: new 13,000 cubic metre tank was approved expected to be completed in May 2015, of in 2011, completed in February 2012, and let 45% stakes in each of Oiltanking Terneuzen contracts are let on a use-or-pay basis with on a use-or-pay basis to an existing customer.
and Oiltanking Ghent, as described in the fixed terms of up to 10 years, often with Since investment, total capacity at the three case study on page 19.
When the transaction tariffs linked to local inflation rates, resulting terminals has increased by 28%.
completes, these terminals will form part of in reliable cash flows: and Oystercatchers portfolio.
the transaction allowed 3i Infrastructure Oystercatcher completed a refinancing to partner with a leading player in of its acquisition debt facilities in March The valuation of Oystercatcher is also affected the oil storage market, with a strong 2013, and a further refinancing in October by its exposure to the euro and Singapore operational reputation.
Both achieved good terms, fide-risking dollar exchange rate, which is partially the financing structure and lowering debt hedged.
During the year, the Board broadened servicing costs.
the Companys Singapore dollar hedging programme to seek to reduce the net exposure of the Company to exchange rate volatility.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 45 Review of investments Cross London Trains XLT Performance in the year Cost 61.8m Closing value 99.8m Equity interest 33.3% Opening value 64.0m Income in the year 4.8m Value movement in the year 35.8m Asset total return in the year 40.6m Valuation basis DCF 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 46 Review of investments Description Achievements in the period of Developments in the year Cross London Trains is a company established ownership The business is performing well and Siemens to procure and lease the rolling stock for use is ahead of schedule with the manufacturing The manufacture of the trains has commenced on the Thameslink passenger rail franchise.
of the new trains and the first units are being and is proceeding according to plan.
A senior As part of a wider upgrade of the Thameslink tested by Siemens.
The investment, completed management team was installed at XLT, rail network, XLT is investing 1.6 billion in a in June 2013, was immediately accretive to the comprising a new executive chairman and fleet of new Siemens Desiro City commuter rail Company through interest payments and a a managing director with relevant industry carriages to be leased to the Thameslink rail further 4.8 million in loan interest payments experience.
Andy Pitt, executive chairman, was franchise operator, with the continued leasing was received in the year.
previously managing director of South West of the trains underpinned by the Department Trains.
Charles Doyle, managing director, was The Thameslink franchise expired in for Transport DfT for a period of 20 years previously a commercial principal at Transport September 2014 and the Department for the s54 period.
They have successfully set up Transport appointed Govia Thameslink Siemens will manufacture and deliver the all necessary business functions and built a Railway to replace First Capital Connect as trains over a period of five years, with the strong working relationship with Eversholt the franchise holder in June 2014.
XLT worked first delivery into service expected in early Rail, which provides technical engineering and with both Govia Thameslink Railway and First 2016.
The fleet will comprise 1,140 Desiro City administrative services to the business under a Capital Connect to facilitate the transition of commuter rail carriages, capable of running on long-term management services contract.
both overhead and third rail lines.
XLT, supported by its shareholders, has The business completed a refinancing of its The fleet will be maintained by Siemens under engaged proactively with a number of debt at the end of February 2015, achieving a long-term service agreement.
Following the stakeholders, including Siemens, the lower pricing and an improved covenant initial 20-year s54 period, XLT will retain the Department for Transport, Network Rail and package.
The majority of the benefit of the ownership of the fleet and will be free to lease the new franchise holders.
refinancing flows to the Department for the trains for the remainder of their useful life.
Transport, as agreed at the time of the original The Company and Investment Adviser have The Company owns 33.3% of the equity in XLT, investment.
Approximately 10% of the benefit built a strong working relationship with in consortium with Siemens Project Ventures is retained by XLT, and this has been included in Siemens and Innisfree, the other shareholders GmbH and Innisfree Limited.
the valuation at 31 March 2015. in XLT.
The value of the Companys holding in XLT Investment rationale increased significantly in the year, due to the reduction in the discount rate used to value The investment has strong infrastructure the investment, in light of evidence of returns characteristics and fits well within 3i compression in the market to finance the Infrastructures investment mandate as: procurement of new rail fleets see page 26. it is a strategic asset, operating in Previously, XLT was valued marginally above its the capacity-constrained London investment cost, based on historic assumptions commuter market: on future returns negotiated in different market conditions.
it will generate high quality, low-risk cash flows, with rentals due on a hell or high water basis and lease revenues underpinned for 20 years by the DfT: it will retain ownership of the trains following this initial 20-year period, with their residual value supported by favourable market dynamics: and it allows the Company to partner with Siemens, a market leader in UK rolling stock manufacture and maintenance.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 47
