Governance Directors report The Directors report contains statutory and corporate In addition, the Board announced its intention to pay a special dividend of 17.0 pence per share, amounting to 150 million.
This special dividend governance information for the year to 31 March 2015 will allow shareholders to participate in the successful realisation of the year.
Eversholt Rail, while ensuring that the Company retains a good level of liquidity for new investment.
Principal activity The distribution of the dividend payments between interim and 3i Infrastructure is a closed-ended investment company that invests in final dividends is evaluated by the Board each year, according to the infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Directors do not anticipate Companys performance, portfolio income generation and other factors, any change in the principal activity of the Company in the foreseeable such as profits generated on the realisation of portfolio assets.
Its principal subsidiaries are shown on page 92.
Strategy, performance and principal risks Regulation The Strategic report on pages 6 to 38 provides a review of the 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated as a collective performance and position of the Company, together with a description of investment fund under the Collective Investment Funds Jersey Law the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
It has a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Operations AIFMD The Company has a non-executive Board of Directors and no employees.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive The Board acts as the Companys investment committee and is entered into force on 22 July 2013.
The Company is a non-EU Alternative responsible for the determination and supervision of the investment Investment Fund AIF and is internally managed, which means that policy and for the approval of investment opportunities sourced by the Board of the Company also performs the functions of an Alternative the Investment Adviser.
The Board also supervises the monitoring of Investment Fund Manager AIFM under the Directive and the AIF existing investments and approves divestments and further financing of and the AIFM are the same entity.
As a non-EU AIFM, the Company is portfolio assets.
currently outside the full scope of the Directive, but will be subject to a number of the Directives requirements should it wish to market the Advisory arrangements Companys securities within the EU, depending on when and how such marketing of securities is performed.
3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc 3i Group, acts as Investment Adviser to the Company NMPI through its Infrastructure business.
The investment advisory team provides advice to the Company on the origination and completion of new On 31 January 2014, the Company issued a statement noting the investments, on the realisation of investments, on funding requirements, changes to the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules to the as well as on the management of the investment portfolio.
It provides restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective investment its services under an Investment Advisory Agreement the IAA, which schemes and close substitutes non-mainstream pooled investments, includes an investment exclusivity arrangement in respect of investment or NMPIs, which came into effect on 1 January 2014. opportunities within the Companys investment policy.
In this statement, the Company asserted that its shares are excluded On 8 May 2014, the Company and the Investment Adviser entered into from these rules and therefore the restrictions relating to NMPIs will an amendment agreement to the IAA the Amendment Agreement, notapply to its shares.
conditional only on obtaining the approval of both the Companys It is the Boards intention that the Company will continue to conduct its shareholders other than 3i Group at an extraordinary general meeting affairs in such a manner that the Companys shares will continue to be and the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
excluded from the FCAs rules relating to NMPIs.
The Amendment Agreement was approved by an overwhelming majority of the Companys independent shareholders at the Results and dividends extraordinary general meeting held on 8 July 2014, following the receipt of the Jersey Financial Services Commissions approval on 11 June 2014.
The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the year appear on pages 72 The details of the Amendment Agreement are set out in the Companys to 75.
Total comprehensive income for the year was 266.8 million 2014 annual report.
In brief, they include a reduction in the advisory 2014: 71.0 million.
An interim dividend of 3.38p per share 2014: 3.35p fee rate for future primary PPP and certain renewable energy project in respect of the year to 31 March 2015 was paid on 8 January 2015. investments and, following feedback received from shareholders, the The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.62p per share addition of a high water mark requirement to the performance fee 2014: 3.35p be paid in respect of the year to 31 March 2015 to calculation.
With the exclusivity arrangements coming close to expiry shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 June 2015. at that time, the Board also agreed an extension of the fixed term of the IAA by four years, with one years rolling notice thereafter.
The term of The Company announced a new dividend policy, which targets a the exclusivity provisions with the Investment Adviser was also extended progressive annual dividend per share, fide-linking the dividend from the to match the term of the IAA, provided that the Company maintains opening NAV.
In light of the material profits generated through the sale of sufficient liquidity to continue investing through its cash holdings or Eversholt Rail, the Company is providing dividend guidance for FY2016, undrawn debt facilities.
and communicated a target dividend for FY2016 of 7.25 pence per share.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 56 Governance Other significant service arrangements Directors interests In addition to the arrangements described above, 3i plc and 3i In accordance with FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors interests in the Investments, in relation to certain regulatory services, have been shares of the Company in respect of which transactions are notifiable to appointed by the Company to provide support services to the Group, the Company under FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R as at including treasury and accounting services, investor relations and 31 March 2015 are shown below: other back office support services.
The amounts payable under these 1 Directors interests and beneficial interests Ordinary shares arrangements are described in more detail in Note 18 on page 91. at 31 March 2015 Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited was appointed as the Peter Sedgwick 104,653 Administrator and Company Secretary to the Company, with effect from Philip Austin 10,000 1 April 2014.
2 Doug Bannister 3 As at 31 March 2015, the Company was party to a 200 million Wendy Dorman multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, which ran to 4 Ian Lobley 1 May 2016.
This facility was renewed on 7 May 2015, to facilitate the Paul Masterton 10,000 management of the Companys liquidity requirements.
The size of the Steven Wilderspin 10,000 facility was increased to 300 million.
The new facility is secured by a fixed and floating charge over the directly held assets of the Company.
1 No options have ever been granted since the inception of the Company.
Its maturity was extended to 7 May 2018 subject to earlier cancellation 2 Served from 1 January 2015. by the Company or termination by the banks in certain circumstances, 3 Served from 1 March 2015. which are market standard for such a facility, including if there is a 4 Served from 6 May 2014. change of investment adviser to the Company.
In addition, under the In the period from 1 April 2015 to 30 April 2015, there were no changes facility agreement, the Company has the right to increase the size of the inthe interests of each serving Director.
facility by up to a further 200 million, provided that existing lenders have a right of first refusal.
The Company also has rights to request one or two year extensions to the maturity date of the facility, which Directors authority to buy back shares request s may be granted at the discretion of each lender individually.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year.
During the year the Company also secured additional short-term The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up borrowing facilities on attractive terms, to position it to make to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital expires at the next Annual commitments for potential new investments while awaiting the General Meeting AGM, to be held on 7 July 2015 the 2015 AGM.
receipt of proceeds from the sale of the investment in Eversholt Rail.
The Company will seek to renew such authority until the end of the AGM These facilities were cancelled in two stages, on 23 March 2015 and in 2016, specifying the maximum and minimum price at which shares 14 April 2015. can be bought back.
Any buyback of ordinary shares will be made subject to Jersey law and the making and timing of any buybacks will be Share capital at the absolute discretion of the Directors.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA which provide The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2015 was that the price paid must not be more than the higher of: i 5% above the 881,351,570 ordinary shares 2014: 881,351,570. average middle market quotations for the ordinary shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the Major interests in ordinary shares last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary London Stock Exchange at such time.
share capital as at 31 March 2015 and 30 April 2015, which are disclosable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Directors conflicts of interests Transparency Rules, are as follows: Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the Interests in ordinary shares % Number of ordinary Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable Directors 1 shares as at to approve conflicts of interest and include other conflict of interest 31 March and 30 April 2015 provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then 3i Group plc and subsidiaries 34.1 300,922,661 considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to 1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 57 Governance Directors report Directors indemnities In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to the a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable provisions of the Statutes, every Director of the Company shall be accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all liabilities and financial position and profit or loss of the Group taken as a whole: and expenses incurred by him or her in the actual or purported execution or discharge of his or her duties.
Statutes here refers to the Companies b the Annual report and accounts include a fair review of the Jersey Law 1991 and every other statute, regulation or order for development and performance of the business and the position of the the time being in force concerning companies registered under the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Companies Jersey Law 1991.
In addition, the Company has entered into and uncertainties faced by the Company.
indemnity agreements for the benefit of its Directors and these remain The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on pages 54 in force at the date of this report.
The Company also had Directors and and 55. officers liability insurance in place in the year.
The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation to the Statement of Directors responsibilities financial statements for the year to 31 March 2015.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations and those Going concern International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs which have been The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to adopted by the European Union.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, 3i Infrastructure the Strategic report on pages 6 to 38 and in the Financial statements is subject to the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency and related Notes on pages 72 to 93.
The financial position of the Rules, as well as to all applicable laws and regulations of Jersey, where Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are it is incorporated.
described in the Financial statements and related Notes on pages 72 to 93.
In addition, Note 9 to the financial statements includes the Companys Jersey Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial statements for each financial period in accordance with generally risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements of the Company hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the period end and of the profit or loss of the Company The Company has liquid financial resources and a strong investment for the period then ended.
portfolio providing a stable and robust income yield and an expectation of medium-term capital growth.
As a consequence, the Directors believe In preparing these financial statements, the Directors should: that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational make judgments and estimates that are reasonable: existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report and accounts.
adopted in their preparation: and By order of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless Authorised signatory it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are Company Secretary such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 11 May 2015 position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements Registered Office: of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for 12 Castle Street safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable St Helier steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Jersey, Channel Islands JE2 3RT The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Annual report and accounts and the Directors confirm that they consider that, taken as a whole, the Annual report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 58
