The market context In this section Key themes Market uncertainty Technology The shift to solutions Digital communication Changing clients and distribution needs Regulation We worry more about developed markets.
US stocks have Market uncertainty benefited from buybacks and corporate activity.
Profit growth 2015 was yet another year in which the market did not behave is now stalling.
There is little room left to cut costs.
If cheap as many had forecast.
This was supposed to be the year of a US money has not worked, prices need to fall to reflect lower growth interest rate rise, and lift-off for the US economy.
Europe and Japan are in a similar fix.
The message is just recovery has forced the US Federal Reserve to stay its hand.
taking longer to get through because of distracting politics such Chinas slowdown has been telegraphed in collapsing commodity as Greece and structural flaws.
prices, which were welcomed at first, as they would lower producer costs.
Business confidence These conditions have helped fixed income.
But with impending is falling everywhere.
policy normalisation, volatility is likely to rise as investors become more risk averse.
When that happens, questions over liquidity may The reaction of equity markets says it all.
Having spent the early come into play.
The saving grace for us as fundamental investors is part of the year consolidating gains, a broad sell-off since the that quality will become more important, and with expected price summer tipped most markets into losses, only for a sharp bounce overshoots there will be opportunities to buy good assets cheaply.
in October on hopes of more quantitative easing.
In general, currency falls in emerging markets have dented returns to dollarThe shift to solutions based investors.
Capital flows from these countries are set to turn For the majority of investors the hum drum business of finding a negative for the first time since 1988. real return is proving a challenge.
Thanks to quantitative easing, This does not seem like a re-run of past crises.
With some notable the collapse in the risk-free rate has forced many to buy riskier exceptions, trade and capital balances are positive.
Countries have assets than they might like.
Natural resource exporters such as Within equities, reduced volatility has allowed low-cost trackers Brazil and Russia are in deep recession: Chinas planners meanwhile such as ETFs exchange traded funds to gain market share from are trying to deflate property and other bubbles as they re-balance active managers who depend on price movement to differentiate the economy towards services.
But Asian neighbours can cope.
At the same time, asset class returns have become Companies in the region are better run these days.
For example, the returns available from developed markets compared with developing ones have steadily widened over the past five years, reversing the gains that were made in the years after the global financial crisis.
US monetary policy still a question of when?
Perspective matters Evolving expectations for Federal Reserve Developed markets vs emerging markets 10 Years performance in USD Implied Fed Funds rate %..... - -.
14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report The consequences of making the wrong asset allocation call Our changing clients have accelerated a move away from traditional assets to It is not only buyer needs that are changing.
alternatives including property, infrastructure, private equity Defined benefit pension schemes used to dominate sales of and leveraged strategies.
Multi asset managers who can straddle professionally managed assets, now worth some US$74 trillion.
these asset classes have more tools to offset core equity and fixed Today they are in decline, if not in terms of assets under management income risks.
but in terms of active schemes.
Most are now closed to new joiners In light of these developments, investors increasingly want a and many no longer allow existing members to earn future benefits.
specific outcome rather than performance promise versus an Defined contribution plans DC have replaced them and in some index.
How these outcomes are met is of secondary importance.
markets notably the US now represent a bigger pool of assets.
Popular strategies include inflation-linked, benchmark-plus, low While DC plans are very much in a growth phase, the rates of volatility or regular income returns.
Pension funds were early growth will slow as the baby boomers retire and start to access advocates.
Now private investors are among those pushing fund their DC pots.
This development, combined with aging populations managers to create more innovative structures.
in continental Europe and growing middle classes in emerging markets where formal pension provision is rarer or inadequate The rise of solutions, as these multi asset approaches are are driving the growth of the wealth segment.
Increasingly the termed, is attractive from a managers perspective.
There is less buyers of asset management services are individuals rather than competition here than in traditional asset classes.
Performance institutions as in the past.
track records are also short.
For managers with the resources to do proper price discovery, there are potential illiquidity premiums The ramifications of this evolving client base are significant and to capture.
affect all aspects of our business.
As individual investors become more important to the industry, regulatory and political attention But there are risks.
For example, it is one thing to package a increases, product appetite and servicing model change and brand solution to an individual client such as a pension fund.
It is another becomes more important.
If an asset manager wants to service to manage a complex strategy within an open-end fund structure, these newer client types as well as the institutions of old whose where the need to maintain liquidity for daily dealing might be in needs are also changing the complexity, as well as opportunity, conflict with the return objective.
Indeed, the apparent precision behind outcome-led investing could lead to over-promises.
If fund managers chase the same source of Distribution models continue to evolve returns, they could magnify the very risks of concentration their The explosion in new products is swamping third party product search for diversification is supposed to guard against.
An open gatekeepers within wholesale distributors such as insurers or question is how uncorrelated real assets, which many strategies private banks.
Extra client due diligence and other regulation is invest in, are from conventional financial ones.
making their lives more difficult.
It is no surprise that the product evaluation process has become more institutionalised.
Product lists have become shorter and the same manager names crop up.
There are still ways onto these lists.
While performance used to be the main criterion for approval, gatekeepers must also show they EM capital outflows intensified are buying best value for clients and that the product is appropriate.
A familiar brand, a promotional budget and a responsive client Worst quarter since 2008 financial crisis service team will influence outcomes.
Geographical coverage Dedicated EM Equity Fund Flows USD billions matters too.
The global providers want support across 100 their networks.
80 Specialist strategies are a niche business for private banks, 60 particularly in relation to their tactical calls.
In-house managers 40 often step in here.
On the other hand, they may not be best in classa potential conflict of interest that, again, opens the door to third 20 parties.
Under our multi asset umbrella we see potential for liquid 0 alternatives, property and private equity, in particular.
-20 One distributor constant is the need to provide product and market -40 updates, often requiring fund managers in person.
With our -60 solutions business ready to go, we are investing in more product specialists.
They will initiate client conversations and represent investment teams as necessary.
This engagement is potentially much more intensive than conventional equity and fixed Estimates collated from weekly AuMs for reference.
Numbers do not add up to YTD total, which are income funds because clients may not know what they want.
Source: EPFR Global, Morgan Stanley Research, data as of 30 September 2015. aberdeen-asset.
com 15 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 YTD 2015 Q1 15 Q2 15 Q3 15 The market context continued Technology Digital communication Alongside thinking about what products the customers of the Clients want more information digitally and how we communicate future may want, our industry must also consider how these our views to clients is changing.
They also want ideas that can help products and services will be delivered.
Digital technologies have them make better investment decisions, not just a sales pitch.
the potential to enhance and redefine our relationships with We have been investing in digital content for mobile devices.
clients and how they transact.
And we are being more vocal not just in our views on markets but on public policy and industry trends.
For intermediaries, the growing burden of regulation is pushing up costs.
In the UK the ongoing fallout of the ban on retrocession But amid media fragmentation and an explosion of online payments has put many financial advisers under additional information, digital presents a special challenge.
Many are also leaving the industry because of the engage investors in the infinity of the web is actually easy.
Almost every click can be tracked.
In practice the way investors behave on the web is less predictable than in traditional paid Online platforms are emerging to fill the vacancy they have left, media such as newsprint.
being cost efficient to the investor.
Fund managers are looking to participate by developing their own platforms, which offer The challenge is to increase the sophistication of our automated advice.
This is not an obvious move.
Traditionally understanding of clients through data mining, by tracking online independent managers like us are happy to keep distribution behaviour and creating a better user experience.
This is a tall order with third parties, who own the clients.
because we need to integrate that data capture with our own contact management system: because the predictive tools to help The reason that is changing is because the technology can provide us identify potential investors are still in their infancy - so we need relatively sophisticated advice at low cost.
In the US robo adviser dashboards to monitor what is happening: and to be worthwhile, platforms are winning market share fast.
The threat to managers all this activity must convert clicks, likes and followers to is that if they do not have products on such platforms they will tangible leads and actual buying.
How online and offline intersect is a challenge that will grow for Unlike conventional open architecture platforms which may carry the industry at large.
Our content hub, many hundreds of often indistinguishable funds, robo advisers Thinking Aloud, is our launchpad for social media and we are need only carry a handful of generic products in any asset class.
The appeal of being a platform owner is that you dont really have to share space.
Regulation In the UK the development of advisory platforms has been slowed Globally, regulators recognise the positive role asset managers by managers anxiety at having to own clients, because of the play in driving economic growth and encouraging long term burden on risk management.
Most platforms therefore work on savings.
However, there is also concern regarding the growing a direct-to-consumer model, encouraging clients to buy without size and breadth of the industry, its potential to fide-stabilise the benefit of advice.
Our announcement of the purchase of financial markets and the possible risks posed for retail consumers.
Parmenion has the advantage of being an automated advice tool Regulatory change, therefore, continues to play a key role in how for advisers, not consumers.
The adviser does the selection based we operate.
In Europe, the updated Markets in Financial Instruments Directive In future we believe the technology behind Parmenion could work MiFID II, which will come into effect in January 2017, impacts for a D2C platform for investors wanting simple target funds many aspects of our operating model from distribution and aimed at retirement savings.
products to investments and operations.
The Directive covers issues including: fund distribution: inducements: transparency regarding costs and charges: governance and controls: best execution and product complexity.
A key requirement is the need Digital technologies have the potential to for firms to acknowledge responsibility beyond direct clients to enhance and redefine our relationships with end-consumers.
This is being further reinforced in the UK by the FCA which is emphasising continually the importance of endclients and how they transact customer-focus in corporate culture.
16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Remuneration and risk also continue to be in the spotlight.
We are confident we can integrate the announced businesses The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD quickly.
Our acquisitions have a common investment approach, focuses specifically on issues regarding financial stability and risk which is important if we are to avoid being seen as just a management.
UCITS management companies are also required multi-boutique specialist.
They have few geographical overlaps.
to establish and maintain remuneration policies and practices The aim is to re-brand quickly, bring new products to market, then consistent with effective risk management.
demonstrate to investors that our capabilities meet their needs.
One constraint on our ambitions is weak markets.
We have less to spend than before.
At the same time the industry at large faces Volatility and uncertainty support the pressure on fees, an excess of products and, in part-consequence, distributor fatigue.
case for active management and our commitment to a disciplined, long term We believe we are well positioned, even so.
We have scale, a global platform to cross-sell and a culture of ideas-sharing.
approach to investing Developments in technology are providing new ways to connect with investors.
We believe that we are taking the right steps to invest in areas that will generate future growth.
In the UK, where the government remains at the forefront of changes, pension freedom changes have come into force.
This allows people to have flexible access to their pension pots, Long term plans rather than having to buy an annuity and is likely to generate Taking into account the long term trends that we see in significant demand for at retirement products such as income investments and investor behaviours our longer term plans solutions and drawdown products.
This year we launched four are to: multi asset lifestyle funds that offer outcomes for investors with Promote our Aberdeen solutions capabilities across a wider different age and risk profiles.
We remain focused on staying at the forefront of legal and Continue to build product specialist resource across all regulatory developments.
The FCA has recently outlined the scope capabilities and also for certain channels eg insurance - of its review of the competitiveness of the UK asset management so that our offering is better tailored to specific needs sector.
We believe it is important that there is transparency in fund of clients.
charges and that customers expectations are met.
Grow property capabilities in Asia and US to create a global asset class.
Outlook Utilise existing experience to broaden the number of Todays market uncertainty has discouraged new investment.
distribution partners who outsource investment expertise Asset managers must retain what they have, fight for money in to Aberdeen.
rotation and hope for rising valuations.
Next year we foresee a breakdown in correlation between asset classes and a spread in Continue product development to support growing pool of contagion risks.
Diversification will be more essential than ever.
Continue penetration across new channels in US with The growth in solutions is partly a response to todays unusual global investment capabilities - plus acquisitions have market conditions.
Investors want predictability not performance.
strengthened our US based investment desks.
We believe the growth in alternatives is not only here to stay but could erode demand for traditional Strengthen use of technology that enhances the information investments.
We also believe that this volatility and uncertainty support the case for active asset management and our commitment to a disciplined, long term approach to investing.
We aim to grow through a combination of investment in our existing teams adding skills technology and distribution expertise and through acquisitions.
SWIP brought scale in multi asset strategies and our acquisitions this year add further strength in filling gaps in global coverage.
