Overview of strategic report The strategic report brings together an overview of our business model and strategy, as well as looking at how we performed in the year given the market backdrop.
It includes details of the Groups financial position and documents our key risks and how we seek to mitigate these.
We continue to build on our position as a leading global asset management group founded on providing high quality investment processes and client service across a broad range of capabilities.
In this section Section Page Summary Market context 14 An overview of key trends in the industry, with an explanation of how they impacted our performance and the effect we anticipate they will have in future.
Business model 18 An overview of the Group and explanation of how we generate value for stakeholders including our shareholders and customers.
Strategic priorities 22 A summary of our corporate aims and associated KPIs.
It includes a high level summary of our performance in the year and the outlook for 2016.
Our Investment process 28 An outline of our investment processes across the asset classes equities, fixed income, property and Aberdeen solutions.
Business review 30 A more detailed review of the year covering the changes in AuM, progress made in asset classes and an overview of the acquisitions.
Our people 34 A review of our people practices.
Financial review 36 A summary of financial performance, looking at the income statement, balance sheet, cash flow and regulatory capital.
Risk management 44 A summary of the principal risks we face and an overview of the Groups risk management framework.
Key metrics AuM at year end Net revenue Underlying profit before tax Operating margin 283.7bn 1,169.0m 491.6m 42.7% 12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 2015 in context It has been a challenging year and this is reflected in our closing AuM of 283.7 billion, which is 12.5% lower than twelve months ago.
Markets have been characterised by uncertainty, especially for our equities business where outflows have been driven principally by asset allocation decisions by clients away from emerging and Asian markets exposure.
2015 has also been a transitional year.
The integration of SWIP is substantially complete and we have continued to make progress in achieving our strategic priorities.
We have also announced a number of small acquisitions which will add scale and strength to our alternatives investment capabilities.
This is the first full year since the SWIP acquisition completed and the additional revenues helped to support our operating margin, despite the revenue affect of net outflows.
Maintaining a strong balance sheet and a policy of rigorous control has been a key focus.
We believe the broadening capabilities and changing shape of the Aberdeen business are better suited to meet the changing needs of our clients.
Priorities The Groups ambition and corporate objectives are reflected as follows: Our vision: To be a highly trusted partner in delivering investment simply Our purpose: To help clients harness the potential of markets to achieve their chosen goals We aim to achieve this vision and purpose and optimise long term returns for our shareholders through applying five strategic priorities.
Focus on providing high levels of client service and generating long term value for 1.
Clients customers through developing our capabilities and products Deliver high quality proprietary research and investment expertise to achieve consistent 2.
Investment process long term performance Achieve resilience through the diversification of expertise, markets, channels and clients 3.
Resilience Recruit, develop and retain talented and motivated employees who make clear thinking, 4.
People diverse views and mutual support the basis for excellence Control costs, create efficient organisational structures and maintain a strong balance 5.
These objectives help to support a progressive dividend policy We provide a review of progress against these priorities on pages 22 to 26.
M J Gilbert W J Rattray Chief Executive Finance Director 27 November 2015 aberdeen-asset.
