Our investment process Our focus is to deliver high quality proprietary research and investment expertise across all asset classes, with a view to delivering long term performance for investors portfolios.
There are four universal elements to our investment process: Team approach Global reach, local knowledge We strongly believe collaboration improves decision making.
Our investment teams are located in the markets they are At Aberdeen we do not have star fund managers: we have investing in.
We have the scale to provide global coverage of teams with complementary skillsets who discuss investment financial markets, yet we are flexible enough to focus on each decisions and take collective responsibility.
High quality proprietary research Long term focus We pride ourselves on our detailed, fundamental due diligence.
We aim to generate strong performance and long term value No investments are made without a significant amount of well for our clients.
We do this by using primary research and a documented research and we aim to undertake our own robust investment screening process to find high quality, face-to-face research.
Investing for the future Investing for the long term may seem like an obvious strategy but it is surprising how few investors adopt it fully.
In our fast-paced world, the desire for instant gratification can overwhelm.
The prospect of immediate gain may encourage attempts to time a sector or a stock or rush into whatever is in favour long after the opportunity to profit has passed.
Equally, the urge to crystallise profits can cause quality assets to be sold significantly before they reach fair value.
An investment approach that weathers market ups and downs over years, not just weeks, almost always proves more fruitful as well as cheaper in the long term.
By investing for the future, we aim to hold our quality investments through the cycle.
That is how we built our historical track record and how we will continue to generate value for our shareholders.
Our golden rules of investing: Understand limitations Be benchmark agnostic Be wary of over ambition Appreciate what is predictable and, Stick to established processes Make sure any competitive advantage more importantly, what is not is sustainable Invest for the long term, accepting that Research investments thoroughly and periods of poor short term performance Commitment to stewardship understand what we are buying may arise 28 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Equities AuM Bottom up investment style, emphasising company fundamentals Low portfolio turnover, buying stocks and holding them for the Asia Pacic % long term Emerging markets % Global % No investment made without having interviewed the companys UK % management first US % Add value by identifying good quality stocks that are attractively Europe % priced and avoid businesses that we do not understand Total.
bn Fixed income AuM Focus on risk oversight to reduce losses and protect income Robust risk management embedded in the investment process to UK % Money markets % identify, measure and control risk US % Security focus on value relative to fundamental quality EMD % Australian % High yield % Global % Asia % European % Total.
bn Aberdeen solutions Multi asset AuM Outcome oriented multi asset, to meet the challenging needs of Multi asset % our clients Quantitative investments % Research across a range of markets and managers to ensure we Alternatives % can generate value-added ideas and deliver them in client focused outcomes Quantitative investments Multi-strategy team sharing quantitative insights to build efficient portfolios Alternatives Total.
bn Specialist investments: private equity, hedge funds, infrastructure and property multi manager Seek quality and best-in-class managers to execute the chosen strategy Recognise that risks in a portfolio are dynamic and multidimensional, and should therefore be continually assessed in multiple ways Provide strong risk-adjusted returns and quality, cost effective Property solutions for our clients throughout the market cycle AuM Disciplined, team-based process which focuses on quality then price Quality defined in terms of potential for durable and UK % growing income Nordic % Continental Europe % Focus on risk, not on market returns we cannot control Global % Advanced top-down research guiding local structured opportunity spotting Total.
