Business model Who our customers are We have a diverse client base - both by channel and nature of client.
Our institutional clients include pension funds, corporates, sovereign wealth funds, government agencies and insurance companies.
We typically sell to retail clients through intermediaries, also known as distributors or third party advisers, such as private banks, financial advisers, wealth managers and platforms.
We aim to grow our business by growing the money we manage for existing clients and by winning new clients.
We gain and retain clients through our investment process and our track record for managing money.
Clients hire managers for three reasons: 1 people - we have stable, experienced, well resourced teams 2 investment process - clear, and yields results over the long term 3 performance - we believe this is a function of the first two.
Ensuring we look after our clients' best interests is at the core of our strategy.
How we operate and who we are Our global operating model underpins our ability to invest and service clients worldwide.
This is the engine of the business and includes our core global IT applications and infrastructure, as well as our key outsourcing relationships for back office functions.
Our model allows us to manage assets locally, while enabling teams to apply consistent processes globally and share research.
We package assets in products - either through funds or segregated mandates - adapted to the needs of local markets and clients.
Our investment expertise is spread across four divisions, each of which has a global capability.
We believe, and our growth track record demonstrates, that our model is scalable and enables us to add new countries and investment capabilities to the Group, as well as integrate acquisitions.
Underpinning our global network of employees is a team structure: this applies to all business lines, not just our investment desks.
A flat management structure facilitates information flow and keeps the business streamlined.
We have a strong culture and recruit individuals, both at entry level and experienced hires, who align with our values of quality, ambition, teamwork, integrity and challenge.
We have 2,800 employees in the 25 countries in which we operate.
Employees by division Investment Distribution Product Corporate Finance HR and Operations Risk Technology Management 480 50 40 120 graduates 425 230 and facilities 870 425 160 How we generate value We charge fees based on levels of AuM and they are expressed as basis points bps.
Fees depend on the capability, amount of money managed and the channel, therefore the product mix has an impact on levels of revenue growth.
We aim to grow AuM organically and through selective acquisitions, where we seek to ensure we pay a competitive price for new business and teams.
The Group has a strong track record in effectively integrating new capabilities.
While there will be a natural turnover of money managed, and we expect a level of outflows from existing clients, we aim to retain as much AuM as possible with a long term focus on investment management and meeting clients needs.
AuM may also increase and decrease due to market movements.
When revenues grow, our cash flows grow.
We use cash generated to ensure we have a strong capital base.
Thereafter, we look to increase shareholder value through strategic acquisitions, dividends and other returns to shareholders.
18 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Institutional Wealth Clients Retail management Client relations activity Strategic priority 1 Diverse product Consistent Talented and offering supported by investment motivated high quality operations process employees and support functions Strategic priority 2 Strategic priority 4 Strategic priority 3 Equities 80.1bn Team approach Commitment to quality Fixed income Global reach, local knowledge Alternatives Innovation and challenge promoted 65.6bn 14.0bn High quality proprietary research Focus on collaboration and openness Aberdeen solutions Multi asset 119.0bn 83.0bn Long term focus Continuous personal development Quantitative Property investments 19.0bn 22.0bn Value generated for our clients, end-customers and shareholders Strategic priority 5 aberdeen-asset.
