Our clients: Focus on providing high levels of client service and generating long term value for customers through developing our capabilities and products Levels of gross sales bn 30 25 Total 2015 42.5bn 20 2014 34.7bn 2013 43.9bn 15 10 5 0 Equities Fixed income Aberdeen solutions Property 2015 2014 2013 2015 progress Gross sales increased by 22% compared to 2014, with a lower proportion of sales coming from equities.
Sales have declined from 2013 when we were seeing huge demand for equities products.
This demand has fallen largely due to weaker market sentiment towards Asian and emerging markets which we believe is cyclical rather than permanent.
This has impacted asset allocation decisions of a number of clients and is a major factor in outflows from these markets.
In equities, we have increased the number of meetings with clients to explain our performance in terms of our investment process.
We continued to invest in our client facing and specialist distribution resource to respond to the evolving market landscape and service our diverse client base.
Over the course of the year we: created a dedicated insurance distribution team to leverage off our improved capability following the SWIP acquisition.
created a retirement savings team to help capture a greater share of the growing defined contribution market particularly in the UK following legislative changes.
augmented our product specialist teams to support sales of a broader offering of products and we developed product and sales specialists.
More of our marketing effort is through digital channels to enable more effective communications with clients and prospects.
2016 expectations Our priority is to put clients' interests first and we are confident that the steps taken in recent years will enable our sales teams to have better conversations with clients to help us meet their needs.
We will continue to develop our sales team, especially to grow the number of specialists, and to develop new ideas suitable for the needs of clients.
Our targets for 2016 are to: further develop our insurance business we now manage in excess of 120bn for this type of client.
progress with alternatives following the FLAG Capital Management FLAG and Arden Asset Management Arden acquisitions as well as the launch of a liquid alternatives fund in Europe.
develop our distribution footprint by taking advantage of our new licence in China and grow in priority markets.
Risks 1a Poor management of client and distributor relationships 1b Product design does not meet client needs or products are not understood by clients 1c Reputational risk if we do not keep pace with digital development 1a, 1b, 1c Please refer to Risk management section on pages 44 to 51 22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 2.
Our investment process: Deliver high quality proprietary research and investment expertise to achieve consistent long term performance 2015 progress Our priority has been to adhere to our investment process.
In equities, we are bottom up stock pickers, focused on investing in quality companies, with an emphasis on micro not macro.
Markets, over the past three years, have been driven largely by macro factors and, from a performance stand point, we have been on the wrong side of quantitative easing and the fall in oil commodity prices.
This has hindered the investment performance of the global equities team.
The Board has reviewed both the process and the performance with the equities team.
We believe our investment process remains appropriate for the long term and there will be no style drift.
We explain our performance in the context of process, and continue to refine this and invest in our equity teams.
Fixed income performance has been strong with most teams now showing consistent track records.
Organisationally, we have simplified our structure, with the focus on global teams supported by regional expertise.
This does not change the process: but does help ideas to be shared.
In property, we continue to take a long view, and look to add properties with appropriate yields over capital speculation.
The solutions performance is solid and we are steadily building up track records across our core capabilities.
2016 expectations Our commitment to our equities investment process leads us to anticipate underperformance during periods when markets are boosted by policy-led economic factors.
We expect 2016 may also be a challenging year if there is continued lacklustre demand for Asian and emerging markets equity products.
However, any indiscriminate selling will provide us with opportunities to buy favoured holdings at attractive prices.
In other asset classes, we have strong teams and clear processes.
Teams are fully integrated following the SWIP acquisition and a number of gaps have been filled to strengthen global capabilities in property and alternatives.
We believe the combination of stable teams and diligent processes will continue to support long term performance.
Risks 1a Poor investment performance could lead to the loss of clients and may cause AuM, revenue and earnings to decline 2a Failure to deliver consistent and above average performance 2a Aberdeens capabilities are not suitable for market conditions 1a, 2a Please refer to Risk management section on pages 44 to 51 aberdeen-asset.
Our resilience: Achieve resilience through diversification of expertise, markets, channels and clients AuM mix across asset classes to reflect our efforts to diversify 80.1bn 65.6bn 119.0bn 19.0bn 283.7bn 2015 2014 107.6bn 71.4bn 125.0bn 20.4bn 326% 4.4bn 2013 113.8bn 42.8bn 28.8bn 15.0bn 200.4bn Equities Fixed income Aberdeen solutions Property 2015 progress We believe our business is more resilient following the SWIP transaction and that we are in a better position for the shift towards solutions and alternatives capabilities.
2015 brings an end to a transitional period with the SWIP integration in its final stages.
We also aligned our product offering - launching new products in areas such as multi asset and liquid alternatives.
The acquisitions of FLAG, Arden, Advance Emerging Capital Advance and the remaining shares in the Aberdeen SVG Private Equity joint venture will help to strengthen our alternatives business and enhance our global offering.
Including acquisitions, we will manage around 20 billion and we are well advanced in our objective to be a leading, global alternatives provider.
The acquisition of Parmenion Capital Partners LLP and its sister company, Self Directed Holdings Limited together Parmenion supports our aim of growing solutions and further bolsters the Groups already extensive distribution reach in the UK by adding a digital channel.
We have established a direct property investment team in Singapore with a remit to grow a local business organically alongside our equities, fixed income and Aberdeen solutions desks.
We continued to strengthen our residential investments in Europe, especially in Germany, Sweden, and in the UK.
2016 expectations A strengthened product suite and investment strategy means we are well positioned to win new business, across a range of capabilities.
We aim to offer a more diverse set of products to meet our clients needs.
We believe demand for multi asset products will persist given the search for yield, diversification and greater focus on risk management.
We are well positioned for this.
Please refer to page 17 for details on our plans.
To achieve resilience, we will continue to invest in our global operating model.
Key areas we continue to focus on are our spend on technology and the ongoing development of platforms to support growing capabilities, such as alternatives and property.
We may consider selective acquisitions at appropriate times in the business cycle.
Risks 3a Major legal or regulatory changes 3b Increased level of organisational stress from acquisition activity 3c Major failure of operations or client support 3d Failure of external service providers or Aberdeen systems 3e Technology and information security risk 3a, 3b, 3c, 3d, 3e Please refer to Risk management section on pages 44 to 51 24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 4.
Our people: Recruit, develop and retain talented and motivated employees who make clear thinking, diverse views and mutual support the basis for excellence Average hours of training per employee 2015 2014 2013 28 hours 26 hours 22 hours 2015 progress This year, we recruited 109 interns, 41 graduates, 7 apprentices and 10 individuals on the Investment 2020 scheme.
Retention of talent is a key focus globally and unplanned employee turnover remains low at 10%.
We launched the Aberdeen Asset Management Academy to provide enhanced learning and development opportunities for all employees.
62 employees completed the INSEAD senior leadership programme and 152 completed the emerging talent programme.
A number of employees from the first emerging talent programme have now been promoted to senior positions within the company.
Employees selected for these programmes come from across our global offices and have diverse backgrounds and skill-sets.
There has been growing global engagement in Aberdeens innovation platform Ignite which provides employees with the opportunity to collaborate, discuss, challenge and ultimately help shape the future direction of the business.
Morale has been impacted by flows but we continue to focus on our team based approach.
Senior staff, who have been through the cycles, play an important role in re-assuring junior members of the team.
The culture committee continues to review our culture and how we can better safeguard, manage, monitor and improve it.
We developed our diversity and inclusion strategy which is focused on the key strands of workforce, workplace and marketplace.
As part of this strategy we piloted unconscious bias training for all managers in the UK.
During the year, we developed our internal communications function to raise global awareness of corporate activity.
We also have robust succession plans in place.
2016 expectations We remain committed to recruiting and retaining talented and motivated individuals who put clients at the heart of our business.
We will continue to improve the learning and development opportunities available for all employees while also investing in talent management programmes.
Unconscious bias training programmes for managers will be rolled out globally alongside an e-learning course for all employees.
Risks 4a Loss of key staff 4a Please refer to Risk management section on pages 44 to 51 aberdeen-asset.
Our shareholders: Control costs, create efficient organisational structures and maintain a strong balance sheet.
These objectives help to support a progressive dividend policy 2015 2014 2013 Underlying diluted earnings per share: 30.0p 31.1p 32.5p Diluted dividend per share: 19.5p 18.0p 16.0p Dividend cover: 1.5x 1.7x 2.0x 2015 progress Notwithstanding the impact of market volatility, we have pursued a strategy to mitigate the effects of uncertainty through tight cost and disciplined balance sheet control.
Operating costs increased by 7%, which was entirely due to the addition of the SWIP business.
We exceeded our target on SWIP cost synergies: the marginal operating margin is in excess of 60% compared to an initial target of 55%.
On the capital side, there is robust headroom over our regulatory capital requirement and cash generation remains strong.
This enables us to maintain a progressive dividend.
This year we also returned 50 million to shareholders through a buy-back.
We also issued 100 million of preference shares at a 5% coupon and this has been used to fund growth in seed capital.
2016 expectations We expect that 2016 will be a difficult year and the full year effect of outflows in 2015 will impact top line revenue.
Nonetheless, given our strong cash generation, the Group can maintain its balance sheet strength.
We will continue to focus on cost control and we have taken a number of steps to mitigate the impact of inflation next year.
We expect to achieve synergies from the integration of the FLAG and Arden acquisitions.
There are opportunities to run some areas more effectively and efficiently, although some of these actions will require a lead time to be effective.
These actions should ensure we continue to be in a strong financial position and maintain our progressive dividend.
Risks 3a Failure to adapt to legal or regulatory change or additional costs from such change erodes margins 5a Reduction in revenues or assets due to foreign exchange movement 5b Failure to settle debts due to lack of liquidity 5c Credit risk 3a, 5a, 5b, 5c Please refer to Risk management section on pages 44 to 51 26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report
