130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 8 Managers Report Introduction Benefiting from a resilient domestic economy and its low exposure to the struggling resources industries, the Numis Smaller Companies Index excluding investment companies performed well in 2015, securing a total return of 10.6%.
This was well ahead of the FTSE All-Shares 1.0% and, indeed, compared well with the results for many major stockmarkets, particularly when assessed in sterling.
ASCoTs NAV rose by 10.2% in total return terms.
While acceptable in the broader context of 2015, this outcome is below that of the benchmark.
Reasons for this are set out in the Performance section of this report.
Returning, for the time being, to the broader investment environment, risk assets tended to struggle in 2015, especially in the second half.
Uncertainty continued as to the strength of recovery in the Eurozone, notwithstanding the introduction of quantitative easing long promised by Mario Draghi.
Meanwhile, the pace of growth in the US ebbed even as speculation about the first rise in interest rates in the present cycle mounted.
Adding to these undercurrents came the Autumns tide of concern about China and the emerging markets in general.
Uncertainty rose as to the rate of deceleration in the Chinese economy following a loosening of its currency peg with the strong dollar, which fuelled recurrent fears about years of investment financed by unsustainable levels of debt.
The slowdown in Chinas rate of growth added to pressure on the resources industry, as diminishing demand met still rising supply, a legacy of the boom years.
In turn, plummeting commodity prices and a stronger dollar intensified the woes of emerging markets, several of which have relied on dollar denominated debt to fund their growth.
The UK has proved a haven of comparative tranquillity: domestic demand has been boosted by wages rising above the rate of inflation and has offset austerity policies, which have in any case been watered down.
However, the FTSE AllShare, which is dominated by large companies, has been weighed down by its significant exposure to the resources industries.
This factor helps explain the out-performance of smaller companies in 2015: the NSCI XIC has a relatively low exposure to resources companies and a much greater exposure to sectors, such as retailing, that address the domestic economy.
That said, overseas-facing companies within the NSCI XIC are showing signs of stress as patchy demand growth in other economies combines with the lagged effects of sterlings revaluation over the past four years.
Against this backdrop of modest economic growth and mounting pessimism, government bond yields ended 2015 little changed from the levels at which they started the year.
These are very low in the long term historical context and are also influenced by the prevailing monetary regime of zero interest rate policy and quantitative easing.
The impact of bond yields on a portfolio of small UK quoted companies constructed in accordance with a value investment discipline is twofold.
First, as already implied, bond yields are a gauge of underlying economic activity: yields tend to rise to reflect and compete with the returns available from a stronger economy and vice versa.
In an environment of low growth across the economy, secular growth companies stand out and can be rewarded by the stockmarket with higher than normal valuations.
A rising tide of improving prospects for the general economy should erode that growth premium.
Second, value stocks may be considered short duration equities, which means that more of their worth is determined by near term cash flows from the underlying businesses.
In contrast, growth stocks tend to be long duration equities, with a greater portion of their value derived from cash flows that are forecast to grow often over many years into the future.
As such, the valuation of a growth company is more sensitive to the rate at which the cash flows are discounted to arrive at the businesss present value.
To this extent, the present climate of very low interest rates and bond yields is likely to result in valuations for growth companies that are even higher than normal.
The theory has translated into practice since the global financial crisis: the value investment style has fared well in years such as 2013 when bond yields rose, but has faced a challenge over the period as a whole as yields have declined.
This reports initial focus on the big picture should not be mistaken for a change in the Managers investment approach: the portfolio remains a collection of individual businesses selected for their attractive valuations and prospects.
However, it is clear that the performance of the portfolio, whether Aberforth likes it or not, is influenced by factors beyond its control.
Some of this is by design: ASCoT ought to benefit from the value premium, which is the out-performance that value stocks have enjoyed over growth stocks over the long term both in the NSCI XIC and in equity markets around the world.
8 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 9 Managers Report Investment performance To recap, ASCoTs NAV total return in 2015 was 10.2%, which compares with 10.6% from the NSCI XIC.
This section of the report analyses some of the factors behind the relative performance.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2015 Basis points Stock selection 16 Sector selection 27 Attributable to the portfolio of investments, based on mid prices 11 after transaction costs of 35 basis points Movement in mid to bid price spread 8 Cash gearing 24 Purchase of Ordinary Shares 4 Management fee 79 Other expenses 7 Total attribution based on bid prices 39 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the NAV and the Benchmark Index i. e. NAV 10.22%: Benchmark Index 10.61%: difference is -0.39% being -39 basis points.
Style & size With government bond yields remaining at very low levels over the year, the value investment style under-performed in 2015.
An additional handicap came from the rebalancing of the NSCI XIC on 1 January 2015: this saw the admission of several resources companies, whose share prices had fallen steeply in 2014.
According to the price-to-book methodology employed by the London Business School, which maintains the NSCI XIC, these were classified as value companies.
Their continued struggles in 2015 therefore represented a headwind to the value style.
As explained in the Sectors paragraph below, the Managers are not slaves to third party definitions of what makes a value investment and choose to avoid many of these troubled resources businesses.
The Managers consistent application of their value style has led to a significantly larger exposure than that of the NSCI XIC to the smaller constituents of the index.
One way to illustrate this is to focus on the NSCI XIC s overlap with the FTSE 250.
This overlap accounts for 63% of the NSCI XIC but for just 40% of the portfolio.
This under-weight position in larger small companies and the accompanying over-weight position in smaller small companies reflects the strong performance of mid caps over the past 15 years.
Consequently, the more attractive valuations are now on offer down the scale of market capitalisations, often irrespective of an individual companys prospects.
In part, this state of affairs is a result of the global financial crisis: fears of illiquidity have remained exaggerated and deterred many market participants from venturing below the FTSE 250.
With little to choose between the returns from the FTSE 250 and the FTSE SmallCap in 2015, size was not a significant influence on the ASCoTs relative performance.
Sectors The resources sectors represent a conundrum for the value investor.
Their constituents often look very cheap on metrics such as price-to-book, but their prospects are clouded by macro economic and political influences on underlying commodity prices.
The Managers have differentiated between the oil companies and the miners, adopting a higher weight than the index in the former for the first time in a decade and remaining under-weight in the latter.
An important means of differentiation is the balance sheet: the oil companies in the NSCI XIC tend to have stronger balance sheets, with net cash, modest debt or long term borrowing arrangements.
In contrast, the miners balance sheets tend to be stretched.
As a consequence, the miners in many cases require higher commodity prices sooner rather than later in order to survive, whereas it is possible to adopt a longer term investment horizon with the oil companies, most of which remain cash flow positive with the oil price at todays depressed levels.
On a one year view, the decision to add to the portfolios position in oil was unhelpful.
However, this was out-weighed by the benefit of avoiding the worst of the miners.
Elsewhere, it has been challenging to find value in the healthcare sectors.
Healthcare companies offer the benefits of secular growth dynamics and are able to stand apart from concerns about the economic cycle that afflict the majority of stockmarket sectors.
As a consequence, they have attracted large amounts of capital, as resources companies were able to do a decade ago, and their valuations have risen to high levels.
Other buoyant areas of the small cap universe in recent years have been those sectors addressing the domestic UK economy.
Housebuilders and retailers have tended to perform well and ASCoT has benefited from significant exposure to those industries.
However, it would appear that the good news about the UKs recovery is now fully reflected in the valuations of several domestic cyclicals.
As a consequence, the portfolios exposure has fallen as valuation targets have been achieved.
Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 9 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 10 Managers Report Corporate activity M&A staged a substantial recovery in 2015.
Bids for 27 members of the NSCI XIC were completed in the year, against 12 in 2014 and just 5 in 2013.
On top of the completed deals, approaches for another 8 companies were outstanding at the year end.
Acquirers were predominantly other corporates rather than private equity and takeover premiums were generally fair.
Of the 27 completed deals, ASCoT held 8.
The net effect of the takeover premiums collected by ASCoT less those missed was positive, though amounted to less than 100 basis points of relative performance.
The year under review was also noteworthy for the refreshment of the NSCI XIC : the initial public offerings of 29 companies eligible for inclusion in the index were completed.
As at 31 December 2015, ASCoT held four of 2015s IPOs.
It would appear that the pipeline of potential future IPOs is full, though its realisation clearly relies on acceptable price expectations on the part of the vendors and on general stockmarket conditions neither of which is a given.
Income The dividend performance of small companies in recent years has been very strong.
In an investment world starved of income by zero interest rate policies, the dividend characteristics offered by the constituents of the NSCI XIC have been increasingly sought after.
It is scarcely necessary to look further when attempting to understand the good share price performance of the asset class since the global financial crisis.
The same logic applies when assessing the performance of small companies against large.
Double digit per annum dividend growth and numerous special dividends from the NSCI XIC since 2009 contrast with the fortunes of the FTSE All-Share, which is dominated by large sectors, such as the banks and resources companies, whose dividends have been under considerable pressure.
ASCoT continues to benefit from this favourable backdrop.
Its investment income rose by 25% in 2015, boosted by seven special dividends and also by the impact of companies resuming dividend payments after having suspended them during the 2009 recession.
Given this performance, the general craving for income and the higher than average yields of the portfolios investee companies, it would seem likely that ASCoTs income characteristics have been beneficial to both its total return and capital NAV performance in recent years.
This would have mitigated to an extent the broader headwinds facing the value style that are associated with low interest rates and bond yields.
It is worth reiterating the caveats about income made in previous reports.
First, the double digit growth in small company dividends since 2009 is unsustainable: the long term average is 2.5% per annum adjusted for inflation and there is little reason to believe that the future average should be any higher.
Second, the Managers detect an element of faddishness to the rediscovered fondness for dividends: at the risk of too much cynicism, it may be the case that certain dividend decisions are being made with an eye to the shorter term fillip they might afford to a share price rather than to the longer term good of the company.
Such situations may only be revealed when the next recession hits.
Third, if interest rates and bond yields can begin a journey of normalisation, income becomes less scarce and the income characteristics of small companies become less sought after.
This, though, should be a price worth paying by a value investor.
Significant stakes Throughout ASCoTs 25 years, the Managers have been prepared to take large stakes in investee companies across Aberforths client base.
These stakes can rise as high as around 25% of a companys outstanding share capital.
The primary motivation relates to the value investment philosophy: the Managers want valuation to be the main determinant of a companys position in the portfolio.
A 25% ownership limit offers flexibility in this regard, though stakes of this size are a relatively small part of the portfolio and are usually amassed slowly, taking advantage of share price weakness.
Clearly, significant stakes can bring additional opportunities and responsibilities.
The Managers have an established means of engagement with investee companies that focuses on the role of the chairman, which is the most important position in the UKs corporate governance structure.
The Managers may have a view on dividend policy or balance sheet structure, but, with the right person in the chair, they are generally happy to let the board run the company.
Engagement is frequently time consuming, but the Managers are well resourced and believe that the investment of time provides a good payback.
Significant stakes, with the inevitable mix of successes and failures, have made a net positive contribution to ASCoTs returns over the years.
Turnover Defined as the lower of purchases and sales divided by average month end net asset value over the past twelve months, turnover was 37% over the twelve months to 31 December 2015, which compares with 36% in 2014.
In both years, turnover was boosted by situations in which ASCoT is in effect a forced seller but which represent good outcomes for 10 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 11 Managers Report shareholders.
First, companies that have grown too large to remain in the NSCI XIC on its annual 1 January rebalancing are sold in an orderly fashion.
Second, companies subject to takeover bids are sold to the acquirer.
Adjusting for these circumstances, ASCoTs underlying turnover over the long term has been 25% and in 2015 was 20%.
The underlying turnover figure of 25% implies an average holding period of four years, though the portfolio contains many holdings that have been there for much longer.
The rise in overall turnover had a large influence on the rise in transaction costs from 3,346k in 2014 to 3,890k in 2015.
Higher asset values, consistent with the positive return from the NSCI XIC, also had an important effect.
Other factors were less significant: these include the proportion of purchases incurring stamp duty, the mix of dealing venues, the impact of selling companies to bidders in M&A situations, and the significance within purchases of participation in issues of new equity.
The Managers are acutely conscious of transaction costs, not least because they affect the achievability of ASCoTs investment objective to out-perform the NSCI XIC over the long term.
The Managers assess these costs, which represent a combination of commissions for execution and stamp duty reserve tax, together with underlying investment opportunities: in keeping with the value investment discipline, holdings are reduced when they no longer offer further upside and the proceeds are recycled into other positions.
In the round, this process of recycling should be of benefit to shareholders: this was certainly the case in 2015, when so much of the turnover was a result of M&A and the sales of companies that had performed sufficiently well to be ejected from the NSCI XIC.
Active share Active share is a gauge of how different a portfolio is from an index.
A higher active share ratio indicates a greater difference and increases the probability that the portfolios performance will diverge from that of the index.
That divergence could be positive or negative.
The Managers monitor active share to ensure that ASCoTs portfolio does not inadvertently become too similar to the NSCI XIC.
They target a ratio of at least 70%, though will tolerate a temporarily depressed number.
The target is assessed without the benefit of holdings that are not constituents of the index such holdings flatter active share.
At 31 December 2015, the ratio stood at 77%.
Valuations 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Characteristics ASCoT NSCI XIC ASCoT NSCI XIC Number of companies 86 349 88 369 Weighted average market capitalisation 567m 750m 614m 754m Price earnings ratio or PE historic 12.5x 14.6x 13.0x 13.2x Dividend yield historic 3.1% 2.7% 2.5% 2.5% Dividend cover 2.6x 2.5x 3.1x 3.0x The table above contains historic valuation data for ASCoTs portfolio and for the NSCI XIC.
The portfolios historic PE fell over the course of 2015, while the NSCI XIC s rose.
This is consistent with the style dynamics already described: the small cap universe was led higher by the growth stocks, while value stocks performed less well.
Meanwhile, the PE of large companies, represented by the FTSE All-Share, rose from 13.8x to 16.6x over the year.
As a consequence, small companies ended the year 12% cheaper than large in terms of PE, which compares with a 4% discount twelve months earlier.
As recently as September 2012, small companies were 24% more expensive than large on the basis of PEs.
The average portfolio yield rose in 2015, while the dividend cover dropped.
An important influence on these movements is the impact of previously nil yielding companies resuming or starting dividends payments.
At 2.6x, cover is now back closer to the long term average of 2.5x, having spent the years since the global financial crisis at above 3.0x.
2016 enterprise value earnings before interest, tax and amortisation 43 growth companies 244 other companies Tracked Universe ASCoTs portfolio 16.0x 11.1x 11.8x 9.8x Companies followed closely by the Managers accounting for 96% by value of the NSCI XIC.
The table above sets out the forward EV EBITA ratio for the portfolio, the tracked universe and two subdivisions of the tracked universe, 43 growth companies and the 244 other companies.
EV EBITA is the Managers favoured valuation Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 11 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 12 Managers Report metric.
It is unaffected by how a company is funded, whether through equity or debt, and it is closer to how a corporate acquirer values a target business.
This latter point may explain the important contribution to ASCoTs performance over the years from M&A.
Consistent with the Managers value investment style, the portfolio is valued on a large discount to the tracked universe as a whole.
This discount to the growth companies is wider, at 39%.
A corollary of growths leadership in 2015 is that the population of potential investments for ASCoT has increased.
It is the value investors contention that discounts will narrow over time to the benefit of the relative returns of portfolios managed in accordance with the style.
Outlook & conclusion Although the Managers day-to-day focus is on individual businesses and their valuations, it is likely that the performance of ASCoT over the coming year will be significantly influenced by developments on a larger scale.
If the recent interest rate increase in the US heralds a gradual normalisation of monetary conditions around the world and bond yields are higher in twelve months time, it is probable that ASCoT will have benefited from tailwinds for the value investment style.
If, however, the rate increase proves more than the economy can take and bond yields stay the same or decline, then ASCoT will probably face headwinds similar to those of 2015.
The outcome is not one that the Managers are able to call.
However, the challenge that the interest rate rise in the US represents to the broader investment worlds safe and consensual preference for growth stocks is intriguing.
Closer to home, the outlook for the UKs corporate sector is undeniably cloudy.
Demand is challenged by the uncertain pace of growth in much of the world, while costs are, at last, coming under pressure from wages rising above the rate of inflation.
Sliding commodity prices particularly that of oil offer some mitigation, but a squeeze on margins is plausible.
It should not come as a surprise if the profit growth expected by the market for small companies in 2016 currently around 9% once again proves too ambitious.
In mitigation, balance sheets do not appear stretched across the portfolio and the investment universe in general.
Moreover, another year of above average dividend growth from small companies looks likely.
For the Managers, the most encouraging factor is that of valuation.
The investment universe continues to offer up numerous attractively valued investment opportunities.
Indeed, the consolation of a year in which growth stocks have led the NSCI XIC higher is that the valuation gap between growth and value has widened and the number of candidates for inclusion in the portfolio has risen.
It is plausible that elements of the undoubted top-down risks are already discounted in valuations of todays portfolio.
Accordingly, without becoming hostage to the vagaries of equity returns over one year, the Managers look to the future with confidence and believe that ASCoT can continue to benefit from the careful stock selection and exploitation of the value premium that have characterised the first 25 years of your Companys life.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 27 January 2016 12 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
