130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 19 Directors Report The Directors submit their Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the financial year are listed on page 18.
Further information about the Board can be found in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of this Directors Report.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
In common with the majority of investment trusts, the Company has neither executive directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external firms to undertake the investment management, secretarial, depositary and custodial activities of the Company.
Objective, Investment Policy, Investment Strategy and Risks These are explained fully in the Strategic Report on pages 4 and 5.
Return and Dividends The total return attributable to Shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2015 amounted to a gain of 112,178,000 2014: loss of 7,587,000.
The net asset value per Ordinary Share at 31 December 2015 was 1,254.30p 2014: 1,161.14p.
Your Board is pleased to declare a final dividend of 17.85p and a special dividend of 2.75p total of 19,575,000, which produces total dividends for the year of 28.75p total of 27,330,000.
The final and special dividends, subject to Shareholder approval, will be paid on 4 March 2016 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 February 2016.
Company Status The Company is closed-ended investment trust listed on the LondonStock Exchange and an Alternative Investment Fund under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013 subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions.
The Company will continue to conduct its affairs as an investment trust.
Furthermore, the Company is an investment company as defined within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Investment Managers Aberforth Partners LLP the firm, Managers or Aberforth act as Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 2.1 billion as at 31 December 2015.
The firm is wholly owned by five partners four of whom are investment managers.
Five investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis: Euan Macdonald, Keith Muir, Richard Newbery, Alistair Whyte and Mark Williamson.
These services can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Compensation would be payable in respect of this six month period only if termination were to occur sooner.
With effect from 1 July 2015, Aberforth receives an annual management fee, payable quarterly in advance, equal to 0.75% of the net assets of up to 1 billion, and 0.65% thereafter.
Previously the Managers were paid an annual management fee, payable quarterly in advance equal to: 0.80% of the net assets up to 800m: plus 0.70% of the net assets between 800m and 1 billion: plus 0.6% of the net assets in excess of 1 billion if any.
For illustrative purposes, if the revised management fee tariff had been in place for the whole of 2015, the saving in fees would have been approximately 213,000.
The management fee amounted to 8,755,000 in the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: 8,639,000.
The secretarial fee, payable quarterly in advance, amounted to 79,108 excluding VAT during 2015.
It is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index and is subject to VAT, which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
The Board reviews the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an on-going basis and formally at its October meeting, where each Director completes a Managers Evaluation questionnaire.
The Board then considers the results of the questionnaire and discusses the following matters, amongst others, in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment objective, policy and strategy: the continuity and quality of personnel managing the assets: the level of the management fee: the quality of reporting to the Board: Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 19 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 20 Directors Report the alignment of interests between the Managers and the Companys Shareholders: the administrative services provided by the Secretaries: and the level of satisfaction of major Shareholders with the Managers.
Following the most recent review, the Board was of the opinion that the continued appointment of Aberforth as investment managers, on the terms agreed, remains in the best interests of Shareholders.
Depositary National Westminster Bank plc carry out the duties of Depositary as specified in the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive in relation to the Company, including: holding or controlling all assets of the Company that are entrusted to it for safekeeping: cash monitoring and verifying the Companys cash flows: and oversight of the Company and the Managers.
In carrying out such duties, the Depositary acts in the best interests of the Shareholders of the Company.
The Depositary is contractually liable to the Company for the loss of any assets entrusted to it.
The Depositary is also liable to the Company for all other losses suffered as a result of the Depositarys fraud, negligence and or failure to fulfil its duties properly.
National Westminster Bank plc receives an annual fee, payable quarterly in arrears, of 0.0125% of the net assets of the Company and their appointment may be terminated at any time by giving at least six months notice.
A Depositary may only be removed from office when a new Depositary is appointed by the Company.
Capital Structure and Share Buy-Backs At 31 December 2015, the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 333,299,254 Ordinary Shares of 1p of which 95,023,792 were issued and fully paid.
During the year, 321,000 shares 0.3% of the Companys issued share capital with a nominal value of 3,210 were bought back and cancelled at a total cost of 3,675,000.
No shares are held in treasury.
Subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own shares are made only at a level that enhances the net asset value per share NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase is to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Accordingly, it is the Boards intention to continue to use the share purchase facility within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
Continuation of the Company The Company has no fixed duration.
However, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Shareholders are asked every three years to vote on the continuation of the Company and an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017.
If such resolution is not passed, the Directors will prepare and submit to Shareholders for approval by special resolution proposals for the unitisation or appropriate reconstruction of the Company.
In putting forward such proposals the Directors will seek, inter alia, to provide Shareholders with a means whereby they can defer any liability to capital gains tax on their investment at that time.
If such proposals are not approved, Shareholders will, within 180 days of the relevant Annual General Meeting, have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring the Company to be wound up.
On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to the holders of Ordinary Shares and distributed, pro rata, among such holders.
Going Concern In accordance with the report Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council, the Audit Committee has undertaken and documented an assessment of whether the Company is a going concern.
The Committee then reported the results of its assessment to the Board.
The Companys business activities, capital structure and borrowing facility, together with the factors likely to affect its development, performance and Viability Statement are set out in the Strategic Report.
In addition, the Annual Report includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable equity securities, which, if necessary, can be sold to meet any funding requirements, though funding flexibility can typically be achieved through the use of the bank debt facility.
The Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to meet its day-to-day working capital requirements.
In summary and taking into consideration all available information, the Directors have concluded it is appropriate to continue to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
20 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 21 Directors Report Voting Rights of Shareholders At Shareholder meetings and on a show of hands, every Shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in person has one vote for each share he she holds and a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he she is appointed.
The Board is pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities.
Further details can be found in the Notice of the AGM.
Notifiable Share Interests The Board has received notifications of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at 31 December 2015 and 27 January 2016.
The total number of votes amounted to 95,023,792 at each of these dates.
Interested person Percentage of Voting Rights Held Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 8.3 Brewin Dolphin Limited 8.2 Rathbone Brothers plc 5.5 Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held onTuesday, 1 March 2016 at 6.00 p. m. at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS.
The following special resolution will be proposed at the AGM: Purchase of Own Shares The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company expires at the end of the AGM.
Resolution 11, as set out in the Notice of the AGM, seeks renewal of such authority until the AGM in 2017.
The price paid for Shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per Share and the maximum price shall be the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Any Shares purchased under the authority will be automatically cancelled, rather than being held in treasury, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
There are no outstanding options or warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors Recommendation The Directors consider each resolution being proposed at the AGM to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of them, as they intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 The following information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006: The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on pages 20 and 21.
Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are listed above.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are discussed on pages 23 and 24.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue shares on a non pre-emptive basis or buy back the Companys shares requires a special resolution to be passed by shareholders.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements to which the Company is party that might affect its control following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss ofoffice.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 21 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 22 Directors Report Greenhouse Gas Emissions As the Board has engaged external firms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions-producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Bribery Act 2010 The Company has zero tolerance of bribery and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
Independent Auditor Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Future Developments The future success of the Company is dependent primarily on the performance of its investments.
Although the Company invests in companies that are listed or quoted in the United Kingdom, the underlying businesses of those companies are affected by various economic factors, many of an international nature.
The Boards intention is that the Company will continue to pursue its investment objective and the stated investment strategy and policy.
By Order of the Board Paul Trickett Chairman 27 January 2016 22 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
