INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION to have two people leading a business, both of whom could be CEO, and one totransition from the standard formula to a partial internal model.
In the face, of whom is four years younger than the other!
Since we announced Henrys therefore, of a degree of ongoing uncertainty we have decided torelease this retirement last year we have been able to implement a seamless transition surplus progressively as we transition to the new basis of calculating required of leadership.
The first element is the release of33 million into the 2015 final special dividend.
2015 in overview We have also reviewed the split between normal and special dividends.
Since In my statement last year I wrote that we recognise that in a cyclical business we floated in 2004 we have maintained our normal dividend at 45% of each there are periods for growth, and periods for consolidation, seeking purely years earnings and then distributed as a special dividend the surplus over tomaintain ones existing market position and focus on building capability to and above what we retain to meet regulatory requirements, the future support growth when conditions render that both profitable and sustainable.
development of our business and appropriate buffers.
In practice we have Itis encouraging that in 2015 it was appropriate to grow in four of our five every year distributed 90% or more of each years earnings, in the light of which carinsurance businesses and particularly that market conditions were right we believe the normal level of dividend is set too low.
We are, therefore, raising to resume modest growth in the UK.
this to 65% with effect from 2015 but in all other respects our dividend policy remains the same: we expect, for the foreseeable future at least, to continue Admirals combined ratio advantage compared with the UK motor market to distribute, in total, the same proportion of our earnings as in the past.
asa whole has always made it appropriate to grow when rates start to move upwards, our raising prices at a somewhat lower rate than the market as a This years available surplus allows full year normal and special dividends of whole.
This was true of 2015, the improvement in our competitiveness showing 283 million, representing a 96% distribution.
Adding to this the above release through as a 5% growth in our UK motor base which stood at 3.30million of surplus capital, and calculating the normal element of the final dividend vehicles at the year end.
We were also pleased to grow further our young UK at 65% of post-tax profits, our full year dividends amount to a normal dividend household book, itself reaching over 300,000 customers at 31December.
of57.9 pence per share, and special dividends of 56.5 pence per share.
It is well understood that our reserving practice is to adopt a very prudent assessment against the range of possible outcomes whilst claims are in the early Other Board changes stages of development and then to release as we understand better the final cost At the end of August last year we said goodbye to Manfred Aldag when of the claim.
Alongside growth of our book in the UK last year we also experienced heretired from Munich Re.
With a wealth of insurance experience Manfred pleasing development of past years motor claims, allowing us to make a higher made a great contribution to Admirals success over the 12 years he served than normal release of reserves whilst maintaining a prudent position overall.
on our Board and he will be much missed, both as a colleague and a friend.
The turn of the market, strong claims experience, and our low cost culture Our 2016 AGM will also see the retirement of Lucy Kellaway and Margaret Johnson, allowed our UK car insurance business to improve profits by 11% to 443 million.
both of whom joined the Board in 2006 and will, therefore, have served three full terms as Non-Executive Directors.
They will long be remembered for their This in turn supported increased investment in our young international car wise counsel given their ability, coming from outside the world of insurance, insurance and price comparison businesses, in particular in the US, whilst at to approach sector and company issues from a fresh perspective.
the same time growing by 6% the level of Group pre-tax profits as a whole.
During the year we welcomed Manning Rountree and Owen Clarke to the Board.
As a result we now have 673,000 motor customers overseas and our price Manning is a senior executive at the White Mountains Insurance Group, a comparison businesses in France and Spain are market leaders.
Our Italian publicly-traded holding company for insurance and financial services interests motor insurance business, ConTe, achieved both growth in its book in 2015 around the world.
Now that Admiral has both developing auto insurance and and a further year of profitability whilst our French motor business, Lolivier, price comparison businesses in the United States we are fortunate to have grew strongly albeit off a low base.
Elephant Auto in the US also achieved someone of Mannings experience in the US insurance sector joining our strong growth and is preparing to expand its operations into further states as it Group Board.
We already much value his input as a member of the Board of grows towards the scale required of a profitable operation.
It was only in Spain compare.
com, our US price comparison business inwhich White Mountains that market conditions remained fiercely competitive with falling prices, has an investment.
Owen is currently the Chief Investment Officer of Equistone making growth undesirable and management instead focused on achieving formerly Barclays Private Equity : he served as a Director of Admiral from break-even, something the business achieved on an underwriting year basis.
1999 to 2004 when it was a private company having led BPEs participation Our price comparison operations range from the fully mature and intensely in the MBO of Admiral in 1999.
I am delighted that Owen is now able to rejoin competed market in which Confused.
com has to do battle in the UK through the Board of Admiral: he has an excellent understanding of our business and tothe newly emerging in the US where we will continue our investment a great commercial record, and we look forward to once again benefiting incompare.
com to build both general market awareness and acceptance from his experience.
byinsurers as a successful distribution channel.
In the middle of this range we have businesses in France and Spain that, whilst in themselves market-leading, are still Thank you developing their channel credentials, both in insurance and other lines ofbusiness A business is as good as its people and we at Admiral are hugely fortunate that lend themselves to internet-based comparison.
All of these markets call for to have great people whose commitment, energy and initiative allows us to creativity to compete successfully, whether it be introducing European-style price create great value for our shareholders.
My grateful thanks to all who make comparison to the US market or making the most of the change in French up the jigsaw that is Admiral.
law that makes it easier for consumers to switch motor insurers.
But a business is nothing without customers: my thanks to all our customers for their trust and confidence which we shall do our utmost to ensure are Our capital structure and dividend policy notmisplaced.
We announced in December how the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA has ruled on what capital we need as Solvency II comes into effect in 2016.
As we Alastair Lyons had anticipated, we entered Solvency II with a significant surplus of actual against Chairman required capital.
Itwill, however, be 2017 before weknow fully what our 2 March 2016 Solvency II capital requirement will be, as we have agreed with the PRA ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 05
