INTRODUCTION Directors Report STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial Directors and their interests statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The present Directors of the Company are shown on pages 42 to 43 of this Report, whilst Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 68.
Statutory disclosures Group results and dividends Greenhouse gas emissions The profit for the year, after tax but before dividends, amounted to 291.8 million The annual level of greenhouse gas emissions, resulting from activities for 2014: 281.6 million.
which the Group is responsible, in 2015 was 8,358 CO e 2014: 6,836 CO e, equivalent to 1.24 tonnes 2014: 1.19 tonnes per employee.
The Directors declared and paid dividends of 274.6 million during 2015 2014: 273.5 million refer to note 11b for further details.
The increase in greenhouse gas emissions is due to a higher number of UK buildings during 2015 as the Group transitioned to its new UK headquarters The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 175 million 63.4 pence per share in Cardiff and the implementation of a new system that has enabled more payable on 3 June 2016. accurate tracking of business travel.
In addition, the data includes information Employee policies in respect of our US and India operations not previously available.
Detailed information on the Groups employment practices is set out in the The data has been prepared with reference to the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Strategic Report and on the corporate website.
The Group purchases Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition appropriate liability insurance for all staff and Directors.
and in accordance with the guidance for corporate reporting issued by the Diversity, ethics and human rights Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
Admiral Group respects and values the individuality and diversity of every There are no material exclusions from this data.
Exclusions included figures for employee.
The Groups Equality, Diversity and Dignity at Work policy ensures air conditioning from all sites because the information was not available from the that every employee is treated equally and fairly and that all employees are managing agents of the Groups multiple office locations.
In addition, emissions aware of their obligations.
The Group is fully committed to the health and data from Elephant Auto in the US, both French offices and one of the Indian safety and the human rights of its employees regardless of their background.
offices has been excluded due to difficulties in collecting complete and accurate In addition, the Group maintains a number of employee codes of conduct data.
These locations together total 9% 2014: 8% of Group headcount.
regarding appropriate ethical standards in the workplace.
Detailed information on the Groups environmental performance and The Groups principles of respect for human rights, diversity, health and safety the methodology for the measurement ofgreenhouse gas emissions and workplace ethical standards not only apply to staff directly employed by is available on the corporate website, www.
Admiral, but also to staff employed by the Groups outsourced partner in Bangalore, India.
To meet this commitment, Admiral Group maintains regular Average employee number excludes employees from three offices for which data could contact with its outsourcers management team and the Groups senior managers notbecollected.
visit the outsourcer on a regular basis, whilst the Group also provides training and development to ensure that the team uphold these principles.
In addition, Going concern Admiral Group has appointed a manager based permanently at the outsourced Under Provision C. 1.3 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board operation, who is responsible for ensuring that the Groups principles are is required to report on whether the business is a going concern.
In considering adhered to by the outsourced partner, and that the wellbeing of outsourced this requirement, the Directors have taken into account the following: staff is monitored.
The Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, in particular the Gender diversity profit forecasts, regulatory capital surpluses and levels and sources of liquidity.
The table below provides a breakdown of the gender of Company Directors The risks included on the Groups risk register that could impact on the Groups and employees at the end of the financial year: financial position and performance, levels of liquidity and solvency over Male Female thenext 12months.
Company Directors 7 5 The risks on the Groups risk register that could be a threat to the Groups Other senior managers 23 12 business model and capital adequacy.
All employees 3,981 4,185 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Company Directors consists of the Board of Directors, as detailed on pages 42 to 43.
The Strategic Report also includes the Groups principal risks and Other senior managers is as defined in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors uncertainties on pages 34 to 37.
In addition, the governance report includes Report and includes persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of theCompany, or a strategically significant part of the Company, other than Company Directors.
the Directors statement on the viability of the Group over a three year period.
Anyother Directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts that are not considered strategically significant have not been included.
Following consideration of the above, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable Contractual arrangements future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report, and The Group considers its co-insurance and reinsurance contracts, as described that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing in the Strategic Report section on page 23, to be essential to the running of the financial statements.
No other contractual arrangements are considered to be essential.
Financial instruments The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to financial instruments held by the Group are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 69 Directors Report continued Share capital, AGM and related matters A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company up to a maximum of 5% Major shareholders of the issued share capital of the Company for cash, without regard to the Other than as stated below, as far as the Company is aware, there are no persons pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company.
Information provided on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 April 2016 and to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
In line with the new principles published by the Pre Emption Group in March2015 allowing a company the ability to seek authority over a further At 31 January 2016, the Company had received notifications in accordance 5% of the issued ordinary share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis subject with the FCAs DTRs of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights to certain conditions, it is the intention of the Company, at the AGM on inthe Companys issued share capital: 28April 2016, to seek this additional authority by special resolution and Number of willconfirm in the Notice of AGM that such additional shares are only shares % issuedin connection with a specified acquisition or capital investment.
Munich Re 28,645,485 10.17% Appointments of Directors Mackenzie Financial Corporation 10,949,168 3.89% The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Directors power BlackRock Inc 9,273,808 3.29% to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the The interests of Directors and Officers and their connected persons in the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Articles issued share capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration Report.
also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Additional information for shareholders Annual General Meeting following appointment and all Directors who held Where not provided previously in this Directors Report, the following office at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings to submit provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result themselves for re-election.
ofthe implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK law.
However, in accordance with the requirement under the UK Corporate At 31 December 2015, the Companys issued share capital comprised a Governance Code the Code for annual election of Directors, all Directors will single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the share submit themselves for re-election at the Groups Annual General Meeting on capital and shares issued during the year can be found in note 11d.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote Articles of Association shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the general The Articles may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy notice Power of the Directors or present in person or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or and may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the provisions of withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual General relevant statutes, to any directions given by special resolution and to the Meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Articles, for example, contain There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to other than: borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing of new shares are also included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders at the Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and Annual General Meeting each year.
regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA whereby certain employees Directors indemnities and insurance oftheCompany require the approval of the Company to deal in the Directors and Officers insurance cover is in place for all Directors to provide Companys securities.
cover against certain acts or omissions on behalf of the Company.
A Deed Poll of Indemnity was executed in October 2015, indemnifying each of the The Company has not purchased any of its own shares during the period.
Directors, and Company Secretary, in relation to certain losses and liabilities There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or that they might incur in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment The Deed Poll of Indemnity is categorised as qualifying third party indemnity whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and occurs because of a takeover bid.
remains in force for all past and present Directors of the Company.
There are a number of agreements that alter or terminate upon a change The Board is of the view that it is in the best interests of the Group to attract ofcontrol of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial and retain the services of the most able and experienced Directors by offering contracts.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their impact on competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of such indemnities.
the business of the Group as a whole except for the long term co-insurance Neither the Deed Poll of Indemnity nor insurance cover would provide any agreement in place with Great Lakes Reinsurance UK plc.
Details relating coverage in the event that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently tothis agreement are contained in the Strategic Report.
Power to issue shares Annual General Meeting AGM At the last Annual General Meeting, held on 29 April 2015, authority was It is proposed that the next AGM be held at City Hall, Cardiff on given to the Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up Thursday28April 2016 at 2.00pm, notice of which will be sent to to a maximum of 92,106, equivalent to one third of the issued share capital shareholders with the Annual Report.
This authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 April 2016 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 70 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Reporting, accountability and audit Responsibility statement The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: UK Corporate Governance Code Admiral is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 and available ofaccounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, on their website, www.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings taken as a whole, addresses the requirements of the 2014 Code.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and During the year to 31 December 2015, the Company has in all respects The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance complied with the provisions of the 2014 Code.
of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the The Directors confirm that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report Directors responsibilities confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves and regulations.
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as Change of auditor adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the In March 2015, the Audit Committee initiated a tender process in respect of Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting audit services.
Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The tender process involved inviting appropriately qualified audit firms to Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements tender for the audit services for Admiral, including all statutory and regulatory unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of audit work and the audits of Admirals international businesses, from the affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that 2016 financial year.
A short-list of potential audit firms were invited to meet period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial key members of management and the Audit Committee, before submitting statements, the Directors are required to: a detailed proposal document and presenting to the Audit Committee.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The Audit Committee set specific selection criteria against which each audit firm was measured with the aim of appointing an external auditor to provide Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: efficient and effective support, and independent advice to the Committee to For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared ensure shareholders can be confident that the information provided to them in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and is accurate, true and fair, and balanced and understandable.
For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable In August 2015, the Audit Committee recommended to the Group Board, and UKAccounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, the Board approved, the proposed appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Deloitte LLP will replace KPMG LLP explained in the Parent Company financial statements.
with effect from the 2016 financial year.
The appointment is subject to approval by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting in April 2016.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and By order of the Board, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets ofthe Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Mark Waters Company Secretary Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 2 March 2016 forpreparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Geraint Jones Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Chief Financial Officer financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
2 March 2016 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 71
