Admirals strategy and KPIs Doing what we do, and doing it even better than last year Our strategy is simple: we aim to What were doing build on our existing strengths.
Performance Weve broken this down into four Maintain strong performance of our keyobjectives.
UKCarInsurance business Stay ahead of the competition inparticular What this means maintaining a material combined ratio advantage.
This means underwriting profitable business and pricing effectively for risk, providing greatcustomer service and maintaining acost-conscious culture.
Respond to UK market conditions implement Our focus for 2016 pricechanges where appropriate and control claimsand expenses.
Inspiring CEO Henry Engelhardt has been awarded the Best Leader Award twice in a row by Sunday Times 100 Best Companies toWork for.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 12 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Presence Opportunities Products Further grow our presence where we are Take advantage of opportunities presented Establish new products which use established inEurope by the US auto insurance market ourexistingexpertise Develop profitable, growing, sustainable businesses Learn from our experiences in the UK and Europe Test and learn approach utilising our existing skills in insurance and price comparison that mirror and export those learnings to the US.
Understand and expertise to develop products that customers theUK model by building on the brand profiles the US consumer: what insurance cover and want and that represent value formoney.
developed by our strong management teams.
products they want andhow they want to buy them.
Educate the US consumer: shopping for carinsurance online is a good thing!
Continue with the plan: Raise the profile of Elephant Auto grow the Continue to develop household as price customer base in the existing states inwhich comparison becomes a stronger market Build on ConTes second year of profits with weoperate and expand into furtherstates.
Capitalise on the strong insurer panel developed Admiral Seguros can break-even on a relatively on compare.
com during 2015 and increase small policy base we now plan to take marketing in key states to raisebrand profile.
advantage of the change in Baremo to grow.
Lolivier assurance auto to take advantage ofFrench legislative change and grow.
Generate further growth from Rastreator and LeLynxs market-leading positions in the Spanish and French price comparison markets by a focused brand strategy andmulti-product offering.
