Price Comparison review Focused brand strategy and multiproduct offering Price Comparison strategy Admirals strategy is to develop websites that allow consumers to compare a range of general insurance, financial services and other products.
The international strategy is to exploit the UK expertise in price UK comparison and export it overseas.
com Achievements UK Price Comparison achievements in 2015 Quote volumes: 10.7 million 2014: 11.8 million Launched in 2002 the Groups most Continued development of Confused.
com beyond motor mature business and a leading UK insurance with encouraging results in home, van and pricecomparison website.
com has seen a lot of changes in the Launch of Carfused, a car buying and selling platform market since it pioneered insurance comparison back in 2002, creating an ever growing and profitable Continued brand development of Brian, the industry while offering transparency and savings Confused.
com robot to British consumers.
13 years later, the market is now mature and commoditised with established International Price Comparison achievements in 2015 players and is characterised by a very high level of competition.
In 2015, the price comparison websites Quote volumes: 8.8 million 2014: 6.6 million have spent more than ever in advertising and Rastreator has reinforced its leadership in Spain other promotional activities to attract customers.
withcontinued growth in quotes At the same time, the price comparison market as a whole did not grow as much as in previous th Rastreator voted 5 Best Company to Work for in Spain, years despite an apparent turn of the price cycle awarded by Great Place to Work towards the end of the year, as indicated by the Confused Willis Towers Watson price index.
LeLynx retained its leadership position in the French market This fiercely competitive environment in a stagnant compare.
com has more than 60 auto insurance companies, market, and increasing acquisition costs across including half of the top 25, under contract in the US every media channel, meant Confused.
com had achallenging year in 2015.
This resulted in a reduced profit of 12.5 million.
Goals We have achieved a lot in 2015 including finalising significant projects such as the launch of the Brian UK Price Comparison goals for 2016 toy promotion and the entire redesign of our Build brand preference to strengthen market position in websites and customer experience.
We have also core products launched new activities to become the go-to place for car buying with the launch of Carfused.
Develop and promote new products and offers in order to These new developments have required investment have more diversified revenue sources in 2015 and will need time to transform in actual future profits for Confused while they have hurt International Price Comparison goals for2016 the bottom line in the short term.
Confused has also gone through organisational change in 2015, Rastreator continued defence of market leading brand to face a market with increased regulation impacting and building on its role as a strategic data partner the way price comparison websites operate and LeLynx further developing the French aggregator market more competition, requiring a greater need to stand out.
by exploiting the new Hamon law compare.
com continued lowering of acquisition cost while increasing the number of carriers and rates presented toconsumers ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 30 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Spain France USA Elena Betes Diane Larramendy Andrew Rose CEO, Rastreator CEO, LeLynx CEO, compare.
com Launched in March 2009 the leading Launched in January 2010 the Launched in March 2013 the first insurance price comparison website leadingprice comparison website European-style price comparison website inSpain.
2015 has been a healthy year for Rastreator both 2015 was a good year for LeLynx.
One shouldnt forget that the US is 51 distinct auto in terms of growth and results.
We have reinforced insurance markets yes even Washington DC is its We decided to take the opportunity offered by the our market leadership in Spain with strong growth own not one unified market.
This means it is hard loi Hamon enabling people to switch insurance inquotes and sales, integrated a new brand, to find a unified trend across the country.
Two things at any time of the year to push our investment into Seguros.
es, and also expanded our presence did seem to bind the country together this year, more offline and online marketing.
Quote volumes inthe market with several new products.
however: lower gasoline prices and continued and revenues grew as a result.
The gas prices correlated strongly Our brand has grown, not only in recognition but its leadership position in the French market.
with miles driven and subsequently claims frequency also in preference.
By communicating our multiproduct The aggregator market in France grew by 13%.
while advertising again remained concentrated in strategy effectively and efficiently we should continue Onthe one hand, the loi Hamon and strong TV the few largest insurers, again topping $6 billion.
to grow our business profitably.
investment pushed the market up.
On the other, With 70% of consumers starting their search online, Within the insurance business we are proud to deliver stable insurance prices and aggressive retention the big advertisers absorb a disproportionate a comparison of prices that represents 86% market focus from insurers slowed it down.
Countering this trend is the share and which includes traditional players in our Our vision is that the price comparison market will growing, but still small, auto insurance comparison panel.
At the same time we keep working on our develop, although slower than in the UK, and that market.
com, the largest auto insurance role of strategic data partner for insurers that work LeLynx has the strength to be a leading player.
Wewill comparison site in the US, was joined this year by with us, with our annual insurance price index and focus our efforts on developing our presence within other players pushing similar, but different, models.
our Big Data team providing new tools.
While we continue to operate in 49 of the 51 markets the new Baremo law will bring premium increases apologies to Alaska and Hawaii again!
advertising which will increase shopping in car insurance.
efforts grew to nearly twenty states and included a very successful nationwide TV advertising test.
Advertising growth was permitted by the continued expansion of our carrier panel.
With over 60 auto insurance brands under contract, including nearly half of the top 25, the average number of rates returned nationwide is now nearly a handful.
Volumes are now at the level that all but the very largest carriers view us as a very meaningful potential, and actual, source of business.
We again must caution that while we made huge strides and grew substantially, we have just the opportunity for, not the guarantee of, success.
Henry Attempting to change singlehandedly, a market Diane: Henry told me ofthis size is not for the faint of heart.
Pitfalls Neverforget how important remain.
Can we continue to lower acquisition cost?
you will be to the people you Will carriers continue to join?
Since then, when continue to shop via our site?
Will competitors Elena: The level of autonomy times get tough, I try to complicate or complement our efforts?
and freedom Henrygave us keepasmile and bekind Only time will tell, but another year of progress was unique.
means we are closer to success than failure in oureffort to transform the market.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 31 Price Comparison review continued Price Comparison financial review International Price Comparison Admiral operates three price comparison businesses outside the UK: Non-GAAP format income statement inSpain Rastreator, France LeLynx and the US compare.
2013 2014 2015 m m m The combined revenue from the European operations in 2015 increased Revenue to28.6 million 2014: 25.3 million, with nearly 30% more quotes provided to customers.
BothRastreator and LeLynx have market-leading positions Car insurance price comparison 87.2 81.0 82.3 and strong brandrecognition in their respective markets.
The Groups share Other 25.5 26.5 25.8 of the combined result for Rastreator and LeLynx was a profit of 1.8 million Total Revenue 112.7 107.5 108.1 2014:2.8 million, the reduction reflecting investment in brand awareness Operating expenses 92.3 110.3 123.6 outside ofmotor insurance.
Admiral Group owns 75% of Rastreator, with the Operating profit loss 20.4 2.8 15.5 remaining 25% owned by Mapfre.
com profit 21.7 15.8 12.5 Following the launch in March 2013 of compare.
com, a US comparison International price operation based in Virginia, the Group has continued to invest in the operation.
comparison result 1.3 18.6 28.0 Admiral Group owns 71% of compare.
com, with the remaining 29% owned by White Mountains and Mapfre.
During 2015 Admirals share of compare.
Due to the ongoing Group share of operating investment in compare.
com, the Groups share of compare.
coms losses profit loss for2016 will be in the range of $3035 million.
com profit 21.7 15.8 12.5 The combined result for International Price Comparison was therefore a loss International price of 19.7 million 2014: loss 12.2 million the profit from Rastreator and LeLynx comparison result 0.6 12.2 19.7 offset by investment in compare.
21.1 3.6 7.2 During late 2015 the Group established Preminen, a 50:50 joint venture with Represents the Groups share of Price Comparison profit loss and excludes the impact of Mapfre, to explore the potential of price comparison overseas.
com faced continuing challenging market conditions and Andrew: One unique thing Henry does is a produced a lower result, with revenue 7% lower than 2014 at 75.4 million different poem or rhyme every time he has 2014: 80.8 million although the trend improved slightly in the second anout of office notice.
Profit also fell to 12.5 million 2014: 15.8 million.
coms results were impacted by limited overall growth in the pricecomparison market in the UK as well as fierce competition.
Regulatory environment Revenue from non-car insurance comparison sources represents over a Confused.
com is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA as an quarter of total revenue.
coms operating margin reduced to 17% insurance intermediary and is subject to all relevant intermediation rules, 2014: 20%.
including those on solvency capital.
The European operations are all structured as branches of UK companies, with the UK insurance intermediary permission passported into Europe.
com is a regulated insurance agency domiciled in Virginia, US, and Martin: Henry always suggests the most licensed in all other US states.
unexpected option to a problem and How Henry would approach it has now become aregular comment in manager meetings.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
