Questions and answers Henry Engelhardt, David Stevens and Geraint Jones An exciting, dynamic organisation In a year of leadership transition, Henry-ism: The internet is an irresistible force what have you been talking about?
Q 25 years in one industry, one company is a long time.
Besides Q What do you see as the next big challenge for the UK motor the internet, what has been the biggest change to the car insurance industry?
A David: In the short term, the biggest single challenge is to work out how to turn telematics from a high premium niche product accounting A Henry: Wow, glad you asked that question!
I think the biggest change for less than a tenth of market new business volumes, to a mass market has been the sophistication of pricing.
When we were working on the offering.
Part of that evolution will, in the medium term, involve increased business plan for Admiral we would, literally, go into a brokers office co-operation between insurers and vehicle manufacturers.
and ask for a quote and the broker would take out a laminated paper with a companys rating engine on it.
He would then go through the questions with us at the counter, using the paper to do the maths that would determine the quote.
One time we asked the broker for the Q You have announced an additional return of capital as part of laminated paper, he gave it tous and so we had all of General the special dividend for 2015.
Could you explain why and Accidents rates!
should shareholders expect more of these additional returns?
Another time, we were doing some rate testing before we launched and Geraint: We anticipate that the additional payment of 11.9 pence per share A we noticed that one firm we were friendly with at the time didnt rate weve announced as part of the final 2015 dividend is the first of a number forroofers.
So we asked the Underwriter, why didnt he rate for roofers?
of additional special returns to shareholders over the next two to three years He thought for a minute and then said, Dont like roofers.
which we expect to total about 150 million to 200 million.
In our early years Id take the rating table results home with me on the This comes about as a result of Admiral entering the new Solvency II weekend and come back with three or four rate changes to make.
regime with surplus capital, and, consistent with our belief in not holding Today rating is a massive mix of questions, information, multi-dimensional excess capital in the company, we plan to return that surplus to shareholders.
Pricing has gone from art to mathematical science.
A level of uncertainty associated both with transitioning to the new regime and our planned application for approval to use an internal model for solvency capital requirements in 2017 means we will release this surplus capital gradually over the next couple of years.
Henry-ism: The Customer, the customer, the customer David Stevens, CBE Henry Engelhardt, CBE Geraint Jones Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 14 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Q What are the biggest changes you have seen in Admiral?
tQ Can you fast forward 25 years to see the car insurance industry and Admiral of the future?
A Henry: The development of the culture is something Ive watched with great pride.
We are such a better company today than we were 20-odd A Henry: No.
But weve taken the things that just seemed like common Thats the short answer.
The long answer is that I dont know what it will sense to us then, like treating all staff with respect, not being afraid to look like, but I know it wont look like what it looks like today!
say thank you, having a good time in the office while still working hard and weve made those the corner-stones of how we work.
My prediction is that there will be many, many more vehicles, including flying ones.
I say this because as vehicles are created that have fewer and Another big change has been our internationalism over the last 10 years.
fewer accidents I dont think theyll need to be made of heavy metals.
Not only do we have operations in 5 countries, but we share knowledge So they will be made of things like plastic, or paper, or bamboo or whatever.
and we also get to know other cultures.
As these international operations Theyll be lighter and less costly to make 3D printed cars?
and so more have grown, and all of them have faced different challenges, different and more people will own more and more cars.
And there will still be a from each other and different to the UK, we are all able to learn from need for insurance, liability, storm damage, vandalism, theft, etc.
but the way those challenges are tackled.
Its interesting to see, for example, premiums will be very modest.
So whereas the UK today is some that our Spanish team in Seville supports the IT development for France 27million private vehicles with premium of, say 11 billion, in 25 years and Italy.
Despite all the differences we all share some of the Admiral you might have 50 million vehicles for the same population and premium basics.
When you go to an Admiral office, whether its in Gurgaon, Richmond, of 9 billion.
Check back in 2041 and well see if Im right or not!
Seville, Lille or wherever, you know its an Admiral office.
The Admiral of the future will be a different organisation.
Thats because Admiral is like a living culture, its always changing, to grow something new... Its one of the reasons Admiral is such an interesting place to work: Henry-ism: Have fun, satisfy customers, make money because we never sit still.
I suspect well be doing a whole lot more than car insurance but exactly what I do not know.
What I sincerely hope however, is that Admiral is still run by nice people nicer than me, for sure!
who support each other when things dont go well and know how to celebrate Q Your Household business is growing.
What changes have you success when they see it.
seen and how do you see this market developing?
A David: The household market is in the process of being transformed by price comparison sites.
By this time next year, its likely that over half Henry-ism: Nothing succeeds like success of sales of household policies will be via price comparison sites.
This gives opportunities to new entrants such as ourselves to grow asignificant business cost effectively.
In the medium term, the size of the opportunity will also depend on two, as yet unproved competencies Q How do you see the Groups strategy changing under the ability to cross-sell to add another source of material, cost effective yourleadership?
acquisition and the ability to price better than competitors to add a A David: Not a lot.
It would be surprising if I said anything else given that claims ratio advantage to our expense ratio advantage.
Ive been on the Board and working with Henry throughout our Admiral life.
Thats not to say that our strategy wont evolve, notably in response to changes in the markets in which we operate and new markets we Q What does Solvency II mean for Admirals dividend policy?
Geraint: Entering the new regime prompted a review of the policy A which had been in place since we floated in 2004 and we are making a change to increase the normal dividend level from 45% to 65% of Q You mentioned planning to seek approval to use an internal post-tax profits.
We will also continue to return to shareholders excess model in 2017.
What does this mean and what are the steps capital beyond what we need to keep in the company for solvency toget there?
Geraint: Although Admiral will use the Solvency II Standard Formula A Whilst we dont expect a change in the total dividend payout ratio for to calculate capital requirement in the initial stages of Solvency II being the foreseeable future, we think that the increase in the normal element live, we plan to apply in 2017 to use our own model for that calculation.
results in a better balance between normal and special, in light of the The model will capture all aspects of Admirals business and better reflect fact that Admiral has paid out over 90% of earnings to shareholders every our risk profile something the Standard Formula doesnt do well, hence year since float.
Including the final 2015 dividend, weve paid out a total the Capital Add-on.
of 2.07 billion in dividends in just over 11 years 2.9 times the value of Admiral at IPO.
If we make the application in 2017, the earliest we expect to be able to use the model for the capital requirement is the end of that year.
One benefit of applying for model approval after a number of other insurers have been through the process is that were able to take the Henry-ism: The team, the team, the team lessons learned in that first phase and hopefully benefit from them in our programme.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 15
