Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Risk management The Groups approach to risk This riskmanagement section provides Ensure that the business plans are The Groups approach to risk supported by effective risk controls, additional information on our approach Effective risk management plays a key role technology, and people capabilities to risk, the associated governance in the execution of the Groups strategy framework, stress testing and provides a of supporting UK SMEs, homeowners, Manage the risk profile to ensure that full analysis of the principal risks.
the business strategy can withstand a landlords and savers.
Risk-taking is an range of adverse conditions inherent part of banking, and as a business Risk strategy we aim to make a profit from taking risk Ensure a sound risk control environment We have clearly defined our risk in a controlled way.
The Board and senior and risk-aware culture management objectives and have management ensure that the risks the a strategy to deliver them.
Our risk Ensure our compensation practices Group is taking are clearly identified, management strategy is to: ensure only prudent risk taking within managed, monitored and reported and our risk appetite is rewarded.
that the Groups resources are capable Identify our principal and of withstanding both expected and emerging risks unexpected levels of risk performance.
Define our risk appetite and ensure that The Risk Overview on pages 38 to 42 the business plans are consistent with it provides a summary of risk management Manage risk within the business with within the Group and describes independent effective oversight developments during 2015 and priorities for 2016.
It highlights the principal risks we face and key mitigating actions.
Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework monitor the Groups risk appetite and and reporting of risks to which the outlines the governance, policies, effectively manage risk.
Senior management procedures, systems, tools, techniques ensure that the Risk Management Risk management refers to the process and activities by which the Board and Framework is embedded in its day-toof identification, managing, monitoring senior management establish and day management and control activities.
Risk Management Framework Definition Management Oversight Principal risks Risk appetite and culture Read more on page 40 Read more on page 106 Risk Independent oversight assurance 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Legal and regulatory environment Risk management, policies and procedures Read more on page 106 Read more on page 107 Read Read more on page 108 more on page 108 Governance Read more on page 108 Feedback loop Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 Expert Effective Communication Finding Innovative Solutions Embracing Change Team Working Risk management The Groups approach to risk continued Risk definition Risks and legal Risk limits quantitative measures that Risk Appetite Framework regulatory environment: allocate our aggregate risk appetite The Risk Appetite Framework RAF is statement to individual activities Principal risks the overarching framework through which Legal and regulatory environment we set individual risk appetites for each Risk profile the point in time assessment of our net risk exposure.
principal risk and monitor performance against the risk appetites.
The RAF forms Risk appetite statement Principal risks an important element of the overall Risk Management Framework described on See page 40 for further details on our Our risk appetite statement defines page 105. the level and types of risk that we are principal risks.
willing to accept in order to achieve our The RAF includes the following Legal and regulatory business objectives and strategy, sets the components: tone for risk management to reinforce environment Overarching risk appetite the primary a strong risk management culture, and We operate within the context of the UK statement outlining our approach to provides a framework to establish risk legal and regulatory environment as well risk taking linked to the pursuit of our policies, controls and limits in a consistent as European law adopted and supported business objectives manner.
Our overarching risk appetite by UK regulators.
The Legal Counsel and statement is: Key risk appetite statements the Compliance functions ensure that we are articulation of the type and level aware of both current and upcoming legal To run a sustainable, safe and sound of specific risks that we are willing or regulatory requirements.
Reporting of business that conducts its activities to accept any forthcoming changes to regulation in a prudent and reputable manner, or law is routinely made to the relevant Risk capacity the maximum level of taking into account the interests of committees for awareness, impact risk we can assume before breaching our customers and also ensuring our and action.
constraints determined by regulatory obligations to key stakeholders are met.
capital and liquidity needs Risk management Risk appetite framework and riskculture: Risk appetite statement Risk culture Risk policies and procedures Reliable Our Behaviours Dynamic 106 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Delivering Exceptional Service Powerful Leadership Achieving Results Developing Self and Others Straightforward Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices This overarching risk appetite is Ongoing monitoring of the performance Risk management supported by individual risk appetite of risks and the controls used to manage The management of risk is based on an statements linked to the principal risks, and contain risk is undertaken and the understanding of the risks that we face, an which are in turn supported by individual results are reported to the risk oversight assessment of these risks and establishing detailed metrics.
See pages 110 to 130 for committees.
The risk management an appropriate control environment.
further details of the risk appetites for the process uses a continuous feedback loop Risks are assessed at the inherent level principal risks.
with six elements as shown in the risk life before being mitigated by controls and cycle diagram below.
at the residual level once controls have Risk culture been considered.
Controls include risk Risk policies and procedures Our culture is articulated through our core appetite statements, defined limits to values of being Reliable, Expert, Dynamic Risk policies and procedures are the risk exposures, policies, procedures, and Straightforward.
These underpin formal documentation of the methods mandates, oversight and reporting.
the risk culture, drive the day-to-day used to manage, control, oversee and The design and effectiveness of controls behaviours across the Group, and form govern each principal risk.
They articulate is key and an assessment of these is the DNA of the business.
The Board the limits, operating standards and performed by all three lines of defence.
sets the tone at the top and ensures procedures by which risks are identified, that this is cascaded into day-to-day assessed and managed at all stages of operations through policies, recruitment the business and risk life cycle.
of competent employees, training and aligning remuneration to risk appetite.
Our performance management process promotes sound risk management to ensure employees are risk-aware, understand their accountabilities, and the importance of adhering to policies and Risk life cycle procedures.
This is reinforced through mandatory interactive training and our compensation philosophy.
Identify risks and causes of risks and risk types Monitor Measure risks and review risk Assess the performance probability and and control severity of risks effectiveness Measure risk Controls performance Select and against risk implement appetite and appropriate risk limits controls Residual net risk Consistent with risk appetite Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107
