Corporate governance The Board roles and processes The Chairman leads the Board in its The Boards duties are set out in a formal The Board role to provide executive management schedule of matters reserved for its The Board is collectively responsible with entrepreneurial direction, whilst decision, as summarised on page 52. to shareholders for promoting the the day-to-day management of the This schedule is reviewed annually and long-term success of the Group by Group and operational matters are is available at www.
directing and supervising the Groups delegated to the CEO.
The separation co. uk affairs to create sustainable shareholder of duties between the Chairman and value.
In setting the Groups strategy The Groups Corporate Governance CEO is formally documented.
The CEO and related risk appetite, it also takes Policy Framework, which is reviewed is supported by his senior management accountof its obligations to other annually by the Board, sets out in detail team the Executive Committee.
stakeholders including employees, the way the Group is governed.
Further information about the role and suppliers and the community in which responsibilities of each Board member it operates, as well as the regulatory can be found on the next page.
obligations of the Bank, its principal banking subsidiary, and to the Banks depositors.
James Danuta Peter Neil Mack Gray Cartwright Cochrane Chief Financial Senior Non-Executive Non-Executive Officer Independent Director Director Director Well-organised meetings Phillip Common John vision Monks Hitchins Clear understanding Chief Independent of the role of the Board Executive Non-Executive Diversity of Officer Director Board membership Boardroom culture and dynamic Glyn Robert Open and Jones Sharpe transparent debate No dominant Chairman personalities Independent Non-Executive High ethical No no-go Director standards areas Cathy Chris Peter Turner Stamper Shaw Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Board structure Gender split of Directors Non-Executive Director tenure as at 9 March 2016 a Chairman 9.1% a Female 18% a 01 year 12.5% a d a a db Executive b Male 82% b 12 years 62.5% Directors 18.2% c 23 years 12.5% b c Independent c d 47 years 12.5% Non-Executive Directors 54.5% d Non-Executive Directors 18.2% b b c 50 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Roles Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness in all areas Chairman Sets the Boards agenda, with support from the CEO and the Company Secretary Promotes the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group Facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and a constructive relationship between Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors Ensures that the Directors receive timely and relevant information to support sounddecision-making Responsible for induction, training and development of Directors Leads the development of the Groups culture Ensures effective communication with shareholders Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group within the delegated Chief Executive authority and risk appetite approved by the Board Officer Recommends the Groups strategy and leads the executive management team in the execution of the strategy approved by the Board Ensures the Groups culture is embedded in the business Leads the relationship with institutional shareholders and ensures that timely and accurate information is disclosed to the market as appropriate Manages the Groups financial affairs and supports the CEO in the management Chief Financial ofthe business Officer Specifically manages statutory, monthly performance and regulatory reporting: and balance sheet and liquidity management Acts as a sounding board for other Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman Senior Independent Chairs the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee when it is Director considering succession to the role of Chairman of the Board Conducts the Chairmans annual performance evaluation, feeding in views from theNon-Executive Directors Attends meetings with major shareholders to understand their key issues and concerns, and is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate Provide independent and constructive challenge of the Executive Directors, Non-Executive including to help develop proposals on strategy 1 Directors Scrutinise the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set bythe Board Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial reporting and the robustness of systems and controls Determine Executive Director remuneration Provides key support and acts as a first point of contact for the Chairman and Company Secretary Non-Executive Directors Facilitates effective information flows between the Board and its Committees, andbetween executive management and the Board Keeps the Board updated on developments in corporate governance Facilitates induction of new Non-Executive Directors and training Acts as Secretary to the Board and Board Committees 1 This includes two Non-Executive Directors proposed by the Principal Shareholders under the Relationship Agreement Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued the annual programme, actions arising Business deep-dives, which probe the Board meetings business performance and related key from previous meetings and key business The Board held 13 scheduled Board issues, and provide an overview of the priorities.
A similar process is followed meetings, two strategy workshops and competitive landscape with the chair of each Board Committee.
eight additional ad hoc Board meetings in The Board and Committee agendas 2015.
The high number of meetings held in Strategy sessions include a closed session at the end of 2015 was driven in large part by additional The Board is responsible for establishing meetings from time to time to enable meetings required ahead of the IPO.
the Groups strategy and plays a key role the Chairman Committee chair to meet in challenging management in developing Attendance at scheduled Board and privately with the Non-Executive Directors the strategic plan and objectives.
Committee meetings is set out below.
There are occasions when a Director may Each year two Board strategy workshops The Board monitors the performance of be unable to participate in a meeting and are held offsite where the CEO, with the Group against the approved strategy if this is the case they are encouraged members of his Executive Committee, and annual business plan and within the to provide comments to the Chairman present their views of the market and agreed risk appetite through the following on key items of business in advance proposed plans, including new initiatives, regular reports: of the relevant meeting, so that their to be probed and tested by the Nonviews can be shared at the meeting An update from the CEO on Executive Directors.
The range of and their opinions taken into account market, customer, strategic and experience and expertise that the Nonregulatory developments during discussions.
Executive Directors are able to bring to the debate, along with their independent A business performance report from In addition to the meeting programme, the CFO on the financial results of oversight, is key to building a sustainable Directors meet informally during the year the business lines and the Group strategy.
The focus of discussions is enabling Directors to discuss sensitive as a whole, as well as an investor not only on how the strategy should key matters in more depth.
At least relations update and various prudential evolve, but also on ensuring that the one informal session is held per year, regulatory matters Group has the appropriate resources, which is attended by the Non-Executive skills and competencies to deliver the Directors only.
A report from the Chief Risk Officer on chosen strategy.
key emerging risks, risk appetite and Both the Board and its Committees have regulatory developments, including However, given the rapidly changing a rolling annual programme which aligns conduct risk market and regulatory environment in to the schedule of matters reserved for which the Group operates, the strategy the Board and the terms of reference of A briefing from the Chief Operating has to be subject to continuous review Officer on IT, operational and each Committee.
The agendas and time transformation matters, and strategic and, as such, the executive management allocation for Board meetings are put change projects provides the Board with regular together by the Chairman, assisted by the updates on key strategic initiatives as CEO and Company Secretary, based on they progress.
2015 Board and Committee attendance at scheduled meetings Corporate Governance and Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Glyn Jones 13 13 3 4 2 2 Key matters reserved for Phillip Monks 13 13 the Board James Mack 12 13 Strategy 1 John Callender 3 3 2 2 Corporate and capital structure 3 4 4 3 4 Peter Cartwright 11 13 2 2 5 7 2 2 1 2 Financial reporting and controls Neil Cochrane 11 13 Internal controls and risk Danuta Gray 12 13 4 4 2 2 management John Hitchins 13 13 8 8 7 7 2 Material contracts Robert Sharpe 5 5 4 4 3 4 Peter Shaw 13 13 7 8 7 7 4 4 2 2 Board membership and other appointments Chris Stamper 12 13 7 8 6 7 Cathy Turner 12 13 4 4 2 2 Remuneration policy 1 2 3 Stood down on 27 February 2015.
Ceased to be a member from IPO.
4 Corporate governance matters Includes meetings attended by Neil Cochrane in his capacity as alternate to Peter Cartwright.
52 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key Reviewed Key topics discussed at Board meetings since 1 January 2015 Approved Month Key topics Action Jan 2015 Consideration of the five-year strategy, including the financial and capital plan forecasts Update on changes to Directors and Committee membership, and appointment of Company Secretary Feb 2015 Update on IPO readiness and timescales Agreement to proceed with the proposed IPO and equity injection of proceeds into subsidiary Mar 2015 Adoption of the 2015 Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP Finalisation of the Risk Appetite Framework RAF Update on capital requirements following regulatory changes Adoption of the Corporate Governance Policy Framework post listing Review of the financial limits in the Matters Reserved for the Board May 2015 Appointment of joint corporate brokers Update to the ICAAP to reflect changes to the risk profile and internal capital assessment Jun 2015 Amendments to the CEO delegated authorities Appointment of Robert Sharpe as a Director of the Company Proposed capital injection into subsidiary following exercise of share warrants Sep 2015 Property strategy and three new property leases Placing of cyber insurance policy Adoption of new Reputational Risk Policy Oct 2015 Strategy refresh Non-Executive Director fee review Nov 2015 Approach to succession planning for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Board Diversity Policy Budget and operating plan 2016, and independent review by Chief Risk Officer of achievability Dec 2015 Adoption of Recovery and Resolution Plan Annual review of the Risk Management Framework Review of Corporate Governance Policy Framework Jan 2016 Senior Managers Regime implementation Review of culture and 2015 Best Companies results Mar 2016 Reappointment of external auditor Board effectiveness review and re-election of Directors Annual review of RAF In addition, the Board approved the publicly released financial results including the Annual Report and Accounts and received regular reports from the CEO, CFO, CRO and COO as detailed on page 52.
Quarterly updates were also provided on digital enhancements.
The Committee chairs report on proceedings after each Committee meeting on all matters within their duties and responsibilities.
Time spent in 2015 a Business performance 16% a b Financial matters and 20% g investor relations c Governance 11% d IT and Operations 15% b f e Regulatory matters 5% f Risk Management 9% e g Strategy 24% c d Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued candidates for Chairman succession: and The Nomination Committee provided a Appointments any development steps that should be summary of the output to the Board which The Corporate Governance and considered for such internal candidates.
confirmed it was satisfied that Directors Nomination Committee the Nomination have the appropriate mix of skills and Committee is responsible for making In order to develop a pipeline of potential experience to challenge management recommendations to the Board regarding successors to executive positions below and support the Groups strategy.
the appointment of new Directors.
Board level, the Executive Committee The review also identified some areas has reviewed the current capabilities One new appointment was made in where, in the medium term, the balance and future potential of both their own 2015 Robert Sharpe.
The appointment of skills, knowledge and experience could direct reports and the teams of those process was overseen by the Nomination be strengthened.
These will be taken into direct reports.
This has identified Committee and led by the Chairman.
consideration in any future search for new employees who would benefit from An external search consultancy, JCA Non-Executive Directors.
agreeing development plans to further Group, was appointed to identify suitable build on their potential, and gaps Election and re-election candidates.
JCA Group does not have where consideration should be given any other connection with the Group and The Code requires that all Directors retire to recruiting potential successors.
is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of and offer themselves for election at the Executive Committee succession Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
first AGM following their appointment, planning including Executive Directors and for re-election on an annual JCA Group conducted a search for will be an area of focus for the Nomination basis thereafter.
candidates in the UK and overseas in Committee during 2016. accordance with an agreed candidate Ahead of the re-election of the NonDiversity specification.
A shortlist of candidates Executive Directors being recommended was agreed and candidates were The Board embraces the benefits of to shareholders, the Nomination interviewed by a number of Directors.
diversity in the boardroom and believes Committee assesses the performance, References were taken on the selected that it generates effective challenge time commitments and independence of candidate who also undertook his own and decision-making.
It strives for each Non-Executive Director and makes due diligence on the Group.
Finally, PRA diversity in the broadest sense female a recommendation to the Board in this and FCA approval was obtained prior to representation is just one of the factors regard.
In addition, the outcome of the formal appointment.
that is taken into account and all Board appraisals of the Executive Directors appointments are made on merit against as set out on page 56 is considered.
Succession planning a defined job specification.
The Company These assessments took place over The Nomination Committee does not therefore consider it January to March 2016 and based on reviewed succession planning for appropriate to set a measurable target these factors described further in the both the Chairman and the Nonfor gender representation on its Board.
paragraphs that follow on page 55, as Executive Directors during the year.
Female membership of the Board well as the balance of skills, knowledge Whilst acknowledging that succession currently stands at 18 per cent.
and experience on the Board as a whole, planning was key to the sustainability of the Board approved the recommendation The Board adopted a Board Diversity the Board, the Nomination Committee that each Director should be proposed Policy in November 2015, which is was also cognisant that the majority of for election re-election at the 2016 AGM.
the Non-Executive Directors had been Further information about the Directors, co. uk appointed in 2014 when a board was including their experience, is set out on formed which would be suitable to lead pages 46 and 47.
Skills, knowledge the Company in a public environment.
and experience The Principal Shareholders are classed In the light of these relatively short As mentioned above, the Board values all as a controlling shareholder of the tenures, the Nomination Committee Company under the Listing Rules.
As a aspects of diversity and recognises the set out the principles on which future benefit of maintaining a balance of skills, result, the Independent Non-Executive succession planning should be based.
Directors of the Company must be experience and knowledge.
During the With regard to succession planning for year, the Nomination Committee oversaw elected or re-elected by both a majority the Chairmans role in particular, the of the votes cast by all of the Companys an exercise to evaluate the skills and Nomination Committee agreed that, experience on the Board.
Each Director shareholders and a majority of the votes when the time came, the search for a new cast by the Companys independent was asked to self-assess his her skills and Chairman would be led by the Senior experience and the results were input shareholders being all of the Companys Independent Director.
Actions agreed shareholders other than the controlling into a matrix.
The Nomination Committee include keeping under review, at least reviewed the results of this evaluation.
The outcome of both of annually, the Chairmans possible these votes will be announced following term: whether there are any internal the 2016 AGM.
54 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Director performance  Training and development evaluations Directors Training sessions for Directors on topics of relevance to the Board are organised Details of the Director performance Peter Cartwright and Neil Cochrane periodically throughout the year to tie in evaluation process are set out on page have been appointed to the Board to with Board and Committee meetings.
The outcome of the evaluations represent the interests of the Principal concluded that each Director continues Shareholders, and are not therefore In 2015, training sessions attended by to be effective and to demonstrate considered to be independent under the the Directors included a session on commitment to their role.
Peter Cartwright has served on the Treasury Risk Management, and updates Board for seven years.
The Nomination on the Senior Managers Regime and Time commitment and Committee reviewed the contribution developments in corporate governance.
that both Directors make to the Board, independence The sessions were led by either senior and highlighted the significant value The Nomination Committee reviewed management or external advisers.
that they bring as a result of their inthe time commitment to the Company The Board values internal training depth knowledge of the Group and demonstrated by each of the Nonsessions as an important way of engaging its history, and their analytical skills.
Executive Directors and was satisfied that with key employees and familiarising Notwithstanding that they are not this was both in line with the requirement themselves with the business.
In addition, independent and the length of Peters set out in their letters of appointment, Directors attended relevant external tenure, the Nomination Committee and sufficient to discharge their duties.
confirmed that it was satisfied that they The external directorships and other A training log is maintained by the should be recommended for re-election commitments of the Non-Executive Company Secretary for each Director as at the 2016 AGM.
Directors was also taken into account in evidence of continuous development.
Conflicts of interest A longlist of potential training Independence of the Non-Executive The Board has procedures in place to sessions for 2016 was drafted by Directors is assessed by the Nomination deal with potential conflicts of interest, the Company Secretary based on Committee on an annual basis against which are governed by both company proposals raised by Directors through the criteria set out in the Code, which law and the Companys Articles the Board evaluation process, areas require directors to be independent of Association.
Under the Boards for development highlighted through in character and judgement and free procedures, all Directors are required to Director performance evaluations, and from any relationships or circumstances declare any interests that could give rise suggestions from advisers regarding which could affect that judgement.
to a conflict of interest with the Group, upcoming areas of regulatory change.
Factors taken into account in this either on appointment or when they The Company Secretary, the Chairman assessment include length of tenure arise.
Under the Companys Articles, the and Committee chairs discussed the and any potential conflicts recorded in Board is permitted to authorise such proposals, which broadly covered the Companys Register of Directors conflicts and to impose any conditions business-related and technical regulatory Conflicts.
The Nomination Committee on that authorisation that it considers items.
As a result, a programme of was satisfied that there had not been any to be necessary, for example to leave quarterly Board training sessions changes in circumstance which would Board meetings when certain matters are supplemented by Committee-specific impact on the previous assessment that discussed.
All authorisations are recorded training is being finalised for 2016. all Non-Executive Directors, with the in the Board minutes, and entered into a exception of the Directors who represent Register of Directors Conflicts.
the Principal Shareholders, were deemed The Nomination Committee has provided to be independent.
It is noted that guidance to the Board on the declaration the Chairman was considered to be of interests which cannot reasonably be independent at appointment.
regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest.
In addition, the Nomination Committee undertakes an annual review of the Register of Directors Conflicts to ensure that there have not been any changes in circumstances that would require the Board to revisit any previous authorisation that it has granted, or its view of the Directors independence.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued Board and Committee Director performance effectiveness evaluations The Board recognises the benefits that In tandem with the process to review reviewing the effectiveness of its own Board and Committee effectiveness, performance and that of its Committees asimilar process is followed to evaluate can bring, and is conscious that the the continued effectiveness of the actions needed to maintain effectiveness performance of the Chairman and will develop over time as the Company, Non-Executive Directors.
the Board and best practice evolve.
In respect of the year under review, the Effectiveness is reviewed on an annual Chairman undertook a performance basis, and the Nomination Committee evaluation for each Non-Executive oversees this process.
In 2015, the Board Director whilst the Senior Independent decided that the annual review would be Director led the process for evaluating conducted internally.
An external review theperformance of the Chairman.
by Egon Zehnder took place in 2014.
To support the evaluations, each The 2015 process was agreed by the Director completed an anonymous Nomination Committee and led by questionnaire to provide an assessment the Senior Independent Director with of the performance and effectiveness of support from the Company Secretary each of the Non-Executive Directors and as required.
The evaluation was taken the Chairman.
The Senior Independent forward by way of questionnaires which Director also solicited verbal feedback were issued to all Board and Committee on the Chairman from other Nonmembers.
Directors were encouraged Executive Directors on an individual to provide additional commentary basis.
The output from the performance to the closed-ended questions to evaluations was discussed in one-toprovide more context to their responses.
one sessions between the Chairman The results were collated and analysed and each Non-Executive Director, and by the Company Secretary, and the draft development needs in terms of ongoing output discussed with the Chairman, training were assessed.
Senior Independent Director and, in The performance of the Executive relation to Committees, the relevant Directors was appraised by the Chairman Committee chairs.
Finalised reports in the case of the CEO or the CEO in the and action plans were presented and case of the CFO with input from other agreed by the Board and Committees.
The evaluations were reviewed The output concluded that the Board by the Remuneration Committee as part and its Committees operated effectively of the process by which changes to salary during 2015.
A summary of the outcomes and bonus outcomes were approved.
is set out in the table on page 57, together with a summary of the agreed action plan The evaluations concluded that each for 2016.
Information on the Committee Director continues to be effective and reviews can be found in the reports from demonstrate commitment to their role, the individual Committees on pages 62 and that each Director is able to allocate to 75. sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Nomination Committee will oversee the implementation of the agreed action plan for the Board and interim updates will be assessed during the year.
An update on progress against these actions will be reported in the 2016Annual Report and Accounts.
56 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Outcome of 2015 Board effectiveness review Area Overview Board balance Overall, the Directors considered the balance and composition of the Board to be appropriate and composition with excellent sector and industry knowledge, and experience.
Opportunities to add new skills and additional diversity would be considered as a natural part of Board attrition.
The role of the Board Directors felt that the role and authority of the Board is clearly defined with a clear division of responsibilities between the Board and management.
Although there was, on occasion, a greater focus on the detail of operational issues than perhaps there should be, it was acknowledged that this reflected the approach that was necessary prior to the Companys IPO and that it would evolve in due course.
Leadership and culture The culture and leadership was rated highly, and the boardroom dynamics promote good debate.
There is robust challenge at meetings and discussions are open and constructive.
Information flows There was general agreement that the adequacy, accuracy and timeliness of information given to the Board was appropriate although there was some room for improvement noted in certain areas.
Strategy The strategic direction of the Group is very clear.
The Board noted that the process during the last year in developing the business strategy had provided a good foundation on which to further evolve the strategic process.
Offsite sessions had been very effective.
Governance and The output indicated that the Group is operating in line with good corporate governance.
The Risk risk management Management Framework has been enhanced and work continues to strengthen and embed this in the business.
Shareholder The strong work of the Investor Relations team was recognised.
The Board is kept well informed of engagement the market view but Directors were cognisant that this is a new area which would continue to evolve.
Succession planning Directors recognised that, since the Board is relatively new, succession planning had not been tested, and training but they welcomed the robust framework developed by the Nomination Committee.
Directors highlighted the ongoing need for training.
The induction programme was noted by the most recently appointed Non-Executive Director as targeted and informative.
Meeting arrangements Meetings enable Directors to discharge their duties but sometimes meetings are called at short notice and have full agendas.
Secretariat The level of secretariat support has been enhanced with the development of a new function with strong public company experience.
Committees The composition, performance and support provided to the Board Committees were considered to be appropriate.
Actions for 2016 The following key actions were identified Maintain the focus on succession Schedule more informal time for planning and continue to evolve the the Board to spend together, and in the evaluation: framework already developed by the extend some of the meetings to ensure Continue to embed the recently Nomination Committee.
there is adequate time for discussion implemented new template for Board of all agenda items, in particular Review the ongoing development papers, ensuring that papers focus on strategic issues.
of the Risk Management Framework the key issues and flag the decisions to ensure appropriate behaviour is to be made: that there is appropriate An update on progress against action embedded into the risk culture.
analysis of data provided: and that points will be reported in the 2016 Annual information is not simply duplicated for Report and Accounts.
Develop a comprehensive training different forums.
programme to meet Directors requirements.
Implement a more structured process to review the effectiveness of past decisions, and to apply lessons learned.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued Induction of Directors Independent professional advice All Directors receive a comprehensive All Directors have access to the advice induction on appointment to enable their and services of the Company Secretary, effective contribution to the Board as who ensures that Board procedures are early as possible.
In addition, Directors have are tailored to the needs of the new access to independent and professional Director the Chairman discusses advice at the Companys expense.
requirements with the new Director, which are facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Information flow to the Board The programme will typically include The Boards ability to discharge its one-to-one meetings with business and duties is dependent on the quality of the functional heads: site visits: and access to information that it receives to support past Board packs, relevant Group policies decision-making.
Information should be and procedures through the Board portal.
accurate and clear, and provided on a Following his appointment in June 2015, timely basis.
an induction programme was developed for Robert Sharpe which aimed to Board papers enable him to build an understanding The Company Secretary takes of the business and the key issues the responsibility for ensuring that the Board business faces: to communicate the receives high-quality information and, corporate governance arrangements in 2015, worked with the Chairman to and strategy: and to build links with, and develop a new Board paper template access to, senior management within which would signpost the key areas of the business.
Part of the programme focus for the Board.
included sessions with the divisional Managing Directors, which enabled In the same vein, the CFO had identified him to gain an understanding of the a need to change the focus of the regular history of the business areas and their business performance report to the Board financial, cultural and process dynamics: in order to provide insight rather than and to hear managements views on data, and to ensure that performance the challenges, opportunities and metrics were highlighted.
The revised strategy for the businesses.
He also met report was launched in Q12015.
with the heads of the Groups central functions which provided him with an Resources overview of the Groups risk management A library of useful information has been systems and internal controls, risk made accessible to Directors through appetite and key risks, and corporate an online portal.
This includes corporate governance processes.
A number of information such as the business plan: Roberts meetings with senior managers corporate governance-related material: were combined with visits to some of regulatory correspondence: and the Groups key sites across the UK.
These visits were an important aspect of his induction as they allowed him to see operations and meet key staff in the business at first hand.
58 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
