Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Remuneration Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Introduction Aligned to the long-term success Appropriate and balanced of the Group proportion of variable pay As mentioned in the Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair The remuneration framework is structured Total remuneration should balance on page 82, this Remuneration Policy to align remuneration, and in particular both fixed and variable elements, will be submitted to the 2016 AGM performance-related remuneration, with whilst variable pay should be balanced for shareholder approval.
If approved the long-term interests of shareholders.
between both short-term and long-term by shareholders, it will formally take Incentive plans should be designed such incentives with an emphasis on achieving effect from the date of the AGM.
that they do not encourage excessive sustainable business results.
The Remuneration Policy has been risk-taking.
prepared in accordance with the Simplicity and transparency in regulations set out in the Large and Competitive but not excessive the design and communication Medium-sized Companies and Groups The Group recognises that its long-term The key to an effective remuneration Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 success is closely linked to its ability to structure is that the link between the DRR Regulations and is based on attract and retain high-calibre individuals incentives and performance is clear, wellthe following key principles: who can drive the delivery of its business communicated and easily understood.
However, this should be To see how the Remuneration Policy will balanced with ensuring that remuneration be implemented in 2016, please refer to is appropriate to the role, responsibilities, the Annual Report on Remuneration on experience and performance of the pages 84 to 94. individual, and is not excessive.
Future policy table Executive Directors fixed pay Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Committee flexibility Typically paid Although an annual Not applicable Base salary increases Base salary monthly in cash and review of salaries is will be awarded at To provide a fair level of reviewed annually normally undertaken, the the Remuneration fixed pay which reflects Remuneration Committee Committees discretion, The annual review takes the individuals experience will not automatically taking into account the into account various and contribution award an increase factors listed factors including: To attract and retain the The Remuneration corporate and individual high-calibre individuals Committee may freeze performance necessary to deliver the salaries with consequently Groups strategy larger increases as any change in an and when an increase individuals role and is awarded responsibilities Increases will normally be market benchmarking in line with the average increases for staff average pay increases awarded across the The maximum salary Group as a whole increase which the Remuneration Committee Market benchmarking may award will not result in primarily takes into the base salary exceeding account pan-sector 110% of median data companies of a similar for an equivalent role market capitalisation within a comparator rather than looking at group of companies companies solely within the 20 companies listed the financial services on the London Stock sector.
However, the Exchange above and Remuneration Committee below the Company by may also consider more market capitalisation specific data and uses all data as a reference point in considering, in its judgement, the appropriate level of salary Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Remuneration Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy continued Future policy table continued Executive Directors fixed pay continued Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Committee flexibility A range of benefits is Benefits will not exceed Not applicable The Remuneration Benefits provided, which includes: 15% of an Executive Committee reserves To provide marketDirectors base salary on the discretion to car allowance competitive benefits as an annual basis plus a introduce new benefits part of an overall package further 100% in the case as appropriate private medical which attracts and retains of a Director who has insurance family cover Executive Directors been relocated life assurance As premiums are not taxable as benefits in income protection kind, the following caps critical illness insurance apply to life assurance and income protection: Certain costs relating life assurance: up to 8 to Executive Director times salary, although relocations will be met currently capped at 4 where appropriate times salary income protection: up to 75% of salary The value of such benefits is outside of the above cap The Remuneration Committee will monitor the costs in practice and ensure that the overall costs do not increase by more than it considers appropriate in all circumstances Contributions may be Up to 15% of base salary Not applicable Not applicable Pension paid into personal pension p. a.
To enable Executive arrangements or as a cash This is higher than was set Directors to build supplement reduced for out in the IPO Prospectus long-term savings for the impact of employers although there are no retirement, within a marketNICs plans to change pension competitive package contributions currently, To attract and retain highthis higher cap allows for calibre individuals suitable flexibility A fixed monthly allowance, In order to provide a Not applicable Increases in the market Market typically paid in cash formal cap, the maximum adjusted allowance adjusted allowance level of market adjusted will be awarded at Paid on the same basis allowance will be limited the Remuneration To ensure appropriate as salary but will not be to 50% of base salary p. a.
Committees discretion, weighting of fixed and taken into account for the for the duration of this but will only be increased variable remuneration purposes of: Remuneration Policy.
if there is a meaningful within an overall marketincentive pay multiples This level is higher than set change in the appropriate competitive package out in the IPO Prospectus market benchmarks pensions or insured The allowance ensures although there is no benefits Market adjusted that the gearing of current intention to allowances may be the overall package increase the current levels, shareholding guidelines settled in shares or remains appropriate this ensures that suitable other instruments termination or flexibility is retained redundancy payments 96 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Executive Directors variable pay Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Committee flexibility A bonus plan which The maximum level of AIP Performance measures The Remuneration Annual Incentive Plan operates annually.
outcomes is 125% of base applied may be financial Committee retains AIP Performance measures are salary p. a. or non-financial and discretion to adjust set by the Remuneration corporate, divisional performance measures To motivate Executive Committee at the start or individual, and in and targets during the Directors and incentivise of the financial year.
such proportions as the year to take account delivery of performance Performance targets Remuneration Committee of events outside of over a one-year operating are assessed by the considers appropriate.
management control cycle, focusing on the Remuneration Committee The performance which were unforeseen shortto medium-term following the year-end and measures which apply to when the measures and elements of the Groups the AIP outcome is agreed 2016 only are summarised targets were originally set strategic aims on page 85 At least 40% of the AIP The Remuneration A proportion of the outcome is deferred The AIP outcome is Committee retains annual bonus is deferred, into shares under the determined by assessing a standard power to which encourages a Companys Deferred each performance apply its commercial longer-term focus and Share Plan DSP, whilst measure on the judgement to adjust the aligns the interests of at least 60% of the AIP following basis: outcome of the AIP for the Executive Directors outcome is deferred if total any performance measure with shareholders attaining the threshold variable remuneration from zero to any cap level of performance exceeds 500,000 p. a. should it consider that to produces a nil pay-out be appropriate The balance is normally a sliding scale not paid in cash The Remuneration necessarily straight-line Committee reserves The deferred element is applied between the the right to further is typically released in threshold and maximum modify the operation tranches of one-third levels, full pay-out being of the AIP to comply on the first, second and achieved for this latter with developments in third anniversaries of level regulatory requirements the award, subject to and market practice continued employment no more than twosubject to the overall thirds of maximum is Shares within the DSP cap.
Operation of the payable for on-target may accrue dividend AIP and DSP will not, performance equivalents which may be in the Remuneration settled in cash or shares Committees view, be The Remuneration and which are excluded made less onerous.
Committee must be from the limit in the In particular, the satisfied that the result was next column Remuneration Committee achieved consistent with may vary the deferral Both the cash and the Groups risk appetite terms and settle awards deferred elements of the in cash, shares and bonus may be subject to other instruments malus and clawback Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Remuneration Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy continued Future policy table continued Executive Directors variable pay continued Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Committee flexibility A long-term incentive The PSP allows for awards Performance measures Awards may be settled in Performance Share plan under which awards over shares with an applied may be financial cash or other instruments Plan PSP are made annually as absolute maximum value or non-financial and Once set for an award, either nil-cost options or of 200% of base salary per corporate, divisional To motivate and incentivise performance measures conditional awards financial year or individual, and in delivery of sustained and targets will generally such proportions as the performance over Vesting is subject to Where awards are not remain unaltered unless Remuneration Committee the long term, and to performance conditions made in a financial events occur which, considers appropriate.
promote alignment with and continued year due to regulatory in the Remuneration The performance measures shareholders interests employment over a period constraints, this limit will be Committees opinion, which apply to 2016 only of at least three years carried forward make it appropriate to are summarised on page 89 substitute or vary them After the performance Performance periods will period, awards are subject not be less than but may to a holding period of a be longer than three years further two years No more than 20% of Shares within the PSP awards vest for attaining may accrue dividend the threshold level equivalents which may be of performance settled in cash or shares and which are excluded The Remuneration from the limit in the Committee must be next column satisfied that the result was achieved consistent with Malus and clawback may the Groups risk appetite be applied to PSP awards Non-Executive Directors Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Committee flexibility Fees of the Chairman The aggregate fees Not applicable Whilst there is no current Chairman and Nonand the Non-Executive together with any shares intention to do so, the Executive Director fees Directors are set by the and or benefits including Company reserves the Remuneration Committee the reimbursement of To enable the Company right to: and the Board respectively travel and other expenses, to recruit and retain, at pay some or all of the and an amount to meet any an appropriate cost, Fees are structured as: Chairmans or Nontax liability arising on such Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors basic fee expenses of the Chairman with the necessary fees in shares or other and of Non-Executive skills and experience to additional fees for instruments Directors will not exceed oversee the delivery of the chairmanship and the limit set out within business strategy permit the Chairman membership of Board the Companys Articles or Non-Executive Committees of Association currently Directors to participate 2,000,000 p. a. additional fees for in any benefits in kind further responsibilities change the basis of e. g. Senior Independent paying fees within the Director constraints of the cap Fees are reviewed annually.
Factors taken into account in the annual review include: time commitment equivalent benchmarks to those considered for Executive Directors with a particular emphasis on other banks financial services businesses 98 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Illustrations for application of the Remuneration Policy 000 Additional information to future policy table 2,500 1,984 i. Legacy arrangements 2,000 It is the Groups policy to honour any 34% 1,382 1,500 commitment made to a Director before 1,232 11% 34% the Remuneration Policy takes effect, 32% 855 1,000 34% subject to shareholder approval, on 11% 672 32% 465 35% 16 May 2016 or before he or she became 500 55% 34% 100% a Director even if doing so may be 100% 54% 34% 0 inconsistent with the Remuneration Policy Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum in place at the time the commitment expectation expectation comes to be honoured.
This would CEO Phillip Monks CFO James Mack cover, for example, the vesting of a Total xed pay Annual Incentive Plan Long-term incentives long-term incentive award granted before the Remuneration Policy took The chart illustrates the potential outcomes of the Remuneration Policy for Executive effect or a person became a Director Directors based on three different scenarios.
The assumptions on which the scenarios even if the award was not consistent with are based are set out below: the Remuneration Policy in place at the time of vesting.
In particular, a different Scenario Assumptions approach may apply to the one-off PreMinimum Consists of base salary, benefits, market adjusted allowance and IPO Awards granted under the PSP due pension, as set out in the table below: to vest in December 2016.
These, in part, Market were made in recognition of pre-IPO Base adjusted performance and the Remuneration salary Benefits Pension allowance Total Committee reserves a broader discretion Phillip Monks 509 20 41 102 672 to amend the relevant performance conditions or extend these awards James Mack 357 14 27 67 465 should it consider it appropriate in Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2016. the circumstances.
Benefits represent the total benefits as shown in the single total figure table for 2015 less the one-off write-off of a loan prior to ii.
Maximum amounts IPO and taking a single years maximum savings under Sharesave The DRR Regulations and related investor regardless of the personal investment choice of the executive.
guidance encourages companies to Pension contributions are 8% of base salary for Phillip Monks: and disclose a cap within which each element 6% of base salary for James Mack until 31 March 2016 and 8% from of the Remuneration Policy will operate.
1April 2016, in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Where maximum amounts for elements Market adjusted allowance is 20% of base salary for Phillip Monks: of remuneration have been set within the and 15% until 31 March 2016 and 20% from 1 April 2016 for James Remuneration Policy, these will operate Mack.
simply as caps and are not indicative of No bonus is payable and no awards vest under the PSP or other any aspiration.
Based on what the Director would receive if performance was oniii.
Malus and clawback In line with expectations target excluding share price appreciation and dividends : As noted in the Remuneration Policy AIP: c onsists of the on-target bonus of two-thirds of maximum table, the rules of the AIP, DSP and PSP opportunity.
include provisions for malus and or clawback which allow the Remuneration PSP: consists of the threshold level of vesting 20% vesting.
Committee to reduce awards under Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable excluding share certain circumstances.
Malus may be price appreciation and dividends : employed where an award of shares has AIP: c onsists of maximum bonus of 125% of base salary for each of not yet been made, and clawback will be Phillip Monks and James Mack.
used where cash has been paid or a share PSP: consists of the face value of awards to be made each year under award has already vested.
the Remuneration Policy 135% of base salary for each of Phillip Monks and James Mack.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 Remuneration Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy continued The circumstances which may give rise to whilst EPS is a key performance pay within their remuneration package.
the application of malus are: metric.
The Remuneration Committee Employees within control functions do selected these performance measures not participate in incentive pay plans a.
A m aterial misstatement of the as they provide a balance between where the outcome is dependent upon Groups financial results delivery of earnings and external financial performance metrics relating b.
A previous assessment of a market performance.
to the business over which they have oversight.
They may participate in the performance condition being based on v. Discretion inaccurate or misleading information, Restricted Share Plan RSP which can vest after the satisfaction of any continued resulting in an award vesting at a higher In addition to the areas of flexibility level than it should have employment requirements and the highlighted in the Remuneration Policy expiry of any holding period.
Other less table, consistent with normal market c. Misconduct by the employee senior employees may also receive practice the Remuneration Committee awards under the RSP at the discretion d. A m aterial failure of risk management also retains flexibility to operate within of the Remuneration Committee, by the Group various areas including: whilst Executive Directors are excluded e. A m aterial downturn in the financial Determining the performance from participating.
performance of the Group measures, weightings and targets for incentive plans from year to year vii.
Travel and hospitality f. Significant reputational damage Agreeing the size of awards, payments suffered by the Group While the Remuneration Committee or when and how much of an award does not generally consider it to form Clawback may be applied in relation to c. should vest part of benefits, it has been advised that and d. above.
corporate hospitality whether paid for by Agreeing whether a participant is a the Company or another and business good or bad leaver, and the treatment iv.
Selection of performance travel for Directors and exceptionally of awards as a result measures and targets their families may technically fall within The application of malus and The Groups policy is to ensure that the applicable rules and so the Company clawback provisions performance-related remuneration is expressly reserves the right for the aligned to the Groups strategic and longRemuneration Committee to authorise vi.
P olicy on the remuneration of term goals, and performance measures such activities within its agreed policies, employees generally and targets are set within this context.
in addition to the stated caps for benefits The Group has implemented a firm-wide in kind for Executive Directors or in The AIP is designed to align executive remuneration policy which is based on addition to the fees for the Chairman and performance over a one-year period the principles of attracting and retaining Non-Executive Directors.
with the Groups operating cycle, and high-calibre individuals who will promote the Remuneration Committee agrees the long-term interests of the Group: viii.
Loans and staff discounts a balanced scorecard of performance aligning remuneration, which shall not The Group may provide loans, other measures, weightings and targets for be excessive, to those interests: and financial products which are offered each Executive Director which are linked ensuring that the proportion of any bythe Group to customers, and or to the key goals within the one-year variable pay is appropriate and balanced staff discounts to a Director on a business plan.
The measures selected are and takes account of any impact of risk.
similar basis as they are available to a combination of financial, operational, Whilst the quantum and components employees generally.
risk-related and personal performance of the remuneration of the Executive measures.
Details of the performance Directors may vary from that of the wider measures selected in respect of the 2016 employee population, they are based on AIP can be found in the Annual Report on these same principles.
In line with the Executive Directors, all The purpose of the PSP is to incentivise employees are paid a base salary which is sustained performance over the long reviewed annually by reference to market term.
In addition, all employees receive selected TSR and EPS are consistent benefits which may vary according with the creation of long-term to seniority and a pension provision.
shareholder value whilst the targets However, the Executive Directors and the are aligned to the Groups longGroups senior leadership team are able term strategy.
TSR demonstrates the to influence the Groups performance, delivery of shareholder returns, one of and they are incentivised to do so through the Groups key long-term objectives, the inclusion of variable share-based 100 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Recruitment Recruitment Remuneration Policy Remuneration Remuneration Policy Committee discretion Appointment of Executive Relocation expenses Directors For external and internal appointments, certain relocation expenses may be The Remuneration Policy balances the provided and may be paid over more than one financial year.
As set out in the need to have appropriate remuneration Remuneration Policy, this may be up to a maximum of 100 per cent of base salary levels with the ability to attract per annum over and above the general policy on payment of benefits.
high-performing individuals to the AIP organisation.
With this in mind, the The AIP will operate as detailed in the Remuneration Policy including the starting point for the Remuneration maximum award levels.
Committee in setting a remuneration package for a new Executive Director will In the year of appointment, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, the be to structure a package in accordance terms of that years AIP and the performance measures will normally be varied to with the Remuneration Policy, based reflect the part yearworked.
on the individuals knowledge and For an internal appointment, any award under the AIP in respect of the experience.
Consistent with the DRR individuals prior role may either continue on its original terms or be adjusted to Regulations, the caps contained within reflect the new appointment as appropriate.
the Remuneration Policy for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, although No element of AIP will be guaranteed, unless in the year of joining a guaranteed the Remuneration Committee does not element is used as part of a buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving the previous currently envisage exceeding these caps employer see below for further detail.
PSP Notwithstanding the general approach The PSP will operate as detailed in the Remuneration Policy including the set out above, the Remuneration maximum award levels.
Committee recognises that, when For an internal appointment, in line with the AIP, PSP awards in respect of the recruiting externally in particular, it may be necessary to compensate an individual individuals prior role may either continue on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment as appropriate.
to ensure that they are remunerated effectively.
The table to the right sets Buy-out awards out areas where the Remuneration For external candidates, it may be necessary to make additional awards in Committee may exercise its discretion connection with the recruitment to buy out awards forfeited by the individual in order to achieve this.
This may arise on leaving a previous employer.
Although these are not subject to a formal cap, in particular in relation to bonus and the Group will not pay more than is necessary, in the view of the Remuneration incentive plans given that variable Committee, to fairly compensate for awards forfeited on leaving the previous performance-related pay is widely used employer to join the Group and will in all cases seek to deliver any such awards in the financial services industry to under the terms of the existing AIP and PSP.
In some cases however, it may be incentivise senior management.
necessary to make such buy-out awards on different terms to reflect better the structure of the awards being bought out.
Appointment of Non-Executive Directors All buy-outs, whether under the AIP, PSP or otherwise, will take account of the service obligations and performance requirements for any remuneration A new Non-Executive Director would be relinquished by the individual when leaving their previous employer.
The recruited on terms in accordance with Remuneration Committee will seek to make buy-outs subject to what are, in the approved Remuneration Policy at its opinion, comparable requirements in respect of service and performance.
However, the Remuneration Committee may choose to relax this requirement in certain cases, forexample: where the service and or performance requirements are materially completed, or where such factors are, in the Remuneration Committees view, reflected in some other way, such as a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited, or where necessary to retain compliance with regulatory requirements, such as CRD IV.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Remuneration Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy continued available for inspection prior to and and negligence and incompetence.
Service agreements, payments during the AGM.
The agreements do not contain change for loss of office and of control provisions.
termination policy Under the service agreements, the Company may make a payment in lieu of The Remuneration Committee is Executive Directors notice to an Executive Director.
This will opposed to rewarding failure and, when The terms under which the Executive be limited to the amount of base salary considering a termination, takes account Directors are appointed are set out in and, potentially, other fixed benefits of all of the information available to it at service agreements with the Company.
for the notice period and may be paid the time.
This policy applies both to any In line with current market practice, the in instalments.
The Director is obliged negotiations linked to notice periods on a Executive Directors have rolling service to seek alternative work during this termination and any treatments which the agreements, which may be terminated period and the payments may cease Remuneration Committee may choose to by the Company or the individual on or be reduced if the individual finds an apply under the discretions available to it 12 months notice.
The date of each alternative role.
under the terms of the AIP, DSP and PSP.
Executive Directors service agreement The potential treatments on termination Service agreements may be terminated is 10 March 2015.
Copies of the service under these plans are summarised below.
without notice or payment in lieu of notice agreements of the Executive Directors are under a range of circumstances including available for inspection at the Companys gross misconduct, fraud or dishonesty, registered office.
They will also be Plan Approved leaver e. g. death, injury Unapproved leaver Termination by the Other exceptional cases or disability, redundancy, retirement e. g. resignation Company e. g. change of control, winding up or otherwise at the discretion of the formisconduct of the Company Remuneration Committee including on resignation Annual Payment of the award is at the discretion No awards made for the year No awards made for Payment of the award is at the Incentive Plan of the Remuneration Committee.
discretion of the Remuneration AIP Committee.
Award usually time pro-rated for the period of service and released at the end Award usually time pro-rated subject of the performance period, subject to to satisfaction of performance assessment of performance conditions.
conditions, which are assessed over the period to the date of the event.
Deferred Unvested awards will vest at the original If leaving before the employment All unvested awards Awards will normally vest early, 1 Share Plan vesting dates.
requirement date all unvested will lapse.
but may be exchanged for a new DSP awards will lapse.
award over shares in the acquiring However, the Remuneration Committee company in the case of an internal retains discretion to accelerate vesting If leaving after the employment reorganisation.
requirement date, unvested awards will vest at the original vesting dates.
However, in this case the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to accelerate vesting to the date of cessation.
Performance If leaving before the employment If leaving before the employment All unvested awards Awards will normally vest early, 2 2 Share Plan requirement date, awards will vest at requirement date all unvested will lapse.
but may be exchanged for a new PSP the original vesting date on a time proawards will lapse.
award over shares in the acquiring rated basis for the period of service and company in the case of an internal If leaving after the employment subject to performance conditions.
2 requirement date but before If leaving after the employment the end of the holding period, The extent to which the award vests 2 requirement date but before the end of unvested awards will vest at the will be determined by review of the holding period, unvested awards will original vesting dates.
However, performance conditions and applying vest at the original vesting dates.
in this case the Remuneration time pro-rating.
Committee retains discretion to Under both scenarios, the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has accelerate vesting to the date Committee retains discretion to discretion to reduce or disapply the ofcessation.
accelerate vesting to the date of time pro-rating.
TheRemuneration Committee also has discretion to reduce or disapply the timepro-rating.
1 The first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant as appropriate.
2 The employment requirement date is the third anniversary of the date of grant.
102 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices The Remuneration Committee may Under the guidelines, the Executive fees receivable by the Director should be also approve payment of amounts in Directors are expected to retain all of paid on to the Company.
settlement of statutory or contractual the ordinary shares vesting under any Consideration of employment claims based on legal advice and may of the employee share plans, after any conditions elsewhere in make payment of an amount in respect of disposals for the payment of applicable the Group legal, tax and outplacement services as it taxes and any acquisition costs, until considers appropriate.
they have achieved the required level Pay and employment conditions generally of shareholding.
Vested awards not in the Group are taken into account when Chairman and Non-Executive subject to any performance condition setting Executive Directors remuneration.
but subject to a holding period count as Directors The Remuneration Committee receives ownership towards the guidelines after regular updates on overall pay and The Non-Executive Directors including deducting the tax which would be due conditions in the Group, including salary the Chairman are appointed pursuant if the shares were released on that date.
increases for the general employee to letters of appointment, which set The guidelines also prohibit the Executive population: has oversight of significant out the terms of their appointment.
Directors from hedging or offering as changes in employee benefit structures The appointment is subject to termination collateral any shares which are unvested including pension provisions : and by the Company at any time with three or unexercised under any employee approves staff bonus pools.
It also months written notice.
Directors are share plans, and any shares which count oversees the HMRC qualified allrequested, but not obliged, to give three towards meeting the guidelines.
employee share plans which Executive months notice.
The letters do not provide Directors and all other Group employees for compensation for loss of office.
All Other shares owned by Executive can participate in on the same terms Non-Executive Directors are subject to Directors and their connected and conditions.
As is normal commercial annual re-election by shareholders at persons also count towards the share practice, the Company does not consult the AGM, however should the Director ownership guidelines.
with its employees in preparing the not be re-elected by shareholders their All-employee share plans Remuneration Policy.
appointment will cease immediately and without compensation.
Executive Directors are invited to Consideration of shareholder participate in all-employee share plans Copies of the letters of appointment views on the same basis as other Group of the Non-Executive Directors are In formulating this Remuneration Policy, employees.
The purpose of these plans available for inspection at the Companys the Company took into account the views is to encourage share ownership by registered office.
They will also be of its major shareholders.
Should any employees, thereby allowing them to available for inspection prior to and significant changes be proposed to the share in the long-term success of the during the AGM.
Remuneration Policy going forward, Group and align their interests with the Company will engage with its Share ownership guidelines those of the shareholders.
The plans shareholders to seek their views.
The 2016 are operated within the maximum In order to further align the interests AGM will be the first occasion on which participation levels permitted under of Executive Directors with those of the Company will formally seek the HMRC regulations from time to time.
shareholders, the Company introduced support of its post-IPO shareholders in a The Company has established both a share ownership guidelines at IPO.
general meeting for matters relating to Sharesave and a Share Incentive Plan The guidelines require the Executive the remuneration of Directors, and the SIP.
The SIP was used as a vehicle to Directors to build up a specified level of Remuneration Committee will consider all award free shares to employees following shareholding expressed as a percentage of the feedback which it receives from its IPO in recognition of their contribution of base salary within five years of the shareholders during this process.
Awards of between 200 guidelines being implemented or within and 1,000 were made, based on length five years of appointment, if later.
The Remuneration Report was approved of service.
by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2016 The required level of shareholding is and signed on its behalf by: External appointments 200 per cent of base salary, using the current share price from time to time, The Company recognises that it can for each of the Executive Directors.
benefit from Executive Directors holding The Remuneration Committee reserves outside non-executive directorships.
the discretion to amend these levels Under the Companys policy, the in future years, provided that the Executive Directors are permitted to Cathy Turner revised levels will not, in the view of hold no more than one such position, Chair of Remuneration Committee the Remuneration Committee, be less subject to the Companys prior approval.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to determine whether or not any Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Risk management In this section The Groups approach to risk 105 Risk governance and oversight 108 Stress testing 109 Principal risk drivers 110 104 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
