Strategic report Mortgages SME Commercial Mortgages 2015 highlights Net lending to customers Mortgages Market and strategy up by 50% to 0.8bn Since 2014, the Mortgages division has Please see page 24 for an overview of been run as an integrated business the UK commercial mortgage market of Customer numbers up and one team under the leadership of which we estimate our overall share to be by38% to c1,500 Charles Haresnape.
Weve built an awardaround 0.9 per cent.
winning, innovative and comprehensive We look to build on our ability as one Organic origination up proposition based on the foundations of the few lenders who can offer a full common across all of our lending lines, by42% to 428m spectrum of products from property namely our ability to use our modern, development to commercial investment Direct origination up flexible systems to enable our expert and commercial owner occupied.
byover 200% underwriters to make considered We work closely with our panel of credit decisions and our responsive around 800 brokers to ensure we are service culture.
easy to do business with and engage In line with our operating model and to in a proactive dialogue particularly Awards provide additional transparency, we have around more complex cases.
Our direct restructured our segmental reporting business has also grown rapidly in recent Best Development Finance creating a Buy-to-Let segment which years and now accounts for 26 per cent Provider Business Moneyfacts brings together loans which were of origination.
Best Service from a Commercial previously split across SME Commercial Growth Mortgages Provider and Residential Mortgages.
Business Moneyfacts Our SME Commercial Mortgage portfolio SME Commercial Mortgages grew by 50 per cent to 0.8 billion Aldermore offers mortgages to cover the 2014: 0.6 billion driven by strong new full life cycle from property development lending levels which at 428 million through to purchase and refinancing represented an increase of 42 per cent as well as bridging loans.
Our SME compared with 2014 of 301 million.
Commercial Mortgages business focuses Gross new lending via brokers grew by on mortgages for shops, warehouses, 20 per cent to 318 million with direct industrial units and offices distributed distribution growing by over 200 per cent.
through financial intermediaries and directly with customers.
We were particularly pleased with the growth in our Commercial Investment portfolio, where we focus on multi-let developments, as well as significant traction gained by both the Property Net lending up by Development business, as we continue to support experienced regional developers, and by our commercial Bridging product, which is making good 50% to 0.8bn progress following its launch in June 2014.
Net loans bn Portfolio by property type % 6 1 Shop 31% 7 2 Property 5 1 development 22% 0.8 50% 3 Ofce 17% 0.6 4 4 Warehouse 14% 5 Residential 8% 6 Industrial unit 3% 3 2 7 Other 5% 2014 2015 30 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Relationships are so important, especially because we are the S of the SME.
Aldermores team has been great and so enthusiastic.
I can honestly say that Aldermore has been a pleasure to work with.
Anthony McCourt, Director at Gethar Ventures Nearing completion A unique development project It has become easier to get funding in the past two years but the price of the funding can be varied.
Getting the right cost of money from the right sort of provider remains challenging.
Anthony McCourt, Director at Gethar Ventures Work on the building is now at an advanced stage and will be completed in the next few months, while the pre-sales process is progressing extremely well.
A Grade II listed Victorian building in the West Midlands provided Gethar Ventures with a unique development project.
However, funding the purchase was complex as there were caveats such as the need to retain the historic faade.
Getting the cost of money right Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
