Strategic report Mortgages Residential Mortgages 2015 highlights Within Residential Mortgages we target We work with around 12,000 brokers via Net lending to customers prime creditworthy quality customers, our paperless broker portal.
These broker up by 42% to 1.4bn including first time buyers, self-employed relationships accounted for just over and professionals, who often fall outside 90per cent of gross new lending in 2015.
Customer numbers up by the automated lending criteria of some We also continue to develop our direct 40% to c10,000 of the mainstream banks.
We were also distribution capability which grew by an early adopter of Government schemes around a third in 2015.
Organic origination of such as the Help to Buy: mortgage 582m up by 4% Growth guarantee and equity loan schemes.
Aldermores residential owner occupied Direct origination up 33% Market and strategy mortgage portfolio grew by 42 per cent Please see page 25 for an overview of the to 1.4 billion 2014: 1.0 billion as we Launched Help to Buy UK residential owner occupied mortgage grew customer numbers by 40 per cent to Equity Loan product market of which we estimate our overall 10,000.
Gross new lending of 582 million share to be around 0.3 per cent.
was up by 4 per cent on 2014 levels.
We aim to get our customers into new We continue to support first time buyers Awards homes or remortgage their existing and delivered good growth in Help To properties as quickly as possible.
As in Buy, including our launch of Help To Buy Best Specialist Lender Mortgage our other business lines, we aim to be Equity Loan product, which increases our Strategy Awards easy to do business with, transparent support for the new build market.
Best Specialist Lender and quick to respond.
We benefit from Continued investment Financial Reporter modern technology with our brokers able Across the Mortgages division, to support to apply via an online portal and obtain Service Standard Award the continued growth of the business we a decision in principle within 90 seconds.
WhatMortgage Awards have increased our sales team and back This portal takes the application and Best Specialist lender office operations.
We are also refreshing links to external systems, automatically WhatMortgage Awards our operating platform and continue to completing basic identity, fraud and invest in our online capability.
credit checks and builds an underwriting Best Non Mainstream lender file highlighting any specific issues to our Mortgage Force underwriters.
This technology allows us 4 star service award FT Adviser to use a targeted approach to human underwriting in a cost-effective manner Best Specialist Lender to make considered and consistent Your Mortgage credit decisions.
Net lending up by 42% Net loans bn Geographic distribution to 1.4bn Greater London 6% South East 21% 1.4 Midlands 16% 42% 1.0 East Anglia 13% Residential North West 13% South West 10% Yorkshire 8% Other 13% 2014 2015 34 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices When we heard we had the mortgage we both cried.
Owning our own home has been an ambition for us both for such a long time and now we have one.
Kelly Evison, homeowner Aldermore made the mortgage application process really easy.
If Ididnt understand any of the terms or the process I just rang the team and it was explained perfectly Determined to secure a home for and understandably.
their young family, first time buyers Kelly Evison, homeowner Kelly and Wayne Evison had lived with Waynes parents for two years so that they could save for a deposit.
An easy process Determined first time buyers Help to Buy Waynes self-employed status meant their 10 per cent deposit was too low for some high street lenders.
We recommended Help to Buy, a UKGovernment scheme which enables borrowers with a small deposit to get a mortgage.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
