Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Corporate governance Relations with shareholders During the year, and following a During the year, the Nomination Investor relations structured process involving several Committee, in accordance with its duties, 2015 was an exceptionally busy year banks, the Board approved the conducted a review of compliance with in terms of engagement with existing appointment of J. P. Morgan Cazenove the terms of the Relationship Agreement and potential investors.
Ahead of listing and RBC as joint brokers to the Company.
and concluded that the Relationship on the London Stock Exchange in The wealth of combined experience of Agreement is working effectively and March, Executive Directors and senior the selected broking teams in working that the Company is capable of carrying management met with a significant with both mid-cap companies and out its business independently of the number of potential investors in the UK, specialist financial services firms was felt Principal Shareholders.
US and Europe, many of whom later to be a particularly good match for the participated in the IPO.
Since the IPO, the governance needs of the Company as a newly listed arrangements around Board meetings Investor meetings are normally entity.
The joint brokers attend Board have been enhanced and procedures undertaken by the CEO, the CFO and the meetings on a quarterly basis to provide adopted which restrict Directors Director of Investor Relations.
During the Directors with input on market conditions appointed by the Principal Shareholders year, almost 200 individual and group and investors views.
Outside of this from voting on matters where there investor meetings were held covering formal programme, the views of the are conflicts of interest and from topics such as business performance, brokers are proactively sought on market using information obtained through competitive positioning, strategy and developments including the regulatory their appointments.
changes in the regulatory environment.
Under the Relationship Agreement, The Chairman and Senior Independent Principal Shareholders as the Principal Shareholders still have Director are also available to attend Following the sell down of 12 per cent an interest in more than 20 per cent meetings with shareholders and address of their holding in September 2015, the of the Company, they are entitled to any significant concerns that shareholders Principal Shareholders retain an interest in appoint two Non-Executive Directors may have.
the issued share capital of 40.1 per cent.
Peter Cartwright and Neil The Group provides regular updates Cochrane were both in office at the IPO At the time of the IPO, the Principal on its investor relations website at and continue to serve on the Board as Shareholders entered into a Relationship www.
co. uk including the Directors appointed by the Principal Agreement to govern their relationship its half-yearly financial results, reports and Shareholders.
In common with other with the Company after admission and to presentations, press releases, regulatory Directors, they will stand for re-election by ensure that: news, share price data and useful shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
the Company is capable of carrying information for shareholders with regard Annual General Meeting out its business independently of the to managing their shareholding.
Principal Shareholders: The Companys first AGM as a listed entity Information to the Board will be held at 10.30am on 17 May 2016 at transactions and arrangements with The Chairman is responsible for the offices of Linklaters LLP, 1 SilkStreet, the Principal Shareholders and their ensuring effective communication with London, EC2Y 8HQ.
The Notice of associates are at arms length and on shareholders and the Board recognises AGM, together with an explanation of normal commercial terms subject to the importance of constructively the items of business to bediscussed the rules on related party transactions engaging with its shareholders.
at the meeting, will be posted to in the Listing Rules : and Feedback received from investors is shareholders and madeavailable at the Principal Shareholders do not take regularly shared with Board members www.
co. uk any action that would have the effect through the CFOs regular business of preventing the Company from All members of the Board will be in performance report, which aids broader complying with, or would circumvent attendance at the 2016 AGM which will discussions on business matters and the proper application of, the provide an opportunity to engage with other relevant topics.
shareholders on the key issues facing the Group and respond to any questions shareholders may have.
All the Directors will be available before and after the meeting to meet shareholders on an informal basis.
Voting at the 2016 AGM will be conducted by a poll and the results will be announced to the market and made available on the Groups website as soon as practicable following the meeting.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
