Corporate governance Executive Committee Executive Committee Members Phillip Monks, Chief Executive Officer, and James Mack, Chief Financial Officer, are both members of the Groups Executive Committee.
Their biographies can be found on page 46.
1 Steve Barry Carl DAmmassa Charles Haresnape Chief Risk Officer Group Managing Director Group Managing Director Business Finance Mortgages Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: August 2009 October 2013 January 2011 Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Steve has over 20 years financial services Carl has spent a number of years in the asset Charles has a deep knowledge of the experience, with a strong focus on risk finance industry.
Having started his financial mortgages industry, having worked for a management and finance, having held roles services career at GE Capital, he held various number of household names in the banking including Finance and Risk Director at Beacon financial, operational and general management and building society sectors, including Homeloans Limited, Partner for Risk & Liability positions in GEs Equipment Finance, Nationwide Building Society and HBOS PLC.
Management at AnaCap Financial Partners Equipment Services and Restructuring divisions, Charles was Senior Executive, Mortgage Sales LLP, and CFO and Head of Risk for London including the post of CEO of the vehicle and Acquisitions at Nationwide and Managing Mortgage Company.
rental, plant hire and key leasing businesses.
Director, Intermediary Mortgages at HBOS.
Prior to joining Aldermore he was the Managing In addition, he has previously held roles within Responsibilities: Director of Hitachi Capital Business Finance.
the RBS Group where he was responsible for Steve is responsible for the overall management Throughout his career, Carl has gained intermediary mortgage lending, and NatWests of credit, operational and treasury risk and the experience in challenging turnaround and branch mortgage sales force.
Prior to joining Compliance function for the Group.
transformational situations leading significant Aldermore, Charles was Group Mortgage sales, operational and process improvements.
Services Director at Connells Limited, one of the UKs largest estate agency groups.
Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Carl is responsible for the management of the Groups lending activity through the Business Charles is responsible for the management 1 Steve is leaving the Group in 2016.
A successor to Steve Finance Division, which comprises the Asset of the Mortgages Division, which comprises has been identified and, subject to regulatory approval, Finance and Invoice Finance business lines.
Residential Mortgages, Commercial Mortgages will join the Group as the new CRO.
2 Vicki Harris Ali Humphries Paul Myers Group Strategy and Group HR Director Chief Operating Officer Marketing Director Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: June 2014 July 2010 May 2009 Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Vicki brings a wealth of business strategy Ali has over 20 years experience within HR, Paul has extensive experience of managing experience, having previously held senior roles having held HR Director roles with both operations within the banking sector, having with McKinsey & Company and GE Capital, HBOS PLC and Nationwide Building Society spent over 20 years in various roles within where she was responsible for the successful and spending 11 years in Organisational Barclays PLC, including COO of Business launch of the European arm of GE Healthcare Development with Zurich Financial Services.
Banking, demonstrating a strong track record of Financial Services and also held senior roles in Ali also ran her own consulting business, customer service and efficiency improvements.
She formerly worked providing interim and project management He held a number of other executive positions for the Rank Organisation with responsibility services to blue-chip companies.
in marketing and e-commerce at Barclays, for M&A and business development.
Prior to along with responsibility for the performance Responsibilities: joining the Group she was the COO of Octopus of Barclays Retail Savings products.
Prior to Ali is responsible for all aspects of the Investments Limited, a fast growing UK retail joining the Group, Paul undertook a number of Groups people agenda including reward, fund manager, where she was responsible for independent consulting assignments with blueperformance management, recruitment and HR scaling the companys operations and customer chip financial services companies.
Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Paul is responsible for the Groups infrastructure Vicki is responsible for leading the Groups and change agenda which includes IT, operating strategy team and developing strategic models and efficiency, management information propositions, as well as identifying and systems, sourcing and property.
In addition, he is 2 Ali is leaving the Group in 2016.
A search is underway for establishing commercial initiatives.
She is responsible for the overall business performance her replacement.
also responsible for Group Marketing.
48 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
