Corporate governance Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Glyn Jones Phillip Monks James Mack Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 1 March 2014 May 2009 September 2013 Board Committee membership: C R Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Glyn has previously undertaken a number of Phillip was part of the team which founded James brings significant financial experience senior roles within the financial services industry Aldermore in 2009.
He has over 30 years of to the Board, having spent six years at Skipton and has significant leadership experience industry experience, which includes establishing Building Society in capital markets, finance and as former CEO of Thames River Capital LLP, and serving as CEO of Europe Arab Bank PLC audit, where he was instrumental in leading Gartmore Investment Management PLC and and holding various senior roles within Barclays the merger with Scarborough Building Society.
Coutts Group, where he was responsible for PLC, including CEO of Gerrard Investment James began his career with KPMG where he strategic leadership, business performance and Management Limited, Managing Director of spent 11 years in the firms financial services audit risk management.
In addition, Glyn has extensive Barclays Corporate Banking in London, the practice and he has also been Acting CFO of the Board experience and governance knowledge, Midlands and South East, and Head of Barclays Co-operative Banking Group Limited.
having served as Senior Independent Director of Private Bank in Geneva.
Current external appointments: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC and Chairman Current external appointments: None of Towry Holdings Limited and Hermes Fund Member of the FCA Smaller Business Managers Limited.
Practitioner Panel Current external appointments: Chairman of NY-listed Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited 1 Appointed as a Director of Aldermore Bank PLC in June 2013.
Non-Executive Directors Peter Cartwright Neil Cochrane Danuta Gray Non-Executive Non-Executive Senior Independent Director Director Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: December 2008 September 2014 September 2014 Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: 2 None C R C R Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Peter has extensive experience in the financial Neil brings eight years strategic financial Danuta brings significant leadership experience services sector.
His previous executive roles services experience to the Board.
He began to the Board, having spent nine years as CEO include Commercial Director within a speciality his career as a consultant at Oliver Wymans of Telefnica O2 in Ireland.
Her career in insurance services provider backed by a UKfinancial services practice, where he was telecommunications spans 26 years, during based private equity firm, Sales & Marketing involved in a broad range of projects for which time she held numerous senior roles at BT Director and Operations Director of GMAC UK banking and insurance clients within the UK, Group PLC, gaining experience in marketing, PLC and Operations Director of On:line Finance Europe and the US, including new business customer service, communications, technology Limited.
Peter is currently Co-Managing Partner launches, strategy development, M&A and and sales, and leading and implementing and Head of Business Services at AnaCap risk management.
In 2010, he joined AnaCap change.
She has also served as a Non-Executive Financial Partners LLP, where he has personally Financial Partners LLPs Business Services team Director of Irish Life & Permanent PLC and Aer led the transformation and development of each which saw him take responsibility for day-to-day Lingus PLC.
of AnaCaps portfolio investments to date.
interaction with the senior management of the Current external appointments: business portfolio companies on strategic and Current external appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the operational development.
Co-Managing Partner and Head of Business Remuneration Committee of Old Mutual PLC Current external appointments: Services at AnaCap Financial Partners LLP Non-Executive Director of Michael Page Investment Professional at AnaCap Financial Holds various Non-Executive and Supervisory International PLC Partners LLP Board roles within banks and financial Non-Executive Director of Paddy Power PLC services companies across Europe, including Member of the Defence Board of the Ministry AssurOne Group SA, Brightside Group of Defence Limited and Equa Bank a. s. 2 Alternate to Peter Cartwright on.
C R 46 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key: A Member of the Audit Committee C Me mber of the Corporate Governance andNomination Committee R Me mber of the Remuneration Committee R Member of the Risk Committee Denotes Committee Chairman Non-Executive Directors continued John Hitchins Robert Sharpe Peter Shaw Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: May 2014 June 2015 September 2014 Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: A R A R A C R R Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: John has extensive financial and audit Robert has over 35 years experience in the Peter brings over 30 years financial services experience having previously been a senior banking sector, with a strong focus on mortgage experience having spent most of his career at banking partner at PwC, specialising in bank lending.
His previous executive roles include The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and National auditing and advisory services for clients Group Operations Director and then CEO of Westminster Bank PLC where he worked across including Lloyds Banking Group PLC, the Bank Portman Building Society, where he led the merger a number of business areas including retail, of England, Bank of Ireland UK PLC, Barclays with Nationwide Building Society, and CEO, SME, private banking, corporate banking, PLC and JP Morgan Chase.
From 2001 to 2010, Mortgages at Bank of Ireland UK PLC.
Peter spent many years in senior John was PwCs banking industry leader and joined West Bromwich Building Society as CEO risk management roles including COO of the from 2010 until his retirement led the PwC to chart and implement its rescue plan.
Robert is risk function at Group Head Office in the UK networks global IFRS technical group.
John has a seasoned Non-Executive Director with previous and CRO for various group businesses within also carried out a wide variety of advisory work appointments including United Arab Bank PJSC, RBS NatWest.
In addition, Peter served as for other banks and on behalf of the regulators National Bank of Oman SAOG and George Interim CRO at the Co-operative Banking covering corporate governance, high-level Wimpey PLC.
controls and other regulatory issues.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Chairman of Al Rayan Bank PLC Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Trustee and member of the Governing Risk Committee of Bank of Ireland UK PLC Executive Chairman of Stonehaven UK Limited Council of the Centre for the Study of Chairman of Honeycomb Investment Financial Innovation, a not-for-profit Trust PLC City-based think tank Company Secretary Chris Stamper Cathy Turner Rachel Spencer Independent Independent Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 3 February 2014 May 2014 February 2015 Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: Relevant experience: A R C R Rachel has over 25 years listed company experience.
She was the Deputy Company Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Secretary at Invensys PLC from 1999 until 2014 Chris has 35 years experience in the asset Cathy has held a number of senior roles on the conclusion of its acquisition by Schneider finance arena, most recently as Director within the banking sector during her career, Electric SA.
She was previously with BTR PLC and CEO of ING Lease UK Limited.
He is a including Chief Administrative Officer at Lloyds having joined as a trainee chartered secretary.
founding Governor of the Leasing Foundation Banking Group PLC and Group HR Director She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered and was Director of the Finance and Leasing at Barclays PLC, where she was responsible Secretaries and Administrators.
Association and a former Chairman of their for HR, strategy, corporate affairs, brand and Responsibilities: Asset Finance Division.
Prior to this, Chris held marketing.
During her time with Barclays PLC she senior management roles at Abbey National was also Director of Investor Relations for four Rachel acts as secretary to the Board and its PLC, where he was responsible for five business years.
Prior to this, Cathy worked in consultancy Committees and is accountable to the Board units focused on the SME market, and was the with Deloitte & Touche LLP, Ernst & Young LLP through the Chairman on all corporate Managing Director of Lombard Sales Finance and Watson Wyatt Worldwide, Inc managing governance matters.
client relationships with a particular focus on compensation and benefits.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: None Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Countrywide PLC Honorary Fellow of UNICEF UK Associate of Manchester Square Partners Council member of the Royal College of Art 3 Appointed as a Director of Aldermore Bank PLC in May 2013.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
