Corporate governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
As permitted by legislation, some of the matters normally included in the Directors Report are included by reference as detailed below.
Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Business review Information regarding the business review and future developments, Strategic report Pages 6 and 26 and future key performance indicators and principal risks are contained within to 37 Business developments the Strategic report.
review and future developments Page 20 Key performance indicators Pages 40 and 41 Principal risks Corporate governance The corporate governance section provides full disclosure of the Corporate Pages 45 to 80 statement Groups corporate governance arrangements.
Prior to the IPO in governance March 2015, the Group was not required to follow the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code although it did take account of its principles.
The Group has complied fully with the provisions of the Code since the IPO.
Results The results for the year are set out in the income statement.
Income statement Page 137 Theprofitbefore taxation for the yearended 31 December 2015 Strategic report Pages 3 to 43 was 94.7 million 2014:50.3 million.
A full review of the financial performance of the Group is included within the Strategicreport.
Dividend The Directors do not propose to recommend a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
Financial The Group uses financial instruments to manage certain types of Risk management Pages 122 to 126 instruments risk, including liquidity and interest rate risk.
Details of the objectives and risk management of these instruments are contained in the risk management section.
Post balance There have been no material post balance sheet events.
sheet events Share capital At 31 December 2015, the Companys share capital comprised Note 35 to the Page 169 344,739,584 ordinary shares of 0.10 each.
consolidated financialstatements The Company did not repurchase any of the issued ordinary shares during the year or up to the date of this report.
On IPO, 1,593,839 deferred shares of 0.10 each and 131,593,114 deferred shares of 0.0001 each were repurchased from shareholders as part of a share capital reorganisation.
This represented 100 per cent of the deferred shares in issue at the time of the repurchase, and the total consideration paid was 1.
Details of the Companys share capital and movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are provided in Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
The powers of the Directors, including in relation to the issue or buy back of the Companys shares, are set out in the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors were granted authorities to issue and allot shares and to repurchase shares at a general meeting on 9 March 2015.
These authorities expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, on 30 June 2016.
Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority to issue and allot shares at the 2016 AGM.
76 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Rights and obligations There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys ordinary attaching to shares shares or on the exercise of the voting rights attached to them, except for: where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or prohibit their transfer following the omission by their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006: or where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
All the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects and there are no special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Under the Relationship Agreement entered into by the Principal Shareholders, AnaCap Derby Co-Investment No.
1 L. P. has agreed for so long as it holds in excess of 4.99 per cent of the ordinary shares in the Company, that save in limited circumstances, it shall not exercise any voting rights in respect of, or sell or transfer except for a permitted sale or transfer, any ordinary shares in the Company beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by it.
Employees The Group is committed to employment policies, which follow best Strategic report Pages 22 and 23 practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of gender, race, colour, age, disability, sexual orientation or marital or civil partner status.
The Group is committed to ensuring that disabled people are afforded equality of opportunity in respect to entering and continuing employment within the Group.
This includes all stages from recruitment and selection, terms and conditions of employment, access to training and career development.
Information on employee involvement and engagement can be found in the Strategic report.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current Directors who Corporate Pages 46 and 47 served on the Board during 2015 and up to the date of this report are governance provided in the corporate governance section and are incorporated Board of Directors into the Directors Report byreference.
The following changes to the composition of the Board have occurred since 1 January 2015: John Callender Resigned 27 February 2015 Robert Sharpe Appointed 29 June 2015 Disclosure of information Details of any long-term incentive schemes Note 36 to the Pages 170 to 172 under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R consolidated financial statements Allotments for cash of equity securities otherwise than to Note 35 to the Page 169 shareholders in proportion to their holdings consolidated financial statements Agreement with the Principal Shareholders Relations with Page 59 shareholders Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Appointment and The appointment and retirement of the Directors is governed by the Corporate Pages 54 and 55 retirement of Directors Companys Articles of Association, the Code and the Companies Act governance 2006.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended Election and by a special resolution passed by shareholders at a general meeting.
re-election In accordance with the Code, all of the Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment or appointment in the case of Robert Sharpe at the 2016 AGM.
Under the Relationship Agreement, the Principal Shareholders are entitled for such time as they have: i an interest of 20 per cent or more in the Company, to appoint two Non-Executive Directors: and ii less than a 20 per cent interest but an interest of 10 per cent or more in the Company, to appoint one Non-Executive Director.
Suchappointments are subject to election re-election at the AGM.
Directors indemnities The Directors who served on the Board during 2015 and up to the date of this report have benefitted from qualifying third-party indemnity provisions by virtue of deeds of indemnity entered into by the Directors and the Company.
The deeds indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law and by the Articles of Association of the Company, in respect of liabilities and associated costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of their duties as a Director of the Company and any associated company, as defined by section 256 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group also maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance which provides appropriate cover for legal actions brought against its Directors.
Significant There are no agreements between any Group company and any of its agreements employees or any Director of any Group company which provide for compensation to be paid to an employee or a Director for termination of employment or for loss of office as a consequence of a takeover of the Company.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid for the Company.
Substantial In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the shareholdings Company as at the last practicable date before publication of the Annual Report and Accounts has been notified of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: Ordinary % of shares voting Nature of Shareholder held rights holding AnaCap Financial Partners 1 L. P. 28,702,806 8.33% Direct AnaCap Financial Partners 1 IIL.
P. 37,964,311 11.01% Direct AnaCap Derby 1 Co-Investment No.
2 L. P. 32,897,211 9.54% Direct Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities Qualifying Group and Global Wealth Financial Management 17,870,188 5.18% Instrument 1 These shareholdings represent the interests of the Principal Shareholders who hold 40.14 per cent of the ordinary shares in the Company.
78 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Political donations The Group made no political donations during the year.
Research and The Group does not undertake formal research and development Note 24 to the Pages 165 and 166 development activities activities.
However, new products and services are developed in each consolidated of the business lines in the ordinary course of business in accordance financial statements with the Groups product and pricing governance framework.
Under this framework all new products, campaigns and business initiatives are reviewed and approved by the Groups Product and Pricing Committee.
In addition to new products and services, the Group also invests in internally generated intangible assets including computer systems.
Further details can be found in Note 24.
Emissions reporting Details relating to required emissions reporting are set out in the Directors Report Page 80 table overleaf.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, Going concern as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future which has been taken as 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including the current state of the balance sheet, future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources, and the longer term strategy of the business.
The Groups capital and liquidity plans, including stress tests, have been reviewed by the Directors.
The Groups forecasts and projections show that it will be able to operate at adequate levels of both liquidity and capital for the foreseeable future, including under a range of stressed scenarios.
After making due enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group has sufficient resources to continue its activities for the foreseeable future and to continue its expansion, and the Group has sufficient capital to enable it to continue to meet its regulatory capital requirements as set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
Disclosure of information Each person who is a Director at the date of this Directors Report to auditors confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of thatinformation.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor KPMG, the auditor of the Company since 2009, have expressed their Audit Committee Page 68 willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution in respect of Report their reappointment will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Annual General The AGM will be held at 10.30am on 17 May 2016 at the offices of Group website www.
Meeting AGM Linklaters LLP, 1 Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ.
The Notice of AGM, aldermore.
co. uk together with an explanation of the items of business to be discussed at the meeting, will be posted to shareholders and made available on the Groups website.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Emissions reporting GHG scope of disclosure and GHG data integrity and omissions calculation method Greenhouse gas emissions As this is the first year of reporting, GHG The data included in this report has The Groups greenhouse gas GHG emissions disclosure will be limited to been taken from multiple sources, emissions for 2015 were 721 tonnes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions only as namely: utility billed data, existing of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e 2 data was not readily available for Scope internal calculations, existing external equating to 0.85 tCO e per employee.
Scope 1 includes fuel calculations from landlords, and As this is the first year of reporting for emissions from buildings and company expense claims in relation to transport the Group, there is no base year for vehicles and Scope 2 includes our usage.
It has not been possible to obtain comparison and no stated emissions emissions from electricity.
Disclosure of some data for the aforementioned targets against which to report.
In 2016, Scope 3 emissions is voluntary under reporting period.
Where this is the Group expects to establish an the regulations.
the case, data has been estimated energy baseline against which it can either by using data from an earlier report in future years.
Heat and electricity supplied by period or extrapolating existing data.
landlords to premises occupied by the GHG emissions for the Group have Fuel consumption from vehicles for Group, where the heat or electricity business travel was estimated from been collated and calculated for all is not separately reported or charged UK operations where the Group is expense claim costs.
outside of the general building responsible for the combustion of fuel or service charge, has not been included Conversion factors used in this report energy used in the operation of facilities in this years report due to lack of have been taken from the Department occupied by the Group.
Methods to obtain this data or for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs reliable methods for estimation will be Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factor Reporting period investigated and if suitably accurate Repository and the report has been The reporting period for emissions data can be obtained then this will be compiled in line with the Department corresponds with the Groups financial included in future years reports.
for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs reporting period.
Environmental, Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory greenhouse gas GHG emissions summary tCO e 2 emissions reporting guidance.
Scope 2015 GHG reduction plan Scope 1 Company transport 237 The Group is committed to reducing GHG emissions.
The opportunities Scope 2 Electricity 484 for energy savings identified through Total GHG emissions 721 the Groups ESOS Energy Saving Average number of employees 845 Opportunity Scheme assessment, completed in January 2016, will Total per employee 0.85 be progressed and implemented as appropriate.
GHG data verification All data used for GHG emissions reporting was compiled and calculated by JRP Solutions Ltd, an independent energy specialist.
On behalf of the Board Rachel Spencer Company Secretary 9 March 2016 80 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Remuneration In this section Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair 82 Annual Report on Remuneration 84 Remuneration Policy 95 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81
