Strategic report Current strategic risks The Groups current strategic risks are Although we believe the PRA will continue To date, the UK economy has remained detailed as follows.
These may have a to press for the right, which it currently robust in the face of these global potential future impact on the strategic exercises, to determine the appropriate headwinds and as a UKfocused plans for the business and its future standardised risk weight for UK buy-to-let, business we have not felt any adverse financial performance.
given it is a mature and efficient market, consequences.
The medium-term impact we intend to pursue an IRB approach.
is unclear and there remains a possibility Compliance and that material international events could Interest rates competition regulation adversely affect the UK and act as a drag We are cognisant of the very low interest on the UK economy and sectors in which The banking sector is currently subject rate environment at present, with inflation we lend.
We aim to manage these risks to a large volume of actual and potential and unemployment remaining low, by maintaining a well-diversified product regulatory change arising from European despite global economic uncertainty and base, and remaining focused on the UK.
regulation and from the PRA and FCA.
Predictions for an We actively manage a number of Cyber-crime interest rate rise are highly uncertain but regulatory review and change activities.
are currently indicating a rise sometime Financial cyber-crime has become a major Buy-to-Let in 2018.
However, the risk of an interest issue in our increasingly interconnected There have been a number of actual rate rise and the associated potential world and exposes our business to both impact on our customers ability to repay financial and reputational damage.
and proposed regulatory and legislative changes related to the buy-to-let sector.
is recognised and is mitigated through During 2015, we continued to strengthen a range of measures, including stress our defences against cyber-crime.
Firstly, the Summer Budget introduced testing and the use of affordability criteria Notwithstanding this, we plan to make plans to restrict relief on mortgage which measure the ability of customers further security improvements during interest for individual landlords to the to service loan payments at higher 2016 and to ensure that the measures basic rate of income tax from April 2017. interest rates.
in place are in line with best practice This was followed by the introduction, standards.
Additionally, we have plans in from April 2016, of an additional Political risks place to identify and respond to a cyber 3percent stamp duty tax on buy-to-let There are ongoing political risks, risk event on a timely basis, ensuring that properties over 40,000.
It should be including the UKs membership of the there is a practical approach to actions noted, that around half of all buy-to-let EU.
The impact of leaving the EU is and escalation to help minimise any mortgages across the market relate uncertain but could affect exports and potential impact.
to remortgage rather than purchase the position of London as a major financial transactions and attract no stamp duty.
Impact of accounting standards centre.
There could also be changes in We represent a small part of the overall taxation or regulation which may prove New reporting requirements under IFRS 9 market and, as such, believe that this to be disadvantageous to our customers.
introduce forward looking credit models lending segment remains attractive from We are solely a UK-focused business which will lead to changes in the timing a growth and return perspective.
and seek to mitigate these by working of impairment recognition.
We continue closely with banking regulators and to assess the impact of IFRS 9 and have In addition to the powers of Government authorities.
implemented a project plan to ensure recommendation already granted, the compliance with this new standard well UK Government is currently consulting Economic risks ahead of its proposed implementation on whether to grant the Financial Policy The UK economic outlook remains date of 1 January 2018.
Committee FPC powers of direction to relatively benign, with growth expected the PRA FCA in relation to restrictions Competition to continue, a stable property market to the buy-to-let market.
We consider and very gradually rising interest rates.
The competitive landscape contains risks our current underwriting criteria to Although there are some sub-sectors from new entrants, increased competition be prudent.
We stress all loans at which have some risks oil and gas and from incumbent lenders and disruptive origination to ensure that the mortgage steel sectors, we have only limited products software solutions potentially is still affordable in a rising interest exposure to these areas.
affecting both lending and deposit taking rate environment.
The effect of this could result in The international economic and Additionally, in December 2015, the Basel lower volume, higher customer attrition political environment also contains risks.
Committee issued a consultation paper and or lower net interest margins.
The risk These include structural and deflationary on risk weights which, if implemented as of competition has been recognised concerns in the EU, worsening currently drafted, would, probably from in our future planning process but is geopolitical risks in Russia and the Middle 2019, increase the standardised capital constantly monitored.
East, and a continued slowing of the risk weight for a buy-to-let mortgage on a economy in China, putting pressure on residential property.
42 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
