Strategic report Business Finance Invoice Finance 2015 highlights Aldermore Invoice Finance provides which offers a simple solution to the Provided in excess of working capital solutions for UK SMEs, funding gap between paying candidate 1bn of working capital to ranging from vanilla invoice discounting wages and being paid by their customers.
UK SMEs and full service factoring, where we Our distribution channels are supported manage the customers debt collection Pay and Bill launched for by local relationship managers based in on their behalf, to more tailored customer our seven regional offices.
We work with the recruitment sector solutions requiring the in-house expertise more than 500 intermediary groups at a that Aldermore has developed.
We will Trade Finance launched local and national level.
usually lend up to 90 per cent of the value for businesses with of approved outstanding sales invoices.
To ensure we have a sustainable overseas suppliers Given the short-term nature of these platform for the future, during 2015, loans, with the underlying invoices usually we restructured our operating model Rated 4.7 5 by our converting to cash within 60 days, our and sales structure to better serve our customers online average loan balance is equivalent to clients needs whilst maintaining our providing over 1 billion in working capital differentiated service proposition.
Now jointly managed with finance to UK SMEs each year.
Portfolio Asset Finance Market and strategy Invoice Finance represents a useful part Please see page 24 for an overview of our lending proposition to SMEs rather of the UK invoice finance market.
than a key driver of the Groups growth Awards The competitive landscape is split, with and remains the smallest part of the four large high street banks controlling Group at around 3 per cent of the total Invoice Finance Provider of the Year around 70 per cent of advances and net loan portfolio.
At 31 December 2015, Credit Today Awards 2015 customer numbers, usually targeting net loans were 0.2 billion 31 December larger clients with whom they hold 2014: 0.2 billion.
Customer numbers Alternative Funder of the Year the primary banking relationship.
Central & North-East Dealmakers increased marginally, although remain The remainder of the market is served by around 1,200, with average facility sizes a fairly long and diverse tail of lenders, of reducing.
We continue to support our which Aldermore is part.
We estimate our customers with innovative products such current overall market share to be around as our construction finance proposition.
This was launched toward the end of 2014 and is gaining traction and now accounts Our customers are typically SMEs for c4 per cent of the portfolio.
with turnover of up to 2 million and we focus on key sectors including Continued investment Manufacturing, Wholesale, Recruitment During 2015, in addition to upgrading our and Logistics.
We have experienced client core operating system, we upgraded our Supporting relationship managers who understand risk systems and framework to allow much UK SMEs our customers businesses and provide earlier visibility of potential credit risk with expert advice to support their growth issues.
This has both a positive effect on aspirations.
We continually develop our credit decision process but also allows simple and transparent solutions, for us to take remedial action much sooner example our trade finance product for with greater effect.
businesses with overseas suppliers and over 1bn our Pay and Bill product designed of financing in 2015 specifically for the recruitment industry Portfolio by product type % Portfolio split by sector % 7 1 Manufacturing 32% 1 Discounting 47% 6 2 Other business 2 Factoring 53% 5 activities 17% 1 3 Wholesale 16% 2 1 4 Recruitment 15% 4 5 Logistics 13% 6 Construction 4% 2 3 7 Other 3% 28 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices I was particularly impressed with the approach taken by Aldermore.
We were also very grateful for the baddebtprotection provided which proved extremely valuable when oneof our clients fell into administration.
Lea Kernaghan, DK Concrete Ltd Deep industry expertise Simple and transparent solution Understanding our customers business Owners, and husband and wife team, David and Lea Kernaghan, were introduced to us by their broker who realised that we would be able to DK Concrete Ltd is a concrete pouring offer them more favourable terms for business providing ready mixed their invoice discounting facility than We also provided bad debt concrete and floor screed using their existing major high street lender.
In partnership with David volumetric trucks.
The company runs and Lea, we reduced the exposure a fleet of trucks from its site in Corby, to one client who ultimately went servicing Northamptonshire, Rutland into administration owing money and North Cambridgeshire.
As we had reduced the potential loss, we were able to return a significant proportion of the outstanding amount to the firm.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29
