Strategic report Mortgages Buy-to-Let Mortgages 2015 highlights Aldermore provides a complete Buyand 90 per cent for loans-to-value of Net lending to customers to-Let proposition catering for both between 60 percent and 80 percent.
up by 18% to 2.4bn individual and corporate landlords, simple Although we believe the PRA will to complex properties and from a single continue to determine the appropriate Customer numbers up by property to large portfolio.
standardised risk weight for UK buy-to-let 15% to c16,000 at a national level, we intend to pursue Market and strategy an IRB approach which would lead to Organic origination of Please see page 25 for an overview of the adoption of our own internal credit 673m, down 7% the UK buy-to-let market of which we model, subject to regulatory approval, estimate our overall share to be less than rather than standardised risk weights.
Direct origination up 10% 2 per cent.
Buy-to-let remains a key element of Launched online Buy-toThere have been a number of regulatory UK housing stock with the underlying Let and landlord hubs changes related to the buy-to-let sector.
Firstly, the Summer Budget introduced We represent a small part of the overall plans to restrict relief on mortgage market and, as such, believe that this interest for individual landlords to the lending segment remains attractive from Awards basic rate of income tax from April 2017. both a growth and return perspective.
This was followed by the introduction, During 2015, we significantly enhanced Best Service from a Commercial from April 2016, of an additional 3per our Buy-to-Let offering creating a Buy-to-Let Mortgage Provider cent stamp duty tax on buy-to-let Business Moneyfacts seamless proposition for amateur to properties over 40,000.
We streamlined activity in our buy-to-let portfolio closely.
our product range, launched Buy-toHowever, to date, we have seen no Let and landlord hubs on our website, significant shift in customer behaviour providing enhanced buy-to-let calculators and believe that it will be later in the and additional information for brokers year before we can see any possible and customers.
impact of these changes on the market.
Over half of all buy-to-let mortgages Growth originated across the market each year In 2015, our Buy-to-Let business grew relate to remortgage rather than purchase net loans to customers by 18per transactions and therefore attract no cent to 2.4 billion 31 December stamp duty.
In comparison, around 2014: 2.0 billion as we grew customer 70 percent of balances, and annual Net lending up by 18% to numbers by 15 per cent to around 16,000 origination, in our Buy-to-Let portfolio 31 December 2014: c14,000.
Growth was relate to remortgages.
supported by origination of 673 million 2.4bn Additionally, in December 2015, 2014: 726 million which although down the Basel Committee on Banking by 7% remains robust.
We were pleased Supervision issued a consultation paper with the 10 per cent growth in direct on risk weights which, if implemented as distribution which now accounts for currently drafted, would, probably from 19%of annual origination.
2019, increase the standardised capital risk weights for a buy-to-let mortgage on a residential property from 35 percent to 70 per cent for transactions with a loan-to-value of below 60 percent Net loans bn Geographic distribution Greater London 35% South East 20% 2.4 Midlands 9% 18% 2.0 East Anglia 9% Buy-to-Let North West 9% South West 8% Yorkshire 5% Other 5% 2014 2015 32 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices I was bowled over.
I had battled for two years to find a provider.
The relationship I have with Aldermore is terrific and the process is simple, hassle-free and the communication I have with the team is second to none.
Chris Symons, professional property investor When Chris Symons came to remortgage some of his buy-to-let properties to expand his portfolio, a County Court Judgement against Speaking to Aldermore was like a his previous limited company was breath of fresh air.
I explained my identified and his previous high street situation to one of the advisers and lenders refused to help.
she immediately said, Yes we can help.
How many properties are you looking to remortgage?
Facing challenges Chris Symons, professional property investor A detailed review Our underwriters took a detailed look at his wider circumstances, reviewing his application on its own merits and providing him with the support he needed.
He has remortgaged five other properties and has a commercial mortgage with us.
Problem solved Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
