Strategic report Business Finance Asset Finance 2015 highlights space which, in total, accounts for a Net lending to customers Business Finance further third of annual origination.
up by 29% to 1.3bn In the second half of 2015, we created Although our share of this is small today the Business Finance division bringing we see an opportunity though initiatives Customer numbers up together the Asset and Invoice Finance such as our dealer finance proposition.
by30% to c42,000 business lines under common leadership.
On an overall basis, we estimate Asset Finance Organic origination up our 2015 market share to be around Aldermore Asset Finance supports by21% to 893m 3.2per cent.
capital investment in business critical Broker origination up Growth assets.
Leveraging our depth and breadth of expertise, we finance a wide array of by21% to 670m 2015 was another excellent year for our assets.
This flexibility enables us to meet Asset Finance business with our portfolio Direct origination up the needs of customers of all sizes across growing by 29 per cent to 1.3 billion key industries.
by21% to 223m and customer numbers now totalling c42,000 2014: c41,000.
We grew organic In addition, we offer wholesale and block origination to 893 million, up by 21 per discounting facilities to smaller leasing cent over 2014 of 740 million.
In October, companies and brokerages enabling Awards we launched our new dealer finance them to extend credit directly to SMEs.
proposition which brings together SME Champion Award 2015 Market and strategy services from both Asset and Invoice Leasing World Awards Finance, including inventory, retail, Please see page 24 for an overview of the working capital and trade finance to Leasing & Asset Finance provider UK asset finance market.
better meet our customers needs.
of 2015 NACFB We aim to be our partners funder of Continued investment first choice by being easy to do business with, quick to respond and consistent in We continued our multi-year investment our credit decisions.
programme in our technology and digital capability to improve customer Our main focus is lending through the experience.
In 2015, we began upgrading broker channel, which as shown on our back office systems to strengthen page 24 represents almost 20 per cent their integration with our front office of annual lending across the market.
The development of our front Were delighted to have built excellent office portal, to provide functionality relationships with our network of around to allow documents to be uploaded, Net lending up 400 broker partners who have supported tracking of applications and e-signature us in growing our market share to around capability, was also initiated.
In addition to continuing to invest in 29% From an asset perspective, our primary our own team, weve launched the focus to date has been hard assets.
Next Generation Training Initiative to 1.3bn In 2014, we extended our product range to help develop the UKs new asset into soft, or IT and telephony, assets finance brokers.
We believe its the first and these now account for 7 per cent of programme of its kind in the industry the portfolio.
and, to date, over 100 of our registered Towards the end of 2013, we entered brokers have participated in these selected segments of the sales vendor free workshops.
Net loans bn Portfolio by product type % 1 Plant and machinery 34% 6 2 Commercial 5 vehicles 30% 1.3 1 29% 4 1.0 3 Professional loans 11% 4 Cars used 10% 3 5 Cars new 6% 6 Other 9% 2 2014 2015 26 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Aldermore were a pleasure to work with.
Theirflexibility and practical approach at every turnleft a lasting impression on the client, theirsuppliers and our team.
Louise Harris, Head of Interiors atBluestone Leasing D B Ramsden, an independent wholesaler, specialising in providing The ability to provide and maintain goods and services to the retail ahigh level of customer service sector, was looking for a finance is key, requiring investment in our facility to undertake a major office people and office environment.
refurbishment and expansion to bring Aldermore worked closely with our together staff from their four offices broker and supplier so I didnt have into one.
We wanted hassle-free financing and thats whatwereceived.
Supporting our Nick Ramsden, customers ambitions Group Managing Director, D. B. Ramsden Efficient and flexible solution The firms broker, Bluestone Leasing, approached us to fund demountable partitioning and heat exchanger units.
We provided a tax-efficient, flexible solution that utilised the clients unused Annual Investment Allowance and also allowed for stage payments to the contractor.
Easy to do business with Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
