Strategic report Leveraging our business model What we do Our DNA is to be Reliable, Expert, Dynamic and Straightforward these values inform everything we do, forming Strong growth Cost base Accelerating Risk appetite Customers Distribution Strong lending growth drives the basis of our culture and brand.
in net interest grows profit income more slowly trajectory We focus on prime creditworthy customers across lending lines chosen Intermediated SMEs Net for their market size, growth potential, Inte rest Cost of interest attractive risk adjusted returns and Costs profit Homeowners Income funds Direct income tangible asset security.
We distribute to our customers through specialist Landlords Prime credit brokers but have added growing direct quality customers distribution capability.
Online direct Savers Highly secured Lending Funded by We enjoy the advantages of modern, asset-backed legacy-free systems which we use to lending with Strong capital base attractive Asset Finance support our expert underwriters in risk-adjusted making considered decisions, rather Expert underwriting and risk Retail deposits returns Invoice Finance management than adopting a computer says yes or no approach.
Our operating platform is SME Commercial Modern, legacy-free systems scaleable to support our future growth Mortgages SME deposits an we continue our investment in these systems.
Scaleable operating platform Buy-to-Let Corporate deposits We advance loans on which we earn Brand pillars: Transparency, Exceptional Service, Community income: these loans are funded via a mix Residential Wholesale funding of deposits and wholesale funding, on Mortgages DNA: Reliable, Expert, Dynamic, Straightforward which we pay interest.
The difference is net interest income which grows as we expand our loan book.
Our cost base grows more slowly than our net interest income, driving an accelerating profit trajectory.
This is what we refer to as leveraging our business model.
Aligning the KPIs Customer ratings We have aligned our key performance Cost of risk bps out of 5 Total capital ratio % indicators KPIs to the various elements of our business model to provide 42 4.6 4.6 15.1 4.5 14.8 additional clarity on how we measure 14.2 and monitor performance and drive the 23 business forward.
19 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Definition Definition Definition Cost of risk is defined Customer rating is Total capital ratio as impairment losses defined as the average is defined as total expressed as a rating out of 5 on capital expressed as percentage of average feedback collected via a percentage of risk net loans.
Read more about our Read more about our Read more about our strategy on page 18 strategy on page 18 strategy on page 18 20 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Strong growth Cost base Accelerating Risk appetite Customers Distribution Strong lending growth drives in net interest grows profit income more slowly trajectory Intermediated SMEs Net Inte rest Cost of interest Costs profit Homeowners Income funds Direct income Landlords Prime credit quality customers Online direct Savers Highly secured Lending Funded by asset-backed lending with Strong capital base attractive Asset Finance risk-adjusted Expert underwriting and risk Retail deposits returns Invoice Finance management SME Commercial Modern, legacy-free systems Mortgages SME deposits Scaleable operating platform Buy-to-Let Corporate deposits Brand pillars: Transparency, Exceptional Service, Community Residential Wholesale funding Mortgages DNA: Reliable, Expert, Dynamic, Straightforward REM Gross interest Net interest 1 1 margin % Net loan growth bn margin % Cost of funding % Cost income ratio % Underlying PBT m 1.4 5.8 2.8 3.6 66 99 5.6 5.5 3.4 1.3 1.3 60 3.0 51 2.1 1.9 56 26 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Net loan growth Gross interest margin Cost of funding is Net interest margin is Cost income Underlying profit before is defined as the is defined as interest defined as interest defined as net interest ratio is defined as tax is defined as profit difference between net income expressed as a expense expressed as a income expressed as a administration expenses, before tax excluding loans at the end and the percentage of average percentage of average percentage of average excluding IPO costs, plus IPO costs.
depreciation expressed as a percentage of operating income.
Read more about our Read more about our Read more about our Read more about our Read more about our Read more about our strategy on page 18 strategy on page 18 strategy on page 18 strategy on page 18 strategy on page 18 strategy on page 18 and remuneration on and remuneration on and remuneration on page 81 page 81 page 81 1 Excludes IPO related costs of 4.1 million pre-tax and 3.4 million post tax in 2015 2014: 6.0 million and 4.6 million.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Strategic report Customers, people and communities Our customers, people and communities Customer care is a key focus and all of We are committed to promoting diversity are an integral part of our business our customer service teams are based in in the workplace and as at 31 December model and key to our success.
Occasionally, our customers do 2015, two or 25 per cent of our Executive that by doing our best for those we not enjoy the experience that they expect Committee and 383 or 47 per cent of total serve, those who work for us and those from us.
When we receive a complaint, employees were female.
Both a Diversity who are impacted by our activities, it is managed and resolved by the and Inclusion policy and a Dignity we are contributing to the success of relevant business line and the responsible at Work policy were adopted during the business and so doing our best for member of our Executive Committee the year.
In 2015, we improved our employee Our digital platforms, including recognition packages to help us retain Our customers our website, form a central part of our people and bring us in line with listed Our customers are at the centre of our our customer service proposition.
We improved parental leave business and underpin everything that we We continue to make enhancements to for new mothers and fathers, raised the do.
We now serve more customers than our mobile friendly, customer-led website.
level of pension contributions that we ever around 195,000 at the end of 2015 match, and encouraged all employees compared with c160,000 at the beginning To improve the customer service we to participate in our recently launched of the year, an increase of 21 per cent.
provide we launched a number of Sharesave scheme.
new tools and resources during 2015.
We believe in listening to our customers As described on page 37, we launched We are totally committed to developing to understand what they think of us.
our SME Rate Checker which allows people who choose to work at Aldermore.
We actively use customer feedback that SMEs to compare rates from over 90 In 2015, we launched our Empowered we receive through our online Ratings providers online.
To support our landlord Managers programme, our biggest and Reviews service to improve our community we created a buy-to-let hub development initiative to date, as well as offering.
During 2015, we received an on our website which contains a range Aspiring Managers for those employees average rating of 4.6 out of 5, with 97per of resources for both prospective and who would like to take on management cent of customers posting feedback existing landlords.
Our Next on our website saying they would Generation Leaders programme, which recommend us, tangibly demonstrating Our people focuses on leadership capabilities, was the continued strong performance in We have a strong performance culture also revamped in 2015. our brand and customer advocacy.
at Aldermore built on the DNA that we Further endorsement from our customers, established at the very beginning in 2009: as well as our intermediary partners and to be Reliable, Expert, Dynamic and the wider industry, came in the form of Straightforward.
This culture is one of the the 27 awards that we won during the many factors that attract people to work year.
We are also pleased with our Net at Aldermore.
Promoter Score of 22, which remains well ahead of of the UK banking industry average of 2.
programme promotes entrepreneurialism amongst young people.
Aldermores Community team managed fundraising for Headway our chosen charity for 2015.
22 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices We are constantly on the lookout for We were proud to be again awarded The SKILL!
programme, our flagship new talent and increasingly use digital One to Watch status in the Sunday community initiative which promotes channels for recruitment.
Social media Times Best Companies to Work entrepreneurialism amongst young has proved to be both efficient and For survey.
We view this recognition people, continued in 2015.
For the first cost-effective with over 25 per cent of as an indication that our employee time, we held a national SKILL!
final for the our external hires coming as a direct engagement is heading in the winning teams from each of the schools result of our social media presence.
Appropriately, We also understand the need to help given that 2015 was the year that we Our communities the next generation of employees enter listed, this took place at the London Stock the workforce and in 2015, recruited our Community is a core pillar of our brand Exchange and coincided with Global and we are committed to making a first ever apprentices who joined our Entrepreneur Week who recognised our Mortgages team in Wilmslow.
contribution to those communities that programme as high impact in providing we operate in, whether by supporting the support, inspiration and skills to help Communication plays a big part in the UKs vital SME community, young people become more enterprising.
maintaining an engaged employee giving something back to the areas population and our senior leaders place We are aware of our impact on where we operate or acting as a a great deal of emphasis on meeting with the environment and details of our responsible member of the financial and listening to our employees so that greenhouse gas emissions can be found services community.
their views can be taken into account in on page 80. making decisions which are likely to affect The UKs SMEs play a large part in the Headway, the brain injury association, countrys economic success, and as a their interests.
Executive Committee was chosen as our charity of the year roadshows were held in Manchester, lender serving these vital businesses, in memory of Adam Massen, one of we recognise that our contribution can Reading and Leicester during 2015, our colleagues who sadly passed away allowing all of our people to interact extend beyond merely providing finance.
Fundraising for Headway This is the reason that we continue to with our senior team.
Having attended was managed by the Aldermore these events, 90 per cent of colleagues run regular education and networking Community Team.
events for SMEs and our introducers, said they felt proud of working for Aldermore.
Outside of these events, most notably our Asset Finance training Our chosen charity of the year for 2016, series.
During 2015, over a hundred we communicate systematically with is the Batten Disease Family Association employees on matters which concern junior members of staff from our broker BDFA which supports families, raises partners went through this training which them and to ensure a common awareness awareness and facilitates research into of the financial and economic factors introduced the basics of asset finance the group of fatal neurodegenerative and the underwriting processes that affecting the performance of the Group.
diseases known as Batten disease.
We also launched our first Meet the lenders follow.
The programme proved The charity was selected through an very popular amongst our brokers and is Board events in 2015 to give people the organisation-wide employee vote.
opportunity to interact with our Noncontinuing into 2016.
Were it not for our customers, people and Executive Directors.
communities, Aldermore would not exist and it is only with their ongoing support that we will thrive.
Aldermores Risk and Internal Audit teams supporting local community initiatives.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
