Strategic report Savings 2015 highlights With our dynamic, online savings We now support almost 124,000 savers Total deposits up by 29% platform, we have created a strong 2014: 105,000 savers.
Total retail deposits to 5.7bn customer franchise which provides a grew by 23 per cent to 4.2 billion stable funding base enabling us to fund 2014: 3.4 billion.
SME deposits have SME deposits up by 37% our lending to UK SMEs, homeowners grown very strongly, up by 37 per cent to to 1.4bn and landlords.
Corporate savings up by We offer a range of award-winning, In a little over a year, our corporate 571% 156m straightforward saving products to Retail, deposit portfolio exceeds 156 million.
This is an excellent performance and Customer numbers up by provides further diversification to our Market and strategy 18% to 124,000 deposit base.
Please see page 25 for an overview of the Continued investment Launched SME UK savings market of which we estimate Rate Checker our market share in retail deposits to be In line with our transparent approach and 0.4 per cent and in SME deposits to be building on our track record of innovation, Launched Help to Buy ISA 0.2 per cent, providing significant scope we commissioned bespoke research that for future expansion without the need to showed that almost a quarter of SMEs target large market shares.
didnt know what interest rate they were receiving on their savings.
In response, Awards We believe that it should be as simple weve created a new and unique rate as possible to save so we make it easy checking tool which compares the rate Best Business Variable Rate for our customers to use their accounts.
being paid by over 90 providers with that Deposit Account Provider Both Retail and SME savers are able to they could expect to earn with Aldermore.
Business Moneyfacts Awards open and fund an account online within 15 minutes as our modern IT systems We also recently launched our Help to Best Business Fixed link with third parties to complete key Buy ISA, supporting the Government Account Provider Business identity checks.
scheme specifically designed for Moneyfacts Awards people looking to buy their first home.
We publish unedited reviews on our Savings Innovation award for The scheme allows savers to put away up website, allowing us to react to customer Customised Fixed Business to 200 a month, which the Government feedback, as well as letting potential Savings Account Moneynet will boost by 25 per cent when they buy Personal Finance Awards customers see what other savers think their home, up to a maximum of 3,000. of us.
We believe that we are still unique We are also one of a small number of ISA Best Business Savings in this transparent approach in the UK Provider Moneynet Personal wrapper providers, meaning that we banking sector.
Finance Awards can offer this new ISA to those who have already opened a Cash ISA in this tax year Growth ISA Provider of the Year 5 times but have not taken advantage of their full Winner Consumer Moneyfacts Our savings business delivered another ISA allowance.
Awards 2011 2015 excellent year, matching our growth in lending with total deposits up by 29 per Savings Innovation Award for cent to 5.7 billion 2014: 4.5 billion.
Business Customers Savings Champion Awards 1 Retail deposits distribution % Deposits bn Total deposits 4.5 5.7 1 Online 75% 3 2 Post 22% up by 0.2 2 3 Phone 3% 1.4 1.0 29% to 5.7bn 4.2 3.4 1 2014 2015 1 Based on accounts opened in 2015.
Retail SME Corporate 36 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices The SME Rate Checker originated from our belief that it should be really easy for time-poor SMEs to find out something as fundamental as their savings interest rate.
Simon Healy, Managing Director of Savings at Aldermore Talking to SMEs, it became clear that many were not getting the most out of their surplus funds.
They found it difficult to find out what interest rate they were earning and were unable to shop around easily.
The SME Rate Checker makes it straightforward for businesses to do in moments what can be an onerous Listening to task with some providers.
our customers Transparent Innovative In response, we became the first financial institution to offer an independent business savings ratechecking tool to SMEs.
Our SME Rate Checker allows SMEs to view the rates of more than 90 savings institutions and provides a comparison rate for a similar Aldermore account.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
