Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 11 Investment process: focus on quality Quality is the critical characteristic of a company in which we We therefore look very carefully at these factors which help us to invest.
We look to find it in the management of the business, identify overall quality.
We tailor our analysis to the key risks for the products and the strategy adopted.
We are looking for the individual companies.
For instance with financial companies companies that are dependable and predictable in what we look not only at balance sheet strength and returns on they do.
We need to have confidence that the companys equity but also culture, incentives, and the appropriateness of future prosperity is clear and that it will be able to deliver the the products.
For oil and gas companies, alongside returns on combination of income and capital growth that we require for invested capital and reserve replacement rates, we also look at the portfolio.
the health and safety record, political risk, incidents of bribery and corruption.
We believe these are strong predictors of We believe that the companies that will be successful over future success.
the long term tend to have better quality management.
Our analysis shows that this factor is often under-appreciated by We combine our best ideas into a portfolio of investments the broader investment community.
Over time, these positive such that we minimise unwanted risk from foreign exchange, characteristics become evident in the financial performance of country and industry sector exposures.
This allows the impact these companies.
By constructing a portfolio made up of high of stock selection to dominate investment returns relative to quality companies, which have strong business fundamentals the benchmark.
Macro-economic views, such as on foreign and sustainable business models and which we believe are exchange, are generally taken into account directly at a stock undervalued, we will deliver strong investment returns.
level rather than through a top down adjustment of the portfolio.
We may determine that some form of currency Three factors help us establish the existence of quality: hedging is necessary to protect returns, however this is likely to Long-term economic trends of increasing resource be used infrequently.
efficiency and improving quality of life.
These trends offer areas of structural growth relatively independent of Investment themes economic cycles.
The investment team considers the extent to which potential Strong governance and management.
This includes not investments will benefit from exposure to four key investment only financial metrics but also relevant environmental, social themes.
The team expects that companies exposed to and governance exposures.
It recognises that many recent these long-term persistent trends will enjoy superior growth examples of loss of shareholder value have been a result of prospects.
These themes provide support to the investment failings in these areas.
case, but are not a prerequisite for an investment decision.
The High returns over the longer term.
Typically these Trust can, and will, also invest in companies where the team companies are industry leaders which can maintain consider that the strategy and quality of the management team their competitive advantage as a result of technological is not fully valued by the market, even though the stock is not a leadership, or through economies of scale.
We want to be beneficiary of one of these themes.
in those companies which can maintain this advantage for many years to come.
Climate Change and Themes Quality of Life Sustainable Consumption Resilience Energy Efficiency Energy efficiency in the Technology enabling Affordable healthcare Resilient finance digital age resource efficiency Industrial energy Waste, water and Ageing population Resilient systems efficiency sanitation Low carbon transport Education Category Renewables Safety Transition fuels Unmet medical needs
