4 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Business Description Alliance Trust focuses on maximising the capital and income return on our shareholders investment while seeking to protect its value in more challenging economic conditions.
Our aim is to deliver strong and sustainable investment performance for our shareholders over the longer term.
We may invest in a range of assets.
Through borrowing we can enhance returns when market conditions permit.
During the year we announced we would concentrate on global equities to generate capital growth and dividend income and would dispose of our non-core assets as soon as practicable.
After the year end our subsidiary, Alliance Trust Investments, has been given a mandate to manage the Trusts portfolio.
We have reflected this change in approach in our business model.
What we do We invest in: Global equities Subsidiary entities Global equities - Alliance Trust Investments - Alliance Trust Savings Subsidiary entities Non-core investments Non-core investments - Fixed Income - Mineral Rights - Private Equity These will be disposed of over time, subject to market conditions.
Why we are distinctive We focus on quality companies with good governance and business fundamentals that we are prepared to hold for the long term.
Our emphasis is on stock selection on a global basis based on our thematic approach.
We are one of only four FTSE All-Share Index companies with a record of increasing their ordinary dividend for the last 49 years.
Our appointment of Alliance Trust Investments is intended to deliver good investment performance at a competitive cost to the Trust.
We invest in our subsidiaries to generate capital growth and future dividend income.
How we create a return for our shareholders Capital growth in our investment portfolio.
Progressive income growth funded by dividends and income received from our investments.
Through improved investment performance, creating increased demand for our shares in order to narrow the discount.
