6 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Portfolio Managers Report growth in Europe and Japan, the rise in the dollar hurting both Summary US exporters and emerging market economies, and lastly the The NAV return for 2015 was 5.4% versus the benchmark dramatic deflation in oil and commodity prices.
This is a result of the investment These macro economic pressures led to low returns in global returns of the global equity portfolio: investments in fixed equities with the MSCI ACWI returning only 3.8%.
Corporate income, private equity and mineral rights: and the value of the bonds were similarly lacklustre with the iBoxx Corporate Bond subsidiary companies.
Index just breaking positive ground at 0.6%.
Over 2015 the total shareholder return was 10.7%, which captures the benefit of a reduction in the discount.
Our Performance Equities, at 89% of our total investments at the year end, are by The equity portfolio finished the year 2.2% ahead of the MSCI far the most significant asset class.
Overall gearing through the ACWI, delivering a 6.0% absolute return against 3.8% for the year was 13%.
As we anticipate with our investment process, the Contribution Contribution Average Total to Total outperformance was primarily driven by strong stock selection, Analysis % Weight Return Return which contributed 1.6% to our relative outperformance, with Equity Portfolio 98.7 6.0 6.0 sector less significant but still contributing 0.6%.
Fixed Income 5.2 2.6 0.1 Our top five stock contributors were as follows: Other Investments 7.6 4.1 0.3 Cash & Accruals 2.2 N A 0.4 Visa the worlds largest payment card processor, which Gearing 13.7 2.1 0.3 benefited from the move from cash to cards in developed Total 100.0 5.7 markets and increased penetration of credit cards in developing markets.
Expenses 0.8 Buybacks 0.5 Equinix a leading data centre, providing collocation, interconnection and managed services to enterprises, NAV Total Return 5.4 content companies and Telco network providers.
It benefits Effect of Discount 5.3 from the rapid growth in worldwide demands for data.
Share Price Total Return 10.7 Accenture one of the leading IT service and consulting MSCI ACWI Total Return 3.8 firms.
It benefits from organisations adapting to structural Source: Alliance Trust and FactSet changes such as the rise of cloud computing and big data.
Walt Disney one of the largest media and content Global Equities companies with leading channels such as ESPN, Disney The investment process for the Global Equities portfolio aims to Channel and ABC.
outperform the MSCI ACWI by a minimum of 1% per annum Nasdaq a diversified global exchange which offers trading net of fees on a three year rolling basis.
The prime driver of and clearing services, market data products, technology investment returns is stock selection.
We identify high quality products, financial index products, listing services and companies which are undervalued relative to their earnings and public security services.
It benefits from the regulatory drive dividend growth prospects.
There are three elements to our to increase transparency in financial markets.
definition of quality: Our biggest negative contributor was Delta Lloyd where despite Ability to maintain high returns on equity from a strong improving operational efficiencies within its business, the price capital position of the Dutch insurer suffered as it became apparent that its balance sheet position was much weaker than the market had Benefits from long-term societal trends anticipated and we therefore exited the position in December.
Exhibits strong governance and management of all Other detractors were Enterprise Product Partners which material factors suffered from the fall in oil prices: and Ambev with its exposure to a weakening Brazilian economy.
We construct a portfolio of between 60 and 80 of these so as to diversify market, country and industry sector risks.
Our favoured stocks in healthcare performed well and contributed positively to performance.
We like this sector because it delivers positive growth even in tough economic Market Review environments.
We focus on healthcare companies which deliver The global equity market endured a turbulent year over 2015. differentiated, life-saving therapies, such as Novo Nordisk: and Concerns centred on slowing economic growth in China, products and solutions that make healthcare more affordable uncertainty over the ability of monetary policy to stimulate and more accessible, such as Amerisource Bergen.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 7 Within the technology sector the focus is on thematic drivers such New holdings in the year were: as the growth in cloud computing and the need to invest in digital Ecolab the global leader in the development of hygiene, water infrastructure.
Accenture and SAP were examples of companies and energy solutions across a wide range of end markets.
It can which benefit from these themes.
Visa, which we regard as a grow its business in almost any macro-economic environment, technology company, performed well and, as the portfolios given the defensive nature of its revenue streams and its ability largest position, was a strong contributor to performance.
to provide innovative solutions that enable its customers to reduce input costs.
Portfolio Activity Orix is a Japanese financial company which specialises in lending to small businesses and in automobile leasing.
It The investment team continued to reduce the number of also has a developing business which finances the growth in holdings in the portfolio from 74 at the end of 2014 to 61 at renewable energy in Japan, which we see as a crucial solution to the end of 2015, reflecting increased conviction in a portfolio of the long-term issues facing Japan and its energy needs post the best in class global companies.
New entries to the top 10 holdings are: Arm Holdings this licensing business remains strong, despite Wells Fargo a best-in-class US bank, and one which has headwinds in smart-phone growth, and has the ability to illustrated a prudent and responsible lending policy.
It is almost use their technology in new products, such as servers and exclusively domestically exposed in the US, so is well positioned automobile end markets.
The energy efficiency of their chip to take advantage of the improving housing and labour markets designs gives them a very strong competitive advantage.
there, and will also see improving profitability as interest rates rise.
There were two sales worthy of note: CSL the leading global producer of blood plasma products that Qualcomm Qualcomms semi-conductor business is facing benefits from steady demand growth from an ageing population.
competitive pressures and its profitability is suffering.
The growth in their licensing business has been unable to offset that National Grid an electricity and gas company that weakness and we decided to switch the Qualcomm position connects consumers to energy sources through its networks into UK-listed Arm Holdings.
In the UK it runs the gas and electricity distribution systems.
HSBC We sold our position in HSBC due to concerns around their Hong Kong franchise.
The economy and property market in Hong Kong faces a number of challenges, as it is positioned between a weakening Chinese economy, high US interest rates and a delicate political situation.
We recycled part of the proceeds from HSBC into existing Financials positions with better prospects such as Wells Fargo and Nasdaq.
Attribution analysis Alliance Trust MSCI AC World Index Attribution Contribution Stock Equity Portfolio Only Average Total to Total Average Total Allocation Selection Total look through basis Weight Return Return Weight Return Effect Effect Effect Consumer Discretionary 8.3 20.6 1.5 12.6 10.6 0.3 0.8 0.5 Consumer Staples 8.2 5.9 0.4 9.9 11.8 0.1 0.5 0.6 Energy 5.0 16.0 0.8 7.2 17.1 0.4 0.1 0.5 Financials 25.4 2.4 0.6 21.5 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.4 Health Care 16.8 14.2 2.3 12.2 13.0 0.4 0.2 0.6 Industrials 8.0 7.3 0.6 10.5 3.2 0.0 0.3 0.3 Information Technology 18.5 10.7 1.9 13.9 9.7 0.2 0.2 0.4 Materials 4.5 11.7 0.6 4.9 11.5 0.1 0.0 0.1 Telecommunication Services 1.9 2.8 0.1 3.7 4.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Utilities 3.4 1.9 0.0 3.2 2.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 6.0 3.8 0.6 1.6 2.2 Source: Alliance Trust and Factset 8 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Portfolio Managers Report Active Share and Portfolio Risk Non-core Investments The chart below shows the change in the number of stocks held As announced last year we have been working to reduce our in the portfolio and also the active share, which is an indicator non-core investments.
We sold the last of our direct property of the level of divergence of our portfolio from the MSCI ACWI investments in the year for 5.6m, a profit on the holding value at a stock level.
Despite continuing to reduce the number of 15.6%.
We initiated the sale of our mineral rights holdings, of stocks in the portfolio over the year the risk profile of the which provided income of 3.3m during the year and at the portfolio is largely unchanged relative to the benchmark.
In light of the continued drop in oil prices the offers we received were unsatisfactory and a decision was taken to hold these assets until the market for such Active Share assets shows signs of recovery.
We reduced our fixed income 100 exposure by 58% to 73.3m through the realisation of holdings 90 in the Alliance Trust Investments Fixed Income funds.
In the year they contributed 0.1% to our performance.
80 70 We continue to hold seven externally managed private equity 60 funds, largely mid-market European buyout funds, through our 50 two fund of fund partnerships.
Together with our other legacy Sept Dec March June Sept Dec 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 private equity investments they provided positive returns and Number of stocks Active Share % contributed 0.4% to our performance this year.
The value of our Source: Alliance Trust and MSCI private equity investments is 125.3m and the total committed to private equity investments is 166.4m with outstanding commitments totalling 43.9m.
We have made no new private We construct the portfolio to deliver strong risk-adjusted equity investments since 2014 and we have realised other returns for our investors.
We measure the level of risk in our small legacy direct investments in companies and other limited portfolio against that of our benchmark and at the start of partnerships as opportunities to do so have arisen.
Other than 2015 our predicted benchmark relative risk was 2.5%.
At the funding commitments already made, no more private equity start of the year, we would therefore expect that our portfolio investments will be made.
return over the year would likely be within 2.5% of the benchmark return.
This active risk is continually monitored using industry-standard models and analytics, to identify both Portfolio Positioning and Outlook portfolio behaviour and structure.
As we track this active risk The outlook for 2016 is for both weak global economic growth over time, we can also track the ability of our process to deliver and ongoing uncertainty around the direction and impact outperformance and ensure that we have a balanced and of governments and central banks policies.
We therefore diversified portfolio of global companies.
expect to see increased volatility in the returns from all asset classes as we go through the year.
In this environment we Benchmark relative risk believe our approach is well positioned.
Having a diversified % portfolio of equities with growth prospects which are relatively 3.00 independent of economic growth should enable us to continue to outperform on a longer term basis.
2.75 2.50 2.25 2.00 Sept Dec March June Sept Dec 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 Predicted Tracking Error Source: MSCI Barra We believe our portfolio is concentrated enough to deliver our investment objective, but diversified enough to deliver volatility similar to that of the benchmark.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 9 Portfolio Managers Report Top 10 holdings We look to hold our stocks for the long term.
Other than Walt Disney, which we purchased in 2013, and CSL, which we purchased in 2014, we have held all of our top 10 holdings for more than three years.
% of % equity Contribution portfolio to return Visa is the worlds largest payment card processor, significantly larger than Mastercard, its closest competitor.
It benefits from multiple long-term drivers such as increasing credit card penetration in emerging markets and e-commerce growth.
The company also benefits from strong barriers to entry, driving high margins and good 0.9 4.0 free cash flow generation.
The recent acquisition of Visa Europe should ensure margins grow over the next few years, as efficiencies are extracted from the new combined entity.
Pfizer is a global pharmaceuticals company that has done an excellent job of managing its business through a period of significant patent expiries while continuing to grow earnings per share.
It is a highly cash generative business which returns significant amounts of cash to shareholders via a growing dividend and share repurchases.
From 2016, sales growth should turn positive and earnings growth should accelerate as recently 3.4 0.4 approved products begin to contribute meaningfully and we are past the majority of patent expiries.
Recent acquisitions of Hospira and Allergan will provide opportunities to run the combined business more efficiently, something Pfizer excels at.
Accenture is one of the leading IT service and consulting firms.
It benefits from organisations adapting their IT systems driven by increasingly demanding regulatory systems, mergers and acquisitions and the need to adapt and reduce costs.
Important structural changes are occurring in the enterprise technology world, such as the 3.0 0.7 emergence of cloud computing and big data, and Accenture helps their clients understand and adopt these technologies.
Prudential has a solid business in the UK, a slowly growing business in the US, and is a good asset manager: the long term growth and focus for the company though is on Asia.
The middle class population in emerging economies principally in Asia is expected to nearly double from 2010 to 2020 - health and life insurance are 2.9 0.2 high on the desire list of the newly affluent.
This is a structural feature of Asian markets and should continue regardless of equity or currency volatility.
Walt Disney is one of the most attractive media content and entertainment companies with winning cable channels such as ESPN, Disney Channel and ABC.
Its creative content can be leveraged across all assets of the 2.8 0.7 group: in its theme parks, Disney stores and cable networks.
Disney protects its franchise over the long term.
Amgen is a global biotechnology company with a strong portfolio of mature biologic products.
Although some of these will face competition in the second half of this decade, the complexity of biologic drugs mean this will not be as severe as typically seen when a small molecule drug loses patent protection.
Amgen should see good 2.6 0.3 earnings and cash flow growth over the next few years, but more importantly their late stage drug pipeline is coming to fruition and contains several potential blockbusters.
Wells Fargo is a leading US bank, with a best-in-class mortgage franchise, and a leading deposit taker.
It has little investment banking or international exposure, and is considered to have the most prudent lending standards, and strongest balance sheets, of all the big US banks.
It will benefit from rising interest rates in the 2.6 0.2 US, and this will feed directly into its earnings.
It is also well placed to benefit from a recovery in the US housing market and demand for mortgages.
CVS Health is one of the largest drug retailers in the US with over 7,700 stores and a leading pharmacy benefit manager.
The company is well positioned to benefit from growth in drug expenditure driven by the ageing 2.5 0.3 population and the US move to a more consumer centric healthcare system.
CVS Health should continue to return significant cash flow to shareholders through their rapidly growing dividend and share repurchases.
CSL is an Australian healthcare company and is a global leader in the manufacturing and distribution of blood plasma products.
It provides life saving products to patients with immune deficiencies and diseases such as haemophilia.
Product demand grows at a multiple of GDP, driven by an ageing population and the growth in lifestyle related diseases such as diabetes.
Barriers to entry for supply are high, given the high risk to patients 2.4 0.3 of blood borne contaminants, where CSLs reputation for leading edge technology and strong track record on safety sets it apart.
CSL provides sustainable earnings and dividend growth, with best in class assets and a high quality management team.
National Grid is a leading UK regulated power business, with operations in both the UK and the US.
Virtually all of National Grids business is regulated, so there is no exposure to volatile commodity prices.
It means there exists a high degree of visibility to returns and to cash flow.
National Grid is an efficient operator, and cost 2.2 0.2 savings flow through into returns to investors.
This, combined with the need for investment in transmission in the UK and their assets in the US, underpin a solid dividend and growth outlook.
