34 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Remuneration Committee Set out below is the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This Report provides a summary of the Companys current Remuneration Policy and gives details of how this Policy has been implemented during the year.
At the Annual General Meeting a new Remuneration Policy will be proposed.
This reflects changes to the Companys board structure to one comprising only Non-Executive Directors.
Details of this new policy are set out below.
As a result of these changes no further long-term incentive awards will be made under the Companys LongTerm Incentive Plan.
In addition, no changes have been made to the salaries of the Executive Directors.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors, and for their participation as members of Committees, have also remained unchanged.
After the year end we agreed a fee for the new role of Deputy Chairman.
Anthony Brooke, Chairman, Remuneration Committee Proposed Remuneration Policy from the AGM in 2016 In future the Board will comprise only Non-Executive Directors and, as a result, the Remuneration Policy of the Company will be simple and straightforward.
The text of the Remuneration Policy to be put to shareholders for approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2016 is set out below: The Boards Remuneration Policy is to ensure that the the best interests of the Company, and when it would be remuneration of Directors is set at a reasonable level disproportionate to seek specific approval from a General commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of each Meeting.
Any such payments would be fully disclosed on a Director and the time commitment required to carry out their timely basis.
Remuneration will be such that the Company The new Policy will be effective from the date of approval.
is able to attract and retain Directors of appropriate experience and quality.
The fees paid to Directors will reflect the experience Consideration of shareholder views of the Board as a whole, will be fair, and will take account of We regularly engage with our shareholders on all aspects the responsibilities attaching to each role given the nature of performance and governance, including remuneration of the Companys interests, as well as the level of fees paid issues.
In the course of the year the former Chairman of the by comparable investment trusts.
Secretarial assistance will Remuneration Committee had meetings with a number of be provided to the Chairman to assist in the execution of his the Companys larger shareholders.
He attended the AGM to duties.
Additional payments may be made to Directors for time explain the Companys policy, to hear direct from shareholders expended over and above that envisaged on appointment and and to answer questions.
for serving on or chairing committees or for service as directors of subsidiary boards, or other additional responsibilities.
The Alignment with our employees level of such fees and payments will be subject to periodic review.
Directors will be reimbursed for travel and subsistence Many of the Groups employees are also shareholders in the expenses incurred in attending meetings or in carrying out Company, and we actively encourage share ownership.
any other duties incumbent upon them as Directors of the Company.
In the event that any such payments are regarded as Non-Executive Directors Contracts taxable, Directors may receive additional payments to ensure Each Non-Executive Directors appointment is governed that they suffer no net cost in carrying out their duties.
The level by written terms which are available for inspection at the of Directors fees paid will not exceed the limit set out in the Companys registered office and are also available at the Annual Companys Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed The Committee also reserves the right to make payments subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM and their outside the Policy in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee appointment may be terminated at any time by notice given by would only use this right where it believes that this is in three-quarters of the other Directors.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 35 Non-Executive Directors Fees In 2016 annual fees will be: In 2015 annual fees were: Chairman 120,000 Chairman 120,000 Deputy Chairman 80,000 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 35,000 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 35,000 Chairman of Audit Committee 11,000 Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee 11,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 7,500 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 7,500 Chairman of Board Risk Committee 7,500 Chairman of Board Risk Committee 7,500 Chairman of Nomination Committee nil Chairman of Nomination Committee nil Senior Independent Director 5,000 Chairman of Management Engagement Committee nil Membership of Audit Committee 3,000 Senior Independent Director 5,000 Membership of Remuneration Committee 3,000 Membership of Audit and Risk Committee 3,000 Membership of Board Risk Committee 3,000 Membership of Remuneration Committee 3,000 Membership of Nomination Committee nil Membership of Board Risk Committee 3,000 Gregor Stewart received an Interim Chairmans fee of 120,000 pro rata for Membership of Nomination Committee nil the period from 26 November 2015 to 4 February 2016.
Membership of Management Engagement Committee nil From 4 February 2016 Audit Committee until 4 February 2016 To 4 February 2016 The Companys Remuneration Policy as it applied during circumstances, such as death, injury or disability, redundancy, the year was approved by shareholders on 1 May 2014 retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the the 2014 Policy and was not due to be reconsidered by Committee taking into account the individuals performance the shareholders, absent any proposed changes, until the and the reasons for their departure good leaver status could be 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The full text of the previous applied.
Individuals must wait until the normal date of vesting and policy can be found at http: investor.
co. uk ati awards will normally be pro-rated for length of service.
The rules of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan contain a change of control clause, which crystallises the share awards, subject to pro-rating of awards within the three year cycle Remuneration strategy based on days worked and on the participant giving up their The principle behind the historic reward strategy for Executive entitlement for replacement shares in any new company.
Directors was to link performance to pay outcomes, thereby Contracts contained specific mitigation provisions should they aligning the interests of Executive Directors and employees with be terminated.
These mitigation provisions are structured to those of shareholders and clients.
The remuneration packages of provide monthly payments, during the notice period, against the Executive Directors were structured to promote sound and which any income received during the period will be offset.
effective risk management within the Companys risk appetite.
The monthly payment is based on current salary, pension To ensure that the reward structures did not encourage excessive allowance and benefits.
A Directors service contract could be risk taking a clawback mechanism had been introduced to allow terminated without notice and without any further payment awards under the long-term incentive plan to be recovered in the or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross of performance: a significant failure of risk management and misconduct.
control: or serious misconduct by an individual.
External directorships Executive Directors Service Contracts The Company had a policy of permitting Executive Directors to The Executive Directors had service contracts which could be hold one paid external directorship in another company where terminated on twelve months notice from the Company or this did not conflict with their duties to the Company.
Katherine six months notice from the Director.
Service contracts did not Garrett-Cox became a member of the Supervisory Board of contain a default normal retirement age.
Deutsche Bank AG in 2011 for which an annual fee is payable Share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under and is retained by the Director.
In 2015 she received a fee of the Groups share plans are based on the relevant plan rules.
100,000 in respect of the year ending 31 December 2014.
The default position was that any outstanding awards lapsed on cessation of employment.
