Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 33 Going concern The Groups business activities are set out on page 4 with the a continuing economic return to our shareholders whilst principal risks which could impact on performance set out on absorbing the impact of any risks which crystallise.
The Groups financial position and cash flows are set December 2015 the Groups total net assets were 2.95bn.
Our out on pages 52 to 56 along with an analysis of its borrowings investment policy restricts gearing to 30% of net assets at any in Note 15 on page 73.
As regards going concern the Directors given time 12.4% at 31 December 2015. have considered both liquidity and solvency risks.
Sensitivities to market, credit, liquidity and gearing risk are set Liquidity is concerned with our ability to liquidate assets or out in Note 23 on pages 77 to 84. access new sources of short-term funds in the time needed to The Directors, who have reviewed the budgets, forecasts and meet our liabilities as they fall due.
The majority of the Groups sensitivities for the coming year, consider that the Group assets are in listed securities on recognised stock exchanges has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in which are readily realisable even in volatile markets.
At 31 operational existence for at least 12 months from the date December 2015 we also had 160m of unused committed of these Accounts.
Accordingly the Directors believe that it is funding lines.
appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis for Solvency is concerned with our ability to meet our liabilities preparing the financial statements.
This involves managing our capital by maintaining a business model which is capable of delivering over time Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate As part of the ICAAP, a risk assessment is carried out to identify Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability the principal risks that may adversely impact the Group.
These of the Company and Group over a longer period than the 12 include Prudential, Operational, Strategic and Regulatory and months required by the Going Concern Statement.
An internal Risk Control Self-Assessment RCSA concluded an appropriate period to be five years to December and modelling approaches are used to quantify these risks, 2020, a period which aligns with our long-term planning which ensures that the Group holds sufficient regulatory capital horizon.
This assessment has been made taking account of the to mitigate the impact of these risks.
Alongside the corporate current position of the Group, corporate planning process and planning and scenario tests, the supporting risk management the Groups principal risks, as detailed in the strategic report on framework and controls have various regular early warning page 19. indicator and risk outlook signposts trends and triggers events alert the Board to the potential advent of a scenario.
The corporate planning process includes our budget, strategy cycle and Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process This approach ensures a link to our business model and ICAAP.
strategy and an interconnected approach in applying a robust identification and assessment of the principal risks, and The strategy provides long-term direction and is reviewed on, mitigating actions, for the Group.
at least, an annual basis, including five year forecasts showing expected financial impact.
The resilience of the strategy is The Directors have therefore concluded, based on the extent of further tested in a series of severe but plausible downside the corporate planning process and strong financial position, financial scenarios as part of the annual review of the ICAAP.
The that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and ICAAP, covering a five year period, is prepared to identify and the Group have adequate resources and will continue to operate quantify the Groups risks and level of capital which should be and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their held to cover those risks.
assessment and for the foreseeable future.
