ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments For the purposes of this section, the Companys top 10 operating businesses by estimated value, accounting for approximately 76% of the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value as at 31 December 2015, have been identified as Material Subsidiaries.
Material Subsidiaries Smith America Invents Act, which permits third Spin Transfer Technologies, Inc. parties to challenge the validity of issued patents.
Spin Transfer Technologies, Inc. STT engages No damages are available in such IPR proceedings.
in the development of Orthogonal Spin Transfer On 26 March 2015, the US Patent Office PTO OST Magneto-Resistive Random Access Memory entered a judgment on the inter partes review IPR MRAM, an innovative memory integrated circuit of US Patent No.
OST-MRAM aims to combine the claims under this single NYU patent as being invalid advantages of high-speed volatile memory i. e. over prior art references.
This judgment provides DRAM and SRAM and non-volatile memory Flash in no legal authority and the Company believes that a single memory element.
OSTMRAMs potentially STTs ability to develop and market its technology unique combination of fast write speed, low power, and products will not be materially impaired by this and virtually unlimited endurance is expected to judgment, that the claims remaining under other enable it to address a wide range of applications licensed NYU patents, as well as under STTs in the standalone and embedded memory markets, owned patents, provide substantial defense against which collectively had a combined estimated value other competitors who may enter the market.
of greater than $60 billion per annum worldwide in Engagement with partners is very important to the 2014. company.
In 2015, the company entered into a In 2015, the company recorded some notable co-development agreement with one of the largest achievements building on 2014 progress when global data storage companies.
STT also partnered the company completed integration of magnetic with an Asian foundry, whereby the foundry provides and CMOS wafer technology, raised $70.
0 million CMOS wafers to interface with STTs OST-MRAM of new capital, and expanded the technical team devices, as well as jointly develop embedded and intellectual property portfolio.
Joint customer engagement is STT developed a fully functional technology also envisioned with early discussions in progress.
demonstrator memory integrated circuit Diagnostic For 2016, key targeted milestones include the further Memory 1, demonstrating desired functionalities development of the STT technology incorporating for evaluation by potential customers and partners.
perpendicular MTJ structures into its devices and STT also completed expansion of the companys the establishment of additional partnerships and clean room, process line, and measurement and potential early customer relationships.
test capabilities to allow complete end-to-end fabrication with much reduced cycle time.
SciFluor Life Sciences, Inc. SciFluor Life Sciences, Inc. SciFluor aims to develop On 10 October 2013, Crocus Technology S. A. filed a best-in-class portfolio of compounds through the a petition at the US Patent Office PTO requesting strategic use of fluorine.
It engages in drug discovery that the PTO grant an inter partes review IPR of and development and is building a portfolio of US Patent No.
6,980,469 which relates to magnetic proprietary fluorinated compounds seeking to serve devices for memory cells that can serve as nonvarious billion dollar markets.
This patent is licensed by STT of the underlying chemical structure of a drug has from the New York University NYU.
The IPR is been demonstrated to improve potency, selectivity, a form of proceeding permitted under the LeahyPage 24 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 24 21 04 2016 13:25 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued rates of absorption, metabolic stability, and half-life.
SciFluor also intends These factors all improve the drug and positively to continue to pursue patent protection for its impact delivery, dosing, side effects and more.
compounds in various select global markets and to As such, approximately 25% of drugs currently evaluate the potential for partnerships with a variety marketed or in the pipeline contain fluorine.
of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
SciFluors principal products are based on two Precision Biopsy, Inc. patented lead compounds: Precision Biopsy, Inc.
Precision Biopsy is SF0166, a patented small molecule integrin developing ClariCore, a next generation prostate antagonist wholly owned by SciFluor and cancer biopsy medical device system, as well a focal intended to treat eye conditions including agetherapy ablation system to treat prostate cancer related macular degeneration, diabetic macular patients using ClariCore as the targeting system.
edema and retinal vein occlusion, representing The aim of the ClariCore system is to provide the an estimated 50 million patients worldwide.
capability to analyse prostate tissue in real-time SF0166 is a topical drug to be delivered via eye for signs of cancer during the biopsy procedure, drops and is intended to replace drugs requiring thereby minimising unnecessary tissue biopsies repeated injection into the eye.
as well as the associated pathology costs.
Current biopsy procedures require random or blind SF0034, a KCNQ2 3 modulator and a sampling, and often multiple and repeated biopsies fluorinated derivative of ezogabine, is also per procedure.
The Precision Biopsy system is patented and is wholly owned by SciFluor.
It intended to be used within the typical biopsy is a potent potassium channel activator and procedure and the company aims to develop a in effect it electrically stabilises neurons by system along with a disposable needle biopsy unit, opening their potassium channels.
SF0034 creating a capital equipment and recurring revenue could eliminate key safety issues associated model.
It is estimated that in the US alone, 1 million with ezogabine including urinary retention, men undergo a needle biopsy procedure each year.
cardiac interactions, pigmentation problems which could lead to blindness, and dosing.
It In October 2015, Precision Biopsy raised $33.
6 could potentially serve markets totalling $5.
0 million to accelerate the commercialisation of billion in aggregate including: epilepsy seizures: its ClariCore Biopsy System, and develop its tinnitus: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS or Focal Therapy programme.
The funds support Lou Gehrigs disease : and channelopathies the continuation of taking clinical core samples genetic orphan rare diseases.
to optimise the tissue classification system, as well as planned FDA clinical trials to support final In April 2015, SciFluor raised $30.
0 million in a development and regulatory approvals for the Series A preferred stock financing at a pre-money prostate market.
valuation of $100 million to progress development of its two lead compounds and to expand its portfolio.
In 2015, Precision Biopsy completed its product By the end of 2015, the company had advanced the development and verification and validation pre-clinical development of SF0166 and SF0034 testing of its ClariCore system.
The company and completed pre-IND meetings with the US Food successfully initiated a clinical trial of the system by and Drug Administration FDA to agree on the enrolling patients.
Precision Biopsy also submitted data needed to support clinical studies, which are the IDE investigational device exemption of the now planned to start in mid-2016.
Additionally, the ClariCore system to the FDA in the first quarter of company intends to execute pre-clinical tests on its 2016.
The current US regulatory strategy includes existing pipeline compounds in fibrosis, immunotwo separate clinical trials and submissions to Page 25 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 25 21 04 2016 13:25 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued support commercialisation and intended approvals Order governing the dynamic sharing of federal based on the indications for use.
Precision Biopsy spectrum in the 3.
5 GHz band, thereby ensuring intends to complete its first clinical trial in 2016 and the necessary regulatory authority for Federated submit the results to the FDA.
A second clinical trial Wireless to go to market with its proprietary SAS.
initiation is planned for early 2017 and those trial Federated Wireless has been very active in its results are expected to support commercial release relationship with the FCC since the companys and system launch in the US and EU.
inception and has been instrumental in determining the standards for commercial use of the band.
In 2016, Precision Biopsy also initiated definition Between that relationship and the companys and development of its focal therapy program involvement in the industry working group, Wireless where the identified diagnosed cancer tissue within Innovation Forum WInnForum, Federated Wireless the prostate is expected to be ablated in the same has emerged as a leading voice in developing procedure using ClariCore to target the suspicious the standards for a shared spectrum model.
If this program is successful, the companys September 2015, the company announced a objective is to replace the majority of invasive radical partnership with the US Government entity, The prostatectomy procedures with targeted minimally National Advanced Spectrum and Communications invasive focal therapy.
Test Network NASCTN to conduct the first pilot Federated Wireless, Inc. test of an Environmental Sensing Capability ESC Federated Wireless, Inc. Federated Wireless for the SAS.
Federated Wireless also launched its provides innovative cloud-based wireless first product, CINQ XP, which allows carriers to infrastructure solutions to extend the access access shared spectrum and unlock the value of of carrier networks through sharing of wireless the 3.
spectrum amongst multiple tiers of users.
As Post-period-end in January 2016, Federated discussed below, significant bands of wireless Wireless raised a $22.
0 million Series A preferred spectrum have traditionally been allocated strictly for stock financing round representing an attractive government use despite actually needing or utilising increase in the value of the company.
In February, that spectrum a small fraction of time.
Federated the company announced an alliance with five other Wireless has developed a dynamic Spectrum wireless industry leaders to develop, promote, Access System SAS that could revolutionise the and market solutions in the 3.
The way in which spectrum is allocated, managed, and other companies in the alliance are: Google, Intel, optimized.
The companys innovative approach Qualcomm Incorporated, Nokia, and Ruckus incorporates a neural network of radio sensors Wireless.
Federated Wireless is working with these allowing interference free access to low-cost, companies and others in developing plans for pilot high-quality, licensed spectrum while meeting tests and field trials of the solution that are expected the required exclusion periods required by US to begin in the second half of 2016.
Spectrum sharing capability Federated Wireless continues to work with the FCC is intended to be a core building block of next and other government agencies on certification of generation wireless systems, sometimes called the companys SAS and sensors as they prepare 5G.
In effect, the company intends for its spectrum the 3.
5 GHz band for commercial usage.
sharing capabilities to provide ubiquitous, highquality spectrum with the ease of implementation RF Biocidics, Inc. and low cost of Wi-Fi.
RF Biocidics, Inc. RF Biocidics engages in the development, manufacturing, and sale of In April 2015, the Federal Communications environmentally friendly, chemical-free food safety Commission FCC approved the formal Rule & Page 26 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 26 21 04 2016 13:25 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued solutions using radio frequency RF technology.
party tests that showed RF Biocidics chemical-free RF Biocidics operates in the area of disinfection process effectively eliminates pathogens including and disinfestation of agricultural products, against Salmonella from almonds, ensuring their safety.
pathogens, pests and fungi in a variety of food The company continues to pursue other required commodities.
Today, RF Biocidics addressable approvals as certification is required for each market includes the dried fruit, tree nut and seed individual installation and is attempting to streamline grain markets representing an estimated 500 million the process for regulatory approval.
metric tonnes MMt, in aggregate, globally per A high level of interest and some early orders point annum.
The company currently has two lines of RF to at least modest improvement in 2016 at the processing equipment: revenue level.
We expect adoption to accelerate The SENTINEL line uses high frequency RF to over time.
Key targets for 2016 include extension process high moisture products, such as prunes in the number of treated commodities, achievement and raisins.
of further regulatory approvals for pasteurisation of raw almonds, and expansion of sales revenues and The APEX line uses low frequency RF to process financial performance of the company.
lower moisture products, such as nuts, grains, seeds and flours.
Optio Labs, Inc. Optio Labs, Inc. Optio is a cybersecurity company Fiscal year 2015 represented a disappointing year focused on creating unique sensor technologies for the company as sales declined from 2014. to recognise and protect against malware and There are a number of potential factors behind this taking the outputs of the sensors findings into decline and foremost among them we believe has Optios cloud-based Insight Platform.
The sensor been the introduction of the new Generation IV technology combines Optios original product Apex machine and delays in receiving key industry OptioCore, which is embedded on mobile devices regulatory approvals.
Reflecting the uncertainties and provides user based controls and malware around sales growth, as highlighted elsewhere, the blocking, with its newer product, PrivateEye, valuation for the company declined by 42.
which provides for insider threat detection securing Allied Minds remains optimistic about the longthe last two feet of the network.
PrivateEye joined term future for the food safety and treatment Optios product suite through the companys April sector.
Many of the drivers remain strongly in place 2015 acquisition of Oculis Labs.
The joint offering including: repeated recalls of target commodities: combined with Optios new server technology will high cost and reputation damage from a recall: provide enterprise and government customers potential prison time for executives involved in with a unique cross domain view of the mobile and recalls: consumer desire for organic food products computer network environment.
Optios platform will including avoidance of toxic chemicals: regulation be able to discover distinctive malicious behaviour banning or limiting use of chemicals such as methyl and alert and thwart these actions quickly.
bromide: and, government demands for improved The team at Optio expanded over the course of the food safety e. g. Food Safety Modernization Act in fiscal year to approximately 30 people, including the US.
the addition of industry veterans experienced in In 2015, the companys APEX machine received North American and international sales, product regulatory approval for use in the roasting of management, research and engineering to its almonds.
This validation was completed by the management team.
Other changes in 2015 included Almond Board of California Technical Expert the launch of the companys services business to Review Panel whose decision confirmed thirdassist in the sales and marketing of its products, Page 27 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 27 21 04 2016 13:25 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued and the closure of the Kodomo product which no to quickly identify perfusion deficits and enable early longer met Optios business model.
interventions to avoid ischemia and associated adverse outcomes.
Cephalogics estimates that Over the course of 2015, the engineering team bringing its non-invasive neuro monitoring and concentrated on bringing OptioCore version 2.
0 to imaging system to the bedside potentially represents market.
While OptioCore was originally built as a over a $1.
toolkit, the engineering team has produced a much more comprehensive updated version that is fully During 2015, the company successfully completed integrated with the newest versions of Android, its third generation system.
This commercial which remains by far the single most attacked prototype went through initial bench top testing and mobile operating system.
With those tasks nearly achieved all technical performance targets.
As a complete, the business development team has result, the company initiated bench top studies on successfully created relationships with additional blood phantoms, animal studies at Tufts University handset vendors, including ruggedised handset Animal Lab, and lab studies on healthy human vendor Sonim.
Preparations for patient studies at Duke University and Tufts University were also initiated.
Advanced Micro Devices AMD selected Optio Labs The results from these multiple testing environments PrivateEye as a key security partner for release of its are being used to demonstrate performance, to new chipset.
In connection with such partnership, generate publications, and to justify commercial AMD is assisting Optio to market PrivateEye to the system build.
Initial results from the blood phantom computer and laptop manufacturers.
studies and healthy human studies were the basis The profile of Optio Labs has grown throughout for submitted abstracts to the Optical Society of the year as well.
The company was awarded two America and the Human Brain Mapping Society.
prestigious product awards at the leading trade Both were accepted for presentation at their show RSA in March 2016, for both OptioCore and respective 2016 conferences.
Optios products were also featured Cephalogicss focus for 2016 is to continue to in the Wall Street Journal, USA Today, Network demonstrate the strong performance of its third World and Security Week, in addition to Optios generation system in multiple environments focusing management being featured on both television and primarily on patient studies, as well continue its radio.
Additionally, Optio Labs has been issued two Algorithm development and testing.
will initiate business development activities aimed In the coming year Optio Labs will focus on further at fueling commercial system build, testing, and product development, global market expansion, submissions for an anticipated 510 k submission.
business development deals with handset ProGDerm, Inc. d b a Novare Pharmaceuticals manufacturers, and achieving direct sales to the ProGDerm, Inc. d b a Novare Pharmaceuticals government and enterprises.
Novare holds the exclusive license rights Cephalogics, LLC to a technology that represents a potentially Cephalogics, LLC Cephalogics is developing a revolutionary breakthrough in tissue engineering non-invasive bedside neuroimaging system which and disease control based on the observation it intends to commercialise.
The primary target by Dr. Eva Turley founder that blocking RHAMM market is stroke victims.
The Cephalogics system Hyaluronanmediated Motility Receptor, CD168 aims to provide continuous data and imaging from reduces inflammation and enhances normal clinically relevant cerebrovascular regions to allow tissue formation through novel anti-inflammatory clinicians at the bedside or in emergent conditions properties and directed stem cell activation.
Page 28 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 28 21 04 2016 13:25 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued We believe that Novare is the only biotechnology applications in genomics, proteomics, human company that is dedicated to treating catastrophic gut microbiome research, research pathology, disease by using RHAMM-based cellular responses analytical chemistry and QA QC.
They are intended to aid the bodys natural regenerative processes.
for use in scientific research and advancement and Novare is positioned to provide novel therapies are not intended for Human Diagnostic Purposes: to multiple, billion dollar markets that range from as such, they are not regulated as medical devices.
promoting womens health and post-mastectomy The companys commercial solutions are marketed breast regeneration, to reducing pain and joint and sold, and have been adopted, both in and damage in crippling arthritis, to aesthetics and to outside the US.
preventing life-threatening lung damage in infants CryoXtract has developed two principal products with Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia BPD and adults to date, which the company believes are the only with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis IPF.
automated frozen sample aliquotting solutions: Through the licensing of additional RHAMM The CXT 750 Automated Frozen Sample compounds developed by RHAMM pioneers, Aliquotter, a fully-automated instrument directed Dr. Turley and Dr. Luyt as first-in-class therapeutics at large-scale automated access to frozen for inflammatory conditions, the companys focus biofluids and feces.
has been expanded beyond the original target The CXT 350 Frozen Sample Aliquotter, a semimarket of cosmetics and aesthetics.
In 2015, the automated, bench-top solution for the frozen company began to optimise peptide targets for aliquotting of a wide range of sample types, the new indications highlighted above.
Potential including tissue, feces, serum, plasma, whole drug candidates have now been synthesised and blood, urine, cells, bone, and other specifically characterised in a variety of in-vitro tests, as well as designed to service a lower volume lab or limited animal studies.
Novare is aiming to identify biobank.
lead compounds in 2016 to perform subsequent toxicity and formulation testing with the intention In 2015, the company focused on sales and of advancing them into the clinic in the future.
In expanding its installed base of units.
For the year 2016 and beyond, Novare intends to conduct ending 31 December 2015, CryoXtract recorded further enabling animal studies with its lead drug a 32% increase in revenue from the prior year, candidates and will continue to expand the patent resulting in a cumulative base of 37 CryoXtract portfolio in support of these advancements.
instruments sold or installed in 16 countries in North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific.
Notably, CryoXtract Instruments, LLC orders for the Companys CXT 35X models have CryoXtract Instruments, LLC CryoXtract delivers grown by more than 2x year-on-year from the proprietary automated solutions to the global platforms introduction at the end of 2013.
Despite medical research community that preserve the these advances, sales growth has been slower than integrity of frozen biospecimens that advance expected thus pushing out the time to profitability life science R&D.
The companys commercial and positive cash flow.
This has been reflected automated solutions enable repeated and safe in the decline of the companys valuation as of frozen biospecimen sampling aliquotting from 31 December 2015. frozen tissue, biofluids and other unique, highvalue biospecimens eliminating their potential The company also expanded its geographic reach degradation due to thawing, maximising biosample with new distributors in Germany Switzerland, Korea integrity, and optimising scientific outcomes.
A Japanese distributor was added CryoXtracts products support various critical in 2016.
Scientific data supporting the companys Page 29 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 29 21 04 2016 13:25 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued products is critical for the sales process and is BMS.
The companys mission is to create novel best achieved with industry partners.
The company drug candidates against serious diseases with completed strategic data development initiatives large market potential.
These include fibrosis, with a number of key marquee collaborators and cardiovascular, immunescience, immuno-oncology, partners worldwide that included GlaxoSmithKline, oncology, and genetically-defined diseases.
The the Integrated Biobank of Luxembourg IBBL and focus on these diseases aligns, by design, with the others.
It is intended that up to 10 scientific discoveries and innovative breakthroughs will be In 2016, the company will continue to focus on sourced from US universities, and a new subsidiary expanding its installed base, strengthening its will be formed around each of these programs.
global distributor network, restructuring its work force, developing application specific data sets and This partnership provides Allied Minds with a working with customers to enhance and potentially seasoned large pharmaceutical partner as well expand the companys products.
a natural early stage pre-clinical acquirer of developing assets.
It provides BMS access Biotectix, LLC to Allied Minds broad university network and Biotectix, LLC Biotectix develops and experienced licensing practices and provides a manufactures a new class of conductive polymercapital disciplined, structured format through which based coatings and materials for medical electrodes early university breakthrough research can be on devices including cardiac and neuromodulation advanced into the formal drug discovery process catheters, implants, and wearables, as well as for at BMS.
This partnership is structured to potentially other markets.
The companys technology seeks reduce risk for both partners since it is intended to to address key limitations faced by the medical drive exits of early stage pre-clinical candidates to device industry including foreign body reactions, BMS prior to clinical trials and human testing.
Both surgical invasiveness, miniaturisation, signal quality, parties intend to agree on development milestones precious metal use, and long-term electrical for each subsidiary program prior to launching any performance in vivo.
In 2015, the companys leading given subsidiary and, upon successful achievement commercial product, the Amplicoat electrode of such milestones, it is anticipated that BMS would coating, was licensed to Acutus Medical for their acquire the subsidiary or asset.
We believe that this cardiac EP mapping catheter.
The coating materials model of upfront agreement on exits based on preare produced in Biotectix ISO 13485-compliant clinically achieved milestones and pre-determined facility.
In 2015, Biotectix had three US patents exit terms could be highly beneficial to Allied Minds and one European patent granted.
serve to further protect and improve on Biotectix key technologies.
In 2016, the company plans to The company is very active in sourcing new continue to enhance its product offerings, and opportunities and reviewed more than 900 importantly, to pursue further customer applications, technologies in 2015.
As of this date, three contracts and licenses.
subsidiaries have been launched as described below.
Pre-clinical work on these three programs Other Subsidiaries is underway in collaboration with BMS at its R&D Allied-Bristol Life Sciences, LLC Site in India, called Biocon-BMS Research Center Allied-Bristol Life Sciences, LLC ABLS is a BBRC.
drug discovery and development company ABLS I, LLC created in August 2014 through a partnership ABLS I is a is a company pursuing preclinical between Allied Minds and Bristol-Myers Squibb development of a Yale University based technology, Page 30 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 30 21 04 2016 13:25 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued named Antibody Recruiting Molecules ARMs.
commercialisation firm dedicated to bringing ARMs use the bodys own immunity to target government inventions to market.
The company has various cancers by attaching to a given cancer and developed formal relationships with partner labs, then attracting the bodys innate antibodies to the providing the company with thousands of pieces of ARM to destroy the target: ABLS I is developing Intellectual Property per year for commercialisation ARM against prostate cancer.
Since inception, six companies have synthesised multiple different types of ARMs which been created from federally sourced intellectual are currently being evaluated for their safety and property, including: BridgeSat, Inc. : Federated efficacy in various prostate pre-clinical cancer Wireless, Inc. : Foreland Technologies, Inc. : models.
Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. : HawkEye 360, Inc. : and Percipient Networks, LLC.
ABLS II, LLC ABLS II is a company undertaking the preclinical BridgeSat, Inc. discovery and development of molecules against a BridgeSat, Inc. BridgeSat was formed in February novel target Prolyl tRNA Synthetase for treatment 2015 to commercialise space-based optical of fibrotic diseases.
Harvard University researchers communications technologies developed at partner had earlier identified the mechanism of halofuginone Federally Funded Research and Development a natural product with anti-fibrotic properties as Centre, The Aerospace Corporation under the an inhibitor of Prolyl tRNA Synthetase.
ABLS IIs NASA Ames Optical Communications and Sensor objective is to discover and develop halofuginone Demonstration OCSD mission.
The resulting analogues with novel IP, better safety and superior portfolio of technologies that has been licenced, efficacy.
ABLS II has synthesised various molecules or optioned to licence to BridgeSat, encompass and is evaluating them for safety and efficacy.
intellectual property from Aerospaces small satellite efforts and select technologies from Cambridge, ABLS III, LLC, d b a ieCa Therapeutics Massachusetts-based Draper Labs.
ieCa Therapeutics is a newly formed subsidiary in 2016 with IP licenced from New York University BridgeSat is developing an optical connectivity NYU School of Medicine.
NYU researchers have system that aims to increase the speed, security identified novel inhibitors of nuclear beta catenin, a and efficiency of data transmissions from Low Earth key player in the Wnt signaling pathway and a major Orbit LEO satellites, unmanned aerial vehicles, driver of various cancers.
These molecules are and remote terrestrial infrastructure at a reduced targeted specifically against nuclear beta catenin cost and amplified speed ultimately up to 10 vs cytoplasmic with potentially better safety and Gbps compared with traditional radio frequency efficacy.
The companys objective is to develop RF solutions.
Demand for accurate and frequent molecules with improved potency, efficacy and data collection from LEO satellites is expected to better pharmaceutical properties.
accelerate aggressively over the next decade amidst declining costs for building and launching satellites.
Allied Minds Federal Innovations, Inc.
Traditional RF communications are constrained Allied Minds Federal Innovations, Inc. AMFI by limited spectrum, lower bandwidth, and large was created as a vehicle designed specifically to transmitter payloads, and by the bureaucratic commercialise US federal laboratory inventions, process of securing the RF spectrum from relevant via a series of public private partnerships PPP industry regulatory bodies.
with a number of US federal research institutions.
The company represents the first and most In the near term, BridgeSat intends to deploy an comprehensive PPP formed between the US optical communications downlink payload and an Department of Defence and a US technology associated global network of ground stations to Page 31 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 31 21 04 2016 13:25 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued fully demonstrate its advantages in volume, mass, Initially, HawkEye 360 intends to develop terrestrial power, and bandwidth.
and airborne demonstrations of its capabilities, with a space-based pathfinder cluster demonstration Foreland Technologies, Inc. scheduled for 2017.
Beyond the demonstrations, Foreland Technologies, Inc. Foreland was created the companys first satellite constellation is planned as a platform company for the discovery, incubation to include eighteen spacecraft with global coverage and commercialisation of cyber security related for RF monitoring and data analytics.
intellectual property, leveraging AMFIs access to technical innovation within Allied Minds university LuxCath, LLC and federal research institution partner network and LuxCath, LLC LuxCath is developing a catheterthe platforms competitive advantages in agility and based real-time visualisation technology for use speed in incubating new cyber capabilities.
The during cardiac ablation procedures to optimise company focuses on large scale data management: todays arrhythmia ablation procedures.
LuxCath cybersecurity including active defence: cloud is primarily focused on atrial fibrillation ablation computing, and secure data storage, among others.
as this is by far the largest and most challenging arrhythmia market, although its technology is To date, Foreland has created two subsidiaries, applicable to all cardiac ablation procedures.
Percipient Networks, LLC which is commercialising LuxCath seeks to significantly improve the speed of intellectual property from The MITRE Corporation, ablation procedures and to optimise outcomes.
Its and Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. which technology is capable of identifying tissue that has not is commercialising intellectual property from been properly ablated and which can subsequently Los Alamos National Laboratories.
The technology has Technologies is currently evaluating several core been proven to identify and distinguish viable from technologies in due diligence to become the basis of ablated cardiac tissue in preclinical tests and has new Foreland subsidiaries: these core technologies also been tested in human ablation cases with 100% include those sourced from Massachusetts Institute success and no complications in December 2015 of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, Draper Labs, by Drs.
Vivek Reddy and Petr Neuzil in Prague.
has been used to monitor the progression of lesion HawkEye 360, Inc. formation as well as to determine the presence and HawkEye 360, Inc. HawkEye 360, formed in quality of catheter-tissue contact in both preclinical September 2015, is developing a constellation of and clinical testing.
The company has two issued formation-flying small satellites in Low Earth Orbit patents and an expanding portfolio of global patent LEO to execute a space-based radio frequency RF applications.
spectrum monitoring and geolocation capability.
These accomplishments have been performed The companys proprietary processing and analytics both with standalone LuxCath devices as well as engine generates reports on signals that can be through the integration of LuxCath technology into used to track and monitor global transportation an existing FDA approved ablation catheter.
Various networks, detect distress alerts, support US and results from preclinical and clinical tests were allied nations government missions, and assist with published and presented at the Atrial Fribrillation emergencies.
HawkEye 360 aims to provide highly Symposium in Orlando in January 2016. accurate maritime domain awareness for federal and commercial customers, establish a national Percipient Networks, LLC and international spectrum inventory for commercial Percipient Networks, LLC Percipient is developing carriers and wireless regulators, and develop insight cyber security technologies to provide network into how signals are being used globally.
defenders more options against advanced threats.
Page 32 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 32 21 04 2016 13:25 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued The company uses automated threat interdiction In October 2015, the company successfully provided capabilities, advanced remediation techniques, and its design taped out to TSMC, one of the largest shared intelligence platforms as the foundational semiconductor foundries in the world, for two high building blocks upon which the company is performance analog to digital converters utilising developing its solution for business network our core SMOA technology at 28nm.
The core technology underlying Percipient was a 14-bit continuous time delta-sigma ADC with was sourced from The MITRE Corporation.
40 and 80 MHz of bandwidth powered completely using a single core voltage supply of 0.
The chip The companys flagship product Strongarm returned from the TSMC in early 2016 and initial was developed recognising that despite significant characterisation tests showed the ADC has very effort to stop malware from getting onto a firms high jitter tolerance 4 picoseconds and dynamic network, there appears to be an increasing amount range 70dB using only half the power of other of malware getting through these defenses.
These are potentially very advantageous it goes unrecognised for extended periods of characteristics and the company is now in contact time threatening loss and or damage to sensitive with potential customers in the US, Europe, and customer information and valuable intellectual Asia as part of its initial marketing efforts.
Strongarms approach is based on monitoring outbound communications and Key milestones for 2016 include pursuing blackholing traffic to known bad sites.
Strongarm partnerships as well as approaching potential is cloud based and can be implemented without customers about integrating our designs into their the need for enterprise-sized IT staff or security systems, and expansion of our AFE components budgets.
portfolio to appeal to a wider segment of the market.
Although formal launch of the product occurred in SoundCure, Inc. and Tinnitus Treatment April 2016, Percipient completed its first commercial Solutions, Inc. contracts in 2015 and thousands of end users SoundCure, Inc. SoundCure is a consumer medical are currently protected by Strongarm.
In 2016, device company with a core technology based Percipient will continue to expand the capabilities on neuroscience used to treat tinnitus through of Strongarm and has begun the process of its acoustic therapy, branded as S-Tones.
curating its own Threat Intelligence to help combat S-Tones are temporally patterned sounds which specific malware associated with Ransomware and are customised specifically for each patients other advanced attacks.
The company will also unique tinnitus, generating neural activity which can aggressively pursue new sales.
Seamless Devices, Inc. SoundCures first product is an FDA 510 k cleared Seamless Devices, Inc. Seamless is a mixed and CE Marked medical device in a handheld signal IP intellectual property company based in configuration called Serenade incorporating San Jose, California, developing analog front end customised tracks of sound therapy including AFE solutions used in high performance wireless S-Tones.
An estimated 50 million Americans connectivity applications.
Utilising a novel approach experience tinnitus to some degree.
Nearly a third of to analog signal processing and embodied in its this number seek medical advice and approximately Switched-Mode Operational Amplifier SMOA, the two million Americans experience tinnitus as a lifeSeamless technology aims to simplify production of altering, disabling condition.
high-performance devices even as transistors are In January 2015, SoundCure submitted its 510 k scaled down to deep sub-micron scales.
application to the FDA for remote programing of the Page 33 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 33 21 04 2016 13:25 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued SoundCure Serenade and in April 2015 SoundCure with HearUSA and AARP.
TTS is the exclusive received FDA clearance for this telemedicine device tinnitus care partner for the AARP Hearing Care programing via the internet in the patients home.
With these partnerships, TTS has created To the companys knowledge, this is the first what it believes is the USAs largest tinnitus care FDA clearance for a tinnitus therapy device to be affiliated network with over 4000 providers.
In the programed via telemedicine.
This would represent a first quarter of 2016, TTS also launched its services unique tinnitus care tool for telemedicine providers in Canada.
such as Tinnitus Treatment Solutions TTS, and Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. potentially the US Veterans Administration VA Whitewood Encryption Systems Whitewood seeks tinnitus is the #1 service related disability and many to address one of the most fundamental challenges servicemen look to the VA for therapies during associated with all modern cryptosystems random and upon return from duty.
Additional milestones number generation utilising advanced quantum achieved include the issuance of new patents in cryptography technologies originating from Los Canada and Europe for S-Tones.
Whitewood enables Sales growth has been nominal to date.
After its customers to take control of the generation of launch, it became clear that a much bigger market random numbers across their entire application opportunity potentially exists in addressing the gap infrastructure.
Without true randomness as is the in care between the millions of suffering patients case with most random number generators today, and the relatively small number of tinnitus providers.
applications that rely on cryptography suffer from Thus, the focus for 2015 and going forward in degraded security.
This is critical as the use of 2016 is on market development primarily through random numbers in computer systems has become SoundCures telemedicine sister company, TTS, to so prolific and fundamental.
Whitewood addresses two important challenges TTS is focused on becoming the number one generating true random numbers at scale, and online tinnitus therapy source and the number making those random numbers accessible to large one nationwide provider of tinnitus treatment.
populations of applications and devices across the TTS is a cutting-edge telemedicine tinnitus health data, the cloud and the Internet of Things IoT.
care provider that offers and sells a full range of The company launched its first product in August tinnitus hearing aids from all the Big 6 hearing 2015.
The Entropy Engine is a hardware random aid manufacturers, the Serenade device, and number generator that employs technology originally tinnitus accessories.
To date, supply agreements invented at Los Alamos National Laboratory to have been completed with Oticon, Starkey, Widex, exploit the fundamental properties of quantum Resound, Phonak and Siemens note that 80% of mechanics to generate a truly random signal that is tinnitus sufferers also have concomitant hearing digitised to create true random numbers.
TTS has tinnitus expert audiologists providing Whitewood extended its product portfolio in March care conveniently through its telemedicine channel 2016 with the launch of the netRandom solution.
via a full range of tinnitus therapies and devices.
This product enables random numbers to be Of critical importance to TTS in 2016 and beyond generated as a shared resource and delivered over is the development of go-to-market partnerships a network cloud to applications and devices onincluding referral of patients to TTS.
Also in 2016, the company announced partnered with Your Hearing Network, a subsidiary two partnerships: the first with WolfSSL to provide of hearing aid company William Demant Group access to high-quality true random numbers for Oticon, and in 2016 TTS announced a partnership large-scale security applications across embedded, Page 34 of 165 010 c112021 5.5. indd 34 21 04 2016 13:25 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Review and Developments continued machine-to-machine M2M, and Internet of Things IoT systems: and, the second with CryptSoft to deliver high-performance quantum based security to enterprise key management security systems.
Whitewood will spend the balance of 2016 enhancing its product portfolio and pursuing further go-to-market opportunities.
Discontinued Subsidiaries Consistent with the Allied Minds model, where a project has failed to deliver sufficient additional proof points for ultimate commercialisation and financial return, and no longer supports on-going development and commercialisation activity, and cannot be successfully redirected to an alternative commercial path, Allied Minds will look to cease operations and terminate the project.
SiEnergy Systems, LLC In 2016, Allied Minds ceased operations at its subsidiary SiEnergy Systems, LLC SiEnergy.
The company was formed to develop thin film Solid Oxide Fuel Cell SOFC technology.
The technology aimed to use silicon-based microfabrication and nanometer scale electrolytes to create SOFCs that would operate at a commercially desirable temperature and be scalable to meet various power requirements.
Allied Minds determined that the technology would not meet key milestones which were designed to measure technological and commercial progress within a reasonable timeframe and within a reasonable budget, and that the market for clean energy alternatives continued to be potentially adversely impacted by the low cost of traditional energy sources.
