ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 The Board Executive Directors Chris Silva Chief Executive Officer Chris joined Allied Minds in March 2006.
He has 25 years of senior management experience in commercial and government sectors.
Before joining Allied Minds, Chris was a Partner at JSA Partners, a professional M&A and strategy consultancy in Boston, MA, which provides technology companies with market entry, competitive strategy, acquisitions and investment decisions.
His consulting background includes three years with A. T. Kearneys Aerospace Aviation and Defence Practice.
Chris was also the Director of Business Development for GRC International, a scientific and technical support contractor to the Department of Defence and US Intelligence Community.
Earlier, Chris served in the US Air Force.
Chris holds a BA degree from Tufts University and a Masters of Business Administration.
Chris was appointed to the Board in April 2014, but was a member of the predecessor company board since 2006.
Non-Executive Directors Peter Dolan Non-Executive Chairman Peter joined Allied Minds in April 2014.
Peter has 30 years of operating experience, including 18 years at Bristol-Myers Squibb, where he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
He subsequently served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Gemin X, a venture capital backed oncology company that was sold to Cephalon.
Peter is the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Tufts University having served in several leadership capacities, including Vice Chair, and as a member of the Compensation, Academic Affairs and Audit Committees, before his election as Chairman in November 2013.
Most recently, Peter served on the Board of Overseers of the Tuck School at Dartmouth College and on the Board of Directors of the National Centre on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University.
Additionally, he has served on the Boards of the American Express Company, C-Change a cancer coalition organisation, and was Chairman of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.
Peter holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Tufts University in Social Psychology and a Master of Business Administration degree from the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth.
Peter was appointed to the Board in May 2014, and has served as Chairman since May 2015.
Rick Davis Senior Independent Director Rick joined Allied Minds in August 2011.
Rick is an internationally recognised political leader with more than 30 years of experience in business and public affairs.
Rick currently serves as a Partner and Chief Operating Officer at Pegasus Capital Advisors, a $2.2 billion private equity fund founded in 1995.
He has a long and distinguished career in both the public and private sector.
Having served on President Ronald Reagans political team, Rick also served in three Reagan Administration Cabinet Agencies including as White House Special Assistant to the President for the Domestic Policy Council.
In his capacity in the White House, Rick managed all policy development related to Climate, Energy and Environment.
President George H. W. Bush appointed him as Deputy Executive Director for the White House Conference on Science and Economic Research Related to Global Climate Change.
While in the private sector, Rick built one of the most influential and successful public affairs companies in the United States.
In 2000 and 2008, Rick served as Senator John McCains national campaign manager leading all aspects of the campaign activity.
While serving as Senator McCains chief strategist and political advisor, Rick was integral in the development of some key legislative initiatives including ground breaking Climate Legislation and Campaign Finance Reform.
Rick currently serves on the Board of The Environmental Defence Action Fund developing initiatives and ties to the corporate community that promotes better stewardship of the environment.
Rick was appointed to the Page 46 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 46 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 The Board continued Board in May 2014, but was a member of the predecessor company board since 2011, and serves on each of the Audit, Nomination Chairman, and Remuneration Committees.
Jeff Rohr Independent Non-Executive Director Jeff joined Allied Minds in April 2014.
He has 30 years of senior management experience at Deloitte LLP.
Jeff has career long experience serving clients in a multitude of industries and extensive experience in governance processes having last served in the role of Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer at Deloitte.
In the role of Chief Financial Officer, Jeff was responsible for all aspects of financial affairs of the Deloitte Global Firm and the Deloitte US Firm, including strategy, accounting and financial reporting, treasury, capital adequacy, liquidity, taxes, pensions, and risk management.
Previously, Jeff served as the Managing Partner of Deloittes Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions as well as National Director of Deloittes Business Planning.
Currently, Jeff serves on a number of Boards and Foundations.
He is a member of the Board of Directors of American Express Centurion Bank where he is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, has served for ten years as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Florida State University Foundation Board of Trustees and is Chairman of the College of Business Board of Governors.
Jeff is a graduate of Florida State University with a B. S. degree in Accounting and is a Certified Public Accountant.
Jeff was appointed to the Board in May 2014, and serves on each of the Audit Chairman, Nomination, and Remuneration Committees.
Kevin Sharer Independent Non-Executive Director Kevin joined Allied Minds in June 2015.
Globally recognised as a leader and mentor to senior management teams engaged in high-growth strategies, Kevin spent more than 20 years leading Amgen, the worlds largest independent biotechnology firm, starting as President and Chief Operating Officer and then taking over as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Kevin began his career in the United States Navy, serving as Chief Engineer on the USS Memphis and later rising to become a Lieutenant Commander.
After his service, Kevin worked as a consultant at McKinsey & Co. in corporate development at General Electric Co. and as an Executive Vice President in Marketing at MCI Telecommunications Corp. Having previously served on the Boards of Directors of Chevron Corp. and Northrop Grumman Corp. Kevin is currently a faculty member at Harvard Business School, where he teaches General Management and other classes.
Kevin holds a Bachelor of Science degree and a Master of Arts degree in Engineering from the United States Naval Academy and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Pittsburghs Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business.
Kevin was appointed to the Board in June 2015, and serves on each of the Nomination, and Remuneration Chair Committees.
Jill Smith Independent Non-Executive Director Jill joined Allied Minds in January 2016.
Jill has more than 25 years of experience as an international business leader, including 16 years as Chief Executive Officer of private and public companies in the technology and information services markets.
Most recently, Jill served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of DigitalGlobe Inc. NYSE:DGI, a global provider of satellite imagery products and services.
Beginning her career as a consultant at Bain & Company, where she rose to become Partner, other leadership capacities in which she has served include Vice President of Sara Lee, Chief Executive Officer and President of eDial, Chief Executive Officer and President of SRDS, L. P. Chief Operating Officer of Micron Electronics, and Co-Founder of Treacy & Company, a consulting and boutique investment business.
Currently, Jill serves as an independent director on the Boards of Directors of Endo International plc NASDAQ: ENDP, Hexagon Nasdaq Stockholm: HEXA B and JM Huber.
Jill holds a Master of Science degree in Business Page 47 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 47 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 The Board continued Administration from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management.
Jill was appointed to the Board in January 2016, and serves on the Audit Committee.
Table of Board Attendance The table below summarises the attendance of the Directors at the scheduled meetings held during the year: Meetings Attended Audit Nomination Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee Chris Silva 6 of 6 n a n a n a 1 Peter Dolan 6 of 6 2 of 2 n a 3 of 3 Rick Davis 6 of 6 4 of 4 2 of 2 5 of 5 Jeff Rohr 6 of 6 4 of 4 2 of 2 5 of 5 2 Kevin Sharer 3 of 3 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2 3 Jill Smith n a n a n a n a 4 Mark Pritchard 5 of 5 n a n a n a 1 Peter Dolan stepped down from the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees in June 2015.
2 Kevin Sharer became a Director in June 2015, and was appointed to replace Peter Dolan on the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
3 Jill Smith became a Director in January 2016, and was appointed to replace Kevin Sharer on the Audit Committee.
4 Mark Pritchard resigned as an Executive Director in September 2015.
