Directors report The Directors present their annual report Related party transactions Directors conflicts of interests and financial statements for the year ended Details of related party transactions are set Since October 2008, the Companies Act 30 June 2015. out in note 29 to the financial statements.
2006 has imposed upon Directors a new statutory duty to avoid unauthorised conflicts The financial statements have been prepared Post-balance sheet events of interest with the Company.
The Company in accordance with International Financial As set out in note 32 to the financial has adopted revisions to its Articles of Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by statements there were no post-balance Association which enable Directors to the EU.
sheet events that required adjustment or approve conflicts of interest and which also disclosure herein.
Principal activity and business include other conflict of interest provisions.
review The Company has implemented processes Directors The principal activity of the Group is the to identify potential and actual conflicts of The members of the Board together with provision of investment management interest.
Such conflicts are then considered biographical details are shown on page 42. services.
The Company is required to set for approval by the Board, subject, where All members of the Board served as out in this report a fair review of the business necessary, to appropriate conditions.
of the Group during the financial year ended Details of the service contracts of the current Tom Shippey holds two external 30 June 2015 and of the position of the Directors are described in the Directors appointments with companies limited Group at the end of that financial year and remuneration policy on page 56. by guarantee having social and charitable a description of the principal risks and purposes respectively.
Save as aforesaid, uncertainties facing the Group referred to Details of the constitution and powers of the Executive Directors do not presently hold as the Business review.
The information Board and its committees are set out in the any external appointments with any non that fulfils the requirements of the Business Corporate governance report on pages 43 Ashmore-related companies.
review can be found in the financial highlights to 50.
The Corporate governance report also on the inside front cover, the Chief Executive summarises the Companys rules concerning Directors share interests Officers report on pages 13 to 17, the appointment and replacement of Directors.
The interests of Directors in the Companys Business review on pages 24 to 29 and shares are shown on page 63 within the Board diversity the Corporate governance report on pages Annual report on remuneration.
The Board has noted the recommendations 43 to 50.
Significant agreements with of the Davies Report issued in February 2011 The principal risks facing the business provisions applicable to a change relating to Board diversity.
The Nominations are detailed on pages 32 to 35 and in the in control of the Company Committee considers diversity, including Corporate governance report on pages Save as described, there are no agreements the balance of skills, experience, gender 43 to 50. in place applicable to a change in control of and nationality, amongst many other factors, the Company.
when reviewing the appointment of new Results and dividends Directors but does not consider it appropriate The results of the Group for the year are Resolution 18 in the Notice of Annual General to establish targets or quotas in this regard.
set out in the consolidated statement of Meeting will seek approval from shareholders The Board currently consists of two comprehensive income on page 73. to a waiver of the provisions of Rule 9 of the Executive and six Non-executive Directors Takeover Code in respect of the obligation The Directors recommend a final dividend of whom one is female.
that could arise for Mark Coombs to make of 12.1 pence per share 2014: 12.00 pence The Nominations Committee from time a mandatory offer for the Company in the which, together with the interim dividend to time engages the services of an external event that the Company exercises the of 4.55 pence per share 2014: 4.45 pence search consultant for the purpose of seeking authority to make market purchases of its already declared, makes a total for the year new candidates for Board membership, own shares.
Further details are contained in ended 30 June 2015 of 16.65 pence per conditional upon such consultant having the separate Notice of AGM.
Details of the no connection to the Company.
interim dividend payment are set out in note 14 to the financial statements.
Insurance and indemnification of Directors Subject to approval at the Annual General Directors and officers liability insurance is Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on maintained by the Company for all Directors.
4 December 2015 to shareholders on the To the extent permissible by law, the Articles register on 6 November 2015 the ex-dividend of Association also permit the Company to date being 5 November 2015. indemnify Directors and former Directors against any liability incurred whilst serving in such capacity.
66 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following significant interests in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules other than those of the Directors which are disclosed separately on page 63 in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each as set out in the table below.
Substantial shareholdings disclosed in accordance with DTR5 Number of voting Number of voting rights disclosed as at Percentage rights disclosed as at Percentage 2 3 30 June 2015 interests 7 September 2015 interests Jerome Paul Booth 31,488,677 4.45 Below 3 per cent Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as Trustees 1 of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust 35,824,935 5.06 35,824,935 5.06 Schroders plc 33,175,432 4.69 33,175,432 4.69 Allianz Global Investors GmbH 35,784,393 5.05 35,784,393 5.05 UBS Group AG 27,178,994 3.84 28,622,963 4.04 Artemis Investment Management LLP 35,595,360 5.03 35,595,360 5.03 1.
In addition to the interests in the Companys ordinary shares referred to above, each Director and employee of the Group has an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The voting rights disclosed for the EBT in this table reflect the last notification made to the Company in accordance with DTR5.
The actual number of shares held by the EBT at 30 June 2015 is disclosed in note 23 on page 109 of the accounts.
The shareholding of Mark Coombs, a Director and substantial shareholder, is disclosed separately on page 63.
Percentage interests are based upon 707,372,473 shares in issue which excludes 5,368,331 shares held in Treasury 2014: 707,372,473 shares in issue which excluded 5,368,331 in Treasury.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group share remains unpaid or if a member Relations with shareholders Finance Director has failed to resolve or has been served with a restriction notice as The Company places great importance on for which such contact is inappropriate.
defined in the Articles after failure to provide communication with its investors and aims The Company continues to offer major the Company with information concerning to keep shareholders informed by means shareholders the opportunity to meet any or interests in those shares required to be of regular communication with institutional all of the Chairman, the Senior Independent provided under the Companies Acts.
Votes shareholders, analysts and the financial press Director and any new Directors.
may be exercised in person or by proxy.
The Articles currently provide a deadline The Group will announce via a regulatory Annual and interim reports and trading for submission of proxy forms of 48 hours information service the number of updates are widely distributed to other before the meeting.
proxy votes cast on resolutions at the parties who may have an interest in the Annual General Meeting and any other Purchase of own shares Groups performance.
In the year under review the Company are also made available on the Companys did not purchase any of its own shares for website where formal regulatory information Share capital Treasury.
The Company is, until the date of service announcements are also posted.
The Company has a single class of share the next Annual General Meeting, generally The Chief Executive Officer and Group capital which is divided into ordinary shares and unconditionally authorised to buy back Finance Director make regular reports to the of 0.01 pence, each of which rank pari passu up to 35,368,623 of its own issued shares.
Board on investor relations and on specific in respect of participation and voting rights.
The Company retains a total of 5,368,331 discussions with major shareholders and the The shares are in registered form.
The issued shares for Treasury which were acquired at Board receives copies of all research share capital of the Company at 30 June an average price of 129 pence per share.
2015 is 712,740,804 shares in issue of which The Company is seeking a renewal of the 5,368,331 shares are held in Treasury.
The 2015 Annual General Meeting will be share buyback authority at the 2015 Annual attended by all Directors, and the Chairmen General Meeting.
Details of the structure of and changes in of the Audit and Risk, Nominations and share capital are set out in note 22 to the Power to issue and allot shares Remuneration Committees will be available financial statements.
The Directors are generally and to answer questions.
Private investors Restrictions on voting rights unconditionally authorised to allot unissued are encouraged to attend the Annual A member shall not be entitled to vote at any shares in the Company up to a maximum General Meeting.
general meeting or class meeting in respect nominal amount of 23,579.08 and The Senior Independent Director is available of any share held by him if any call or other 47,158.16 in connection with an offer by to shareholders if they have concerns which sum then payable by him in respect of that way of a rights issue.
contact through the normal channels of Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Directors report continued A further authority has been granted to the Ashmore.
All data has been collected and Corporate governance Directors to allot the Companys shares for analysed in line with the GHG Protocol The Company is governed according to the cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of Corporate Accounting and Reporting applicable provisions of company law and by 3,556.58, without regard to the pre-emption Standard.
Defras UK and international the Companys Articles.
As a listed company, provisions of the Companies Acts.
No such 2015 emission factors have been applied.
the Company must also comply with the shares have been issued or allotted under Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Emission scopes these authorities, nor is there any current Transparency Rules issued by the United Mandatory GHG reporting requires emissions intention to do so, other than to satisfy Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA.
Listed associated with Scope 1 direct emissions outstanding obligations under the employee companies are expected to comply as far and Scope 2 indirect emissions from share schemes where necessary.
as possible with the Financial Reporting purchased electricity, heating and cooling Councils UK Corporate Governance Code, 1 These authorities are valid until the date of to be reported.
It is not obligatory to report and to state how its principles have been the next Annual General Meeting.
A resolution Scope 3 indirect emissions from the inputs applied.
A report on corporate governance for the renewal of such authorities will be and outputs to the main business activity and compliance with the provisions of the proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
i. e. supply chain and consumer end userCode is set out on pages 43 to 50. related emissions.
However, for Employees completeness, Ashmore will continue to Mandatory greenhouse gas Details of the Companys employment report on some Scope 3 emissions in order emissions reporting practices including the employment of to offer a wider picture to stakeholders Since 1 October 2013 all companies listed disabled persons can be found in the and investors.
on the Main Market of the London Stock Ashmore CSR Report on pages 36 to 41.
Exchange have been required to report their Exclusions Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas emissions Whilst every effort has been made to collect trustee of the Ashmore 2004 Employee GHGs in their annual report.
full and consistent data from all international Benefit Trust has discretion as to the exercise offices, in some cases information was not Operational control methodology of voting rights over shares which it holds in available.
The following approaches were Ashmore has adopted the operational control respect of unallocated shares, namely those therefore taken to account for this.
method of reporting which includes those shares in which no employee beneficial entities over which Ashmore has operational interests exist.
Saudi Arabia is a new office and data control.
The emissions reported below are was not currently available for most for the 12 offices around the world where sources of emissions, consequently it Ashmore exercised direct operational control has not been possible to benchmark as throughout the year.
These office emissions no data was available for water, electricity, are those which are considered material to gas or refrigerants.
Scope 1 emissions relate to gas combustion and refrigerant usage.
Scope 2 emissions relate to purchased electricity.
Scope 3 emissions relate to water usage, air travel and office waste.
Al l emissions factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by Defra: https: www.
The data inputs and outputs have been independently reviewed by Ricardo-AEA Ltd. 5.
FTE 2014 15 278 employees 68 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance A number of offices provided data for the Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual Emissions per full-time employee whole building and in such casesthe total General Meeting to reappoint KPMG LLP Tonnes CO e employee 2 floor area of the building and the floor area as auditor and to authorise the Directors 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 occupied by the Ashmore Group to create to agree their remuneration.
Note 11 to the Scope 1 0.2 0.2 0.1 a ratio has been used and the total financial statements sets out details of the Scope 2 2.0 1.8 1.6 emissions apportioned.
Scope 3 7.6 7.6 5.5 Where possible, missing data was 2015 Annual General Meeting Total 9.8 9.6 7.2 pro-rated, where less than 12 months The 2015 Annual General Meeting of the Emissions have also been calculated using data was available or, where no country Company will be held at 12.00 noon on an intensity metric, which enables Ashmore data was available, 2013 14 data was Thursday 22 October 2015 at Kingsway Group to monitor how well it is controlling used instead.
Hall Hotel, 66 Great Queen Street, London emissions on an annual basis, independent Missing water data was estimated using WC2B 5BX.
Details of the resolutions to be of fluctuations in the levels of its activity.
a per-head average consumption figure, proposed at the Annual General Meeting As Ashmore Group is a people business, calculated from the offices which are given in the separate circular and notice the most suitable metric is emissions per provided data.
For US-NY water consumptionthe same Going concern Ashmore Groups emissions per person are methodology as last year has been used.
The Company and Group have considerable shown in the table.
Based on available data, Where offices were not able to provide financial resources and the Directors believe tonnes of CO e emitted per employee have 2 any waste data for their buildings it was that both are well placed to manage their fallen substantially since last year.
not deemed appropriate to estimate their business risks successfully.
Further Charitable and political waste data, due to the uncertainties information regarding the Groups business contributions surrounding the varying nature of building activities, together with the factors likely to During the year, the Group made charitable sizes, modes of working and cities waste affect its future development, performance donations of 0.1 million FY2013 2014: disposal infrastructure amongst other and position is set out on pages 13 to 35.
The work of the Ashmore factors.
It has also not been possible to After making enquiries, the Directors are Foundation is described in the corporate convert data supplied in litres, as density satisfied that the Company and the Group social responsibility section of this report on of the waste is unknown and necessary have adequate resources to continue to pages 40 to 41.
It is the Groups policy not to make this calculation.
operate for the foreseeable future and to make contributions for political purposes.
For Brazil, 2012 13 waste data was used as confirm that the Company and the Group are Creditor payment policy no current waste data in acceptable units going concerns.
For this reason they continue The Groups policy and practice in the UK kg or US tonnes was available.
The data to adopt the going concern basis in preparing is to follow its suppliers terms of payment provided in litres indicated a 50% reduction these financial statements.
and to make payment in accordance with in the amount of non-recyclable and Companies Act 2006 those terms subject to receipt of satisfactory recyclable wasteand a reduction factor of This Directors report on pages 66 to 69 invoicing.
Unless otherwise agreed, 50% to the 2012 13 data has been applied inclusive has been drawn up and presented payments to creditors are made within to capture the improvements made in in accordance with and in reliance on English 30 days of receipt of an invoice.
company law and the liabilities of the 2015, the amount owed to the Groups trade New York office electricity consumption Directors in connection with that report shall creditors in the UK represented was provided in US dollars, an average be subject to the limitations and restrictions approximately 19 days average purchases cost per kWh was used to estimate the provided by such law.
References in this Directors report to the Auditors and the disclosure of Methodology financial highlights, the Business review, information to auditors Ashmore Group has used a customised tool, the Corporate governance report and the The Directors who held office at the date developed by Ricardo-AEA Ltd, to undertake Remuneration report are deemed to be of approval of this Directors report confirm the emissions calculations.
included by reference in this Directors report.
that, so far as they are each aware, there is The data inputs and outputs have been no relevant audit information of which the Approved by the Board and signed on its reviewed by Ricardo-AEA Ltd. on behalf of Companys auditors are unaware, and each behalf by: Ashmore Group.
Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make Ashmore Groups emissions Michael Perman himself or herself aware of any relevant Air travel accounts for the greatest amount Company Secretary audit information and to establish that of overall emissions 1,528 tonnes CO e or 2 the Companys auditors are aware of 7 September 2015 76%.
Around 22% of Ashmore Groups that information.
emissions come from purchased electricity across the business 433 tonnes CO e. 2 Waste, water and refrigerants based on the data available account for the lowest levels of emissions.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
