Chief Executive Officers report continued Ashmores strategy Operating cost structure THREE PHASE STRATEGY The Group continues to exert disciplined control over operating costs, while making sufficient investment in its people and platform to support future growth.
The majority of costs relate to staff: the Groups distinctive remuneration philosophy maintains a relatively low cap on fixed salary costs and a strong bias towards variable performance-related remuneration.
An emphasis is placed on long-term equity ownership.
In the year to ESTABLISH EMERGING 30 June 2015, variable compensation as a percentage MARKETS ASSET CLASS of earnings before variable compensation, interest and Mostly completed tax VC EBVCIT was 18.5% FY2013 14: 20%.
Total operating costs fell by 1% to 99.5 million FY2013 14: 100.4 million, reflecting slightly higher absolute variable compensation offset by a 3% reduction in operating costs excluding variable compensation.
Profitability Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA was 176.7 million FY2013 14: 195.1 million and the adjusted EBITDA 2. margin was stable at 67%.
Net finance income of 1.9 million FY2013 14: 2.2 million income includes items relating to seed capital investments that are described in more detail in the Business review.
Profit before tax for the year increased by 6% DIVERSIFY DEVELOPED to 181.3 million FY2013 14: 171.6 million and WORLD CAPITAL diluted earnings per share for the year were 19.3p SOURCES AND THEMES FY2013 14: 18.6p.
Underway, with substantial growth available 3.
MOBILISE EMERGING MARKETS CAPITAL Commenced, with significant future growth opportunities MORE INFORMATION Read about Ashmores business model on pages 2-3 14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report OBJECTIVES PROGRESS AND PRIORITIES Progress Establish Ashmore Emerging Markets Annual Investor Forum and investment processes Cass Business School seminar Enhance understanding of Emerging Markets Consistent fundamental view of asset in the developed world class expressed through research Provide access to Emerging Markets and their rapid development opportunities Priorities Increase developed world Emphasise Emerging Markets structural investor allocations trends and investment opportunities as global economic imbalances unwind Progress Establish new investment themes Awarded Saudi Arabia QFI licence to diversify Emerging Markets product offerings Launched SICAVs under China RQFII licence Develop new product structures Provided seed capital to support distribution and capabilities and product initiatives Establish Ashmore as trusted allocator Priorities Broaden and deepen developed world Grow equities business investor base Grow scale from US distribution Deliver strong performance consistently Increase intermediary AuM Grow scale in new funds Develop new conduits to capital Grow alternatives AuM Mobilise Emerging Markets capital Progress managed offshore Global distribution sourcing capital for local platforms Capital sourced initially from largest pools, Indonesia growing as planned i. e. central banks, governments, reserve managers and sovereign wealth funds Opened office in Saudi Arabia Develop network of domestic Provided seed capital to support local platforms asset management businesses Priorities Manage domestic capital locally Increase scale of domestic platforms Create strong local performance Develop potential of recently established track records platforms such as Saudi Arabia Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Chief Executive Officers report continued Strategic developments Phase 2: diversify developed world capital Providing access to Emerging Markets sources and themes An important aspect of the development of Emerging Markets, and of Ashmore, is the opening up of significant capital markets to a broader range of investors.
Ashmore continues to position itself at the forefront of market openings in order to provide clients with the broadest possible range of investment opportunities in Emerging Markets.
This period has seen substantial developments in this regard, with the Group receiving approval in June China 2015 from the Saudi Arabia Government Ashmore is at the forefront of providing China investment universe Investment Authority to invest in the Tadawul access to Emerging Markets as they US$ trillion stock market, and equity, fixed income and liberalise and open upto foreign investors.
multi-strategy fund launches under the China is undergoing this process as part Chinese RQFII scheme including an all-share 1.5 of a wide-ranging reform agenda, and fund that can invest in A shares, H shares 2.8 other markets such as Saudi Arabia and 0.4 and ADRs.
As part of this process, Ashmore US$ 0.2 Iran are following suit.
In early 2014, became the first manager to receive approval Ashmore was the first non-Chinese 10.7 from the Luxembourg regulator to invest manager to be awarded an RQFII licence TRILLION up to 100% of its RQFII funds NAV in debt and has since launched a range of SICAV 1.9 instruments traded on the China interbank 3.4 funds for offshore investors, including bond market.
0.5 an equity all-share fund that can invest The Groups range of mutual funds continues in A shares, H shares and ADRs.
to grow, with 36 SICAVs 30 June 2014: A shares Chinese equity markets offer good 32 funds managing US$7.8 billion and nine opportunities and there is also significant H shares US 40-Act funds 30 June 2014: nine funds potential in fixed income with China ADRs managing US$1.2 billion.
offering some of the highest real yields Government bonds available on government debt.
The size Local government bonds and influence of the bond markets will Financial institution bonds increase as China requires them to Corporate bonds operate as an effective transmission mechanism for interest rate policy.
Equity market sizes stated Ashmore will continue to develop its on free oat basis product range to provide investors with access to a broad range of opportunities across the Emerging Markets.
16 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Phase 3: mobilise Emerging Markets capital Organic growth The Groups local platforms comprise a range of different businesses that address local market needs for independent asset management capabilities.
During the year, the Group opened a new office in Saudi Arabia and closed its business in Brazil, which was not developing as rapidly as planned.
While the latter business has enjoyed some success in raising assets from local investors, the market continues to be dominated by volatile flow patterns and the platform is unlikely to achieve sufficient Indonesia scale and flexibility within an acceptable Ashmore established a subsidiary in Indonesia AuM by theme % timeframe.
This decision does not affect the Jakarta in July 2012, which manages a ability of the Groups global funds to invest in range of funds providing access to the this important market, nor will it have any 8 Indonesian equity and local currency- 1 1 material impact at the Group level.
The Group US$ In contrast, the Groups business in Indonesia has assisted the development of the is delivering healthy organic AuM growth and business by committing seed capital 0.7 the recently opened office in Saudi Arabia is to the funds.
The local employees, BILLION experiencing encouraging levels of client performing investment, distribution and interest.
The regulatory landscape in Turkey support roles, own a significant minority 90 continues to evolve in favour of independent equity interest in the subsidiary.
asset managers, for example, Ashmore is The investment team has established a now able to sponsor its own mutual funds on strong track record, which has generated Equities the Istanbul Stock Exchange, and fundraising demand from local institutional and retail Local currency is progressing well in Colombia.
The platform has also benefited External debt from mandates awarded by the Groups People and culture Multi-strategy global clients that wish to have a specific Michael Benson will retire at the Groups country allocation managed by a local AGM in October.
On behalf of the Board investment team.
As at 30 June 2015, and all Ashmore employees, I would like the Indonesian platform manages AuM of to thank Michael for his wise counsel and approximately US$0.7 billion: the business diligent and valuable service as Chairman has good momentum and is expected to over the past nine years since Ashmore went continue to increase its contribution to the public.
Michael has been an outstanding first Groups growth over the longer term.
Chairman, providing flexible and responsive input and enormous help to the Group where we see him as one of our own and will miss him.
The market volatility of the past year has provided opportunities as well as challenges for Emerging Markets investors, and I would like to thank everyone at Ashmore for their positivity and ongoing focus and dedication to delivering value to clients, whatever the market environment.
Mark Coombs Chief Executive Officer 7 September 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
