Market review Emerging Markets are diverse and have resilient long-term fundamental attractions Against the backdrop of attractive long-term in US GDP in Q1 2015 and falling investment In addition to a more positive cyclical growth prospects, the Emerging Markets and productivity.
When set against the outlook for Emerging Markets, structural have experienced volatile conditions over the substantial US debt burden of close to 400% developments over the next few years will past couple of years.
Their economies ability of GDP, it is therefore possible that US have profound consequences that will to withstandhigher funding costs, substantial monetary policy tightening will occur slowly challenge further the typical underweight falls in commodity prices, currency over a protracted period of time.
These devaluations, and major electoral cycles over include Chinese reforms that are likely Favourable sentiment towards Developed this period, is testament to the diversity and to lead to the Renminbi becoming a reserve Markets, at the expense of Emerging structural resilience of the asset class.
currency: improving market access for Markets, has been underpinned by foreign investors in Saudi Arabia, Iran and The next challenge on the horizon is the quantitative easing and falling bond yields, elsewhere in Asia: and, over time, higher prospect of higher US interest rates, yet expectations of the US economy achieving index representation for tradable Emerging this appears to be already discounted in exit velocity economic growth and, ironically, Markets securities.
Emerging Markets asset prices, with yields a stronger US dollar.
These consensus views of 6% to 7% available on sovereign debt and the inflated asset prices that have This section illustrates the diversity and indices, and 5% to 8% or more on corporate followed are now being challenged by resilience of Emerging Markets before debt.
The strengthening of the US dollar fundamentals, and for the first time in several discussing the performance of the asset it has risen 29% against a trade-weighted years there is a morebalanced range of classes over the past year.
currency basket over the past four years is investor views towards Developed and affectingthe US economy, with a contraction Emerging Markets.
Diverse investments across Emerging Markets Emerging Markets invested Ashmore presence 8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Institutional allocations to sovereign local currency markets Most local currency debt Total foreign holdings issued by Emerging Markets Institutional holdings sovereigns is owned and Mutual fund holdings traded by local investors, such as domestic pension US$ billion funds.
Theasset class is 800 strengthened further by the dominance of institutional 700 allocators among foreign investors, as shown in the 600 chart opposite.
Although ownership has increased, 500 foreign institutional investors remain underweight Emerging Markets and 400 therefore represent a source of potential AuM growth.
300 200 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: Standard Chartered Emerging Markets fund THE TREND FOR GREATER LOCAL in their own currencies CURRENCY ISSUANCE WILL CONTINUE, AND OVER TIME ASHMORES AUM WILL INCREASINGL Y REFLECT THE In contrast to history and popular perception, Emerging STRUCTURAL GROWTH IN LOCAL Markets sovereigns and companies have issued the CURRENCY ASSETS.
majority of their debt in their own currency.
This provides resilience and policy flexibility in response to external shocks, and mitigates the risks arising from higher US Tradable xed income markets % interest rates.
While corporate external debt has grown in recent years, it represents only 17% of outstanding debt issued by Emerging Markets companies and, typically, External 5 9 foreign currency borrowing is hedged or matched by Sovereign US$ assets and revenues in that currency.
Corporate 41 14.8 TRILLION Local currency 45 Sovereign Corporate Source: BIS, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9 Market review continued the Groups external debt broad composite 2015 market review Corporate debt has returned 3.8% versus 4.3% for the Asset prices in Emerging Markets remained The CEMBI BD index returned 2.4% EMBI GD benchmark index.
volatile during the financial year, but reflecting over the year, with high yield 0.5% for the most part shifts in market sentiment under-performing investment grade 3.1%, The diversity of the external debt themeis rather than broad-based changes in though that pattern was established in the a principal attraction and it offers attractive economic or political fundamentals.
These first six months and reversed in the second yields compared with Developed Markets fundamentals remain sound: according to the half of the year when the high yield sub-index alternatives.
The EMBI GD index yields IMF, Emerging Markets are expected to grow rose by 6.4% and investment grade assets approximately 6% and its spread over twice as fast as Developed Markets: central returned 2.3%.
The index spread over US US Treasuries is twice as wide as the banks have typically acted appropriately in Treasuries widened by 58bps to 332bps.
pre-financial crisis low in 2007, which could the face of currency weakness: and reforms Corporate credit performed better, in be seen as a buffer as the US enters a period continue to be pursued across a range of aggregate, than sovereign debtbecause the of rising interest rates.
The relatively low level of sovereign asset class has less sensitivity to US yield indebtedness provides for resilience and the Local currency curve movements, since the bonds tend to capacity for policy responses to address The unhedged GBI-EM GD index fell 15.4% have a shorter duration and higher yield than cyclical challenges.
An important aspect of during the period, with a strengthening their equivalent sovereigns assets.
the evolution of Emerging Markets is their US dollar the main driver: by contrast the Corporate debt AuM fell by US$1.0 billion willingness to liberalise capital markets, and hedged index rose 5.0%.
The weakest over the 12 months, through a combination significant developments in this regard have unhedged country return was Russia, at of negative investment performance of been made by China, Saudi Arabia and Iran -39.2% over the year, and China was the US$0.7 billion and net outflows of recently.
It is expected thatother countries strongest with a return of 6.8%.
Over three years, the Groups will follow suit.
the external debt theme, this illustrates the corporate debt broad composite has returned importance of specialist, active management Periods of market weakness provided good 6.2% versus 5.2% for the CEMBI BD in delivering investment returns through the opportunities for Ashmores value-based benchmark index.
cycle from a diversified asset class.
investment processes to take on risk, The corporate debt asset class has a Local currency AuM declined by US$2.1 particularly around the turn of the calendar relatively high yield, particularly compared billion over the 12 months, through negative year.
Market risk aversion was also apparent with non-investment grade alternatives in the investment performance of US$2.9 billion, at the end of the financial year, with developed world, and robust fundamentals.
net inflows of US$0.3 billion, and a US$0.5 disappointing US economic data, weakness Concerns about the growth in issuance billion reclassification of an account from the in the Chinese equity market, and structural of US dollar-denominated debt by Emerging blended debt theme as a consequence of a challenges weighing on economic growth Markets corporates should be seen in change in its investment guidelines.
context: while growth is notable in three years, the Groups local currency bonds External debt percentage terms it has doubled over the composite has returned -3.1% versus -3.8% The benchmark EMBI GD index returned past five years, the hard currency asset class for the GBI-EM GD benchmark index.
0.5% over the year, while its spread over US is dwarfed in terms of stock and issuance by Local currency assets form the largest Treasuries increased by 85 basis points bps local currency credit: foreign currency issuers part of the investable Emerging Market to 356 bps.
The index comprises 63 countries tend either to hedge or to have revenues or debt universe, with US$12.7 trillion of and therefore the index performance masks assets denominated in the foreign currency: tradable debt outstanding across sovereign a wide range of country returns over the and notwithstanding the nearly 30% rise in and corporate issuers, compared with 12 months, for example between Venezuela the trade-weighted US dollar index over the US$2.1 trillion issued in the external debt -37.2% and Belize 16.3%.
These past four years, default rates remain in line market.
New issuance is expectedto be characteristics underpin the necessity for with long-term averages.
biased towards local currency assets, active management in Emerging Markets Blended debt because of the inherent lack of foreign given the wide range of investment The Groups blended debt theme has a range exchange exposure, the ongoing opportunities and instruments available.
of bespokebenchmarks, but for reference development of local investor bases such External debt AuM reduced by US$2.0 billion the standard benchmark 50% EMBI GD, as pension funds, and the opening up during the year, with negative investment 25% GBI-EM GD, 25% ELMI fell by 6.3%, of markets such as China.
Furthermore, performance of US$0.6 billion, net outflows primarily as a consequence of US dollar institutional investors with an overweight of US$1.5 billion, and reclassifications from strength against Emerging Markets exposure to US dollar-denominated assets blended debt of US$0.1 billion.
The benefits of managing an have begun to diversify into other currencies, investment processesadded risk around the active allocation across Emerging Markets includingEmerging Markets currencies.
turn of the calendar year to take advantage fixed income and FX asset classes are clear Ashmore therefore expects this asset class of the value created in the asset class after from the range of returns by asset class over to become its single largest theme on an a period of market weakness, for example the course of the financial year, from 2% in underlying as invested basis in due course.
in Russia, and these actions delivered hard currency corporate credit to -15% in The absolute and relative value in the local substantialalpha in the second half of the unhedged local currency bonds.
Over the currency asset class is apparent in the index financial year.
Over three years, the most past decade, the minimum difference in yield of approximately 7%.
relevant timeframe for institutional investors, annual returns between the best and 10 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report worst-performing asset classes is 500bps.
There is no impact from the structural challenges such as high levels After a period of mark-to-market weakness disposal on the alternatives net management of indebtedness.
This is in contrast to many in the first half, Ashmores blended debt fee margin, which is stated after excluding Emerging Markets: for example China, which investment performance relative to the the joint venture AuM, and the effect of is pursuing a wide range of reforms including benchmark improved and benefited from the disposal on the Groups profit before liberalising its capital markets and adopting a an underweight position in Emerging tax is immaterial.
Markets FX and increasing exposure to The Group sees attractive opportunities Yet global asset allocators remain heavily  corporate debt.
to grow its exposure to locally-managed biased towards Developed Markets and they The Groups blended debt AuM declined illiquid assets in Emerging Markets, offering largely continue to ignore the resilience of by US$4.9 billion during the period, through long-term fund structures to finance projects Emerging Markets.
This resilience has been negative investment performance of US$1.1 in areas such as healthcare, infrastructure achieved despite headwinds such as higher billion, net outflows of US$3.2 billion, and and real estate.
funding costs, currency depreciation, a heavy reclassifications to external debt and local electoral schedule, and substantial outflows Multi-strategy currency totalling US$0.6 billion.
Notwithstanding these The decline in multi-strategy AuM from redemptions were concentrated in a small factors, Emerging Markets GDP growth US$2.7 billion to US$1.6 billion is primarily number of relatively large segregated continues at 4-5%, around twice the pace the result of continued and expected account withdrawals, in the second and of Developed Markets, and the IMFs recent redemptions from Japanese retail funds, fourth quarters.
Over three years, the Groups revisions marked the developed world down together with negative investment blended debt composite has returned 1.9% by 0.3%, including a reduction of 0.6% for performance of US$0.2 billion.
The AuM in versus 0.7% for the standard benchmark.
the United States, while Emerging Markets Japanese retail funds reduced from US$2.2 as a whole were revised down by only 0.1%.
Ashmore expects demand for blended debt billion to US$1.0 billion over the period.
While Central banks have gained inflation-targeting funds as investors recognise the benefits this trend is likely to continue given the credibility and the typical response of the of dynamically allocating across the diverse nature of the intermediary market in Japan small number of countries that encounter Emerging Markets fixed income universe.
and subdued appetite for Emerging Markets serious problems in any given year is to apply exposure currently, the Group is well Equities fundamental remedies, such as structural positioned to respond to an improvement in The MSCI EM net index declined by reforms.
Emerging Markets indebtedness demand when retail investors reassess their 5.1% over the 12 months.
Equities AuM is low, with Emerging Markets bonds allocations to the asset class.
declined by US$2.3 billion, with net outflows outstanding accounting for 13% of the of US$2.1 billion predominantly from a Overlay Liquidity world total, compared with 57% of GDP small number of segregated accounts The overlay liquidity theme ended the period contribution.
Access to the large and diverse invested in the Broad Global Active BGA with AuM of US$2.6 billion.
Net outflows investment universe is increasing, with product.
Investment performance reduced of US$1.0 billion reflect a change in the scale important markets such as China, Saudi AuM by US$0.2 billion.
The BGA redemptions of clients third-party managed assets that Arabia and Iran opening up their capital reflect client decisions made on the basis required hedging, whether through market markets more fully to foreign investors.
of longer-term performance, which in AuM movements, investment decisions or other Across global markets there is likely to be terms outweigh the ongoing success in factors beyond the Groups influence.
convergence between asset prices and attracting investors to the range of higher Market outlook fundamentals over the next few years.
performing, and higher revenue margin, It is more than two years since the Federal In Developed Markets, this is likely to take specialist funds.
The Groups specialist Reserve surprised markets by announcing the form of inflation and currency funds now account for 80% of the theme that it intended to taper its quantitative devaluations rather than real rate increases, AuM, and within the equities theme the easing QE programme, which inevitably austerity and reforms.
In contrast, after Groups distribution activities, particularly led investors to start considering the timing a period of continued volatility, Emerging through intermediary channels, arefocused and trajectory of higher US interest rates.
Markets asset prices appear to be on these specialist products, which are The consensus macro trades have therefore discounting a much worse fundamental delivering long-term outperformance been long the US dollar, to play an economic outlook than is likely to arise, even with against benchmarks.
recovery and higher rates, and overweight higher US interest rates.
This suggests that Alternatives European bonds, in the face of relatively slow the rational asset allocator will increasingly Alternatives AuMreduced by US$1.7 billion growth.
Importantly, the rally in prices of shift towards Emerging Markets, where during the year through capital returns to QE-supported assets in the developed world there is greater value, more supportive investors of US$0.8 billion following asset is now being challenged by the fundamental fundamentals, and a need for investors realisations, negative investment reality of persistent weak economic growth.
performance of US$0.3 billion, and the The strength of the US dollar over the past Ashmore is well positioned for an disposal of the Groups 30% interest in a few years is affecting US exports and improvement in sentiment, with robust Chinese real estate joint venture US$0.6 investment, and certain European investment performance, broad-based billion.
The Groups share of the profit or government bond yields fell close to zero distribution capabilities, and meaningful losses from the real estate joint venture is earlier in 2015.
Notably, during a protracted capacity across a broad range of Emerging recognised in a single line, Share of losses period of extremely accommodative Markets investment themes.
from associates and joint ventures, in the monetary policy, developed economies have consolidated statement of comprehensive undertaken few if any reforms to address Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
