Board of Directors Committed to the highest standards The Hon.
Michael Benson Nick Land David Bennett Non-executive Chairman Age 72 Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 53 Michael Benson was appointed to the Non-executive Director Age 67 David Bennett was appointed to the Board in Ashmore Group plc Board as Non-executive Nick Land was appointed to the Board as October 2014.
He was a Director of Alliance Chairman in July 2006.
He is Chairman of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Leicester plc between 2001 and 2008 Companys Nominations Committee.
Michael and Chairman of the Audit Committee in July serving as Group Finance Director and then began his career in the City in 1963 and, after 2006.
He is a qualified accountant and was a Group Chief Executive until its sale to a series of senior positions in the investment partner of Ernst & Young LLP from 1978 to Santander in 2008.
He has also held a management industry, was, from 2002 to 2006 and its Chairman from 1995 to 2006. number of executive positions in Abbey March 2005, Chairman of Invesco and Vice Nick is a Non-executive Director of BBA National plc, Cheltenham & Gloucester plc, Chairman of Amvescap plc.
Prior to that he Aviation plc and Vodafone Group plc, a Lloyds TSB Group and the National Bank was CEO of Invesco Global 1997-2002. trustee of the Vodafone Group Foundation of New Zealand.
David is currently Michael is a Non-executive Director of Trinity and a Board member of the Financial Non-executive Chairman of Homeserve Street Asset Management and is the director Reporting Council.
Membership Ltd, and a Non-executive of the York Minster Fund.
Director of Jerrold Holdings Limited and Committee membership: A, N, R PayPal Europe SARL et Cie, S. C. A.
Committee membership: N, R He has also served as a Non-executive Simon Fraser Director of easyJet plc between 2005 and Mark Coombs Non-executive Director Age 56 2014.
David holds an MA in Economics Chief Executive Officer Age 55 Simon Fraser joined the Board in February from Cambridge University.
Mark Coombs was appointed a Director 2012.
Simon has extensive experience of the on the incorporation of the Company in fund management industry, having worked Committee membership: A December 1998, and has served as its at Fidelity International from 1981 to 2008.
Chief Executive Officer since then.
He held At Fidelity he held a number of positions Peter Gibbs a number of positions at Australia and during his career, including President, Non-executive Director Age 57 New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and led European & UK Institutional Business, Global Peter Gibbs was appointed to the Board in Ashmores buyout from ANZ in early 1999.
Chief Investment Officer, Chief Investment April 2015.
Peter has spent his entire career He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade association Officer for Asia Pacific and Chief Investment working in the financial services industry.
for Emerging Markets, having been on the Officer of the European Investment Group.
He was Chief Investment Officer and Board since 1993.
Mark has an MA in Law He is Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Head of Region for the non-US investment from Cambridge University.
Investment Trust plc and The Merchants Trust management activities of Merrill Lynch plc, and a Non-executive Director of Fidelity Investment Managers, having spent his early Tom Shippey European Values Plc.
Simon was recently career at Brown Shipley and Bankers Trust as Group Finance Director Age 41 appointed as the first Chairman of the a portfolio manager.
Since then he has held a Tom Shippey was appointed to the Investor Forum, which is being set up by number of non-executive positions including Board as Group Finance Director in the asset management industry.
UK Financial Investments plc the body November 2013.
He was previously responsible for the UK governments financial Head of Corporate Development, in which Committee membership: A, N, R services investments, Evolution Group plc, capacity he was responsible for developing Dame Anne Pringle DCMG Impax Asset Management Group plc and and implementing Ashmores corporate Non-executive Director Age 60 Friends Life Group Limited.
Prior to joining Ashmore in 2007, Anne Pringle joined the Board in February Non-executive Director of Aspect Capital Ltd, he worked for UBS Investment Bank, 2013.
She has over 30 years experience Intermediate Capital Group plc and the Bank including advising on the Ashmore IPO as a career diplomat with the Foreign and of America Merrill Lynch UK Pension Plan in 2006.
Tom qualified as a Chartered Commonwealth Office, focusing in particular Trustee Ltd.
Accountant with  on the EU, Russia and Eastern Europe.
in 1999 and is a Fellow of the ICAEW.
Between 2001 and 2004, Anne was the He has a BSc in International Business British Ambassador to the Czech Republic and German from Aston University.
and from 2004 to 2007 Director of Strategy and Information at the FCO and a member of the FCO Board.
From 2008 to 2011 she served as Ambassador to the Russian Federation.
Anne is a Public Appointments Assessor, the Governments Special Representative on Deportation with Assurances, a member of the Foreign Secretarys advisory Locarno Group Key to membership of committees and a Non-executive Director on the A Audit and Risk Court of St Andrews University.
N Nominations Committee membership: R R Remuneration 42 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015
