Market review An IntervIew wIth Andy Briggs, Chief executive UK & Officer, UK&I Life and Chairman, Global Life Insurance whats your strategy?
Ireland We help people enjoy a secure and prosperous retirement, and look after them and their loved ones should they fall Life insurance ill or die.
Im keen to make the most of the True Customer Composite model.
So, for example, were working with Aviva Aviva is a leading insurer in the UK Investors so that a greater proportion of andIreland life insurance markets, our funds flow to them where it is in the 1 best interests of our customers.
witha13% share of the UK life and Were also helping to build market pensions market share in protection, accident and health, focusing on products which require less capital backing.
And in line with our strategic goal of being Not Everywhere, were reinvesting capital from the UK in selected international markets.
We have one of the largest books of existing pensions, savings and protection customers in the UK, and manage this efficiently through rigorous capital management, automation, reducing ourcosts and improving customer service and retention.
In Ireland our primary focus is to increase our operating profit and value of Ive been in insurance new business VNB.
for 28 years and Ive how is the life not seen an insurer business helping with Avivas potential todeliver the trueCustomer Composite model?
Were bringing together the products we offer customers, to make their lives easier.
We seek to build deep and enduring relationships which support our customers through different stages of their lives.
Were also benefiting from relationships built elsewhere by the Group.
For example, we won a group protection contract on the strength of the existing relationship with the general insurance business.
how are you putting Digital First?
We put Digital First so that our customers can deal with us online and through their mobile devices using the MyAviva portal.
As a result we are simplifying how we do business and improving the service we offer customers, while reducing costs and improving efficiency.
1 Association of British Insurers ABI statistics published Q3, 2015.
