Market review An IntervIew wIth Andy Briggs, Chief executive UK & Officer, UK&I Life and Chairman, Global Life Insurance whats your strategy?
Ireland We help people enjoy a secure and prosperous retirement, and look after them and their loved ones should they fall Life insurance ill or die.
Im keen to make the most of the True Customer Composite model.
So, for example, were working with Aviva Aviva is a leading insurer in the UK Investors so that a greater proportion of andIreland life insurance markets, our funds flow to them where it is in the 1 best interests of our customers.
witha13% share of the UK life and Were also helping to build market pensions market share in protection, accident and health, focusing on products which require less capital backing.
And in line with our strategic goal of being Not Everywhere, were reinvesting capital from the UK in selected international markets.
We have one of the largest books of existing pensions, savings and protection customers in the UK, and manage this efficiently through rigorous capital management, automation, reducing ourcosts and improving customer service and retention.
In Ireland our primary focus is to increase our operating profit and value of Ive been in insurance new business VNB.
for 28 years and Ive how is the life not seen an insurer business helping with Avivas potential todeliver the trueCustomer Composite model?
Were bringing together the products we offer customers, to make their lives easier.
We seek to build deep and enduring relationships which support our customers through different stages of their lives.
Were also benefiting from relationships built elsewhere by the Group.
For example, we won a group protection contract on the strength of the existing relationship with the general insurance business.
how are you putting Digital First?
We put Digital First so that our customers can deal with us online and through their mobile devices using the MyAviva portal.
As a result we are simplifying how we do business and improving the service we offer customers, while reducing costs and improving efficiency.
1 Association of British Insurers ABI statistics published Q3, 2015.
Strategic report the life business can be the Groups anchor for delivering the benefits of the true Customer Composite model to our customers Andy Briggs Chief Executive Officer, UK&I Life and Chairman, Global Life Insurance what are your highlights for 2015?
and anticipate the rapid pace of hIGhLIGhts Obviously, the acquisition of Friends Life.
technological change and changing Were well into the integration its hard customer expectations.
Cash remitted to Group work, but vitally important.
Were due to By securing a strong, long-term deliver the savings we promised by the end relationship with our customers, the life of 2016, one year earlier than planned.
business can be the Groups anchor for 667m While the integration of Friends Life delivering the benefits of the composite 2014: 437m caused some disruption to the business, model to our customers.
we have endeavoured to move as quickly Here in the UK, weve had the as possible to reduce the uncertainty for challenge of the biggest reform to Life operating profit our people.
As we took forward the thepensions market for a generation.
integration in 2015, we were able to give Butweve managed it well and still clarity to three quarters of our people on grewas a result of our strength, breadth 1,432m their futures.
We now have the best of and expertise.
2 both leadership teams in place.
2014: 1,049m Id say were showing strong progress what are your impressions of Aviva?
and good growth and thats before Its a hugely exciting time.
Weve finished Operating expenses ourdigital innovations come on stream.
Now we are in the Once they do, Im looking for our growth transform and grow phase.
astrong balance sheet and capital 815m Solvency II has also been a big focus.
strength, some great people, and a I think weve handled its introduction material cost and capital advantage 2014: 565m well.
Tom Stoddard talks more about this overour peers given we are a composite in the Chief Financial Officers report on insurer with scale.
value of new business pages 58-61.
Ive been in insurance for 28 years andIve not seen an insurer with what about the challenges and risks?
625m For us to achieve the full potential of the As a leading insurer in the UK, we True Customer Composite, we will need bring to market a number of advantages: 2014: 482m to deepen our relationship with our Our size means we benefit from customers and increase the average economies of scale, and so can offer number of products they buy from us.
products and services to customers more Butto do this, we will need to respond to efficiently than some smaller insurers.
Our progress and future plans what we achieved in 2015 what we plan to do in 2016 } Delivered 113 million of integration run-rate synergies and ahead } Complete the integration of Friends Life: of our target for the year continue to align Aviva and Friends Life propositions deliver the total cost savings we have promised one year early } Supported our customers in taking advantage of the UK Governments reforms to the pensions market by providing the full transfer further Friends Life assets to Aviva Investors where that range of retirement products is in the best interests of our customers } Launched a new Direct-to-Consumer investment platform which complete the cultural transformation provides customers with digital access to easy, ready-made } Ensure that, following the implementation of Solvency II, we packages, through the MyAviva portal continue to make our balance sheet as capital efficient as possible } Successfully prepared for Solvency II requirements } Continue the transformation of the business to make the most of digital technology, and ensure our products and services are } We won the Gold Standard for Group Pensions, Pension Provider accessible to all our customers, new and existing, including the of the Year at the European Pension Awards, Best Equity Release continuing enhancement of MyAviva Lender and Best Lifetime Mortgage Provider at the What Mortgage Awards, and Best Protection Provider Service 2 Operating profit has been restated to exclude amortisation and impairment of acquired value of in-force business, which is now shown as a non-operating item.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 31 Market review continued UK and Ireland Life insurance continued were ahead of schedule on the integration of Friends Life, were growing and were delivering cash flow plus growth Andy Briggs Chief Executive Officer, UK&I Life and Chairman, Global Life Insurance Our diversity of business means that We offer customers: estate agents.
Increasingly we are offering under the new Solvency II regime we customers the option of dealing with Retirement solutions which help people benefit from lower capital requirements Aviva directly.
plan, save for and enjoy a financially than insurers who just offer one Ireland has made significant progress secure retirement including annuities, product line.
towards becoming the provider of investments, income drawdown, equity The breadth of our business means that choicein the retirement market, winning release and long-term care insurance.
we understand the range of needs of the Innovation in Pensions award for Protection insurance which provides our customers better than others, and the second year running at the Irish peace of mind to customers should can bring them connected propositions Pension Awards.
theydie or fall ill including life and rewards for loyalty that other Completing the acquisition of Friends insurance, critical illness cover and insurers simply cant, for instance by Life has allowed us to accelerate our income protection.
offering pension customers a discount turnaround and our ability to deliver cash Services for companies, both large and on their home or motor insurance.
Strategically, this small including workplace pensions, transaction secures our position in our group protection, and bulk annuities.
By the end of next year, I want us to be home market, and puts us in a strong delivering our purpose better and for position to look after our customers entire We deliver our products and services more people, to be a stronger more insurance, savings and retirement needs.
through multiple distribution channels diversified business, with a marketbuilding on and maintaining our strong leading, engaged workforce, and strong Financial performance existing relationships with intermediaries and growing cash flows.
During the year total cash remitted to Group including independent financial advisers, was 667 million, up 53% from 2014. employee benefit consultants, banks and whats your final message?
I want our customers to know were good at three things: we deliver what they want: Pensions freedom were easy to do business with: and were From April 2015 millions of UK the natural choice the insurance company pensioners no longer had to buy an customers can trust and turn to first.
annuity but could choose what to For investors, my message is weve got dowith their pension pot.
While this the right strategy, were ahead of presented us with challenges, we schedule on the integration and were responded rapidly with a real focus delivering cash flow plus growth.
Avivas onwhat our customers needed.
British heartland is in good health.
Weve developed an interactive retirement tool, My Retirement Planner, to help them better Overview understand a complex issue and Aviva is a leading insurer in the UK compare whats on offer, and we andIreland life insurance markets, with arealso offering additional access 1 tofinancial advice.
Our new online a13% share of the UK life and pensions consumer savings platform gives access market.
We offer a comprehensive to the full range of the new freedoms.
rangeof products to individuals and This is a new world for UK companies, including pensions, retirement pensions.
The breadth of our product solutions, life insurance, and savings and offering means we are uniquely investment products.
placed to support our customers as In Ireland, we continue to deliver our they make one of the biggest choices strategy of growing annuity and of their lives.
investment business, progressing towards being the provider of choice for pre and post retirement solutions.
We are also one of the UKs leading providers of protection insurance.
Avivas UK Life business has around 214 billion of assets under management.
32 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Overall UK & Ireland Life operating profit annuities.
This increase was partly offset increased to 1,432 million 2014: 1,049 by lower individual annuity sales Innovative protection 2 million.
UK life operating profit was compared to 2014, following the platform 1,408 million 2014: 1,025 million, announcements made in the 2014 UK ALPS isnt just a mountain range.
Its including a contribution of 358 million budget.
In Ireland, VNB increased to Aviva Life Protection Solutions our from Friends Life following its acquisition 16 million 2014: 9 million as a result of new protection platform for advisers in April 2015.
Excluding Friends Life, UK higher sales and improved margins on and customers in the UK.
It helps profits increased 2% to 1,050 million pensions and annuities, partly offset by them make the right choice when 2014: 1,025 million, benefitting from lower protection sales.
arranging life protection by offering lower operating expenses as well as aflexible menu of cover which can improved new business profitability.
In Market context and challenges betailored to meet a customers Ireland, profits were stable at 24 million The UK is Avivas home base and we are circumstances with all the policy 2014: 24 million.
It is a mature market, documents stored online.
75% of Overall UK & Ireland Life operating but one which offers good prospects for applications are immediately accepted expenses were 815 million 2014: 565 profitable growth.
online and that equals certainty and million.
In the UK, operating expenses of 2015 has been a year of convenience for customers.
Its the 788 million 2014: 529 million included unprecedented change in the market, biggest change in how we offer life 286 million of post-acquisition expenses creating opportunities and challenges.
We think ALPS from Friends Life.
Excluding Friends Life, UK Governments reforms have allowed isagame changer for Aviva and UK operating expenses decreased by 5% people more freedom over how they take ourcustomers.
to 502 million 2014: 529 million their pension fund.
As a result, we have reflecting cost savings as a result of made significant improvements to our process automation and simplification.
core systems for administering our InIreland, operating expenses reduced customers pensions and how we support to27 million 2014: 36 million.
our customers as they decide how they VNB increased to 625 million wish to take advantage of these reforms.
In the UK, VNB was We focus our resources on providing 609 million 2014: 473 million.
our customers with the appropriate Excluding a 91 million contribution from support and blended solutions to best Friends Life, UK VNB improved 10% to meet their needs for retirement, supported 518 million 2014: 473 million, mainly by our Retirement Centre, available online reflecting higher margins on pension and at www.
co. uk and on the telephone.
health business, together with increased In this way, we support these customers sales and margins on bulk purchase at, and through, retirement with income drawdown, annuities, equity release and are designed to benefit customers, other investments.
andtohelp more of them to enjoy Looking ahead, we expect further aprosperous retirement.
significant changes in the market over the At the same time, our customers next two to three years.
The Government themselves are changing.
The UK is expected to announce the outcome of population is growing, and getting older the Financial Advice Market Review with people living longer and healthier FAMR which could have significant lives in retirement.
More people are implications for how we engage with our renting, and fewer people own their own customers, and their advisers.
Customers are increasingly using the UK Chancellor has indicated he may mobile and digital technology to access announce reforms to the taxation of financial services.
We expect continued evolution analytics, wearable technology and the of regulation around retirement income, Internet of Things create new and 2017 will see the introduction of a opportunities but also new risks for secondary market in annuities, as well insurers and their customers.
All of this asareview of Auto-Enrolment.
With so means we need to be agile in anticipating muchchange on the horizon, it is vital and responding to customers changing thatwe are engaged with Government needs, and be innovative in our design of and regulators to ensure that their reforms propositions to meet those needs.
we welcome the UK pensions freedoms.
with our broad product range we are well placed to meet customers needs Andy Briggs Chief Executive Officer, UK&I Life and Chairman, Global Life Insurance Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 33 Market review continued AN INtervIew wIth Maurice tulloch, Chief executive UK & Officer, UK&I GI and Chairman, Global GI whats your strategy?
Ireland Our strategy positions Aviva for future profitable growth by meeting our customers changing needs.
We are General insurance building an increasingly digital global General Insurance GI business, through our strong direct brand and our partnership with brokers and banks.
we are the leading general insurer We have market leading capabilities in inboth the UK and Ireland, with the insurance fundamentals: underwriting, 1 pricing, claims management and amarket share of 12% in the UK predictive analytics.
We utilise the 2 and13% in Ireland strength and expertise around the businesses to use and share best practice.
For example, weve created a single centre of excellence to combat insurance fraud.
Bad things will always happen and we will be there for our customers when they do.
Our aim is to Our strategy positions build long-term Aviva for future relationships with customers so we are growth by meeting developing products our customers and services that go beyond insurance to changing needs mitigate and prevent whether thats delivering risk management advice to a large corporate customer or using leak-prevention technology in customers homes.
Thats the future of insurance.
We will grow our business by focusing on our distribution through UK direct and partners, and also through tailoring the range of products we offer to meet customers needs.
We will continue to be a customer champion by taking an industry lead on issues that increase costs for our customers, such as our Road to Reform campaign which highlights the issues of fraudulent claims.
And also help provide industry solutions to meet pressing needs, such as Flood Re securing affordable insurance for properties at risk of flooding.
how are you helping to deliver the true Customer Composite Model?
We start with the customer and understand their needs and habits at different stages of their lives.
As a composite, what Aviva can offer customers is unique in many parts of the world.
Take the UK, where we have 16 million GI and Life customers.
We already make the lives of our GI customers easier by meeting their insurance needs but we 1 Datamonitor UK Insurance Competitor Analytics2015 2 Irish Insurance Federation, 2015 Strategic report can also engage with our Life customers hIGhlIGhts who might not have GI products with us, UK floods especially through the MyAviva app.
Cash remitted to Group In December 2015, the UK suffered Thats a huge number of customers who the wettest month ever recorded, already have long-term relationships with with almost double the average Aviva.
We can better understand their 358m rainfall.
Our people were with needs by using our existing knowledge.
flooded customers right from the Understanding more about our customers 2014: 294m start with command centres set up in using the vast amount of data already the worst hit areas to support available, without having to ask them customers and communities.
We General insurance and health more questions, allows us to offer them received excellent customer feedback.
operating profit the right products at the right price, in the Gary Byrne tweeted Aviva again goes best way possible.
Thats what the above and beyond #amazing composite model could look like this will customer service.
2014: 499m how are you putting Digital First?
Its how well deliver the composite Operating expenses model, especially through MyAviva.
But were also putting Digital First in how we deal with our brokers and partners 697m especially through the major investments weve made in Fast Trade, our online tool 2014: 755m for brokers and Guidewire, which brings together underwriting, administration and Combined operating ratio claims into a single system.
what have been the highlights 95.0% of2015?
We delivered a satisfactory underwriting 2014: 94.9% result.
Were also growing the business premiums are up.
And weve seen some great deals for Aviva and our customers Thats a great result for us and for the market and beat us if we dont.
for example, through our agreements honest customers.
Im the Chair of Climatewise the with Homeserve and TSB in the UK.
But one of our Aviva values is to Never insurance industrys body on climate Weve also received many accolades, rest and were certainly not resting.
The risks of unmitigated global including General Insurer of the Year at need to continue to exceed customer warming are pretty stark, for individuals, the Insurance Times Awards for the expectations and to grow our business.
for business and for communities.
need to do all we can to address this We have transformed the claims what about the challenges and risks?
For insurers, a temperature experience many domestic claims can The challenge of delivering what our increase of four degrees effectively now be handled in a single call.
customers want is always there and meansinsurers will have to bow out.
We also scored a major victory in the were in a highly competitive market.
Insurers will not be able to cover the risks.
fight against fraudulent whiplash claims Weve got to be more efficient and Climate change would be the greatest with the UK Governments announcement competitive year on year, delivering what market failure of all time, the greatest that it plans to put a stop to cash our customers want and how they want it inequality of all time, and it will represent compensation for minor whiplash injuries.
not least because disrupters will enter a social catastrophe.
Our progress and future plans what we achieved in 2015 what we plan to do in 2016 } Achieved our best ever Customer Satisfaction scores for household } Grow our business profitably in the UK and Ireland and provide new claims Transaction Net Promoter Score 57 products and services in areas such as pet insurance, warranty, home services and for high net worth customers } Returned to growth, securing significant new distribution deals, notably TSB 4.7 million UK customers and Homeserve Home } Expand the distribution reach of our corporate and speciality Emergency Cover two million UK customers commercial lines business to maintain our existing business and provide opportunities to expand into new markets } Made progress in delivering the benefits of the True Customer Composite model for our customers, making our first healthcare } Deliver simpler digital solutions which improve our automated and pension sales through GI brokers processes and make it even easier for our customers to do business with us } Implemented Guidewire, our new policy and claims system, across our commercial lines business } Working with the industry as a whole to launch Flood Re in April 2016, securing affordable insurance for millions of properties in } Invested in using new technologies so that we can settle claims on England the same day they are made } Continue to campaign on issues that are important to our } In Ireland we won three Irish Broker Association awards for most customers, such as motor reforms and tackling insurance fraud improved service to small medium-sized enterprises and large corporate brokers and for most improved non-life service ranking Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 35 Market review continued UK & Ireland General insurance continued whats your final message?
The UK and Ireland GI combined SME sector has remained challenging I believe passionately that our customers operating ratio COR remained stable at asincreased insurance capacity has have made the right choice by protecting 95.0% 2014: 94.9%, reflecting higher heightened competition.
Aviva is uniquely what matters most to them with Aviva.
claims across both personal and well-placed to be a trusted advisor and Our promises are not made lightly.
commercial lines, partly offset by cost offer a complete one-stop-shop for SMEs, savings and lower sales commissions.
and we have continued to succeed in this market because of the quality of our Overview service and relationship We provide a wide range of products to management for SMEs.
personal and business customers, including The UK motor motor, home, travel and pet insurance, market has suffered Our customers have made the right commercial property, liability and specialty from insurance fraud covers such as classic car and boiler choice by protecting what matters atan ever increasing breakdown.
Our Customers can access our products We welcome the UK promises are not made lightly and services in the manner that they Governments decision choose through our multi-distribution to act and will continue network: directly from us over the phone to work with them and Maurice tulloch or digitally, or via our broker, intermediary the industry to create Chief Executive Officer, UK&I GI and Chairman, Global GI and strategic partners.
and implement The quality of the service we provide effective solutions.
to our customers is reflected in the Market context and challenges Westill have much more to do in this space, number of awards we have received.
Market conditions for personal motor and including addressing the noise-induced Mostnotably, we were the Insurance home insurance have remained hearing loss epidemic of claims.
Times Insurer of the Year in 2014 and competitive, and whilst motor premiums The UKs recent large scale flood 2015, and voted number one for are rising, we expect conditions in both events have highlighted the need for underwriting and claims in both personal markets to remain highly competitive.
Flood Re, an and commercial lines in the 2015 have responded to this challenge by industry solution, being launched in April Insurance Age Sentiment Survey.
developing increasingly sophisticated 2016, will help support those households In Ireland we won the Irish Broker pricing, market-leading products and with the highest flood risk.
The Flood Re Association awards for most services, and investing in digital to scheme will help people better improvedservice.
understand their risk of flood and what The small medium-sized enterprise they can do to reduce that risk.
Financial performance Total cash remitted to Group was 358million 2014: 294 million.
UK and Ireland general insurance GI and health operating profit was 430 million 2014: 499 million.
In the UK, GI operating profit was 368 million 2014: 455 million.
Within this, investment return reduced mainly as a result of reductions in the internal loan.
The underwriting result was 154 million Our road to reform 2014: 199 million with adverse weather campaign experience due to the December floods being partly offset by the benefit of We have long championed the need expense savings and more favourable to tackle the fraud pandemic in the prior year claims development.
In UK UK motor insurance market.
We Health, operating profit increased to applauded the UK Governments bold 21 million 2014: 11 million.
announcement in the Autumn In Ireland, operating profit increased Statement to implement measures to to 41 million 2014: 33 million stop people claiming fraudulently for mainlydriven by favourable weather neck injuries in motor insurance.
When its implemented we expect experience, partly offset by lower prior average motor premiums to go down year claims reserve releases.
by around 40 to 50 and have UK and Ireland operating expenses committed to pass on this benefit to reduced by 8% to 697 million 2014: customers and challenge other 755 million reflecting a focus on insurers to do the same.
Its a victory efficiency and discipline in our cost control for the honest customer against the as we pushed through the expansion of fraudster and we will continue to digital and automation across our campaign on behalf of our customers.
business, and a reduction in headcount.
36 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
