The horizon Where the world is going We have identified six long-term trends which will impact our industry over the next few years My life, The power of Winning The age of my way communities through data disruption Customers will be much The economic power Those who interpret Agile companies more in control, of governments will data quickly and whichcan make expecting to self-serve decline further and the intuitively to inform the themost of new and self-solve.
They will power of communities development of digitaltechnologies want to be able to of mutual interests, products and services willsucceed.
access data and insight, both virtual and local, that provide real value and use it to guide their will increase.
for customers will lead own decisions.
2 Smartphone users worldwide Daily active Facebook users Internet of things Daily Uber rides 1 3 4 by 2020 connected devices by 2020 completedworldwide 1bn 6.1bn 50bn 1m 14 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Our response The True Customer Composite and Digital First elements of our Strategic Framework respond to and anticipate the rapid pace of technological change, changing customer expectations, and the potential impact on our business model.
At the same time, our customers need help navigating the increasing complexities of a world in which they need to be more self-reliant when planning for a retirement which could last much longer than previous generations.
This can provide opportunities for insurers and asset managers.
As part of the Not Everywhere component of our strategy, we will continue to allocate capital selectively to our growth businesses in Poland, Turkey and Asia, as wealth continues to shift to fastergrowing developing markets.
In addition to the six long-term horizons, Aviva Older and Shifting closely monitors two further trends which remain healthier wealth relevant to our industry: climate and regulation.
The emergence of a Developing markets Climate generation aged 50 plus willhave a much larger We pay close attention to weather patterns and who will live longer and shareof the worlds climate change.
There is growing evidence that a who are healthier.
gradual long-term change in the Earths weather Markets will be driven patterns and average temperatures is occurring due to increased quantities of greenhouse gas in the increasingly by this atmosphere and other man-made causes.
groups attitudes One impact of climate change is an increase in andneeds.
For example in 2015 there were significant flooding events in parts of the world including in our home market of the UK, and it was the hottest year on These long-term 7 record globally.
trends shape % of population aged over 65 Insurance premium growth Climate change will 5 in 2050 versus today from emerging economies ourstrategy have a significant impact 6 2005-2015 on both society and our business.
Some risks are 2x Jason Windsor changing, more complex 58% Chief Capital & Investments Officer risk management is required and greater losses can be incurred.
Our business is about helping people prepare for the future, which is why were helping society respond to the challenges of climate change.
For more information on our response to climate change see pages 52-55 Regulation We continue to experience regulatory change across many of our markets, for example UK pensions market reform, auto reform in Ontario, Canada and the Financial Advisory Industry Review in Singapore.
In line with our own strategic goals, our regulators are increasingly holding us to high standards of conduct, to protect our customers.
We also face increased scrutiny as a Global Systemically Important Insurer, and as a result of the Solvency II regime, which is intended to harmonise solvency rules across the European Union.
Aviva will continue to work closely with 2 Facebook.
com, stats, September 2015. keyregulatory bodies on these and on other 3 Association of British Insurers, A Brave New World, 2015. industrymatters.
com, usage statistics and revenue, September 2015.
5 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, population data and projections, December 2015.
6 Swiss Re, Sigma insurance research, May 2015.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 15
