Market review continued AN INtervIew wIth Chris wei, executive Chairman, Asia Asia & FPI and Global Chairman, Aviva Digital.
we have wholly-owned subsidiaries in Singapore whats your strategy?
Our strategy is about recognising our and hong Kong, affinity joint ventures in China, customers as individuals, giving them Indonesia and India, and bancassurance joint aseamless experience with solutions tailored to their needs and reflecting ventures in taiwan and vietnam.
through the whats important to them.
In Asia, acquisition of Friends Life, our presence also werein different markets in different covers Friends Provident International Limited stages of maturity.
Each requires a different approach FPI, which has branches in Singapore, hong but with the seam of Avivas strategy Kong and the United Arab emirates running throughout.
So were a composite where appropriate and Digital First where thats appropriate.
We will deliver Avivas strengths across life, health, general insurance and asset management, to make the most of the depth of our partnerships.
In markets where we meet the needs of a rapidly ageing population, such as China, Hong Kong and Singapore, were focused on savings, protection, healthcare Im confident were and planning for customers retirement.
going to carry on In Vietnam and doing well for our Indonesia markets shareholders and with low insurance penetration and customers young populations we can help customers with saving for things like their first home or paying for their childs education, and protecting them against lifes uncertainties.
FPI complements Avivas existing propositions, broadening our reach into the high net worth segment.
why should customers choose Aviva?
The British brand is very strong and it really helps that Aviva is its national champion of insurance.
Were different because were embedding our capabilities in digital and analytics across the business and are transforming our customers experience.
what are the highlights for 2015?
Weve brought some great ideas to our customers such as digitising our group employment benefit claims in Singapore which has transformed our customers experience and improves efficiency.
In China, our Digital Wellness Platform has been well received by customers.
In Indonesia one of the worlds fastest growing insurance markets the first year of our joint venture, Astra-Aviva Life, has gone well.
Strategic report what are the risks and challenges?
hIGhLIGhtS Our partnership with DBS in Singapore has Astra-Aviva Life come to an end but we were always clear Cash remitted to Group We are Not Everywhere only we werent going to overpay.
Thatsa inmarkets where we can win.
Thats challenge but its also a great opportunity certainly true of our joint venture with for us to rethink our business and deepen 21m Astra, a hugely respected household our relationship with customers by investing name and one of the largest companies in platforms anddirect digital channels.
2014: 23m in Indonesia one of the worlds fastest Its also a volatile time in Asian growing insurance markets.
But all the work weve done offer Astras 10 million customers high Life operating profit asaGroup on capital management and quality products and Astra benefits product design bodes well for us.
The early signs are excellent.
Thats good for 244m whats your final message?
Aviva, good for Astra and, most Were not following conventional norms importantly, good for our customers.
2014: 87m on how insurance businesses are grown, but are going to provide solutions, service General insurance and health and propositions in new ways.
Im operating profit confident were going to carry on doing well for our shareholders and customers.
6m loss Overview 2014: 2m loss We have three and a half million customers across our markets, and Operating expenses operate a multi-distribution strategy which includes bancassurance, agents, financial advisers, direct and 141m telemarketing, and a direct sales force.
The general insurance COR was 101.6% 2014: 97.8%, mainly as a 2014: 80m Financial performance result of higher expenses.
In 2015, cash remittances remained 1 value of new business broadly stable at 21 million.
Market context and challenges 1 Value of new business, a key measure Our markets in Asia are expected to of growth, increased to 151 million continue to deliver moderate GDP growth 151m 2014: 122 million mainly reflecting and interest rate conditions are expected higher sales of protection in Singapore to remain challenging in 2016.
2014: 122m and a continued shift towards higher Favourable demographic trends, large margin protection products in China.
protection gaps and low insurance General insurance combined Life operating profits were 244 penetration provide us with an operating ratio million 2014: 87 million, which includes opportunity to continue to develop health, 151 million from FPI post-acquisition.
Net retirement and protection propositions for of amortisation of AVIF, FPIs contribution customers.
The implementation of C-ROSS 101.6% to Asia operating profits was 15 million.
China Risk Oriented Solvency System in Excluding FPI, life profits were up to 93 2016 is expected to promote better 2014: 97.8% million 2014: 87 million reflecting industry discipline in product pricing and higher profits in Singapore and China.
Operating expenses increased to 141 Our challenge in this competitive million 2014: 80 million, principally due environment is to differentiate ourselves to 46 million of FPI expenses and by delighting our customers and delivering 1 Excludes South Korea.
investment to support business growth an excellent customer experience.
2 AAJI, on an APE basis, as at Q3 2015.
Our progress and future plans what we achieved in 2015 what we plan to do in 2016 } Grew our business in Indonesia with Annual Premium Equivalent } Further embrace the True Customer Composite model by 2 of 6 million and an overall bancassurance market ranking of 12, delivering Avivas strengths in Life and Health, plus Aviva following its launch in November 2014 Investorsand general insurance, tailored to different markets } Achieved VNB growth from key distribution channels across } Make the most of Group digital solutions and capabilities to priority markets, with strong increases in Protection business deliver seamless customer and distributor experiences while improving efficiency } Our financial advisers in Singapore strengthened their market leading position in Protection with VNB up 20% } Generate value by strengthening our distribution platforms and building affinity models. }
Grew our agency force in China and Vietnam a new channel with1,415 agents focusing on quality } Strengthen capabilities across the region focusing on digital, analytics and customer insights } In Singapore, we digitised our group employment benefit claims processes and opened our Digital Garage Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 43
