8 2 e g a p y r o t s s s u c r a M e c n a r u s n i l a r e n e G a 0 s 1 s e e t g a m p a y r n o a t s G e s m y k e c n i Business model Heading Helping our customers every step of the way... offering simple and convenient products and services to meet customers insurance, protection, health, savings, retirement and investment needs... life insurance retirement income, savings & Pensions, life cover, Protection Customers buy life insurance products to save for the future, to provide  will last through retirement, and to protect against theriskstotheir family income after illness or death.
accident &health insurance General Private medical insurance insurance, accident Home, motor, travel, &Health Pet andcommercial Customers buy accident General insurance insurance products to policies protect provide benefit in the customers from loss in event of an accident, the event of damage to injury or disability, health their property or insurance products to assets, or injury to protect their health, themselves or others supplementing for which they are anyhealthcare provision responsible.
theyreceive from the state, anduse wellness services to motivate and reward healthier living.
asset management investing for aviva and external clients We aim to deliver the investment outcomes that matter most to our customers: whether thats capital growth, securing reliable income or meeting future liabilities.... operating across 16 markets... UK & Ireland Europe Asia Canada France, Italy, Spain, Singapore, China, India, Poland, Turkey, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Read more on pages 30-45 Lithuania Taiwan, Vietnam 18 | aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 R t e I a c n n s a s r t u o r s y n p i a e g f i e l 4 6 6 1 e g a p y r o t s s w o b n i a R e c n a r u s n i H t l a e H & t n e d i c c a Strategic report using our skills in Underwriting Risk management Customer service Big Data & Multi-distribution analytics Underwriting and Our scale enables us to Our strategy is to We sell our products pricing expertise manage risk optimally, delight our customers, Our analytics capability through multiple coupled with our pooling different risks, providing them with enables us to use Big channels, so that analytics capability maintaining capital simple and convenient Data to better serve our customers can access allow us to underwrite strength and working products and services customers through our products and risk in a way that better with reinsurance that meet their accurate risk assessment services in the way that reflects our customers specialists so we will be insurance, protection, and to present relevant they choose.
profiles making it more there for our customers health, savings, opportunities to price competitive.
retirement and customersat every investment needs.
Read more on pages 62-65 underpinned by Our values Brand strength Asset & liability Financial strength Capital allocation management Our values of Care The strength of our Our financial strength We focus on markets More, Kill Complexity, brand gives customers Customer premiums are gives customers and products where we Never Rest and confidence when they invested by specialist confidence that we will have scale, profitability CreateLegacy lie do business with us.
teams to balance pay out in the event of or competitive attheheartof how Our new brand investment return with a claim and meet our advantage.
strategy, Good risk and to maintain promises many years capital selectively to Thinking, places the sufficient funds to pay into the future, as we focus on thethings customer firmly at the claims.
We match have done for over were good at.
Read more on Read more on pages 48-51 page 27 which enables sustainable value creation for Customers Shareholders Our people Society Customers benefit from a We create value for Our aim is for our people to We play a significant role rangeofsolutions to meet shareholders by using achieve their potential within a inourcommunities, including theirneeds, with easy access ourprofitsto reinvest diverse, collaborative and as a major employer and a when and how they want it.
andgrow the business customer-focused long-term responsible investor.
30.7bn 10.4% 29,600 10.8m Paid in benefits and claims total shareholder employees worldwide total community to customers in 2015 return in 2015 investment in 2015 Read more on Read more on Read more on pages 21-22 pages 48-51 pages 52-55 aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 19
