y t i x e l p m C o c a N r l o l e t i K e m v y t e e n i t r o a i t y s r e r o c w n e p u h y f m h o e t c r r o w a e e c o a f r r m g g e o s r f u m e e l N l p p o l o t e w e s p e o u v e e c t r h f a Our strategy A clear strategic framework Our strategic framework focuses on the True Customer Composite things that really matter and puts the We can provide customers with life, general, accident and health insurance and asset customer at the heart of all we do.
It management a True Customer Composite.
provides clear direction across all our Thisiswhat differentiates us.
We are the only composite insurer of scale in the UK, and one markets for how we run our business ofonly a few in the world.
Our Purpose The role we play in customers lives We Our Commitment The investment thesis Cas Our Strategy What we will deliver True Our Culture How we will deliver it Cre Not Everywhere We focus ourresources where we can be most competitive.
Weare not interested in planting flags or being in 100 countries.
We will focus on a select number of markets and business lines where wehave scale and profitability or adistinct competitive advantage Digital First wherewe can win.
This is how we will capitalise onbeing aTrue Customer Composite.
With their busy everyday lives, customers are increasingly turning todigital to make things more convenient, easier and quicker.
So, if it is a choice of where we invest, it will be in Digital First across all our distribution channels its how customers want todo business with us.
20 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 e r r e s t D i g i t a l r s t y t i x e l p m Strategic report C o c a N r l o l e t i K e m v y t e e n i t r o a i t y s r e r o c w n e p u h y f m h o e t c r r o w a e e c o a f r r m g g e o s r f u m e e l N l p p o l o t e w e s p e o u v e e c t r h f a True Customer Composite e are a True Customer Composite, offering Wcustomers life, general, accident & health insurance and asset MyAviva digital management.
We will provide our shopwindow customers with tailored offerings to We are continually striving to improve recognise, reward and delight them, our MyAviva online portal.
For in return for their trust and loyalty.
example, we now provide MyAviva users with indicative quotes for Aviva Why its important Our Purpose The role we play in customers lives We products they dont currently have, Operating as a True Customer Composite allowing them to compare prices enables us to deliver more effectively our withtheir current provider.
MyAviva purpose of freeing people from fear of Our Commitment The investment thesis Cas creates a digital shop window, giving uncertainty.
We understand that customers a simple, speedy way to customers have a wide range of insurance, buy a wide range of Aviva products protection and savings needs, and can which meet theirneeds.
Our Strategy What we will deliver True find it challenging to manage all of these.
True Customer Composite means offering all these products individually or benefits of the composite were clear such the last year, we have been working hard in tailored combinations in a convenient, as lower capital requirements through to improve the user experience and Our Culture How we will deliver it Cre easy to understand and timely manner.
diversifying our risk, the operational provide additional functionality for Furthermore, True Customer benefits were more elusive.
This has included pre-calculated Composite means valuing and rewarding customers held more than one Aviva quotes for travel insurance if not currently customers for making the choice to have a product as our business was distributed held by the customer, and a no claims almost solely through discount online upload functionality which intermediaries.
takes away the pain of sending us If customers are documents.
As at the end of December not relying on 2015, we had a total of 1.8 million At the very heart of it, True Customer intermediaries to registered MyAviva customers and an Composite is about making life easy analyse their needs average of two million logins per month.
It is building and recommend a In 2015, we started to roll-out suitable package of MyAviva across other Aviva markets.
propositions that are really relevant to products, they could In France, Aviva et Moi was launched in them and will add value to their lives find themselves July and most recently, our business in managing multiple Italy has launched MyAviva.
We will different products extend MyAviva to other markets in 2016.
Chris Wei from different True Customer Composite is more Executive Chairman, Aviva Asia and Global Chairman, Aviva Digital providers.
For example, in Poland, we what customers tell us have created You, Me and We, three deeper, more loyal relationship with us, they want.
What they want is a simple integrated packages of products which supported by the benefits of increased way to meet all their insurance needs.
reflect what customers need at different customer retention and engagement, and Aviva is the only composite of scale in stages of their lives, across life, general, lower-cost administration.
the UK that can offer life, general, accident & health insurance.
accident & health insurance and asset In Singapore, we have an existing life Why now?
management, and one of only a few insurance scheme with the Singapore In a digital world, the advantages of being international insurers that can do this.
Armed Forces and have now extended a a True Customer Composite become more general insurance discount and upgrade tangible.
We have a much greater How weve progressed scheme to policyholders and their families.
opportunity to deal directly with Since its UK launch in February 2014, In Canada, we sold over 200,000 customers, and digital enables us to MyAviva see case study above has Ontario home and auto combined policies provide a wide range of products that enabled customers to see an increasing in 2015, which means that over 45% of meet their needs.
number of their products, from car our Ontario customers now have In the past, although the financial insurance to pensions, in one place.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 21 e r r e s t D i g i t a l r s t Our strategy continued Good thinking is a different way to demonstrate what Aviva is all about it is not a new concept, it is what we do naturally Chris Wei Executive Chairman, Aviva Asia and Global Chairman, Aviva Digital In Italy, we developed a composite life and Good thinking in all marketsin which general insurance proposition tailored we have a wholly-owned brand.
Health Essentials specifically for female customers, with Everyone likes to feel protected but over 13,000 policies sold in 2015.
We also What we plan to do next not everyone can afford a launched other combinations of life and We will continue to develop our True comprehensive policy.
So, we believe protection products, including with-profit, Customer Composite proposition across its good thinking to offer healthcare unit-linked and protection, with more our markets.
As well as the further that doesnt include things our than 345 million 450 million of roll-out of MyAviva, we will look to extend customers would rather not pay for.
premiums in that market in 2015. our asset management and accident & Thats why weve launched Essentials health offer.
The latter is a key part of our in the UK, with three simple, low cost Good thinking composite proposition and an area in products: Cancer, Child and In 2015, we launched a new global brand which we have historically been underPhysio.
These are available digitally, strategy which supports our True represented see Spotlight on page 23. so customers can easily buy the cover Customer Composite and Digital First As part of Good thinking, we will they need with just a few clicks.
ambition by placing the customer firmly at continue to develop propositions which the heart of our business.
The essence of make it simple, convenient and intuitive the idea is everything we do is full of for customers to meet their needs across good thinking for you, summarised in the our full set of life, general insurance, brand line Good thinking.
accident & health insurance and asset It aims to inspire our people to keep management products.
This will be coming up with ideas to solve customers underpinned by our Digital First strategy problems and informs the way we as we make the most of digital technology developfuture services and propositions to improve customer experience, increase so that the customer experience is easy engagement and reduce cost, leading to and intuitive.
It is anticipated that by longer and more valuable relationships theend of 2016 we will have launched with customers.
Ask it once Customer advocacy % One of the ways we can make things easier for customers is by never asking for information we already have from 17 another product they hold with us.
Weve already reduced the range of questions we typically ask by twothirds across our combined products, as well as identifying how our broader 50 understanding of customers can help our underwriting and pricing.
33 in upper quartile at or above market average below market average Our Relationship Net Promoter Score measures the likelihood of a customer recommending Aviva.
In 2015 the majority of markets were at upper quartile or market average.
Each market develops its own Customer Action Plan in order to improve the customer experience further.
22 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Spotlight on...
Accident & Health Our vision is to offer a suite of innovative, simple, low cost products that are accessible and relevant toallour customers whatever their life stage ur customers growing and we believe we number one are well positioned to take Oconcern is advantage of this 1 theirhealth.
We have a People are living trusted brand, longer and chronic powerful distribution conditions are more networks and an common, but in many existing customer base countries state funding of 33 million.
is under pressure, We are developing leaving people with a low cost, digital gap in their healthcare products, such as provision.
By offering Essentials in the UK and products which are easy to MyFamily in Singapore, understand, affordable and which have the potential to accessible, we feel we can make a disrupt the market.
We will real difference to our customers complement these with wellness wellbeing and peace of mind.
services which help our customers to Accident & Health has not previously manage and improve their health.
been a focus for us and as a result we are Accident & Health is a key priority for currently subscale.
We know we have more to do and we The Accident & Health market is large and fast are excited about the opportunities in this space.
Our products Personal accident Supplemental health Private medical insurance Wellness Benefit in the event of an Fixed benefits in the event of Domestic and international Services which encourage and accident, injury or disability.
sickness: to supplement state comprehensive covers which reward healthier living, whilst health provision.
offering guidance on health and lifestyle.
Priorities Growth potential Clear strategy Integral to Aviva We provide Accident We will unlock value from Accident & Health is a key &Health products to ourexisting business: mainly component of being a True 2.5millioncustomers in through automation and Customer Composite.
It theUK, Singapore, China, improved supply chain completes and differentiates France and Poland, and management: and invest our insurance package and has havesmall businesses with thiscash to grow through: the potential to drive deeper growth potential in six customer engagement. }
Wider distribution networks In 2015 we generated sales 2 } Digital wellness services ofover 1.5 billion.
1 Avivas Consumer Attitudes Survey CAS in 2015 reported that 56% of our customers stated health as their number one concern.
2 Accident & Health sales include life new business sales PVNBP and net written premiums currently reported within our life, general insurance and health business results.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 23 Our strategy continued Digital First igital remains crucial to our future success and our position Das a True Customer Composite The Digital Garages gives us a strategic advantage.
We put Digital First because our Our Digital Garage in London is up customers are increasingly choosing and running and now weve opened this as their preferred way to deal another Garage in Singapore.
Through digital we can Singapore is a tech savvy market and support customers more quickly with our Garages are like Aviva campuses, their enquiries and transactions, where our creative minds bring their wherever they are in the world.
best ideas and make them happen.
Great digital products for Why its important our customers at every stage of their The environment in which we operate is lives.
Thats increasingly what changing rapidly due to recent advances customers want from us and it means we can help them more quickly in technology and digital distribution.
Were in the Aviva puts Digital First this is how we middle of a digital revolution.
And we will capitalise on being a True Customer want our customers to benefit from it.
We have to think Digital First across all our distribution channels its how customers want to connect and do been made in hiring our global digital Digital distribution business with us.
leadership team, bringing industry-leading Increasingly customers want to be able to Digital First helps make True Customer expertise in digital design and digital self-serve: researching, buying policies and Composite central to a new relationship marketing from outside financial services.
Digital allows with customers which builds on our We are seeing encouraging growth in customers to connect with us directly, understanding of how customers want to the volume of customer interactions allowing us to improve customer experience, use our products in a digital world.
online, for example, logins to MyAviva in increase interaction with our customers and Putting Digital First means putting December 2015 were 37% higher than reduce the cost to serve them.
the same month the previous year, and visits to Aviva.
co. uk through mobile and Increase in visits to Aviva.
co. uk via mobile How weve progressed and tablet devices in 2015 tablet devices increased by 79% in 2015.
In 2015, we continued to develop our We continue to develop our suite of digital digital infrastructure across our key propositions to be used across our markets.
Our second Digital Garage business units.
opened in Singapore in December 2015, 79% building on the successful operation of UK Digital and Direct our first Digital Garage in Hoxton, We have established a new business, based London.
The Digital Garages act as digital at the forefront of all change and in the UK Digital Garage, to take the lead catalysts for our digital innovation effort, development activity across Aviva.
This on Digital First in the UK, and we are where creative minds from across Aviva includes working to maintain and improve making good progress as we continue to and the industry come together to turn our IT security and data encryption, because develop our digital service and capability.
innovative ideas into real products and in the evolving digital environment, cyber For more information on UK Digital see services for our customers.
security is increasingly important to Spotlight on page 26.
At the same time, good progress has reassure our customers that they can deal with us digitally with confidence.
We will also seek out and apply new ways of doing business, and we are working in partnership with a range of Our ambition is to allow customers to new and existing players in the digital access all our services and products space, including active involvement with on any device, 24 7, 365 days a year Fintech start-ups.
Andrew Brem Chief Digital Officer 24 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Beware Hazard!
Through MyAviva we can present our full Simple and accessible thats what range of Aviva products and services, including our customers want.
Aviva Frances Aviva Risques Meteo Aviva Weather distinctive composite propositions Hazards app is exactly that and its free for our customers.
Its simplicity itself: in the event of a major weather Andrew Brem hazard such as flooding, the user Chief Digital Officer receives a smartphone alert, giving them time to take preventive action before the event.
Its a great example been led by sales and IT teams from Digital talent of Digital First and Aviva putting Poland and China, alongside colleagues prevention first.
Digital First is crucial to our future success from France, Turkey, Italy, Singapore and and weve been working hard to find the UK.
This will change the life of an world class talent to complement the agent.
Instead of traditional paper-based great people we have already.
Weve tools, new applications will be available on made a number of senior appointments in tablets, smartphones and laptops making our digital business, who bring expertise their life easier and much more efficient.
from a range of sectors, including retail, This launched first in Poland and China media and technology.
However, the and will be reused in the future by up to shortage of digital skills in the current nine markets across the globe.
marketplace is unprecedented, and In Ireland, we pioneered a life alongside recruitment, we are using more protection product without the need for a innovative approaches to access the skills customer signature, a first for the Irish we need, such as collaborating with and market.
This builds on our existing digital investing in start-ups, and working with platform for brokers WriteNow and is universities.
For example in 2015, we held an important step in our simplification an innovation event, DigitalOn, with the Aviva Ventures process to make us the easiest insurance Politecnico university in Milan, and In December we announced the launch company to do business with.
continued to work with start-ups in our ofour venture capital business, Aviva In the UK, Fast Trade, our proposition Digital Garage.
Ventures, which will look to commit for the SME eTrading market, won the around 20 million per year over five Technology Award for Customer Greater digital support for our years.
Its a wholly owned business Experience from trade magazine Insurance partners whichwill provide early-stage Times.
The new tool allows brokers to Digital is also a key part of improving our investmentto back entrepreneurs request business using automatic support to our intermediaries.
pre-population of customer information, example, we have developed MyAgent, a Housed at the Digital Garage in making the sales process easier and more cloud-based sales tool for our 30,000 London, Aviva Ventures will target efficient.
This work has investments in digital and technology companies operating in four areas: theinternet of things, for example inconnected homes, health and cars: dataand analytics: innovative customer experiences: and distribution, for example new sharing economy platforms.
Its about identifying new opportunities and making sure were always learning and up to speed with newdevelopments in technology.
Super 6 What we plan to do next Super Service!
We will continue to focus on developing our digital offering to customers to Our Customer Cup Competition support True Customer Composite captures our peoples best ideas so we propositions, including the continued can improve things for our customers.
development and roll-out of MyAviva This years winners called Super 6, from our Household Claims Team andMyAgent.
This is an area where there know that customers want their is intense competitor activity and digital is claims resolved quickly and the key to unlocking the potential conveniently because they talk to competitive advantage of our True them every day.
Thanks to their bright Customer Composite proposition.
idea and by working with our key We will also continue to develop our suppliers the Super 6 customers digital infrastructure and talent as we can now get a digital voucher for a harness the power of digital throughout replacement item before their call is the organisation and across all our even over.
Its a great example of how distribution channels to improve we strive to meet our customers processes, reduce costs and improve expectations and then exceed them.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 25 Our strategy continued Spotlight on... UK Digital UK Digital was established in 2015 to help our UK businesses provide an outstanding experience and innovative propositions for our 16 million UK customers K Digital is currently focused on designing innovative investments and an expanded protection range in 2015: and we composite propositions which meet customer needs made a full composite offering available online in January 2016 Uacross our different business lines, and supporting the UK with the launch of Health Essentials see case study on page 22. business units in distributing their products with a focus on MyAviva enables our customers to have all of their insurance direct digital distribution through MyAviva.
Our ambition is to documentation in one place making it easier than ever to view create an outstanding experience for customers, whenever and policies, make changes or claim.
Looking forward, once it has all the necessary regulatory The focus in the second half of 2015 was on working with approvals, UK Digital will take on full responsibility for the the UK business units to improve the experience for distribution of a range of digital products in the UK.
customers, for example easier registrations, an Wewill increase the range of products enhanced MyRetirement planner, a available via MyAviva and we will single view of products held and continue to develop innovative improved self-service online products and composite capability.
This will be good foundations for supported byincentives the further and offers for existing development of individual and MyAviva and Aviva.
co. uk in 2016, which will enhance navigation and connectivity for customers.
This will support our composite proposition and Avivas ambition is to put customers needs first.
We have seen an encouraging create an outstanding response from customers.
For example, experience for customers we continue to see more customers choosing to renew online: over 40% of general insurance whenever and however renewals now take place online.
Customers can they want to contact us quote and buy a broader range of products from just general insurance in 2014 to retirement, Blair Turnbull Managing Director, UK Digital Highlights and priorities We have a dedicated Were making good teamworking to revamp progress: and improve the customer experience.
In an 2m 1.8m increasingly digital world, The average number of The total number of we need to be agile monthly visits to Aviva.
co. uk registrations on MyAviva andrespond to our customers needs 4.5 11 The average number of visits The average number of visits to MyAviva per customer to MyAviva per pension in 2015 customer in 2015 26 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report One of our Aviva values is to Kill Not Everywhere complexity.
That is exactly what Not Everywhere is all about.
ur Chief Capital & Investments It is about working out where you can Officer, Jason Windsor, talks best create value and then delivering.
Oabout the Not Everywhere strand of Avivas strategy.
How do you decide which markets tofocus on?
What does Not Everywhere mean We are not trying to be all things to all toyou?
We are not interested in planting Not Everywhere is about focusing flags or being in 100 countries or onwhere we can make a difference.
providing every product in every market.
Itgoes without saying that for insurance Our focus is on a select number of companies diversification both in products markets where we can have critical mass and geography is a good thing.
That is the scale or profitability or a distinctive whole premise behind insurance.
dont want to be too broad or For example, in January 2016 we complicated, or we will lose focus.
announced a new general insurance Its about being clear We believe there is an optimal balance partnership with the Royal Bank of Canada, what not to do, so we between sufficient diversification to Canadas leading bank, including a 15 year enable us to use our capital efficiently, distribution deal.
We are one of the leading can focus on what and maintaining the necessary level of general insurers in Canada and this deal we do best expertise, oversight and risk management.
opens up a new distribution channel, We think weve got it about right.
complementing the strong broker Weare in 16 markets.
We are also a partnerships that we have in this market.
Jason Windsor British champion the UK is our home Chief Capital & Investments Officer base.
Were the largest player in the Can you give an example of what market.
And as a composite weve got an Aviva has stopped doing?
in-built advantage which few can match.
andbusinesses which will offer the most Given the strength of our relationship with And being the largest player in the UK attractive returns.
DBS, we would have liked to renew our brings economies of scale which gives us bancassurance agreement in Singapore, acompetitive advantage and enables us How does Not Everywhere support which concluded at the end of 2015. to invest in new services and technology, other parts of Avivas strategy?
However, we remain highly disciplined and in our other businesses.
We will only deliver the full regarding capital allocation, and the cost Our strength in our home market benefits of the composite model by putting to renew the agreement was far in excess alsoprovides reassurance and security that Digital First if we focus our resources where of what we saw as economically viable or is valued in many of our other markets.
we can be most competitive.
This is justifiable to our shareholders.
Not Everywhere is also about capital underpinned by our core strengths in areas We already have an excellent growth allocation we see it as a competitive such as underwriting, risk management, franchise in Asia, with a strong network of sport.
Cash is paid up to the Group, asset and liability management, and leading local partners, and look forward whichwe then reallocate to markets understanding and using Big Data.
to a bright future in Asia.
How do we decide where to allocate capital?
We look at capital Does it fit with Does this investment Can we allocation through three ourstrategy?
lenses: strategic, financial We focus our efforts on We aim to invest our Group We ensure that outcomes and execution delivering our strategic capital efficiently to get the canbe delivered with ambitions and providing our right balance of risk and ahighdegree of customers with propositions return, consistent with our confidence and that the that they value.
Investment Thesis of cash risks are understood and flow plus growth.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 27 Your Aviva Marcuss story 28 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Imagine if 70 businesses in again and, as the local mayor few weeks a temporary market your community vanished said everybody came was operating.
In total, Aviva overnight: livelihoods lost, together to make it work paidout around 2.7 million lost income for suppliers, that included Aviva, as the orjust under $CAD5 million.
and thousands of Markets insurer.
Now a bigger, better disappointed customers.
Marcus, the Markets StJacobs Farmers Market is Thats what happened in President, said one of the back as abustling much-loved StJacobs, Ontario, when the best decisions we made was to place, with a huge diversity of much-loved St Jacobs Farmers review our insurance with our shops and stalls, where people Market burnt down.
broker regularly, which can meet their friends and Overnight, local people lost resulted in us having the right family.
Were proud we helped the place where they went for coverage to be able to St Jacobs Farmers Market to everything from antiques to recover.
This was a complex rise from the ashes and take livestock.
One business owner case, but John, our loss its place back at the heart of said it felt like losing a home adjuster, quickly agreed a plan the community.
like you werent going to see of action and we made a your family anymore.
substantial advance so the For video case study visit: But local people resolved resurrection of the Farmers www.
com AR15 that the market would rise Market could begin.
Within a One of the best decisions we made was to review our insurance regularly Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 29
