Strategic report HigHligHts Cash remitted to group Canada 6m General insurance 2014: 138m 1 We are Canadas second largest general insurer general insurance operatingprofit providing a range of personal and commercial lines products to over 2.8 million customers 214m 2014: 189m digital technology, to better serve our Overview 1 customers and stay competitive.
We have an 8.4% market share and a Operating expenses We were the first in Canada to launch top five position in all major provinces.
an Overland Water Coverage Option for In 2015, 39% of sales were personal home insurance, providing water damage auto, 26% personal property and the 298m coverage for fresh water flooding due to remainder in commercial insurance.
storms and run-off, demonstrating our Most of our business is 2014: 316m commitment to our customers.
intermediated, with our products sold through a network Combined operating ratio Financial ofindependent brokerpartners.
performance Canada retained its We will build our 93.8% Strategy dividend within the digital capabilities business in anticipation Our objectives are to 2014: 96.1% build on our existing and lead product of the proposed acquisition of RBC service to customers innovation in Canada and distributors, build General Insurance.
Market context and challenges The6 million our digital capabilities, As the industry continues to evolve, and lead product Maurice Tulloch cashremittance thoseinsurers who increase their digital Chief Executive Officer, UK&I GI and represents interest innovation in Canada.
capabilities will lead the pack.
More Chairman, Global GI In January 2016, onan internal loan.
business will be purchased via digital Operating profit we announced the channels, so the ability of companies to proposed acquisition of the Royal Bank increased by 13% to214 million innovate and adopt new technologies will 2014:189 million, a22% increase of Canada General Insurance Company be crucial.
The industry needs to adapt to RBC General Insurance and a 15-year onaconstant currency basis driven meet customers evolving needs in the bymore benign weather compared distribution agreement with RBC years ahead.
Through this agreement, tolastyear and favourable prior In our opinion, further regulatory and yeardevelopment.
Aviva Canada will provide underwriting, product reforms are necessary in the pricing and claims services, and RBC Operating expenses were lower at Ontario auto market to drive both costs 298 million 2014: 316 million, but up Insurance customers will be able to and fraud out of the system.
We support access our full suite ofgeneral insurance 1% on a constant currency basis, the steps taken by the Government so far reflecting growth in the business.
This diversifies our distribution, and will continue to work with them to giving usexposure to the direct channel Combined operating ratio improved help customers.
We also continue to support our 2014:96.1% reflecting improved 1 Market Security Analysis & Research Inc, 2014 underwriting performance.
broker partners to help them integrate online database Our progress and future plans What we achieved in 2015 What we plan to do in 2016 } Expanded our range of product offering, including Overland } Complete the proposed acquisition of RBC General Insurance Company WaterCoverage and developed an insurance solution for ride } Integrate the RBC General Insurance Company business and sharing drivers peopleinto Aviva Canada } Broadened our distribution reach by launching Aviva Direct for } Continue to work with regulators to influence a positive outcome Home and Auto for customers in Ontario auto } Made the most of telematics to develop a usage based insurance } Continue to invest in digital so our services and propositions are product for young drivers better for our broker partners and customers } Ultilised new technology to enhance claims management through } Continue to invest in Guidewire technology to make it easier to do predictive analytics and anti-fraud capabilities business with us Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 37
