Chairmans statement A milestone year for Aviva It has been an honour to serve you, our Aviva has made remarkable progress in the past shareholders, on the Board, first as Senior three years and has moved from turnaround Independent Director, and then, since April 2015, as your Chairman following John totransform and grow.
We are well onthe way McFarlanes move to Barclays.
I want to thank to successfully integrating Friends Lifeand are John particularly, as he made an immense focused on delivering to our customers the contribution to Aviva and its recovery, and to wish him well in his new role.
benefits of theTrue Customer Composite model 2015 saw the Group move into a new phase from turning round the business to transforming it.
In 2016 I am confident that we will see the true potential of the Group emerge ever more clearly.
Aviva has a clear strategy, strong values, a distinct advantage as a composite insurer, a developing reputation as a digital innovator, an outstanding management team, and an unequivocal mission to deliver much more for customers and shareholders alike.
Our people It is thanks to our people and their dedication, loyalty and hard work that weve been able to achieve the progress we have.
In the past three years theyve had to absorb many changes.
But they have faced the challenge professionally, recognised the rationale behind the direction we are taking and focused on seizing the opportunities that are opening up for the Group.
They live our values every day Care More: Kill Complexity: Never Rest: and Create Legacy and support us in building a highperformance and collaborative culture.
Its a measure of our people that they care, not just in the workplace but outside it too.
The Aviva Community Fund, which started in 2008, is now active in six of our global markets and supports inspirational local community projects, not only with grants but also with the hard work of committed volunteers from the staff.
Our customers As an insurer and asset manager we are entrusted with a tremendous responsibility by our 33 million customers.
We are pledged to help people save for the future and manage the risks of everyday life.
As we move progressively into the digital world, we will have more direct contact with the customer than in the more traditional, intermediated forms of business relationship.
To all our customers, particularly those digital customers, an essential prerequisite of their relationship with us, as their insurer and asset manager, is that they should feel safe in 02 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
