Market review continued AN INtervIew wIth David McMillan, Chief europe executiveOfficer, Aviva europeand Chairman, Globalhealth Insurance what is europes contribution?
Europe is a big part of Aviva.
We are the we offer a wide range of life, general second largest cash contributor to the insurance, health and asset management Group, remitting 431 million in 2015, and contributed over 30% of total 2015 products to more than ten million customers Group operating profits.
1 in five markets France, Italy, Poland, turkey We have continued to grow our and Spain.
we operate a composite model in Valueof New Business VNB, as a result of our strategic initiatives to reshape France, Italy and Poland ourportfolio, focus on less capital intensive products and improvements inoperating efficiency.
We have turned around our general insurance businesses and this is reflected in our general insurance combined operating ratio which improved by 2.3 percentage points to 95.4%.
whats your strategy for europe?
Over the last few years, we have europe is a big part of completed the turnaround of our Aviva.
we have strong mature composite positions in europe businesses in France and Italy, improving and we are well-placed margins, refocusing on for further profitable capital-light products growth and harnessing our distribution.
Our turnaround in Spain is well progressed, benefitting from an improving economic environment.
In 2015, we have started to shift the emphasis towards digital and True Customer Composite, deploying MyAviva, increasing sales of protection and Accident & Health A&H, and digitising distribution channels.
Poland and Turkey are our growth markets, with relatively low levels of insurance penetration.
We are focused on securing leadership positions in these markets, by deepening and diversifying distribution and building innovative digital solutions for our customers.
how are you helping to deliver the true Customer Composite model?
Our focus is on deepening our relationship with customers by offering them the whole range of our products.
The approach has varied by market.
For example, in France and Italy, where we have strong agency businesses, we have implemented multi-access capabilities, allowing customers to choose how they 1 Aviva Poland also has management responsibility for Avivas operation in Lithuania.
Strategic report transact with us through face-to-face over the last couple of years and we are hIGhLIGhtS meetings, telephone and digital.
now benefitting from the cost economies Im excited by the You, Me and We and expertise from being branched into Cash remitted to Group composite product packages we have the UK Life and General Insurance launched in Poland.
combine life, general and health insurance The focus moving forward is to 431m components and are focused on the capitalise on our strong brand and market needs of customers at different stages of 2014: 473m position and build a leadership position their lives.
Anna took out a policy recently across the composite product range.
and you can read her story on page 4.
Life operating profit whats your final message?
how are you putting Digital First?
The first stage of the European Digital is the future of insurance, and our turnaround is largely complete and we are 766m customers and agents are increasingly now moving into a transform and grow 2 looking for more direct interactions and phase.
We have good businesses and are 2014: 882m customised digital services.
in a strong position to grow our franchises We made some big strides in 2015. digital and True Customer Composite General insurance and health We successfully launched MyAviva in will be at the heart of this.
operating profit France and Italy so customers can access all their contract details in a single place and self-serve on policy administration.
Financial performance 114m In 2016, we will do even more.
We will Our headline financial performance was build digital solutions for our distribution impacted across all metrics by a weaker 2014: 113m channels.
For example, we will implement euro 11% down on average and low MyAgent for our sales network in Turkey interest rates.
Prior year results include the Operating expenses and develop digitised sales tools in Poland.
benefits of one-off pension changes in Poland and Lithuania.
what about challenges and risks?
However we continued to make 526m In the mature savings markets, we reasonable progress on a constant continue to face a low interest rate currency basis.
2014: 596m environment but benefit from the early Cash remittances were 431 million, and proactive actions we have taken to up 1% in constant currency terms.
3 value of new business reduce product guarantees and shift our We continued to grow our Value of 4 mix towards protection, A&H and New Business VNB which was up 14% unit-linked.
to 400 million, an improvement of 48% 400m In Poland and Turkey, we have had over the last three years, while toadapt to a more volatile regulatory maintaining our expenses at 526 million 2014: 392m environment, with significant changes broadly flat in constant currency, inthe pension system in both countries.
Protection VNB 4 Combined operating ratio improved by 27% in 2015 and now You are taking responsibility for represents 49% of total VNB.
Ireland what are the challenges Life operating profit decreased to 95.4% andopportunities there?
Excluding disposals last year Aviva Ireland has undergone a turnaround and the one-off regulatory pension 2014: 97.7% Our progress and future plans what we achieved in 2015 what we plan to do in 2016 } Launched MyAviva in France and Italy, delivering digital services } Expand MyAviva in France, Italy and Poland to increase customer for customers, distributors and agents, utilising new technologies registrations, introducing a suite of additional services and features for our customers and distributors } Strengthened and diversified our distribution networks by increasing our agency network in France, acquiring Expander in } Diversify our distribution, through new partnerships and affinity Poland and securing a new bancassurance agreement in Turkey relationships, and expand the product and service offerings with our current partners, such as AFER in France, Sabanc Group in } Improved the profitability of our new business, focusing on Turkey and bank partners in Italy, Poland, Spain and Turkey protection in all markets and launching new unit-linked funds in France and Italy, capitalising on Aviva Investors experience } Maintain our leadership positions in life insurance and protection in Poland, pensions in Turkey, GI in Ireland and protection in Italy } Completed the turnaround in Italy and refocused our distribution agreements } Grow our position in accident and health through product innovation, wider distribution and digital wellness services } Launched innovative products, such as You, Me and We in Poland and use of telematics on motor and home in Italy } Capitalise on our composite potential in France, Italy, Ireland and Poland by offering integrated and innovative solutions } Improved the profitability of our general insurance businesses, rebalanced new business towards the SMEs segment in France and } Continue to deliver profitable growth in general insurance by strengthened analytics and anti-fraud capabilities in all markets improving our underwriting and analytics capabilities 2 Operating profit has been restated to exclude amortisation and impairment of acquired value of in-force business, which is now shown as a non-operating item.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 39 Market review continued Financial performance europe Italy France continued to deliver cash flow and continued growth, with a robust performance across most metrics, despite low interest rates.
Overview The weakening of the euro affected all We are a composite insurer, offering metrics from a group perspective.
life, general and health insurance to Cash remittances were 252 million 2.2million customers.
2014: 264 million, up 6% in constant We operate through strong currency.
Total operating profit was 449 bancassurance partnerships with three million 2014: 470 million, a 6% ofthe five top banks in Italy Banco change in Poland in 2014, life operating improvement in constant currency, driven Popolare, UBI Banca and UniCredit.
We profit grew by 6% on a constant currency by a strong performance in the life are focused on protection and are in the basis.
This increase was driven by actions business.
Operating expenses of 360 top four in the market with c. 11% market 5 to improve the efficiency of our back 8 million remained broadly stable.
In 2016, we will continue to book and focus on a profitable mix of VNB was 198 million 2014: 205 increase our distribution footprint in new business.
million, up 7% in constant currency, due specific segments and geographical areas.
We have grown our general insurance to increased volumes and an improved We also operate through a distribution premiums by 3% in constant currency margin on protection business.
network of around 700 multi-agents and excluding disposals whilst improving our The combined operating ratio brokers, and a growing IFA network of combined operating ratio to a healthy improved by 1.2 percentage points to over 1,500 advisors.
General insurance and health 95.7% mainly due to better weather We have completed our turnaround operating profit was 114 million 2014: experience compared to the prior year.
actions, including lowering the cost of 113 million, up 12% on a constant guarantees on with-profit products, currency basis mainly driven by the Market context and challenges improving margins in general insurance disposal of the loss-making Turkey GI France is a mature and stable market with and exiting unprofitable distribution business in December 2014. a large and well-developed insurance agreements.
Although GDP growth has been 6 France weak at 1.1% in 2015, the life insurance Financial performance 7 market continued to grow at 4.7%.
We Our turnaround strategy delivered expect demand for savings, protection continued improvements in profits Overview and retirement products to continue to andcash.
We have more than 3.3 million customers grow ahead of GDP.
Cash remittances improved to in France and offer a full range of life, In general insurance, regulatory 45million 2014: 32 million, protection, pension, general insurance, changes ended the tacit renewal practice, representing an increase of 55% in 9 health and asset management products.
transforming the landscape for personal constant currency.
Total operating profit We have a well-diversified distribution lines and creating new opportunities and was 165 million 2014: 166 million, an model, with half of our profits generated challenges.
In this context, we increase of 11% in constant currency, with from channels we own or control.
We strengthened our motor direct business growth in the life business more than enjoy a long-standing relationship with 9% premium growth vs. motor market offsetting lower profits in general 7 Association Franaise dEpargne et fide 9 average of 1.5%.
Operating expenses were Retraite AFER, the largest retirement and savings association in France.
Our tied agency network is growing Aviva et Moi with over 920 agents.
In 2015, we started We want our customers to be able to to build multi-access capabilities, enabling engage with us when and where they customers to interact with us when and want.
The new Aviva et Moi platform where they want, through our existing face is transforming our current to face channels, online or via call centres.
distribution model to adapt to our We also have a majority stake in Union customers needs.
It enables our Financire fide France UFF, the largest customers to view all their Aviva financial adviser network in France with products in a single place, choose how around 1,200 advisers, and strong direct they want to engage with us online, businesses with Aviva Direct, a leading through their agents or via call direct provider of funeral protection, centre, as well as download statements, change their personal andEurofil, one of the largest direct details and have access to our general insurers.
And whats more, we drew on our experience in developing MyAviva in the UK, so we could bring Aviva et Moi to our French customers that much more quickly.
Its a great example of Aviva delivering what our customers want and its all the better because of our international expertise and experience.
6 Institut national fide la statistique et des tudes conomiques.
7 Fdration Franaise des Socits dAssurances.
8 IVASS Istituto per la Vigilanza sulle Assicurazioni.
40 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report broadly stable on a constant currency on a constant currency basis largely due to basis at 71 million.
a 39 million one-off regulatory pension Weve got you 9 VNB improved to 79 million change which benefitted the prior period.
covered 12 2014:63 million, despite low interest Operating expenses remained stable Its part of our job to prevent bad rates, due to improved margins on all at 65 million and our combined things happening.
Thats why Aviva product lines and management actions operating ratio improved to 94.7% Italia offers customers a special white toreduce the cost of guarantees on 2014:96.0%.
It alerts them if with-profit products.
theres gas or smoke or if a burst pipe In general insurance business, the Market context and challenges is causing water damage.
Your home combined operating ratio of 94.3% Despite political and economic is monitored and you can access the remained broadly stable.
uncertainties, the relatively low insurance experts you need through MyAviva.
penetration continues to represent a So relax and enjoy your life weve Market context and challenges significant opportunity for further growth, got you covered.
The Italian economy showed signs of driven in life insurance by favourable recovery.
Although GDP growth remains demographics and growing disposable limited, the life insurance market grew incomes.
In general insurance, we mitigated Legislative changes in pension funds in competitive pricing in motor and increased 2014 significantly reduced the size of our claims frequency through rigorous agent pensions business in Poland, affecting our and portfolio selection and improved life profits in 2015.
We are assessing the pricing capabilities.
impacts of an asset-based levy for bank and insurance companies, introduced in February 2016.
Poland turkey Overview We are a leading life insurer, also providing health and general insurance products, to Overview more than 1.5 million customers.
Our joint venture with Sabanc Group, one anticipated in mid-2016 may accelerate We have particular strengths in of Turkeys leading conglomerates, offers further growth in the market and offer distribution and own the largest life pension and life insurance to two million additional opportunities.
insurance direct sales network with customers.
In 2015, we became the largest 13 morethan 2,100 advisers.
In 2015, we pension provider with 19% market share diversified our distribution model through in assets under management.
Spain the acquisition and integration of The main distribution channel is Expander, the second largest financial Akbank, one of the largest privately adviser network.
We also have a owned banks, with over 900 branches Overview bancassurance agreement with BZ WBK, part of the Sabanc Group.
We provide life and pensions products to the third largest bank in Poland which is We also employ the largest direct sales around 1.1 million customers.
We have part of the Santander Group.
force and have a fast growing agency strong bancassurance relationships, and We will continue to build on our channel with over 300 agencies.
operate a small growing retail business.
existing distribution strengths and diversify We are focused on diversifying our We have made some progress in the our channels, while developing our digital distribution model.
We recently secured turnaround actions and in improving our and multi-access capabilities to make all an exclusive distribution agreement with operating efficiencies, but we still have products available online and to capitalise Odeabank, and launched a number of more to do.
Our objective is to continue on the potential of our composite model.
pilot schemes with large retail companies.
the recovery of our protection business, We also operate a subsidiary in which benefits from improving economic Lithuania, where we are the largest Financial performance conditions, and to secure the perimeter of 11 lifeinsurer.
Life operating profit of 11 million our distribution franchises following 2014:13 million was broadly stable in previous market consolidation.
VNB was 27 million VNB of 65 million 2014: 64 million 2014: 30 million up 4% in constant Financial performance 14 remained stable despite the weakening of currency despite a lower ownership share VNB was stable at 31 million 2014: the zloty.
VNB grew in Poland by 29% in of the business following the partial IPO 30 million but up 17% in constant constant currency due to increased sales inthe second half of 2014.
Excluding the currency, mainly driven by a shift towards of higher margin protection but fell by effect of this dilution, VNB in Turkey higher margin protection business, partly 12 33% in Lithuania as the prior year result grew24% mainly driven by higher offset by lower sales and reduced margins included a one-off benefit from regulatory salesof pension products.
Operating profit of 92 million 2014: Operating profit reduced to 141 Market context and challenges 101 million was up 2% in constant million 2014: 194 million, down 19% Despite uncertainties and new regulations currency with lower operating expenses on pension pricing, Turkey offers strong reflecting ongoing focus on efficiency.
long-term potential for profitable growth.
It is the second largest population in Market context and challenges 10 ANIA Associazione Nationale fra le Imprese Europe with a young demographic and We have seen the Spanish insurance Assicuratrici.
we anticipate an increasing demand for market recover with improved lending 12 On a constant currency basis.
The introduction of conditions, and expect this to benefit our 13 Pension Monitoring Center, Turkey.
auto-enrolment pension reform credit linked insurance product sales.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 41
