Market review continued AN INtervIew wIth euan Munro, Chief executive Aviva Officer, Aviva Investors what is your strategy?
Our ambition is to be the global leader in Investors outcome-oriented solutions.
This means meeting the specific investment objectives of clients whether thats capital growth, beating inflation, receiving a reliable income or meeting a future liability.
we are Avivas investment management Thisdrives everything we do.
business, with 290 billion assets So our focus is on creating solutions based on our understanding of our clients undermanagement goals and the challenges they face and we have significantly improved our investment, distribution and operational capabilities to deliver these solutions.
One good example is the discussions we are having with our institutional clients, particularly pension funds.
One oftheir common challenges is how to secure reliable cash flows.
Our heritage aspart of an insurance company gives us real credibility in these conversations and we are wellplaced to respond tothese needs.
everything we do is why is Aviva Investors important anchored in putting to the Group?
our customers We provide a interests first competitive advantage for the Group as an providing solutions asset manager that tomeet their needs delivers tailored investment solutions to meet the needs ofcustomers: whether they are customers of Avivas life insurance businesses, or external and institutional clients.
We are also a global asset manager, with expertise across the full range of asset classes.
The creation of our AIMS range of products was a critical first step towards achieving our goals.
The early success of our multi-strategy AIMS range of funds demonstrates that we are meeting the needs of our customers to achieve better outcomes with their investments.
In 2016 were going to take further steps with new products that share the same underlying objective meeting the core financial needs of our customers.
Ourpartnership with Virtus in the United States is a good example of how were interacting with retail investors.
how does being a true Customer Composite help?
We are integral to the True Customer Composite model.
Our ability to provide outcome-oriented investment solutions isa real competitive advantage for theGroup.
Strategic report Were benefiting and so are our We want to be a market leader, providing customers by being able to distribute new solutions, backed by cutting edge Being a good ancestor our range of investment solutions through technology, to make our customers lives Being a responsible business is just Aviva channels.
That can only help us easier.
To do this, we are simplifying our good business.
So weve committed to grow our business.
processes and personalising the service we invest 500 million each year for five We also upgraded our distribution offer customers.
years in renewable energy and energy capabilities with the addition of Mike efficiency with an annual carbon Cranston as Global Head of Business whats your final message?
Development and Louise Kay as Global We are only two years into our 90% of our investments are already Head of Client Solutions.
transformation so there is a lot further for covered by environmental, social and us to go in terms of our long-term governance factors ESG.
Now were tell us about your Digital First potential.
We have transformed our senior further embedding climate risk in our strategy?
leadership team and invested heavily in decisions.
Were going to be even Digital First sets us apart.
We want all our risk management and controls to ensure more active as shareholders clients to be able to invest through us with that the interests of shareholders and our encouraging companies to look long customers are safeguarded.
Our ambition term and low carbon.
Simple steps for confidence, by anticipating their needs good returns today and tomorrow.
and being easy to do business with so remains to be the global leader in outcome-oriented solutions.
It will require digital is critical.
a lot of hard work to get there, but we are making good progress.
hIGhlIGhts Cash remitted to Group Financial performance Cash remitted to Group during the year increased by 50% to 24 million, primarily 24m reflecting a higher remittance by Aviva 2014: 16m Investors France.
Fund management operating profit generated by Aviva Investors was 105 Aviva Investors fund management million 2014: 79 million, an increase of operating profit Market context and challenges 26 million compared with the prior year.
After a sustained period of positive returns This included a 9 million contribution from in most asset classes, volatility has Friends Life Investments FLI.
Excluding FLI, returned in recent months, with fears 105m the increase of 17 million was driven by of a China slowdown and the slump in 2014: 79m higher performance fees partly offset by commodity prices adding to fears over the higher operating expenses.
This has caused steep Operating expenses were 345 million drops in many benchmark indices, and Operating expenses 2014: 298 million, including 11 million with negligible rates available on low risk expenses from FLI.
Excluding FLI, assets, such as government bonds, the operating expenses increased by 36 task of delivering the returns investors 345m million to 334 million, primarily due to expect has become more difficult.
2014: 298m investment to support the business.
Ultimately, the key challenge for any Assets under management increased asset manager is how to stand out from by 44 billion to 290 billion, driven by the crowd in a highly competitive market.
Our flagship AIMS fund We operate in an uncertain world and range has achieved net external inflows of this means asset managers must deliver 1 billion during the year and had 3 solutions that can perform in all market 290bn billion assets under management at the conditions.
That is a challenge but also 2014: 246bn end of 2015. an opportunity.
Our progress and future plans what we achieved in 2015 what we plan to do in 2016 } We redefined our client proposition around outcome-oriented } Add to our range of outcome-oriented funds solutions, spearheaded by our AIMS funds } Grow and protect our asset base by investing in distribution } We improved our investment organisational structure, establishing andthrough True Customer Composite initiatives with the rest Global Investment Solutions and Liquid Market teams ofthe Group } We signed a strategic partnership with Virtus to give us access } Look at further opportunities to form strategic partnerships in key to the US retail market overseas markets } The AIMS Target Return and Target Income funds respectively } Broaden our operating model across all regions and products delivered returns of 4.54% and 6.29% in 2015, compared to } Continue to invest in our risk and compliance teams to protect a1.37% drop in the FTSE 100 over the same period customers, shareholders and our reputation } We made significant investment to strengthen our risk management and controls systems, including comprehensive conduct risk and compliance training for all employees Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 45 Your Aviva Ians story 46 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report At Aviva, we put our strategies to financial advisers customers at the heart of and clients.
Thats The first fruit of our certainly true at Aviva promising partnership is a Investors, where our mutual fund available to US flagship fund range, AIMS, investors which employs the continues to deliver AIMS investment approach.
positive returns in volatile The fund is managed by a investment markets.
great team like Ian Pizer, the We often work with Head of Investment Strategy, strong partners who who helps develop the ideas complement our business for ourpartnership with Virtus.
andin the United States The goal is to deliver a wevefound one such partner return of 5% per annum above Virtus Investment Partners, the federal funds target rate which provides Aviva Investors gross of fees, on average, strategies to US customers in over rolling three-year periods, US open-ended mutual funds.
with a volatility target of less Its a great match.
Virtus than half that of global can draw on Avivas knowequities, over the same rolling how in investing across three-year periods.
different markets and asset Thats a technical way of classes in order to deliver the saying its absolute focus is on outcomes customers want.
achieving the right outcome And Aviva benefits from for customers, regardless of Virtuss success in articulating the prevailing stock market sophisticated investment environment.
Our goal is to deliver better outcomes for our customers Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 47
