The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Corporate Information Directors The Directors appointed to the Board and the date of their appointment are: Richard Killingbeck Susan Inglis Position: Chairman of the Board and of the Nominations and Position: Senior Independent Director since February 2015 Management Engagement Committees Date of appointment: 1 November 2012 Date of appointment: 19 December 2003 Chairman Susan is currently Managing Director Corporate Finance at Cantor 25September 2013 Fitzgerald Europe, having held the same position at Canaccord Richard is currently Chief Executive Officer of W. H. Ireland Group plc.
Ms Inglis is a qualified lawyer, and was a partner, Hewas previously a Managing Director of Credit Suisse UK Private and head of the funds and financial services group, at Shepherd & Bank.
He has been involved in the financial services industry for Wedderburn, a leading Scottish law firm.
In 1999 she was a founding 27years, initially as a fund manager and latterly in a number of senior partner of Intelli Corporate Finance, an advisory boutique firm management roles, at Singer & Friedlander Investment Management focusing on the asset management and investment company sectors andClose Brothers.
During his career he has been based primarily in which was acquired by Canaccord Genuity in 2009.
London, but has also spent part of this time in New York.
David Wild Matthew Thorne Position: Director Position: Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Date of appointment: 26 February 2014 Date of appointment: 27 November 2008 Audit Committee David is currently Chief Executive Officer of Dominos Pizza plc.
He Chairman 26 February 2010 was formerly Chief Executive at Halfords Plc and President of the Matthew is a non-executive Director of Custodian Reit Plc and is an German division of Wal-Mart Stores Inc, and also the Senior adviser to the Consensus Business Group.
He was Group Finance Independent Director for Premier Foods plc.
Director of McCarthy & Stone plc and also Investment Director of Beazer plc.
A Chartered Accountant, he has significant experience as a Finance Director, predominantly in the property sector.
Julian Chillingworth Position: Director Date of appointment: 25 February 2015 Julian is currently Chief Investment Officer for Rathbone Brothers plc.
He was formerly Head of Gross Funds which incorporated Pension Funds and Charities at Investec and was Head of Equities at Hambros.
All Directors are independent of Henderson and are members of the Audit Committee except the Chairman and Management Engagement Committee.
The Chairman, Susan Inglis and Matthew Thorne are members of the Nominations Committee.
