The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Fund Managers Review this investment to gain greater exposure to the growth in Chinese consumer spending and because we felt share prices were extremely cheap by historic standards.
We didnt think that the market would recover so strongly but prices quickly ran ahead of fundamentals.
Even with the setback in the market over the summer, our portfolio produced a return of 51.7% over the year and valuations still look appealing with an attractive dividend yield.
We now have roughly 20% cashin the Chinese QFII account and a more cautious mix of stocks compared to a year ago.
For a number of years we have been carefully monitoring the cost of long term debt for Investment Companies.
The coupons have steadily fallen and this year we decided to move after the coupon on long term The Fund Manager of the portfolio, Alex Crooke, reports on the borrowings fell below 4%.
Our 10 million 10.5% long term year to 31 October 2015 debenture will be repaid in October 2016 and we have prefunded this debenture payment with the issue of 50m of 20 year loan notes in To some extent this last year has mirrored the previous year in terms May.
The 3.68% coupon on these notes will be close to the dividend of a lack of sustainable growth, low inflation and dull investment yield on new investments and should enhance returns for returns.
There was the usual bout of enthusiasm at the start of the shareholders over time.
In the short term we have repaid and year but stock markets peaked around April May and took a turn cancelled our short term borrowing facility with Commonwealth Bank down in the later summer.
All through the recovery from the 2008-9 of Australia as we do not need the funds and this avoids extra costs.
financial crash, there has been a distinct lack of demand by In time we can add extra short term borrowings when needed.
The consumers and corporates, partly a result of a dysfunctional banking new loan notes increase our fully invested gearing position to roughly sector but also due to high levels of unemployment and a lack of 10% but, at the year end, we still retained the bulk of the new funds, wage growth.
The effects of this poor demand profile were shown up accepting an element of cash drag while awaiting suitable buying in the significant crash in the oil prices and mirrored in other opportunities.
The oil price fell sharply through the second half of 2014 and was $81 a barrel at the start of our financial year on All year we have been cautious on Emerging Markets and Asia, 1November 2014 but still nearly halved in value from there, a year reflecting pressures on commodity prices and slowing growth in later at $47.
Ultimately this fall should feed through to greater China.
The investment in both areas was reduced, most noticeably in spending power for consumers around the world but this will take Asia which fell to 11.3% of the portfolio.
Extra funds were invested time and stock markets reacted quicker, forcing down prices for oil into Europe and Japan.
The latter was the best performing of the and commodity stocks.
major regions and there is some good evidence that Abenomics is working.
Corporate profits have been recovering and valuations are We have had to tread carefully this year avoiding too much exposure athistorically low levels reflecting the markets scepticism.
North to commodities and side stepping a number of profit warnings across America now accounts for 25.4% of the portfolio mainly through good many sectors, which generally were caused by the weak growth in the performance while the UK allocation continues to be reduced.
Our efforts were ultimately rewarded in that all of ofthe available funds were invested outside the UK theallocation our major geographic portfolios exceeded their local benchmark would fall to 35%.
indices, with special mention to the US outperforming by 5.5%, Europe by 7.3% and Japan by 10.1%.
Only the Emerging Market The UK remains a key market for income generation and produced a sleeve missed its benchmark, underperforming by 7.4% where we larger number of special dividends which boosted our overall income had too much exposure to Latin America and were impacted in by over 2m.
This has been an exceptional year for specials and is a particular by the fall in currencies.
function of low growth in that companies have limited need to invest new capital.
We expect further special dividends in the coming year It is worth reviewing the two strategic changes we implemented in the but not to the same extent.
The Companys income was boosted by previous year, namely a change of investment style and manager in US dollar currency gains and some of our recent regional allocation the US and initial investments in Chinese A shares.
A further positive factor in recent years has been an is undoubtedly now more growth orientated but we believe that the investment focus on companies that have the capacity to increase US economy is entering a period of steady recovery and a growth dividends and this is now generating good returns.
Pressure on bias should reward us better in terms of returns.
The portfolio has a dividends is undoubtedly rising in the commodity sectors and, while lower dividend yield than the market but should grow more quickly, major oil companies will keep their dividends for a time, we will see while the overall valuation in terms of P E for the US portfolio is some stress this year if the price of oil stays below $50 a barrel.
In the first full year of performance the Weare keeping a cautious eye on markets to judge the right time to portfolio produced a sterling return of 12.7% against 7.2% for the invest the cash balances from the loan notes issue and also to protect index.
Wehave some exciting investments which are positioned in our investment income.
areas that we expect to exhibit strong growth and should be less exposed to increasing US interest rates.
The Chinese portfolio had Alex Crooke avery volatile year but still exceeded all our expectations.
