The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Business Model Further information regarding investment risk and activity throughout Strategy the year can be found in the Fund Managers Review and The Companys strategy is to meet its investment objectives.
This is accompanying regional pages.
achieved through the appointment of external management which operates in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
Management The Company qualifies as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF Investment Objectives inaccordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Manager The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset growth in Directive AIFMD.
excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular dividend growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices Index.
The Company has appointed Henderson Investment Funds Limited HIFL to act as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM in accordance with an agreement which was effective from 22 July Investment Policy 2014 and is terminable on six months notice.
HIFL delegates To achieve the investment objectives the Companys investment policy investment management services to Henderson Global Investors is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed of international Limited which acts as Manager.
Both entities are authorised and equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversified by both geography and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
References sector in order to reduce investment risk.
The Manager has the toHenderson within this report refer to the services provided by flexibility to invest in any geographic region and has no set limits on both entities.
individual country or sector exposures although the Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and the Managers investment The fund management team is led by Alex Crooke, who has been in activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom-up, value-based place since 2003.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson, Ian Warmerdam, investment process to identify suitable opportunities and pays Michael Kerley, Michael Woodmartin and Charlie Awdry.
particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
Henderson and its subsidiaries provide accounting, company While the Company mainly invests in international equities there secretarial and general administrative services.
Some of the isthe flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as convertibles, administration and accounting services are carried out, on behalf of corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is deemed that these Henderson, by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Wendy King FCIS will, ataparticular time or for a particular period, enhance the acts as Company Secretary on behalf of the Corporate Secretary, performance of the Company in the pursuit of its objectives.
Theuseof any derivative instruments, such as financial futures, options and currencyhedges, will only be for the purposes of efficient portfoliomanagement.
Management Fee The annual management fee is calculated using the average net The Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment assets on the last day of October in each of the preceding two years portfolio in any single investment on acquisition nor will it invest at a rate of 0.45% on average net assets up to 750m and a rate of morethan 15% of its investment portfolio in any other UK listed 0.4% of average net assets over 750m.
investment trusts or investment companies.
The Company will at times borrow money, both short and long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw down of borrowings may be in currencies other than sterling provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that particular currency.
The gearing range is between 0% and 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which, at 31 October 2015, contained 204 2014:191 individual investments.
At 31October 2015, the largest single investment was BP, which accounted for 1.82% of total investments while the top 25 holdings totalled 29.03% of total investments.
Investment risk may be further reduced through the use of currency hedging, foreign borrowings and derivatives.
Information regarding the Companys investment exposures can be found on page 9.
