The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: United Kingdom Total return year to 31 October 2015 % Bankers 6.3 FTSE All-Share Index 3.0 Activity Overall the balance of the UK portfolio has not altered materially through the year because many of the investment trends remain unchanged from last year.
We have reduced holdings in some larger companies, such as HSBC, SSE and GlaxoSmithKline, because earnings were being downgraded and valuations looked full.
We also reduced exposure to the life assurance sector which has been a great performer over recent years but the advent of the Solvency II The Fund Manager of the UK portfolio, Alex Crooke, reports on regulation could limit dividend growth.
Sales included Legal & General, the year to 31 October 2015 Standard Life and St. Jamess Place.
Sales outnumbered purchases over the year as investment in the UK weighting was reallocated elsewhere.
However, holdings in BT, Barclays and Persimmon were Review increased as we felt greater confidence in their outlook and valuations At first glance the UK equity market produced a second year remained appealing.
The housebuilding sector was hit hard ahead of ofdisappointing returns but there has been a wide spread between the May general election and allowed us to increase holdings in our sectors that have risen in value and those that fell.
Share prices favoured housebuilders Galliford Try and Persimmon.
generally rose through the first half of the year, building on the optimism of improving growth and the advent of quantitative easing QE in Europe, the UKs major trading partner.
The general election Outlook in May had an impact on some domestically focused sectors that Over the coming year we are likely to concentrate the portfolio into were subject to policies proposed by the Labour party but a our more favoured sectors and stocks while keeping a watchful eye Conservative victory soon restored share prices to their previous for areversal in market trends.
Most active managers have levels.
Overall theUK economy has exhibited good growth.
Low performed well by having little exposure to mining or oil and being inflation and falling petrol prices have enabled consumers to increase overweight in defensive stocks, but these trends will break at some spending which hasbenefitted the economy as a whole.
UK interest rates are unlikely to rise in the short term but an increase in economic activity in Europe, as a result of QE, could Growing concerns about declining growth trends in China and its create conditions where the Bank of England needs to tighten policy.
impact on emerging markets came to a head in August and caused This is likely to herald a rotation in market positions and we will need asetback in market values.
Although not directly hurting the UK to make some stock changes as currently the portfolio is positioned economy, the stock market is heavily exposed to emerging markets towards both defensive and smaller mid-sized companies reflecting through the mining and oil exploration sectors, combined with many the low global growth environment.
global companies having invested heavily in emerging countries over the past few years.
The value of mining companies in the UK market peaked at 16% of its total value in 2010 but now resides at 5%.
UK portfolio classified by market value of Similarly the oil sector has halved from 21% of the UK stock market value in 2012 to 11% today.
Other areas of the market to disappoint company at 31 October investors were those with regulatory pressures, principally the % utilities, following the election, and the banking sector which faced 70 tougher capital requirements.
60 60.7 60.0 The Bankers UK portfolio outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index 50 forthe fifth year in a row, gaining 3.3% more than the index.
The 40 portfolio is underweight in the key sectors of mining, oils and banks which all disappointed by falling in value over the year.
We produced 30 31.7 better returns in sectors such as insurance, food manufacturing and 28.0 20 housebuilding.
Holdings of Persimmon, Galliford Try, Dairy Crest and Reckitt Benckiser delivered particularly strong performance.
There 10 11.3 has been a notable pick up in takeovers during the year.
The portfolio 8.3 benefitted from the takeovers of insurance underwriter Catlin 0 FTSE 100 FTSE Mid 250 Smaller Companies followed closely by a takeover for Amlin: takeover activity also over 3.5bn over 500m-3.5bn under 500m benefitted the holding of Lancashire in the same sector.
Generally 2015 2014 the strategy remained to favour companies with strong market positions and the prospect of growing dividends.
