The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors The Directors present the audited financial statements of the reserves are available for distribution by way of dividends to the Company and their report for the year from 1 November 2014 holders of the ordinary shares.
In addition, the Company may also to31October 2015.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC the distribute capital surpluses by way of a dividend.
Upon a winding-up, Company registered and domiciled in England and Wales with after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would company registration number 00026351 was active throughout be distributed to the shareholders pro rata to their holding of ordinary theyear under review and was not dormant.
The Directors seek annual authority from the shareholders to allot Directors Remuneration and Shareholdings new shares, to disapply pre-emption rights and to buy-back shares The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 and 34 provides for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
At the AGM held in information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
February2015 the Directors were granted authority to buy-back 16,677,400 shares.
At 31 October 2015 25,000 shares have been bought back using this authority and cancelled.
The Directors have Directors Conflicts of Interest remaining authority to purchase 16,652,400 shares.
This authority The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider will expire at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
The Directors intend and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an to renew this authority subject to shareholder approval at the AGM interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the in 2016.
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare situational conflicts to be considered At the AGM held in February 2015 the Directors were granted for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the authority to issue and disapply pre-emption rights up to an aggregate matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a nominal value of 2,802,670.
The Company issued 1,000,000 new situational conflict, the non-conflicted Directors must act honestly shares prior to the year end and has issued a further 1,450,000 new and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company shares since the year end and up to 15 January 2016, being the last and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the practicable date prior to publication of the Annual Report, for a total authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Therefore, the Directors have remaining situational conflicts considered, and any authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant meetings minutes.
The prescribed authority to issue new shares up to a nominal value of 2,190,170. procedures have been followed in deciding whether, and on what The authority will expire at the 2016 AGM.
The Directors intend to terms, to authorise situational conflicts and the Board believes that renew this authority subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in the system it has in place for reporting and considering situational 2016.
The number of shares in issue at 15 January 2016 is conflicts continues to operate effectively.
Related Party Transactions Holdings in the Companys Shares The Companys transactions with related parties in the year were with Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company as at its Directors and Henderson.
There have been no material 31October 2015 in accordance with the UK Listing Authoritys transactions between the Company and its Directors during the year Disclosure and Transparency Rules were as follows.
other than the amounts paid to them in respect of Directors remuneration for which there were no outstanding amounts payable % of at the year end.
In relation to the provision of services by Henderson, voting rights other than fees payable by the Company in the ordinary course of Investec Wealth & Investment 5.4 business and theprovision of sales and marketing services, there have been no transactions with Henderson affecting the financial There have been no further notifications to the date of this report.
position of theCompany during the year under review.
More details on transactions with Henderson, including amounts outstanding At 31 October 2015, 12.8% of the issued ordinary shares were held attheyear end, are given in note 23 on page 64. on behalf of participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products.
The participants in this scheme are given the opportunity to instruct the relevant nominee company to exercise the voting rights appertaining Share Capital to their shares in respect of all general meetings of the Company.
The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares with a nominal value of 25p each.
The voting rights of the shares on a poll are one vote for every 1 nominal held.
There are no restrictions on the Annual General Meeting AGM transfer of the Companys ordinary shares or voting rights, no shares The AGM will be held on Thursday 25 February 2016 at 12 noon which carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company atTrinity House, London EC3N 4DH.
The Notice of Meeting and and no agreement which the Company is party to that affects its details of the resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in the control following a takeover bid.
To the extent that they exist, the revenue profits of the Company including accumulated revenue separate document being sent to shareholders with this Report.
30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors continued Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditor Each of the Directors who were members of the Board at the date ofapproval of this Report confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of the Annual Report of which the Companys Auditor isunaware and he or she has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 35 to 37 forms part of the Report of the Directors.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions As an externally managed investment company, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations for the year to 31 October 2015 2014:same, nor does it have responsibility forany other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act2006 Strategic Report andDirectors Reports Regulations 2013.
4 requires the Company to include certain information in a single identifiable section of the Annual Report oracross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in this regard other than, in accordance with LR 9.8.
4 7, the information of which is detailed on page 30 under Share Capital.
By order of the Board Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary 18 January 2016 31
