com 10 The moment of truth A claim is a moment of truth for both the insurer and the insured.
Will the insurer possess the expertise, the capacity and the desire to resolve theclaim fairly and expeditiously, supporting the insured through what may well be a stressful time?
At Beazley we believe that claims service should Differentiation through service Brokers have told us they value four key service attributes: be a positive differentiator in carrier selection by expertise, responsiveness, commerciality, and access to insureds, and we know that, for us, it frequently is.
We focus on these and closely Proactive claims management should also inspire monitor brokers opinions of our service.
confidence among shareholders and regulators, Following us winning the 2013 Cuthbert Heath Claims team asshould our prudent, timely and consistent award from Insurance Insider for our handling of the New York approach to establishing claims reserves.
Marathon cancellation in the wake of Superstorm Sandy, we were shortlisted again this year for our handling of claims Our team following the Hatton Garden vault theft, the most ambitious Beazleys claims team comprises over 120 claims managers, heist in the UK since the Great Train Robbery in 1963.
Our team based in London, the United States and Australia.
We organise was recognised for its ability to evaluate a complex scenario ourselves along product lines rather than territories: we believe quickly and then adjust and settle the many individual claims that this ensures a thorough understanding of the products very promptly.
we sell, enabling us to take a consistent and fair approach with our clients in the application of policy wordings and to support Differentiation through specialism them effectively through the claims process.
We currently Claims management is a multi-faceted activity for a specialist manage open reserves of over $3bn, gross, and have around insurer with a diverse portfolio such as Beazley, and the skills 125,000 open claims.
and knowledge relevant to one line may not apply to another.
The claims team retains complete independence on claims We hire seasoned professionals, but we also recognise the need decisions but a key part of our philosophy is to ensure that to continue to invest in the skills of our people after they have claims managers and underwriters work closely together.
To this end, we have over the last 18 months Claims managers thereby fully understand the product being placed an increased focus on our team members personal sold and can ensure that the breadth of coverage intended is development by developing a claims specific training curriculum.
In addition, it ensures that emerging claims trends The result is a wide cross-section of specialists who are able to or issues that might have an impact on the book of business use their skills to make a real difference on claims.
beyond the individual claims themselves are flagged promptly and reflected in underwriters rating and risk appetite.
This is For example, our healthcare claims team is relied upon by major of particular value on longer tail business where the root causes US hospitals confronting multi-million dollar lawsuits.
Our claims of trends can take time to manifest themselves.
managers are accordingly sourced from top healthcare defence liability firms, usually possessing six to ten years of litigation experience.
The benefits that this level of expertise can confer in individual claims is illustrated in the case study, see facing page.
Our market leading technology, media and business services team has received numerous accolades from brokers and clients for the dedication with which they have handled complex data breach claims, which combine first party exposures the costs of responding effectively to a breach and third party exposures the risk of lawsuits.
In one recent situation, the broker for a large US health insurer, told us that no one else in the market would have, or could have, done what Beazley did for this client.
com Annual report 2015 11 Building a defence case for our clients We argued that if statements in the application were true, Our insured was a developer of solutions for electronic health then certain allegations against the insured could not be records EHR.
The insureds customer, a healthcare institution, true.
In conjunction with defence counsel were able to use sued for breach of contract for failure to properly implement the statements in the application to persuade the plaintiff an EHR solution.
to lower its settlement demand from several million dollars to the low six figures.
In discovery, we learned that the plaintiff had obtained significant sums from the US federal government as part of a Beazley has successfully used the same strategy in similar program that incentivises the healthcare sector to implement claims.
On one occasion our insured sued for failure to pay EHR technology.
During mediation, we found the customers $1m in back fees, but was counter sued for $13m.
After signed an application for these payments online and we we showed the claimant the incompatibility of its countersuit confronted the plaintiff with this application part of which with its application for federal dollars to implement certified to the federal government that certain EHR solutions EHR technology, the claimant dropped its suit and we were in place.
ultimately negotiated a payment to our insured.
For first party insurance, such as marine insurance, different Maintaining our competitive edge skills are required.
Our marine team includes a full time marine While our claims volume has continued to grow broadly in surveyor who is a qualified engineer.
By deploying our own line with premium growth, the nature of the claims we handle marine engineer to the scene of a casualty we can normally continues to evolve, due to a number of factors.
First, we have respond far more quickly to the clients needs and settle the expanded our existing product suites in certain territories, such claim rapidly.
This approach differentiates Beazley from most as France and Singapore.
Secondly, our onshore US business of its peers.
In a recent case our surveyor flew to South America has grown rapidly.
Finally, the nature of the claims themselves to negotiate repair costs to a damaged vessel and, to the is changing because our small and mid sized risk business has benefit of all concerned, managed to reduce costs from an grown faster than our large risk books.
estimated $11m to less than $2m and ensured that repairs could be completed swiftly.
These changes are increasing the need for greater scalability and flexibility of our claims resource.
We have accordingly In cases such as this, swift claims settlement is a win-win for the created a new portfolio claims team to sit alongside our existing client and for Beazley: the longer claims drag out, the more they global product teams.
Specialist managers will still focus tend to cost.
However, the same is not always true of professional on defined product areas but this change will introduce more liability claims, where patience can be a virtue.
In the case of cross-team and cross-product working, thus allowing us to architects and engineers A&E claims, the length of the tail flex our resources more easily.
the period between when cover was underwritten and claims typically are closed now averages 3.5 years, reflecting the fact that there can often be significant delays between the notification Obstetrics claims show value of a circumstance by an insured namely the possibility of there being a claim and the time when a claimant proactively pursues of experience its claim.
In a recent birth injury claim, our healthcare team found the For A&E claims, our clients look to Beazley as a source of sound hospitals normal defence counsel endorsing a settlement advice, backed by our three decades of experience in this class $10m to $14m that in our view was far too high of business.
We share our claims data with our clients, enabling and would raise the floor on any subsequent birth injury them to benchmark themselves against their peers and settlements.
Defence counsel further opined that strengthen their risk management defences where needs be.
a plaintiffs verdict was likely and estimated the verdict value at $25m or more.
At our instigation, the client agreed to our bringing in specialist trial counsel with long experience of defending medical malpractice claims involving catastrophic injuries.
Our counsel strengthened possible liability and causation defences and, more importantly, conveyed the position that we were prepared to go to trial.
At mediation we were able to settle the insureds liability for $6m, well below original counsels settlement valuation and for a small fraction of the plaintiffs original demand of $45m.
Beazley has been underwriting architects and engineers professional indemnity risks for 30 years, so we have rich claims data to help clients identify trends.
Steve Chang Head of healthcare claims Beazley Annual report 2015 www.
com 12 30 years of profitable growth Beazleys vision is to become, and be recognised as, the highest performing specialist insurer.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 $1,762.0m $1,919.6m $1,984.9m $2,121.7m $2,108.5m Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums $1,371.0m $1,561.0m $1,620.0m $1,751.3m $1,741.6m Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share Beazley in Hong Kong takes full Beazley opens new office Raised 150m through rights Andrew Beazley, co-founder ownership of APUA and renames in Munich issue to develop our business of Beazley Group and chief it Beazley Limited at Lloyds and in the US executive until September 2008, Political risks & contingency dies at the age of 57 Expansion of construction & group formed as new division Acquisition of First State engineering team into Singapore Management Group, Inc. Beazley changes functional Acquisition of Momentum a US underwriting manager and presentational currency Beazley opens new office in Paris Underwriting Management focusing on surplus lines to US dollar commercial property business Lloyds active members: 2,211 Accident & life formed Beazley opens new office in Oslo as a new division Beazley plc becomes the new Capacity: 14.8bn Special purpose syndicate 6107 holding company for the group, US hurricane Ike $20bn formed to grow reinsurance incorporated in Jersey and Syndicates: 65 business tax-resident in Ireland Chile and NZ earthquakes $14bn Deepwater Horizon explosion triggers biggest oil spill in history Trading 1986 1991 1992 1997 began 1986 $13.4m $42.5m$58.8m $128.4m Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Began trading at the old 1958 Lloyds building in 1986 with a capacity of 8.3m Management buyout of Hiscox share Beazley, Furlonge & Hiscox established and takes over managing syndicate 623 Commercial property account started Specialty lines and treaty accounts started Corporate capital introduced at Lloyds followed by Lloyds Reconstruction and Renewal UK windstorms $3.5bn APUA, based in Hong Kong, forms a strategic partnership with Beazley Furlonge European storms $10bn US hurricane Andrew $17bn UK Bishopsgate explosion $750m US Northridge earthquake $12.5bn Strategic report Beazley www.
com Annual report 2015 13 Beazley began life in 1986 Since then, we have grown steadily in terms of the risks we cover, the clients we serve and our geographic reach, and today Beazley is a mature insurance business with a well-diversified portfolio.
We have weathered some of the toughest times the Lloyds market has seen in more than three centuries and our underwriting operations have an unbroken record of profitability.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 $2,079.2m $2,278.0m $2,373.0m $2,424.7m $2,525.6m Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums $1,712.5m $1,895.9m $1,970.2m $2,021.8m $2,080.9m Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share Expansion of Australian accident Expansion into aviation and Construction Consortium Construction Consortium extended Entered into a reinsurance & health business through kidnap & ransom markets launched at Lloyds to Lloyds Asia agreement with Korean Re acquisition of two MGAs Reinsurance division broadens Miami office opened to Middle East office opened to US underwritten premium grows Launch of the Andrew Beazley access to South East Asia, China access Latin American access local political risk and by 21% Broker Academy and South Korea business with reinsurance business violence, terrorism, trade credit Cyber consortium launched local presence in Singapore and contingency business Nick Furlonge, co-founder, retires Beazley Flight comprehensive at Lloyds as an executive member but Political risks & contingency emergency evacuation cover Space and satellite insurance Beazley welcomes its 1,000th becomes a non-executive of expands into French market launched account started employee globally Beazley Furlonge Limited Superstorm Sandy $25-30bn Beazley data breach cover D&O Consortium launched Beazley remains profitable in extended in Europe.
1,000th at Lloyds worst year ever for insured natural breach managed Locally underwritten US business catastrophe losses Local representation added in grows 19% to $537m Tohoku earthquake in Japan $37bn Rio to develop Latin American insurance business Floods in Thailand $16bn US tornadoes $15bn NZ earthquake $16bn Versatile specialists since 1986 Flotation 1998 2000 2001 2005 2002 $168.8m $256.1m $431.6m $1,485.1m Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Managed gross premiums Recall, contingency and political risks accounts started Management buyout of minority shareholders Marine account started EPL and UK PI accounts started European storms $12bn Flotation raised 150m to set up Beazley Group plc D&O healthcare, energy, cargo and specie accounts started Established local representation in the US Beazley MGA started in the US Beazley acquires Omaha P&C and renames it Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. BICI US 9 11 terrorist attack $20.3bn SARS outbreak in Asia $3.5bn US hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma $101bn
