com 70 Board of directors Andrew Horton Martin Bride Neil Maidment Adrian Cox Chief executive officer Group finance director Chief underwriting officer Head of specialty lines Appointed: 15 March 2001 Appointed: 6 December 2010 Appointed: 12 June 2003 Appointed: 5 May 2009 Experience: Neil joined Beazley Experience: Adrian joined Beazley Experience: Andrew joined Experience: Martin joined Beazley in 1990 and was appointed to in June 2001.
Prior to this, Adrian Beazley in June 2003 as finance in May 2009 as finance director.
He has over was at General Re for eight years, director.
Prior to that he held He began his career in insurance 30 years of Lloyds experience writing both treaty and facultative various financial positions within in 1985 and took up his first role and, in 2011, joined the board business.
Since 2001 his ING, NatWest and Lloyds Bank as a finance director in 1996. of the Lloyds Market Association, responsibilities have included and was the chief financial officer He trained as a general insurance becoming chairman on 1 January the casualty treaty portfolio and for the UK wholesale banking actuary, before pursuing a career 2016.
Neil was elected to the the SME and large risks portfolios, division of ING immediately prior in the composite insurance sector Council of Lloyds with effect before being promoted to head to joining Beazley.
He qualified with Aviva and Zurich Financial from 1 February 2016. of specialty lines in 2008. as a chartered accountant Services.
His experience spans Committee: Executive committee Committee: Executive committee with Coopers and Lybrand in personal and commercial lines 1987.
He joined the board general insurance, the London of Man Group plc in 2013 market, life insurance and asset as a non-executive director.
management in both the UK Committee: Executive and France.
committee chair Committee: Executive committee Our committees and committee chairmen Governance framework The audit and risk committee assists the board of directors Board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the financial reporting process, the system of internal control, the audit process, the companys process for monitoring compliance Audit and risk committee with laws and regulations and the code of conduct.
It also The audit and risk committee is ensures that an effective risk management process exists chaired by Angela Crawford-Ingle.
Clive Washbourn in the major regulated subsidiaries and that the Beazley group has an effective framework and process for Head of marine managing its risks.
Nomination committee Appointed: 04 December 2006 The nomination committee is The remuneration committee ensures that remuneration Experience: Clive has over chaired by Dennis Holt.
arrangements support the strategic aims of the business 30 years experience in the and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of marine insurance industry and Remuneration committee senior executives while complying with the requirements actively underwrites marine hull, of regulatory and governance bodies, satisfying the marine liability and marine The remuneration committee is expectations of shareholders and remaining consistent war risks.
with the expectations of the wider employee population.
Committee: Executive committee Executive committee The nomination committee is focused on evaluating the board of directors, ensuring an appropriate balance The executive committee is chaired of skills, considering and recommending board and byAndrew Horton and acts under committee candidates and considering board succession.
delegated authority from the board.
Find out more on pages 77 to 82 Where the appointment date of a director pre-dates 9 June 2009 being the date that Beazley plc became the holding company of Beazley Group this appointment date refers to their representation on the Beazley Group Limited board formerly Beazley Group plc.
com Annual report 2015 71 Dennis Holt Vincent Sheridan Padraic OConnor George Blunden Chairman Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 1 January 2010 Appointed: 21 July 2011 Appointed: 9 June 2009 Appointed: 13 March 2009 Experience: George is the senior Experience: Dennis has more than Experience: Vincent is currently Experience: Padraic is chairman independent director.
He retired 45 years experience in financial chairman of Mercer Ireland of the Irish Stock Exchange as as senior vice president and services markets.
He was formerly Limited and Mercer Global well as a non-executive director director from AllianceBernstein a main board executive director Investments Europe Limited.
He is of Rabobank Ireland plc and a Ltd in December 2009.
He had at Lloyds TSB 2000-2001, also a director of FBD Insurance number of other companies.
He previously been chief executive chief executive of AXA UK and a plc, Canada Life Assurance was managing director of NCB of Union plc, and a director of member of AXAs Global executive Europe Limited, Canada Life Group between 1991 and 1999, SG Warburg Securities, Seccombe, committee 2001-2006.
He has International Assurance Limited prior to which he was chief Marshall and Campion plc and been chairman of Liverpool and a number of other companies.
Before Meridian Investment Performance Victoria and deputy chairman He retired as chief executive of Vhi joining NCB, Padraic worked at Services.
He is the chairman of Bank of Ireland.
Dennis was Healthcare in 2008 and, prior to the Department of Finance and of the Charity Bank Ltd and appointed chairman of The that, was group chief executive of the Central Bank of Ireland.
He chairman of Stonewater Ltd. Co-operative Bank plc in 2014. the Norwich Union Insurance holds primary and postgraduate Committees: Audit and Committee: Nomination Group in Ireland for ten years from degrees in economics from risk committee, remuneration committee chair 1991 to 2001.
He is a past University College Dublin.
committee, nomination committee president of the Institute of Committee: Remuneration Chartered Accountants in Ireland committee chair and a former director of the Irish Stock Exchange.
Committee: Audit and risk committee Rolf Tolle Angela Crawford-Ingle Catherine Woods Sir Andrew Likierman Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 6 December 2010 Appointed: 27 March 2013 Appointed: 1 January 2016 Appointed: 25 March 2015 Experience: Rolf joined the board Experience: Angela is a chartered Experience: Catherine is the Experience: Andrew is dean of of Beazley Furlonge Limited accountant with extensive audit senior independent non-executive London Business School.
He retired as experience of multinational and director and audit committee founding director of the Executive franchise performance director listed companies.
She was a chairman of AIB plc, a nonMBA programme and has been a at Lloyds in December 2009 partner in  executive director of AIB Mortgage professor at the School for many after nearly seven years in the specialising in financial services Bank and chairman of EBS years.
His research interests are role, during which time he was for 20 years during which time she Limited.
She is the finance in the field of the measurement of widely credited with establishing led the insurance and investment expert on the adjudication performance.
Andrews career has a new and successful partnership management division and panel established by the Irish spanned the public and private between the Corporation of retired in 2008.
She is currently Government to oversee the rollout sectors: he has run a textile plant Lloyds and the market.
Prior to a partner in Ambre Partners, of the national broadband scheme in Germany, been head of the that, he served as chief underwriting a firm providing strategic, financial and is a former vice president Government Accountancy Service officer of Faraday Group, and operational advice.
Angela is and head of the European and was managing director of the General Res Lloyds insurance also currently a non-executive Banks equity research team at UK Treasury.
director and audit chair of JP Morgan.
Catherine is a former Committees: Remuneration Committee: Audit and Swinton Group Ltd and River and director of An Post, and a former committee, nomination risk committee Mercantile Group plc.
member of the Electronic committee Committee: Audit and risk Communications Appeals Panel.
