com 36 Specialty lines Strong US demand for specialist products fuels third year of growth.
Portfolio mix Technology, media 27% & business services Management liability 20% Small businesses 19% Professions 16% Healthcare 11% Treaty 6% Crime 1% Gross premiums written $m 1,200 1,000 800 Adrian Cox 600 Head of specialty lines 400 200 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Specialty lines, Beazleys largest division, grew for thethird consecutive year in 2015, writing gross premiums of $1,015.2m 2014: $895.7m.
Most of this growth derived from the US, where wehave been $1,015.2m building momentum since the end of the recession.
Gross premiums written Our focus in specialty lines is on professional and management liability business that demands strong underwriting skills and high standards of claims service.
Our clients want to know Most of the business we underwrite takes some time to that they have a seasoned and knowledgeable insurer in generate claims and we therefore frequently have an their corner in the event of being sued.
We deliver on this opportunity to release prior year reserves into our earnings requirement, having specialised in this business since the as claims crystallise.
These reserve releases contributed company was founded in 1986.
In recent years, we have expanded our capabilities in serving two of the largest and fastest growing industries in the US, technology and healthcare.
In the technology sector, we have long been recognised as a leading provider of technology errors and omissions insurance for software services companies, including many of the worlds largest.
We are now also recognised as a pioneer and market leader in data breach insurance.
In the healthcare market, we insure many of the largest hospitals in the US and around the world.
In recent years, we have also developed a fast growing business as a miscellaneous medical insurer of the wide array of healthcare providers that are neither hospitals nor physicians.
This business grew by 27% in 2015 to $51.3m, buoyed by continued growth in US healthcare spending that outstripped growth in the broader economy.
com Annual report 2015 37 Our management liability team confronted a more challenging Our Beazley Breach Response BBR Services team, the rating environment in 2015, with competition for large public dedicated business unit that helps our clients manage data company directors and officers D&O risks being particularly breaches effectively, has now helped clients handle more fierce.
However, in this area we have a number of strings to our than 3,000 data breaches.
bow, and demand for employment practices liability EPL and private company D&O insurance was strong.
EPL claims are We believe this experience will increasingly be relevant to very sensitive to the broader economic environment and we clients in Europe and elsewhere outside the US.
Privacy have seen claims levels decline steadily since the recession.
regulation is tightening around the world, although it may never prove quite as complex to navigate as in the US, where Our professions team insures nearly half of the AmLaw 47 states now have their own data breach regulations.
We 100 list of the largest US law firms and more than half of the expect to see particularly strong growth in the European Union, top 50 US architectural and engineering design firms, as ranked where an EU-wide regulation threatens to add steep financial by Engineering News-Record.
In common with other large risks, penalties to the already high reputational risks of mishandling competition for this business which we underwrite out of a data breach.
We were delighted to launch the cyber London was intense in 2015.
Nevertheless our underwriters consortium at Lloyds in partnership with syndicates managed have weathered soft market conditions before and we were by Brit and Aspen.
The consortium will focus on providing gratified by the loyalty of clients who value the quality of our cover to large businesses domiciled outside the US, bringing risk management and claims service.
additional premium capacity of up to $60m to this market.
One other business line that we bracket within our professions Although market conditions are challenging for many of the team also enjoyed robust growth in 2015.
This was our large risk classes of business underwritten at Lloyds, we saw environmental practice, led by Jayne Cunningham, which grew growth in our Lloyds business in 2015. by 40% to $25.9m.
The team provides fixed site pollution liability cover to property owners and developers as well as The past year was an excellent year for product development professional liability cover and other forms of protection for at Beazley.
In specialty lines, we launched new products environmental services firms.
This line of business has been to meet the specific needs of nutraceutical manufacturers: another beneficiary of the recovering US economy, which we provide wage and hour cover for US employers who fall foul underwrite on both our US and Lloyds platforms.
of complex and evolving labour laws: enhance the management liability and cyber liability protection afforded to US law firms: Our largest single business line data breach insurance and protect companies from fraudulent instruction the continued to grow strongly in 2015.
Across all our teams, risk of theft from fraudsters posing as vendors, clients or we increased the amount of data breach and cyber liability authorised employees.
business we underwrote in 2015 by 52% compared to 2014.
2015 was notable for two developments: a continued increase In all of these areas we rely heavily on strong broker and client in the number of data breaches attributable to hacking or relationships to help us identify the pain points that demand malware, and a strong uptick in demand for cover outside effective solutions.
We then put considerable effort into the US.
designing cover that effectively addresses the risk, frequently partnering with specialist external service providers to provide Hacking and malware accounted for 32% of the breach risk management or event response services.
notifications we received in 2015, up from 18% in 2014 and 10% in 2013.
We have been able to address this with premium Product innovation of this kind is frequently initially most rate rises where appropriate and have not found our client appealing to the larger clients employing risk managers who retention levels appreciably affected.
This is in part because the are most sensitive to the potential impact of emerging risks.
market as a whole has been raising rates but also, we believe, For smaller business, and particularly for the brokers that serve because our comprehensive service proposition continues to them, the most valuable innovations frequently takes the form be highly valued by clients and brokers.
of technologies that make it easier to do business.
We were particularly pleased to win in November an innovation award from Lloyds for myBeazley, our etrading platform for brokers to access our broadening range of specialist products tailored to the needs of small businesses.
