com Annual report 2015 17 In 2015, the market trends affecting our six divisions continued, able to address this by raising premium rates selectively, broadly, to follow the trajectories established in recent years.
while maintaining high client retention levels.
Our data breach Large, short-tail risks with significant catastrophe exposures business is largely focused on small and mid sized firms, with faced the toughest market conditions, with rates for energy a relatively low exposure to the large scale breaches that trigger risks falling by 17%, marine hull risks by 6%, and large scale the largest class action lawsuits.
Our reinsurance division saw renewal rates fall by 7%, slightly less than we had expected because Outside the US, the economic picture was more mixed and demand for US windstorm cover was stronger than anticipated.
this had some repercussions for the frequency of claims Competitive pressures were also severe for large scale notifications.
With commodity prices depressed, our political professional liability risks for clients such as global law firms risks underwriters have seen an uptick in trade credit and major US hospitals and hospital systems.
notifications relating to mining companies, but the severity of such claims looks modest and well within existing reserves.
By contrast, competition for smaller professional liability and management liability business in the US was less intense, and Our global claims team, under the leadership of Anthony this was our main engine of growth.
Overall, we have seen the Hobkinson, continues to grow in size and expertise.
In alternate balance of our portfolio tilt more towards small and mid-sized years, we hold an expert retreat for the large architect and risks in recent years as profitable growth opportunities in these engineering A&E firms that have been a mainstay of our segments have been more numerous.
Rates across our largest professional liability business since Beazley was founded in division, specialty lines, rose 2% in 2015 while rates fell across 1986.
This took place in Montreal in May this year, enabling our other five divisions.
For Beazley as a whole rates on renewal our A&E claims team to analyse complex claims scenarios with business fell by 2% year on year.
our defence law firm partners and longstanding clients.
Events of this kind, described in more detail on pages 10 to 11, offer Prior year reserve releases amounted to $176.3m, up 12% our claims professionals additional opportunities to add value 2014: $158.1m.
For our short-tail business, this reflected to our client relationships.
the benign claims environment we have seen in recent years.
Our conservative approach to reserving normally permits us to Investment performance make reserve releases as the ultimate level of claims becomes Our investment portfolio as a whole returned 1.3% during clear.
In the case of our specialty lines business, which we 2015 2014: 1.9%.
This is a good outcome in the context of categorise as medium-tail, reserve releases generally become low interest rates and volatile risk asset markets, particularly available three to six years after the business was underwritten.
in the second half of the year.
All components of our investment portfolio generated positive returns for the year.
Stuart Simpson now takes on the role of chief investment officer, following Philip Find out more on page 169 Howards decision to step down from this role at the end of 2015.
Stuarts team is responsible for developing our Claims activity investment strategy, subject to a defined risk appetite and the Catastrophe claims were once again subdued in 2015. oversight of the investment committee and board.
On page 130 An exception was the Tianjin warehouse explosion in China to the financial statements, we have included new disclosures in August, which killed 173 and generated insurance losses about our approach to investment risk.
Beazley has seen no significant loss from this event.
Risk management Our biggest risk management focus given our business The economy in our principal market, the US, continues to derives from the possibility of our mispricing insurance rebound from the economic downturn, easing claims activity on a large scale.
This is mitigated by the diversification of on our professional liability and management liability books.
our portfolio and by the depth of our underwriters experience These claims tend to increase at times of economic stress as in core lines of business, which means that we have weathered potential plaintiffs become more litigious.
In our largest line of multiple market cycles and are well aware of the perils of business, data breach insurance, we have seen an increase in a soft market.
claims driven by hacking and malware attacks.
We have been Beazley Annual report 2015 www.
com 18 Chief executives statement continued Growth of locally underwritten US premiums 21% 2014: 19% This awareness is reinforced by our underwriting standards, A second advantage is our track record of innovation, which which our risk management team, led by our chief risk officer continues to attract brokers with new or hard-to-place risks Andrew Pryde, reviewed in detail in 2015.
We found the to the Beazley box at Lloyds and to our underwriters around standards to be effective in the current soft market conditions.
Our innovations often take the form of one-off manuscripted policy wordings to address unique client needs, but we also continue to design innovative products to tap We also conducted a detailed review of our data breach and cyber portfolio, which now represents our largest single line broader market demand.
Our portfolio is well diversified across industry segments and the short tail nature of data breach claims allows New products often take time to gain traction, given the limited flexibility of clients insurance budgets.
An example is for rapid adjustment of terms and conditions in the event of regulatory liability insurance for hospitals and other healthcare changes in claim frequency.
Nevertheless we continue to model providers, which we first launched in 2012 and embedded in aggregation scenarios carefully including developing a cyber a comprehensive management liability policy for healthcare realistic disaster scenario RDS and cover peak exposures providers, Beazley Remedy, last year.
This insurance protects with reinsurance.
For further details on this please refer to healthcare providers against the costs and consequences of page 128 in note 2 to the financial statements.
erroneously billing US federal benefit programmes like Medicare or Medicaid for patient treatment.
The rules governing this are Conduct risk is a focus for regulators in our industry.
This extremely complex, presenting real jeopardy for hospitals.
We relates essentially to ensuring we sell appropriate products, expect demand for this product to increase significantly in 2016. to the right customers and that these products achieve a fair outcome for them.
For us this is more than a purely regulatory A third advantage for Beazley in pursuing growth opportunities concern it is an expression of Beazleys culture and values.
is our attractiveness to talented underwriters, who bring us new broker relationships and income streams.
In this way, Simon Jackson In December, we were delighted to receive confirmation that and John Brown, who joined our open market property team our Solvency II internal model application was approved by in London at the beginning of last year, succeeded in reversing the Central Bank of Ireland CBI.
This represents a key what would otherwise likely have been a shrinkage in our large achievement for the group and demonstrates that the risk property business under the pressure of falling premium significant level of our investments in people, systems and rates.
In the event, this book grew modestly in 2015. processes over a number of years are bearing fruit.
Our fourth advantage is our widely recognised position as Growth opportunities a leader in the provision of both indemnity cover and response Opportunities for growth are naturally constrained in an services to companies that fall victim to data breaches.
This is insurance market that remains awash with capacity, particularly both a fast growing and a large market, relevant to any business for lines of business that can readily be modelled and are that holds large volumes of personally identifiable customer therefore attractive to new capital providers such as pension information.
Already a well-established line of business in the funds.
In this environment, Beazley has four advantages that US, data breach insurance is now generating increasing are not available to all of our competitors.
demand in Europe under the influence of high profile data breaches and impending tighter regulation.
We are working The first and most important of these is the expertise closely with other Lloyds insurers to promote the Lloyds market of our underwriters in identifying profitable market niches as Europes leading hub for cyber insurance.
that present attractive growth potential.
We see significant growth opportunities for our environmental risk underwriters, While seeking to exploit all of these assets, we have also sought particularly in the US, in the year ahead.
We have also seen to expand our knowledge of promising markets that we know strong growth in demand for professional liability and other less well.
This was part of the rationale for our partnership liability covers for healthcare providers that are not hospitals with Korean Re, announced in March.
Korean Re is a top ten or physicians a varied market segment known in our industry global reinsurer, the dominant reinsurer in South Korea and as miscellaneous medical or allied health, and we expect this an excellent partner for distributing Beazley products in Asia.
We hope this collaboration will enable Beazley to write more business in Asia while we, in turn, help Korean Re to develop a track record at Lloyds.
com Annual report 2015 19 In attracting such individuals our strong financial track record Investing in our business is clearly an asset, but I believe the attitude of our existing To capitalise on all of these advantages we are continuing to employees is even more important.
In June, we engaged with invest heavily in the people and the infrastructure our business Aon Hewitt to survey our employees with a view to establishing requires.
Our headcount in the US, where we expect to continue levels of employee engagement across the company a metric to grow strongly this year, rose from 384 to 421 last year as that is closely correlated to positive business outcomes such as we continued to build on our successful strategy to equip our talent retention, customer satisfaction and long term financial offices in six hub cities New York, Chicago, San Francisco, performance.
The survey was taken by 89% of our employees Los Angeles, Dallas and Atlanta with the underwriting and and positioned Beazley in the top quartile of companies claims expertise to offer our brokers a full product range.
surveyed in terms of employee engagement.
Technology plays a major, and growing, role in enhancing the The opinions of our people, as well as the confidence of our productivity of our people and making it easier for brokers brokers and clients, matter more to us than the plaudits of to do business with us.
We raised our level of technology our peers.
Nevertheless, we were gratified to receive three investment in 2015.
Among an array of initiatives, we upgraded accolades as insurance company of the year from Reactions our IT data centres to provide a more scalable infrastructure, magazine, the Insurance Insider, and Insurance Day.
with particular emphasis on ensuring we can support long term growth in the US market.
We have also invested in increasing Outlook the resilience of our data centres so that we minimise downtime, should a business continuity event occur.
Commoditisation is a constant challenge for a specialist insurer, as capital moves ever faster into niche areas, depressing In November, we were delighted to win a Lloyds Innovation prices.
There is clearly a large surfeit of capital relative to demand in many parts of todays commercial lines insurance Award for myBeazley, our etrading system for brokers which launched in the UK and France in 2014.
In the absence of capital-depleting catastrophe losses, it is unrealistic to suppose that even the most nimble and to broaden the range of small business products available to brokers through myBeazley and we plan to make the system resourceful insurers can maintain the returns on equity that they have achieved in recent years.
available to US brokers in 2016.
Service is a differentiator that may come more to the fore in The myBeazley system exemplifies our approach to innovation in technology as well as in product design.
The system was this environment, when the temptation is to cut back on service levels to save on costs.
We are doing the opposite, seeking designed in the light of exhaustive research with brokers into their needs and preferences.
to deliver a standard of service to our clients and brokers that is appreciably superior to our competitors.
Attracting talent The chairman highlighted that we will be asking shareholders to We have found that a market in which most insurers struggle vote in March 2016 on a scheme of arrangement that will allow to grow has been, for us, a fertile market for talent.
The wave us to run the group from the UK going forward.
This will simplify of mergers and acquisitions that continues to sweep through the management and decision making of the group and allow our industry has contributed, I believe, to our appeal to the companys shareholders to access a UK dividend stream individuals with a strong entrepreneurial streak who are and I would thus ask our shareholders to support this change.
dismayed at the prospect of working for far larger insurance companies.
Our vision at Beazley is anchored to our performance relative to the best of our peers in the industry.
It is to become, and be recognised as, the highest performing specialist insurer.
Against this yardstick, our strategy is working.
Andrew Horton Chief executive 3 February 2016
