com 6 Diversified business Our diversified portfolio allows us to implement efficient cycle For our shareholders, Beazley management and to underwrite more premium and have more invested assets per dollar of capital than our peers.
aims to deliver sector leading We assess the merits of writing a new line of business very carefully with an eye to the effect on the diversification of returns on equity with relatively our portfolio.
The key to this Our approach goes well beyond diversification by line of performance over time is the business.
We also diversify by geography and size of clients smaller risks are often less volatile over the insurance cycle balance of Beazleys portfolio than larger risks.
In addition, our business is a balance of across specialist classes driven short-tail, meaning that claims usually emerge within a year of the policys inception, and medium-tail, which means by different cycles.
that claims on average take up to six years to crystallise fully.
The evolution of our portfolio by line of business and the impact this diversification has had on our combined ratio over the past five years can be seen in the chart on the next page.
com Annual report 2015 7 The first decision for Beazley in expanding internationally is: Growth in the global market: Can we write this business out of London?
Lloyds remains by far the worlds largest and most vibrant wholesale and a tale of three cities reinsurance market and most large risk business can readily be transacted there.
However other regional markets are growing and, particularly for smaller and less complex risks, it often makes sense to have a local underwriting presence.
In Singapore, Paris and Miami, Beazley underwriters have been able to access profitable business that they would not have seen at the box at Lloyds.
Our Singapore office opened in 2006 and Beazley is now one of a number of Lloyds insurers writing a wide range of business lines in the regions leading insurance hub.
Beazleys Paris office celebrates its tenth anniversary this year: in 2015 we continued to build our local team, recruiting French underwriters to write treaty reinsurance and small scale professional indemnity business.
The newest of the three offices Miami opened in July 2013 and the citys strategic value as a hub for Latin American insurance and reinsurance business is becoming increasingly clear.
In these cities and in other locations around the world where Beazley has put down roots, our approach is not to make large acquisitions that present complex integration challenges.
Instead we aim to hire seasoned professional underwriters who know the market well and possess strong broker relationships.
It takes longer to grow this way but it is safer and, we have found, more effective in growing profitably.
Diversified portfolio achieves consistent combined ratio through market cycles 160% 140% 120% 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Lines of business Diversified portfolio Beazley Annual report 2015 www.
com 8 Diversified business continued Managed gross premiums growth by division $m Life, accident & health Marine Political risks & contingency With an experienced team of leading We help insure in excess of 20% of the worlds In addition to traditional lines such as underwriters who have been together since ocean-going tonnage and are the pre-eminent contract frustration, expropriation and credit, the early 1990s, our personal accident and leader of voyage and tow business in the we insure a growing number of businesses specialty life business is written on both an London market.
We insure 30% of the top against terrorism and political violence.
insurance and reinsurance basis and covers 200 oil and gas companies and are a major Our contingency team is one of the strongest a number of niche classes, including sports lead for upstream energy clients.
We have in the London market.
We also specialise in disability.
The business was acquired by extensive experience insuring a wide variety of event cancellation writing everything from Beazley in 2008 and has grown since then cargoes including project, fine art and specie.
organically and through further acquisition.
