com 4 Strong partnerships Our insureds understand that, for us to deliver on this Our business is not conducted expectation, we need to charge a fair premium to cover the risk even if, for a time, a competitor may be willing to write the through anonymous transactions same risks for less.
By adopting this approach, we have been able to provide insureds with reliable cover, year after year.
we rely on strong relationships with both brokers and insureds.
We believe that brokers add enormous value to insureds in the purchase of insurance and reinsurance in the areas in The reciprocity of these relationships which we specialise.
All of our underwriters work constantly to strengthen their personal relationships with brokers matters.
Strong partnerships and our broker relations team, headed by Dan Jones, withinsureds are based on the keeps a close watch on our corporate broker relationships.
We understand that the best insurance products in the expectation that Beazley will world will not realise their potential without the support and advocacy of well informed brokers.
beprepared to provide continuity of coverage over the years.
com Annual report 2015 5 A strong focus on service The sales and service strategic initiative was launched in the summer of 2015.
On the sales side, it aims to significantly improve our ability to deliver profitable top-line growth, achieving a higher close rate on opportunities and better retention rates using enhanced sales skills.
On the service side, we are targeting best in class service evaluations from our brokers across all geographies and product lines.
This encompasses the service we provide to our insureds as well, because exceptional service for Many brokers tell us they love our service the speed an insured should help the broker retain the business, even in the face of stiff with which they can get a response from a Beazley price competition.
Service to insureds is therefore a major component of underwriter, the effort we put into resolving a complex broker service.
Our sales and service initiative is designed A strong focus on service is well suited to our specialist business.
By definition, to build on these foundations to strengthen our broker as a specialist insurer we seek lines of relationships still further.
business that are not commoditised, where we can add value through more Dan Jones than keen pricing.
In recent years, Head of broker relations we have expanded the scope of our service to insureds in important ways, beyond the traditional provision of indemnity-based insurance, to provide expert risk management and incident response services.
Our broker relations team works to strengthen broker relationships globally.
From left: Ricardo Ortega Rio fide Janeiro, Rachel Hallett London, and Will Roscoe London.
