com 32 Property Small business shows strongest growth in diversified portfolio.
Portfolio mix Commercial property 56% Small property business 21% Jewellers & homeowners 14% Engineering 9% Gross premiums written $m 400 320 240 Mark Bernacki 160 Head of property 80 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 $353.1m Gross premiums written 359.4 376.7 371.4 344.7 353.1 Strategic report Beazley www.
com Annual report 2015 33 While the rating environment for all these lines of business The property division delivered another strong was favourable for modest growth, with rates broadly stable, performance in 2015, making the second largest the same cannot be said of the large risk open market property contribution to group profits in our history, despite risks we saw at the Beazley box at Lloyds.
Renewal rates on continuing rating pressure affecting the large risks this business were on average down by 8%.
We were still able to grow the book slightly however, to $98.1m 2014: $96.8m, business we underwrite at Lloyds.
due to new relationships that Simon Jackson and John Brown, two senior underwriters who joined us in January, brought to In recent years, the balance of our book has evolved as we Beazley.
Simon succeeded Jonathan Gray as head of the open have expanded in market segments that afford profitable market property team in June.
growth opportunities and exercised discipline in segments exposed to intense competition.
This has resulted in our small In the US we also welcomed a senior new hire last year: Ron business unit, led by Paul Bromley, becoming the largest single Beauregard, a highly experienced executive with a strong track segment of our portfolio.
in building profitable surplus lines property businesses, joined us in April to head our excess and surplus lines E&S property Nevertheless, all of our teams performed well in 2015 and, team.
We see potential growth opportunities in this area of should market conditions change, we are well positioned to our business, which focuses on mid-sized commercial lines adjust our underwriting appetite accordingly.
Such changes business with some catastrophe exposures.
can happen swiftly, as we saw in 2012 when rates were strongest for large risks, rising 8%.
Our construction and engineering insurance business had a good year.
We focus on all types of construction risks, written However, it was our small business unit that made most out of London, Singapore and the US.
The US business is of the running last year, growing to $123.7m 2014: $120.3m.
commonly known as builders risk.
The growth of the US The unit comprises various books of business, the largest of economy spurred demand for our products and our Singapore which derives from Lloyds coverholders, mostly located in the business continued to benefit from the growing strength of US, who underwrite risks for us under delegated authorities.
Lloyds franchise in the region and is one of the few places The key to success in this market segment is to work in the world, outside London, where Lloyds underwriters are collaboratively with coverholders and Lloyds brokers and located under one roof.
monitor their performance closely, which Paul Bromley and his colleagues do particularly well.
We enjoy strong relationships with the other Lloyds syndicates specialising in construction and engineering risks and A fast growing segment of our small business book is have formed a consortium in London and Singapore, the homeowners insurance for properties located both in the Construction Consortium at Lloyds, to ensure that we can UK and the US: this book grew 25% to $64.9m last year.
compete head to head with the largest non Lloyds insurers.
Both of these ventures performed well in 2015.
Also within the small business unit is our jewellers block business, one of the lines of business Beazley is best known Looking ahead, we will continue to seek out growth opportunities for at Lloyds.
We were able to show the value of our service in in the face of market conditions that we expect to remain April when, following an audacious heist in Hatton Garden, the challenging.
We were gratified to be recognised as insurance centre of Londons jewellery trade, we settled our policyholders team of the year by Reactions magazine in June: its a claims within a month.
Our jewellers block business grew designation we will strive to merit every year.
moderately in 2015, boosted by us winning a number of international accounts.
