com 2 Entrepreneurial spirit For us entrepreneurial spirit has a very specific meaning, Corporate culture matters.
a meaning that guides us in evaluating new hires to our underwriting teams around the world.
We look for individuals Our open, collegial and who have a strong sense of ownership for the business that they underwrite and are willing indeed keen to be collaborative culture means our accountable for their underwriting decisions.
We also look clients and brokers interact with for individuals who have a broad understanding of the ways in which economic, political and social changes can impact entrepreneurial underwriters their book.
who give straight answers and Entrepreneurial spirit is clearly an important part of the make decisions quickly.
psychology of the successful Beazley underwriter.
However, a combination of specialist skills and an ability to see the bigger picture also distinguishes Beazley employees in other areas, including claims management and operations.
Many of our employees have a single focus.
They possess deep expertise in a particular field and appreciate the opportunity to put it to good use.
Other employees might be seen, in career terms, as serial entrepreneurs.
In other words they look for opportunities to work in a range of different fields and often geographies during their time at Beazley.
As Beazley has grown the companys workforce has more than doubled in size since 2007 our ability to invite high performing employees to obtain experience in different roles and geographies has also grown.
On the page opposite we profile three individuals who have chosen varied career paths at Beazley.
com Annual report 2015 3 Career pathways Olivia Stafford Gavin Hayes After 11 years working in the London I joined Beazley in 2004 after eight years insurance market initially in underwriting at another Lloyds syndicate, where but latterly in finance roles I joined I focused mainly on D&O insurance.
My timing was good: Beazley has grown At Beazley I joined the large risk E&O strongly since, supported by a 150m team.
This was before we had the rights issue in 2009. different sub teams we have now focusing on particular E&O lines.
I was promoted twice, assuming in 2010 We all just worked on the renewals Reid Jaffe responsibility for all external financial that came in, whether they be lawyers reporting at Beazley.
I am proud that professional indemnity, tech E&O, or I joined Beazley in the summer of 2007 Beazley has built a reputation for high architects and engineers professional quality, transparent reporting to investors.
I was Beazleys 101st employee in the US were now In October 2015 I moved out of the In 2007 I was asked if I would join the at more than 400.
My first job was with the high value homeowners team in finance department, accepting the role healthcare team, which was expanding.
of head of data management.
Reliable I received great support in learning the Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida.
Within two years I was given an opportunity to join and timely data is fundamental to running ropes of this quite technically complex an organisation such as ours and is key class of business and became focus the commercial property team as an underwriting assistant.
group leader for the US hospitals professional liability book, then the In 2009 that team of four expanded There are major changes taking place largest in the London market.
All my in the ways in which data is used by travel was to the US.
ten-fold with the acquisition of First State Management Group, a specialist excess insurers.
At Beazley, we are at the beginning of a journey to capture and Meanwhile, Beazley had identified and surplus lines E&S property insurer, from the Hartford.
Shortly after the capitalise on proprietary data, improving Singapore as the principal hub for the both our risk selection and operational development of our business in the merger I moved to Atlanta where I was promoted to underwriter.
In 2014 I was approached to consider moving to five years in Atlanta with a short stint in New York.
Singapore to lead our strategic growth initiative there.
I was unfamiliar with In 2014 I moved to San Francisco as the market but reassured that we already had numerous locally recruited, lead underwriter for the West Coast.
After a little more than a year, I returned seasoned underwriters in place.
to Atlanta our biggest office for property insurance as the focus group leader I moved to Singapore in March 2015.
I love the culture here I now work with multiple trading teams for E&S Property in the Southeast.
focusing on a wide spread of the people are encouraged specialist business classes for which Beazley has offered me career opportunities I would never have to ask questions, Beazley is well known globally.
My role encompasses broker relations, marketing, envisaged when I joined the company take risks, and think fresh from college.
I love the culture and optimising our infrastructure to enable us to write all our target classes here people are encouraged to unconventionally.
ask questions, take risks, and think of business efficiently and to high service standards.
