Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Accountability Directors responsibilities The BGEO Board also confirms that it has carried out a robust Statements explaining our responsibilities as Directors for assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those preparing the Annual Report and consolidated and stand-alone that would threaten its business model, future performance, financial statements can be found on page 124.
statement is provided on page 124 confirming that the Board The Groups principal risks and uncertainties and how we considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is mitigate these risks and uncertainties are outlined on pages fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 48 to 51. necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and BGEOs performance, business model and strategy.
The statement of The BGEO Board has determined that having separate Audit and disclosure of information to our auditor is also set out on page 124.
Risk Committees, each with specific Terms of Reference, assists it in creating an effective risk management framework and provides Risk management and internal control the challenge and review necessary across the Group.
The The BGEO Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk Committees collaborate with one another, as appropriate, to management and internal control framework.
The BGEO Board, ensure that matters of mutual interest raised in either of the which is assisted by the Audit Committee and Risk Committee, Committees are discussed.
confirms that it monitors the Groups risk management and internal control systems and carries out a review of their effectiveness, at The Audit Committee Report and Risk Committee Report can least annually.
The monitoring and review covers all material be found on pages 100 to 105 of this section.
In addition, Note controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
29 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements provides additional detail regarding risk management and A discussion of BGEOs risk management and internal control internal control procedures.
framework can be found on pages 46 to 47.
Since the Bank is the Groups largest business and operates in the complex financial services sector, its risk management framework and internal control processes are key to that of the Group.
A detailed description of the Banks risk management framework and internal control processes can be found on pages 52 to 59.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 99
