Governance Directors Governance Statement Leadership Our Board of Directors We see our Board as a team comprised of individuals each having an area of expertise, but who collectively engage in the full range of issues facing the Group.
Kakhaber Kaha Al Breach Kiknavelidze Non-Executive CEO Senior Independent Independent Chairman Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director 06.
Hanna Loikkanen Georgadze Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director 86 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information 01.
David Morrison Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Mr Janin was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 24 October 2011 David Morrison was appointed as the Senior Independent and has been re-elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 24 October 2011 and has been Mr Janin serves as Chairman of BGEOs Nomination Committee as re-elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Morrison well as a member of BGEOs Remuneration Committee.
Mr Janin also assumed the role of Chairman of BGEOs Audit Committee in serves as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Bank, having December 2013, prior to which he served as a member of the stepped down as Chairman in July 2015, a position he had held Committee.
Mr Morrison is also a member of BGEOs Remuneration since 2010.
Mr Janin continues to serve as a member of the Banks and Nomination Committees, and serves on the Banks Supervisory Remuneration Committee, a position he has held since 2010.
Mr Janin Board and as a member of the Banks Audit and Remuneration also serves as a Non-Executive Director of Georgia Healthcare Group Committees, positions he has held since 2010.
Mr Morrison is a PLC and a member of the Supervisory Board of JSC Georgia Non-Executive Director of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC and a Healthcare Group.
member of the Supervisory Board of JSC Georgia Healthcare Group.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mr Janin serves as counsel to CEOs of both for-profit and non-profit Mr Morrison is a member of the New York bar and worked for 28 years organisations and continues to provide consulting services to at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP until he withdrew from the firm in 2007 to pursue other interests.
At Sullivan & Cromwell, he served as Managing McKinsey & Company.
Prior to joining the Bank in 2010, Mr Janin was a Director of McKinsey & Company, based in its Paris office, for over Partner of the firms Continental European offices.
His practice focused on advising public companies in a transactional context, including 27 years, from 1982 until his retirement.
At McKinsey & Company, he conducted engagements in the retail, asset management and capital raisings, IPOs and mergers and acquisitions.
Key clients included investment banks and a wide range of commercial and corporate banking sectors, and was actively involved in every aspect of organisational practice, including design, leadership, governance, industrial companies.
He advised on a number of the largest privatisations in Europe, and was advisor to Germanys development performance enhancement and transformation.
In 2009, while serving as a member of the French Institute of Directors, Mr Janin authored a bank, Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau KfW for over 20 years serving on the Board of Directors of KfWs finance subsidiary.
Mr Morrison is position paper on the responsibilities of the board of directors with regard to the design and implementation of a companys strategy.
the author of several publications on securities law-related topics, and has been recognised as a leading lawyer in Germany and France.
Before joining McKinsey & Company, Mr Janin worked for Chase Manhattan Bank now JP Morgan Chase in New York and Paris, and In 2008, Mr Morrison turned his attention to nature protection Procter & Gamble in Toronto.
Mr Janin has practised in Europe, Asia and North America.
He became the Founding CEO of the Caucasus Nature Fund CNF, a charitable trust fund dedicated to nature conservation Mr Janin is also a Director of Neil Janin Limited, a company through in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
He resigned as CEO in March 2016 and now serves on the Board of Directors of CNF.
In 2015, which he provides consulting services.
Mr Morrison helped to create a new conservation trust fund for the Balkans, known as Prespa Ohrid Nature Trust PONT.
He now serves Education: as PONTs CEO on an interim basis.
Mr Janin holds an MBA from York University, Toronto, and a joint honours degree in Economics and Accounting from McGill University, Montreal.
Education: Mr Morrison received his undergraduate degree from Yale College, received his law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, 02.
Irakli Gilauri and was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Frankfurt.
CEO Irakli Gilauri was appointed as an Executive Director of BGEO on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Gilauri has served as CEO of BGEO since his appointment in 2011, and was appointed Chairman of the Bank in September 2015, having previously served as CEO of the Bank since May 2006.
Mr Gilauri also serves as CEO of JSC BGEO Group and Chairman of the Board of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC and Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of JSC Georgia Healthcare Group, insurance company Aldagi and the Tree of Life Foundation.
He is also a member of the Supervisory Board of the following subsidiaries: Georgia Global Utilities, Agron Group, Belarusky Narodny 2 Bank, Galt & Taggart Holdings and m Real Estate.
Skills and experience: Before his employment with the Bank, Mr Gilauri was a banker at the EBRDs Tbilisi and London offices for five years, where he worked on transactions involving debt and private equity investments in Georgian companies.
Education: Mr Gilauri received his undergraduate degree in Business Studies, Economics and Finance from the University of Limerick, Ireland, in 1998.
He was later awarded the Chevening Scholarship, granted by the British Council, to study at the CASS Business School of City University, London, where he obtained his MSc in Banking and International Finance.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 87 Governance Directors Governance Statement Leadership continued 04.
Kim Bradley Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Al Breach was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Kim Bradley was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by Director of BGEO on 19 December 2013 and has been re-elected shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Breach serves as Chairman by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Bradley serves as of BGEOs Remuneration Committee and serves as a member of Chairman of the BGEO Risk Committee and a member of BGEOs BGEOs Risk and Nomination Committees.
Mr Breach also serves as Audit and Nomination Committees.
Mr Bradley was also appointed to a member of the Banks Supervisory Board and Chairman of the the Banks Supervisory Board in December 2013 and serves as Banks Remuneration Committee, positions he has held since 2010, Chairman of the Banks Risk Committee and as a member the Banks and has also been a member of the Banks Risk Committee since Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mr Bradley retired from Goldman Sachs in early 2013, following 15 In 2013, Mr Breach co-founded Gemsstock Limited, a UK FCAyears as a professional in the Real Estate Principal Investments and regulated fund manager, where he also serves as an Executive Realty Management divisions, where he focused on investment in both Director.
In 2010, Mr Breach founded Furka Advisors AG, a SwissEuropean real estate and distressed debt.
based asset management firm, and served as an Executive Director until founding Gemsstock Limited, which manages the Gemsstock In addition to his investment activities, Mr Bradley led Goldmans asset Fund, which was previously called the Gemsstock Growth Fund and management affiliates in France, Italy and Germany, where he was managed by Mr Breach at Furka Advisors AG.
His previous career involved in financial and tax audits as well as management of internal was in research in investment banks, principally in Russia.
He has also served as President of Societa Gestione 2003, Mr Breach joined Brunswick UBS later UBS Russia as Chief Crediti, a member of the Board of Directors of Capitalia Service Joint Economist, and later was appointed Head of Research and Managing Venture in Italy and Chairman of the Shareholders Board at Archon Director until October 2007.
From 1998 to 2002, Mr Breach was a Capital Bank Deutschland in Germany.
Prior to Goldman Sachs, he Russia and FSU Former Soviet Union economist at Goldman served as a Senior Executive at GE Capital for seven years in both the Sachs, based in Moscow.
Mr Breach is also the co-founder of The United States and Europe, where his activities included real estate Browser.
com, a web-based curator of current affairs writing, workouts and restructuring, as well as acquisitions.
Prior to GE established in 2008.
Capital, Mr Bradley held senior executive positions at Manufacturers Hanover Trust now part of JP Morgan and Dollar Dry Dock Bank.
He Mr Breach serves as a Director of Gemsstock Limited, the Gemsstock has also served as a Peace Corps volunteer and as a consultant with Fund, The Browser and Furka Holdings AG, all of which are private the US Agency for International Development in Cameroon.
He is also an advisor to East Capital.
Education: Education: Mr Bradley holds an MA in International Affairs from the Columbia Mr Breach obtained an MSc in Economics from the London School of University School of International Affairs and an undergraduate degree Economics and an undergraduate degree in Mathematics and in English Literature from the University of Arizona.
Kakhaber Kaha Kiknavelidze Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Tamaz Georgadze was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Kaha Kiknavelidze was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 19 December 2013 and has been re-elected by Director of BGEO on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Georgadze serves as a shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Kiknavelidze serves as a member of BGEOs Risk and Nomination Committees.
Mr Georgadze member of BGEOs Audit, Risk and Nomination Committees.
was also appointed to the Banks Supervisory Board in December Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as a member of the Banks Supervisory 2013 and serves as a member of the Banks Risk Committee.
Board and Audit Committee, positions he has held since 2008, and has also been a member of the Banks Risk Committee since Skills and experience: December 2014.
In 2013, Mr Georgadze founded SavingGlobal GmbH, a company which launched the first global deposit intermediation in Europe and Skills and experience: he continues to serve as its Executive Director.
Prior to founding this Mr Kiknavelidze is the founder and Managing Partner of Rioni Capital company, Mr Georgadze had a 10-year career at McKinsey & Partners LLP and an Executive Director of Rioni Capital Services Ltd, Company in Berlin, where he served as a Partner from 2009 to 2013. an investment management company he continues to operate from At McKinsey & Company, he conducted engagements with banks in London.
Mr Kiknavelidze has over 15 years of experience in the equity Germany, Switzerland, Russia, Georgia and Vietnam, focusing on markets, including serving as an Executive Director of UBS, where he strategy, risk identification and management, deposit and investment supervised the Russian oil and gas research team.
Prior to joining products, operations and sales.
Prior to joining McKinsey & Company, UBS, he spent eight years at Troika Dialog, initially covering metals and Mr Georgadze worked as an aide to the President of Georgia in the mining and the utilities sectors and, later, as Deputy Head of Research Foreign Relations Department from 1994 to 1995. and Associate Partner, leading the oil and gas team.
Mr Kiknavelidze began his career at the Bank as a Financial Manager in 1994.
Save for his role at SavingGlobal GmbH, Mr Georgadze does not hold any other directorships.
Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as an Executive Director of Scholae Mundi Foundation, a charity, and as a Non-Executive Director of the Georgian Education: Stock Exchange and OAS Zontik SICAV, a Luxembourg-based fund.
Mr Georgadze holds two PhDs, one in Economics from Tbilisi State University and the other in Agricultural Economics from Justus-Liebig Education: University Gieen, Germany.
Mr Georgadze also studied Law at Mr Kiknavelidze received his undergraduate degree in Economics with Justus-Liebig Universitt Gieen and graduated with honours.
honours from the Georgian Agrarian University in Tbilisi, Georgia, and received his MBA from Emory University.
88 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information 08.
Hanna Loikkanen Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Bozidar Djelic was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Hanna Loikkanen was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 19 December 2013 and has been re-elected by Director of BGEO by the Board in June 2015 and will be proposed for shareholders at each AGM thereafter.
Mr Djelic serves as a member of election by shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
Ms Loikkanen is also BGEOs Risk and Nomination Committees.
Mr Djelic was also a member of BGEOs Nomination Committee and was appointed to appointed to the Banks Supervisory Board in December 2013 and BGEOs Audit Committee in March 2016.
Ms Loikkanen was also serves as a member of the Banks Risk Committee.
appointed to the Banks Supervisory Board in August 2015.
Ms Loikkanen previously served as a Non-Executive Director of BGEO Skills and experience: from 2011 until 2013 and as a member of the Banks Supervisory Board from 2010 until 2013.
Since January 2014, Mr Djelic has served as Managing Director in the Sovereign Advisory Department of Lazard, based in Paris.
Mr Djelic also currently serves as a member of EBRDs Transition to Transition Skills and experience: Senior Advisory Group.
Prior to this, he served as Deputy Prime Ms Loikkanen has over 20 years of experience working with financial Minister for European Integration and as Minister of Science and institutions in Russia and Eastern Europe.
She currently serves as an Technological Development of Serbia from 2008 to 2011.
From 2007 advisor to East Capital Private Equity AB.
Prior to this, she served from to 2008, Bozidar served as sole Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia, and 2010 until 2012 as the Chief Representative and Head of the Private as Governor of the World Bank Group and Deputy Governor of the Equity team at East Capital, a Swedish asset management company EBRD.
From 2005 to 2007, he was Crdit Agricole Groups Director for in Moscow, with a special focus on financial institutions.
Prior to joining Eastern Europe and the FSU Former Soviet Union, leading the East Capital, Ms Loikkanen held the position of Country Manager and acquisition and management of several banks in the region.
From Chief Executive Officer at FIM Group in Russia, a Finnish investment 2001 to 2004, Mr Djelic served as Minister of Finance and Economy of bank, where she was responsible for setting up and running FIM Serbia, leading the countrys macro and banking reform.
From 1993 to Groups brokerage and corporate finance operations in Russia.
During 2000, he worked at McKinsey & Company in Paris and Silicon Valley, her tenure at FIM Group, the company advised several large foreign specialising in financial institutions, asset management and media.
He companies in their M&A activities in Russia.
Earlier in her career, has also held various advisory positions, including advisor to the Polish Ms Loikkanen worked for Nordea Finance in various management and Romanian Governments.
positions in Poland, the Baltic States and Scandinavia with a focus on business development, strategy and business integration: for SEB in Mr Djelic does not hold any other directorships.
Moscow where she was responsible for the restructuring of SEBs debt capital market operations in Russia: and for MeritaNordbanken in St Petersburg where she focused on trade finance and correspondent Education: banking.
Mr Djelic holds an MBA from the Harvard Business School, an MPA from Harvards J. F. Kennedy School of Government and an MA in In addition to her directorships at BGEO Group and the Bank, Economics from the cole fide Hautes tudes in Social Sciences.
Ms Loikkanen serves as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee of Locko Bank, an SME focused Russian bank and as a Non-Executive Director of Locko Invest, Locko Banks investment banking subsidiary.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of AKI Bank in Tatarstan.
Since 2014, she has acted as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of T&B Capital, an independent regulated wealth management company based in Helsinki.
Education: Ms Loikkanen holds a Masters degree in Economics and Business Administration from the Helsinki School of Economics, and was a Helsinki School of Economics scholar at the University of New South Wales.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 89 Governance Directors Governance Statement Leadership Our Group management 01.
Mikheil Gomarteli Kulijanishvili Namicheishvili CEO of BGEO and CEO of Bank of Deputy CEO Retail CFO of JSC BGEO General Counsel of JSC BGEO Group Georgia Banking of Bank of Group and Deputy JSC BGEO Group Georgia CEO Finance of Bank of Georgia 01.
Avto Namicheishvili Group CEO General Counsel of JSC BGEO Group See details on page 87.
Avto Namicheishvili was appointed as General Counsel of JSC BGEO Group in September 2015.
He previously served as Deputy CEO Legal of the Bank since July 2008, prior to which he served as the 02.
Murtaz Kikoria Banks General Counsel from March 2007.
Before joining the Bank, CEO of Bank of Georgia Mr Namicheishvili was a partner at Begiashvili & Co. Limited, a leading Mr Kikoria was appointed as CEO of the Bank in September 2015.
Georgian law firm, where he acted as external legal advisor for Bank of Prior to this appointment, Mr Kikoria served as Deputy CEO Finance Georgia from 2004.
He has undergraduate degrees in Law and from December 2014, having previously served as the CEO of JSC International Economic Relations from Tbilisi State University and a Georgia Healthcare Group since August 2014, following its split from graduate degree LLM in International Business Law from Central Aldagi, where Mr Kikoria had served as the CEO since October 2012.
Prior to this, Mr Kikoria served as Deputy CEO Finance of the Bank since June 2011.
Before this, Mr Kikoria served as acting CEO of BG Bank currently Bank Pershyi since June 2009.
Mikheil Gomarteli as a member of the Supervisory Board of Bank Pershyi.
Mr Kikoria Deputy CEO Retail Banking of Bank of Georgia joined the Bank as Deputy CEO Compliance in August 2008.
From Mr Gomarteli was appointed as Deputy CEO Retail Banking of the 2005 to 2007, Mr Kikoria served as a Senior Banker at EBRD.
Prior to Bank in February 2009.
Mr Gomarteli has been with the Bank since joining EBRD, Mr Kikoria served as Head of Banking Supervision and December 1997.
During his 18 years of service with the Bank, Regulation at the NBG from 2001 to 2005, having previously held Mr Gomarteli has held various senior positions, including Co-Head of various senior positions at United Georgian Bank and SilkRoad Bank.
Retail Banking from March 2007 to February 2009, Head of Business Mr Kikoria received an undergraduate degree from Tbilisi State Development from March 2005 to July 2005, Head of Strategy and University in Economics, specialising in Finance and Credit.
Planning from 2004 to 2005, Head of Branch Management and Sales Coordination from 2003 to 2004, Head of Branch Management and Marketing from 2002 to 2003 and Head of Banking Products and 03.
Levan Kulijanishvili Marketing from 2000 to 2002.
Mr Gomarteli received an CFO of JSC BGEO Group and Deputy CEO Finance of undergraduate degree in Economics from Tbilisi State University.
Bank of Georgia Mr Kulijanishvili was appointed as CFO of JSC BGEO Group in 06.
This role is in addition to his appointment as Deputy Deputy CEO Corporate Investment Banking of Bank of CEO Finance of the Bank in September 2015, having previously served as Head of Compliance and Internal Control since 2009.
Georgia Mr Kulijanishvili has been with the Bank since 1997.
During his 18 Mr Gachechiladze was appointed Deputy CEO Corporate and years of service, Mr Kulijanishvili has held various senior positions, Investment Banking in February 2016, following the combination of including Head of the Internal Audit department from 2000 to 2009, the Banks Corporate Banking and Investment Management Manager of the Financial Monitoring department from 1999 to 2000 businesses, having previously served as CFO of JSC BGEO Group and Head of the Financial Analysis division from 1997 to 1999.
He has since September 2015 and Deputy CEO Investment Management of an undergraduate degree in Economics and Commerce from Tbilisi the Bank since May 2013.
Prior to these appointments, he served as State University and received his MBA from Grenoble Graduate School Deputy CEO Corporate Banking of the Bank.
Prior to joining the of Business.
Bank, Mr Gachechiladze served as Deputy Director in charge of Corporate Recovery at TBC Bank, Georgia, a position he held since August 2008.
From 2006 to 2008, Mr Gachechiladze was an Associate at Lehman Brothers Private Equity currently Trilantic Capital 90 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information 06.
Irakli Burdiladze 2 Gachechiladze Gamkrelidze Former Deputy CEO Deputy CEO CEO of m Real Deputy CEO CEO of Georgia Corporate Banking Chief Risk Officer Estate Corporate Healthcare Group of Bank of Georgia of Bank of Georgia Investment Banking of Bank of Georgia Partners in London.
From 1998 to 2004, Mr Gachechiladze served as 09.
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze a Senior Associate at Salford Equity Partners, a Senior Analyst at Group CEO, Georgia Healthcare Group EBRD in Tbilisi and London, a Senior Financial Analyst at KPMG Mr Gamkrelidze was appointed as CEO of JSC Georgia Healthcare Barents in Tbilisi and as a Team Leader for the World Banks CERMA Group on 4 December 2014 and CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group Project in Tbilisi.
Mr Gachechiladze received his undergraduate degree PLC in August 2015, having previously served as Deputy CEO in Economics and Law from Tbilisi State University and his MBA with Finance of the Bank since October 2012.
Prior to this appointment, distinction from Cornell University.
He is also CFA Charterholder and a Mr Gamkrelidze served as CEO of Aldagi.
Prior to joining Aldagi, member of the CFA Society in the United Kingdom.
Mr Gamkreldize served as CEO of joint stock company My Family Clinic from October 2005 to October 2007.
Sulkhan Gvalia Mr Gamkrelidze served as a consultant at Primary Healthcare Development Project The World Bank Project and worked on the Former Deputy CEO Corporate Banking of Bank of 1 development of pharmaceutical policy and regulation in Georgia.
Prior Georgia to joining Primary Healthcare Development Project, he served at BCI Mr Gvalia retired from his position of Deputy CEO Corporate Banking Insurance Company as Head of the Personal Risks Insurance of the Bank in January 2016 and left the Bank on 1 February 2016 to Department from 2002 to 2003.
Mr Gamkrelidze started his career at pursue other interests.
He had held this position since May 2013, prior the State Medical Insurance Company in 1998, where he worked for to which he served as Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer since January two years.
He graduated from the Faculty of General Medicine of 2005, following the Banks acquisition of TUB, a mid-sized bank in Tbilisi with distinctions, and holds an MA in International Healthcare Georgia co-founded by him in 1995.
Mr Gvalia has 22 years of banking Management from the Tanaka Business School of Imperial College experience, holding management positions in risk, credit finance, London.
Mr Gvalia received his undergraduate Law degree from Tbilisi State University.
Irakli Burdiladze 2 Note: CEO, m Real Estate 2 1.
Please note that in February 2016, the Corporate Banking and Investment Mr Burdiladze was appointed as CEO of JSC m Real Estate in 2010.
Management businesses were combined into a Corporate Investment Banking He previously served as Chief Operating Officer of the Bank from business, which is now led by Archil Gachechiladze please see his biography on March 2007 to June 2010, after spending a year as CFO of the Bank.
the previous page and this page.
Prior to joining the Bank, Mr Burdiladze served as CFO of the GMT Group, a leading real estate developer and operator in Georgia.
Giorgi Chiladze CFO, Mr Burdiladze was responsible for the Groups capital-raising Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer of Bank of Georgia efforts and transaction structuring.
Mr Burdiladze received a graduate Mr Chiladze was appointed as Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer in degree in International Economics and International Relations from the September 2013.
He re-joined the Bank having already served as Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies Deputy CEO Finance from 2008 to 2011.
From 2011 to 2013, and an undergraduate degree in International Relations from Tbilisi Mr Chiladze worked at the Partnership Fund in the capacity of Deputy State University.
Mr Chiladze served as General Director of BTA Bank Georgia from 2005 to 2011.
Prior to joining BTA Bank, he was an executive member of the Supervisory Board of JSC Europace Insurance Company and a founding partner of the management consulting firm, Altergroup Ltd. Mr Chiladze had previously worked in the US at the Program Trading Desk at Bear Stearns in New York City, prior to returning to Georgia in 2003.
Mr Chiladze received a PhD in Physics from Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland and an undergraduate degree in Physics from Tbilisi State University.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 91
