Governance Directors Governance Statement and internal control, assisted by our Audit and Risk Committees.
We retained Lintstock Ltd. Lintstock to conduct a formal evaluation of each Directors skills and contribution and that of the Board as a whole and its Committees.
We used the independent review to compare last years results to this years in order to ensure that the priorities set last year were followed through in 2015.
Our Board and management continued to engage extensively with our investors, reflecting our commitment to transparent reporting and dialogue.
We see maintaining good governance and improving it as an Neil Janin David Morrison ongoing process, and plan to continue to adapt our governance Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent framework as our business, strategy and the environment in which Non-Executive Director we operate evolves.
We view new regulations and guidance as an opportunity for our Board and Committees to upskill and expand their capabilities.
Dear Shareholders, Our Board is committed to excellence in corporate governance.
We see robust corporate governance as fundamental to the Neil Janin effective management of the business and a principal contributor Non-Executive Chairman to the long-term success of the Group, creating trust and 7 April 2016 engagement between the Group and our stakeholders.
The Board provides leadership of the Group within a framework of controls which enables risks to be assessed which allows us to David Morrison put the human and financial resources in place that we believe will Senior Independent Non-Executive Director optimise the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives and 7 April 2016 increase shareholder value.
We seek to create an environment in which transparency, honesty, integrity and fairness are valued and practised by our employees every day.
This inclusive environment helps us attract, retain and develop the best talent.
The Group is Compliance Statement committed to its customers and clients and works hard to act Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
ethically and responsibly in all of its business dealings.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and to the In this part of the Annual Report, we explain our governance date of this Annual Report, we applied the Main Principles policies and practices and the measures that we have taken to and complied with the Provisions of the UK Corporate ensure that the Group continues to apply high standards of Governance Code 2014 save for Section D. 1.1, which corporate governance.
recommends a three-year vesting period for all shares granted as part of remuneration.
As described in the The key themes of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 form Directors Remuneration Report and Directors Remuneration the framework for discussing our corporate governance structure.
Policy on pages 107 to 123, shares granted as discretionary As such, our approaches to Leadership and Effectiveness are compensation vest over a two-year period following the work outlined on pages 93 to 96, Accountability on page 99 of this year for which the discretionary compensation was earned.
Governance Report, Shareholder engagement on page 106 and However, our overall remuneration package is weighted Remuneration on pages 107 to 123.
Given the importance of the heavily to deferred share compensation and includes deferred work of the Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration salary shares which vest over a five-year period following the Committees, each Committee presents a separate report, which work year.
As a result, the average vesting period for deferred can be found within this section.
share compensation exceeds the Codes recommended minimum of three years.
Our governance framework is reviewed and benchmarked against recent Code developments, FRC guidance and best practice each The Code and associated guidance is published by the year.
Financial Reporting Council and is available at www.
Among the key corporate governance actions taken during the year, we would like to highlight the following: Set out on our website at http: bgeo.
com page id 72  continued our focus on Board succession planning and  strengthened our Board with the appointment of a new is the Boards assessment of its application of the Independent Non-Executive Director, Hanna Loikkanen, in June Main Principles of the Code, as required by LR 9.8.
2015 in line with our Board Diversity Policy.
We see our Board as a team comprised of individuals each having an area of expertise, but who collectively engage in the full range of issues facing the Group.
We successfully completed our Group restructuring and implemented our executive management development plan, which has been a principal focus for us over the past several years.
Succession planning is developing talent that can succeed.
We continued our focus on our systems of risk management 92 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015
