Governance Shareholder engagement In addition to our shareholders, we meet and present to analysts The Company has a comprehensive shareholder engagement throughout the year and hold regular meetings with the Groups programme and maintains an open and transparent dialogue with existing lenders and actively engage with potential lenders to existing and potential shareholders, a responsibility that the discuss our funding strategy.
Our Company Secretary also has Company takes very seriously.
ongoing communication with the shareholders advisory groups.
The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Board through the Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive understands the views of major stakeholders.
The full Board is Director, CEO and Head of Investor Relations, each of whom regularly kept informed of these views by the Chairman as well as provide a standing invitation to shareholders to meet and discuss executive management and the Investor Relations team and, to the any matters they wish to raise.
Our Committee Chairmen also extent deemed appropriate, issues raised at these meetings have make themselves available to answer questions from investors.
been adopted by the Group.
Informal feedback from analysts and the Groups corporate advisors is also shared with the Board.
We formally communicate with our shareholders via our AGM, Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year Report and Interim In December 2015, we replaced our previous website, Management Statements.
These are supported by a combination www.
co. uk with a new and enhanced website, of presentations and telephone briefings.
Over the course of the www.
com, which ensures that our stakeholders can access year, we met with over 200 institutional investors, and participated the Groups results, press releases, investor presentations, analyst in more than 20 investor conferences and road shows around the world.
Our Directors and management met with shareholders in reports, details on our corporate governance and corporate and the United Kingdom, Europe, the United States, Singapore and social responsibility framework, our leadership, as well as other South Africa.
information relevant to our stakeholders.
We also ensure that shareholders can access details of the Groups results and other At our 2015 AGM, we received just over 12% of votes against our news releases through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory resolution to authorise the Company to call general meetings on News Service.
not less than 14 days clear notice.
We have decided that we will not propose this resolution to our shareholders at our 2016 AGM.
In November 2015, BGEO hosted an investor day in London, which was open to all investors.
This investor day provided the opportunity for investors to receive an update from the Board and executive management on strategy and performance as well as meet informally with the full Board and raise matters of interest.
BGEO was pleased to host 50 investors at our investor day.
106 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015
