Strategic report Strategy Market review A fast-growing economy Georgia an open, diversified and easy emerging market in which to do business, committed to further progress.
One of the top performers globally in fighting corruption and business-enhancing reforms, enabling the country to attract foreign investors to boost productivity and accelerate growth.
While remaining committed to European Deepening economic integration with Ease of Doing Business ranked values, Georgia has also managed to the EU, prospects related to the silk road Georgia in 2016 stabilise relations with Russia as the latter route and Iranian market re-opening lifted its embargo on Georgian products in create new investment opportunities, while 2013.
The Georgian Government continues pursuing prudent monetary and fiscal low-regulation, low-tax, free market policies ensures macroeconomic stability 3rd policies, strengthening its anti-trust policy, and enables the economy to adapt to and amending the labour code while still any changes in external environment.
in registering property remaining flexible and providing comfort for private sector participants to comply Georgias key economic drivers with International Labour Standards.
Georgia scored The economic Liberty Act, effective since 6th higher in most of the indicators in the latest January 2014, ensures continuation of a Worldwide Governance Indicators report in starting a business credible fiscal and monetary framework by the World Bank, which captures six key for Georgia, by capping consolidated dimensions of governance voice and Government expenditures at 30% of GDP, accountability, political stability and lack fiscal deficit at 3% of GDP and public of violence, government effectiveness, 24th debt at 60% of GDP.
The Liberty Act also and regulatory quality, rule of law and Overall ranking requires electorates approval through control of corruption.
In three out of these Up from 115 in 2005, ahead of France, a nationwide referendum for imposing six indicators Georgia is ahead of some Netherlands and UAE new taxes and raising existing tax rates, EU members and all five EU candidate Source: World Bank-IFC Doing Business subject to certain exceptions.
Importantly, efforts to eliminate slashed the number of taxes from 21 in corruption are widely acknowledged, 2004 to just six now, becoming one of bringing Georgia ahead of 13 EU member Economic Freedom Index the worlds most friendly tax regimes countries and all five candidate counties according to Forbes Misery Tax Index.
in the control of corruption indicator.
ranked Georgia in 2016 Endorsement from the international The country is ranked 24th out of 189 community.
Imminent visa-free travel economies in the World Banks 2016 to the EU is another major success in Ease of Doing Business, 23rd out of 178 23rd Georgias foreign policy, following the countries by Index of Economic Freedom Ahead of Hungary, France and Italy signing of the Association Agreement measured by Heritage Foundation in Source: Heritage Foundation and the related DCFTA with the EU in 2016, 11th out of 197 countries in the 2014.
A progress report by the European Trace Internationals 2014 Matrix of Commission released on 18 December Business Bribery Risk and only 4% 2015 praised Georgias achievement of of people, less than in the UK and the US, Global Corruption Barometer reform targets to become eligible for a % admitting having paid a bribe in 2013 admitted having paid a bribe according visa-free regime in the Schengen area.
to the 2013 Global Corruption Barometer The Russian side also made a move in study by Transparency International.
the direction of easing visa procedures for Georgia underscored its commitment to Georgian citizens effective 23 December 4% European values by securing a democratic 2015, following the Russian Presidents transfer of political power in successive Ahead of UK, US and Czech Republic statement at his annual press conference parliamentary October 2012, presidential Source: Transparency International on 17 December 2015.
Rewards of the October 2013, and local elections June DCFTA are already tangible Georgian 2014 and showed that democratic exports to the EU posted growth in 2015. institutions are working effectively.
Reforms Georgia is also benefiting from increased continue to maintain and boost Georgias Russian arrivals, as relations between the competitive advantage and enhance two countries have improved.
New prime-minister put forth a so called access to the EU and to Russia will further 4-pillar of reform initiatives to speed up improve business opportunities for small economic growth and to support business and medium-sized entrepreneurs through climate.
Namely, the proposed measures intensified direct contacts, affecting include tax code amendments aimed positively on investors interest in Georgia, at further liberalizing tax and customs the country already known for its business procedures, Governance reform to allow friendly environment.
The Government legal entities to receive services based continues maintaining strong relations on a single window principle, speeding with international development partners, up the implementation of infrastructure focusing in the first place on infrastructure projects and tailoring the education system development priorities.
In 2015, Georgia offerings to labour market demands.
hosted the EBRDs Annual Meeting and 24 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015
