Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Directors Report Strategic Report have shareholder documents made available to them including The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 85 was approved by the Board the notice of any general meeting: of Directors on 7 April 2016 and signed on its behalf by Irakli attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, Gilauri, Chief Executive Officer.
either in person or by proxy: and participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Management Report This Directors Report together with the Strategic Report on pages In accordance with a request issued by BGEO, Sanne Fiduciary 2 to 85 form the Management Report for the purposes of DTR Services Limited, acting as trustee of the Trust, has waived its right 4.1.
5 R. to receive any dividends.
This waiver will remain in place indefinitely, unless otherwise instructed by BGEO.
Information contained elsewhere in the Annual Report Information required to be part of this Directors Report can be BGEO is permitted to make market purchases of its own shares found elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general meeting below and is incorporated into this report by reference: and subject to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
Such authority was given at the 2015 Information Location in Annual Report AGM but no purchases were made during this financial year.
Future developments Pages 2 to 85 None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to BGEO Risk Management Pages 46 to 47 control of BGEO.
Going concern statement Page 47 There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: Viability statement Page 47 Bank Risk Management Pages 52 to 59 certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by Principal Risks and Uncertainties Pages 48 to 51 laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing: pursuant to the Group Share Dealing Code, whereby the Directors Governance Statement Page 92 Directors and designated employees require approval to deal in The Board of Directors Pages 86 and 89 BGEOs shares: and where a person with an interest in BGEOs shares has been Nomination Committee Report Pages 97 and 98 served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide BGEO Audit Committee Report Pages 100 to 103 with information concerning interests in those shares.
Risk Committee Report Pages 104 to 105 All employees including Directors that are deemed by BGEO to Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 68 to 69 be insiders have complied with the Groups Share Dealing Code.
There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in Employee matters Pages 65 to 66 situations where BGEO is legally entitled to impose such a Environmental matters Pages 67 to 69 restriction for example under the Articles of Association where amounts remain unpaid in the shares after request, or the holder is Share capital Note 20 on page 189 otherwise in default of an obligation to BGEO.
BGEO is not aware Information on the Groups financial of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in risk management objectives and restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
policies, and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, Results and dividends foreign currency risk and financial Note 29 on pages 195 The Group made a profit before taxation of GEL 359.4 million year instruments and 202 ended 31 December 2014: GEL 276.6 million.
The Groups profit after taxation for the year was GEL 310.9 million year ended Articles of Association 31 December 2014: GEL 240.8 million.
BGEOs Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The process for BGEO may by ordinary resolution declare dividends provided that the appointment and removal of Directors is included in our no such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by Articles of Association.
The BGEO Articles of Association are BGEOs Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends available on BGEOs website: as appear to be justified by the profits of BGEO available for http: bgeo.
As BGEO is a holding company, BGEO relies primarily on dividends Share capital and rights attaching to the shares and other statutorily if any and contractually permissible payments Details of the movements in share capital during the year are from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its provided in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements on obligations and pay dividend to its shareholders.
page 189 of this Annual Report.
As a result of the Banks strong financial performance and As at the date of this Annual Report, there was a single class of condition, the BGEO Board intends to recommend an annual 39,500,320 ordinary shares of one pence each in issue, each with dividend of GEL 2.4 payable in British Pounds Sterling, which is one vote.
The rights and obligations attaching to BGEOs ordinary subject to shareholders approval at the 2016 AGM.
If approved, shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary the dividend will be paid on 22 July 2016 to shareholders on shares are entitled, subject to any applicable law and BGEOs theUK register of members at the close of business in the UK Articles of Association, to: 6:00 pm London time on 8 July 2016.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 125 Governance Directors Report continued Under the Relationship Agreement, for so long as BGEO and its Powers of Directors associates together hold 20% or more of the voting share capital The Directors may exercise all powers of BGEO subject to of GHG, BGEO and its associates shall amongst other things: applicable legislation and regulation and BGEOs Articles of Association.
conduct all transactions, agreements or arrangements entered into between i BGEO and its associates and ii GHG or any of Conflicts of interest its subsidiaries on an arms length basis and on normal In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have commercial terms and in accordance with the related party adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and transaction rules set out in the Listing Rules: authorisation if appropriate of conflicts of interest, and these have not take any action that has or would have the effect of been followed during 2015.
BGEOs Articles of Association also preventing GHG or any of its subsidiaries from complying with contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential their obligations under the Listing Rules: conflicts of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his duty not propose or procure the proposal of any resolution of the under company law.
shareholders or any class thereof which is intended, or appears to be intended, to circumvent the proper application of Directors remuneration the Listing Rules: and or Directors fees are determined by the Board from time to time.
abstain from voting on any resolution required by LR 11.1.
7R 3 The remuneration of our Directors must be in accordance with the of the Listing Rules to approve a transaction with a related party Directors Remuneration Policy approved by our shareholders in 2014.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors as distinct from any salary, involving BGEO.
remuneration or other amount payable to a Director pursuant to other provisions of the Articles of Association or otherwise may The Relationship Agreement entitles BGEO to appoint one person not exceed 750,000 per annum in aggregate or such higher to be a Non-Executive Director of GHG for so long as it together amounts as may from time to time be determined by ordinary with its associates holds at least 20% of the voting share capital of resolution of BGEO.
The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors GHG.
in 2015 pursuant to their letters of appointment are shown on page 113.
The fees paid to our sole Executive Director in 2015 pursuant The Relationship Agreement also provides that subject to to his service agreements with BGEO and the Bank are shown on permitted exceptions neither BGEO nor its associates shall page 110. compete with the business of GHG nor use any names associated with GHG and that GHG shall not use any names associated with Directors interests BGEO or its associates.
The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of BGEO as at 31 December 2015 are shown on page 114.
A copy of the Relationship Agreement is available to view at the BGEOs registered office.
Indemnity Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former At no time during 2015 did any Director hold a material interest in Director or other officer of BGEO other than any person engaged by any contracts of significance with BGEO or any subsidiary of the the Company as auditor shall be indemnified by BGEO against any Group.
BGEO is not party to any significant agreements that would liability in relation to BGEO, other than broadly any liability to BGEO take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of or a member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
Related party disclosures Presence outside of Georgia Details of related party disclosures are set out in Note 32 to the We have representative offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and consolidated financial statements on pages 211 to 212 of this Tel Aviv.
Payment of creditors Significant agreements We value our suppliers and acknowledge the importance of paying On 23 October 2015, BGEO entered into a Relationship invoices in an orderly and timely manner.
It is the Groups practice Agreement with GHG and JSC BGEO Investments which regulates to agree terms on an individual basis when entering into contracts the degree of control that BGEO and its associates may exercise and meet obligations accordingly.
The Group does not follow any over the management and business of GHG.
The principal specific published code or standard on payment practice.
purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that GHG and its subsidiaries are capable at all times of carrying on their Employee disclosures business independently of BGEO and its associates.
The Our disclosures relating to the number of women in senior Relationship Agreement took effect on 12 November 2015 and will management, employee engagement and policies as well as continue until the earlier of: i GHG shares ceasing to be admitted human rights, including employment of the disabled, are included to listing on the Official List: and ii BGEO, together with its in Employee matters on pages 65 to 66. associates, ceasing to own or control directly or indirectly 20% or more of the voting share capital of GHG.
If BGEO ceases to be a Political donations controlling shareholder within the meaning of LR 6.1.
2A of the The Group did not make any political donations or expenditures Listing Rules, it may terminate the Relationship Agreement by during 2015. giving one months written notice to GHG.
Code of Conduct and ethics The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of the business, supported by the Groups core values.
The Code of Conduct has been communicated to all Directors and employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators in the communities in which the Group operates.
Our Code of Conduct is available on our website: http: bgeo.
126 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Independent auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of BGEO will be put to shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
Major interests in shares The table below lists shareholders with voting rights of more than 3% as of 31 December 2015.
A description of changes in voting rights which have been notified to BGEO for the period 1 January 2016 up to and including 31 March 2016 are disclosed below the table.
As of 31 December 2015 Shareholder Number of voting rights % of voting rights Schroders Investment Management 4,067,716 10.30 Harding Loevner Management LLP 3,592,183 9.09 Westwood International Advisors 1,600,964 4.05 Artemis Investment Management 1,409,248 3.57 1 Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited 1,201,406 3.04 2 Firebird Management LLC 1,199,541 3.04 Source: Georgeson, Computershare Notes: 1 Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited as trustee of The Rubicon Executive Equity Compensation Trust.
BGEO was notified on 21 March 2016 that it decreased its number of voting rights to 1,183,020 2.99% of voting rights.
2 BGEO was notified on 18 February 2016 that Firebird Management LLC decreased its number of voting rights to 1,168,650 2.96% of voting rights.
BGEO was notified on 7 January 2016 that Frank Russell Company held 1,391,322 voting rights 3.52% of voting rights.
This was the first notification received from Frank Russell Company, which disclosed that it was previously exempt from notifying an issuer of its holdings due to being an asset manager.
The respective regulatory filings by shareholders are available on the BGEO website: http: bgeo.
com  and the London Stock Exchange website: www.
Post balance sheet events In March 2016, the Group signed a binding Memorandum of Understanding, subject to relevant regulatory approvals, to acquire a 100% equity stake in JSC GPC, one of the three leading pharmaceutical retailers and wholesalers in Georgia.
By order of the Board Kate Bennett Rea on behalf of KB Rea Ltd. Company Secretary 7 April 2016 Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 127
