led our investments hands-on experience laid the foundation story Strategic report Strategy A platform to develop talent Similarly to the limited access to capital in Georgia, the availability of management is limited and our platform is designed to help our people develop, and by producing top business talent in the country, we can add value for our shareholders.
We understand that great management teams make great companies, and investing time in growing people continues to be critical for the success of our strategy.
At BGEO Group we have spent a lot of time building a top-class management team and we have a deep bench of people who have grown and are ready to take on bigger responsibilities.
One of the reasons we are confident in our strategy is that we have human capital available both on the top and mid-management levels.
We spend a lot of time coaching and mentoring our talent.
We are growing fast in our banking businesses and our strategy for our investment businesses implies selling the companies that we develop.
Therefore we fully understand that our talent producing machine must continue its work.
For our top talent we have introduced a self-development programme by hiring coaches to help them to better understand their strengths and weaknesses.
According to our policy, no matter how good the performance of our top executive is, they may get limited bonuses if we do not see progress in the executives self-development and growing their successor s. You have observed rotations in our top management every two to three years.
We would like our top talent to receive experience in different roles and learn and grow.
Rotations will continue in the future.
transform conventional marketing young talents acquisition with the Group since 1995 played key role in IPO promoted from financial analyst to CFO rotated developing values completed over 15 mergers and acquisitions implementing from CFO to CEO from junior sales manager to CEO from salesman to deputy CEO from a loss making into a major player successful integration Worked at our subsidiary joined as a micro loan officer promoted a textbook professional growth story 16 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 culture rejoined successful integration GHG story starts with Nick shaping BoG Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 01.
George Baratashvhili Namicheishvili Gamkrelidze Chief Financial Officer CEO Insurance Company Group General Counsel CEO Georgia Healthcare GGU Aldagi BGEO Group Group With the Group since 2007.
Joined as a CFO of BG Bank, Joined as Junior Sales Joined as a General Counsel at Our healthcare business Ukrainian subsidiary of the Manager of pension insurance the Bank, and has since played story starts with Nick, who Bank, later to become a Chief at Aldagi, selling insurance a key role in all of the Groups started it in 2006, and has Risk Officer and play a key at the time when the clients equity and debt raises on the successfully led it through role in restructuring large had little or no awareness capital markets, and over 25 outstanding growth and corporate loans and eventual of insurance.
Having held mergers and acquisitions.
most recently the IPO on the disposal of the Ukrainian various managerial positions, Prior, was a Partner at a London Stock Exchange.
Also, served as a CEO in 2009 was promoted to 2 leading Georgian law firm.
Holds an MA in international of m Real Estate, the leading Head of Group Sales and Holds LLM in international healthcare management from real estate development Pension Fund at Aldagi.
Has business law from Central the Tanaka Business School company in Georgia a real successfully led Aldagi as European University, Hungary.
estate business of the Group.
Holds a Prior, Giorgi was a Senior Masters in International law.
Irakli Gilauri Auditor at EY and worked Advisor to the Group CEO CEO BGEO Group for several European offices.
Lasha Khakhutaishvili BGEO Group With the Group since 2004.
Holds a BBA from European CFO Insurance Company With the Group since 2012.
Formerly an EBRD European School of Management.
Aldagi Prior, worked for over 25 years Bank for Reconstruction and With the Group since 2008. in a number of management Development banker, joined 08.
Natalia Nato Beridze Joined as a Financial Analyst and senior executive positions the Bank as CFO.
Over the last Head of HR BOG at Aldagi.
Was promoted to in the UK banking industry, decade, Iraklis leadership has With the Group since 2005. the Head of Budgeting and in particular at Lloyds been instrumental in creating Joined from the similar position Financial Controlling and Banking Group plc and its major players in a number of at Tbiluniversalbank, when it later to Finance Manager.
Has Georgian industries, including was acquired by the Bank.
Since August 2014, he has been extensively involved banking, healthcare, real Developed and implemented been CFO of Aldagi.
in the IPOs and investor estate, insurance and wine.
the Banks HR policies and communication of both BGEO Holds an MS in banking from systems.
Holds a Masters and Georgia Healthcare Group.
in Social Psychology from Tbilisi State University.
Murtaz Kikoria Shavgulidze CEO BOG Head of Investor Relations With the Group since 2008. and Funding BGEO Joined as a Deputy CEO in Group charge of compliance at the With the Group since Bank.
Joined as a CEO of operations in Ukraine and healthcare services business.
led several key acquisitions, Most recently Eka played when he served as a CEO of a key role in the GHG IPO our healthcare business from as Head of IR.
Prior, was was an Associate Finance Head of Banking Supervision Director at AstraZeneca, and Regulation at the NBG UK.
Holds an MBA from National Bank of Georgia.
He is a former EBRD banker.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 17 Strategic report Strategy A platform to develop talent continued 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 11.
Ekaterine Eka Head of Internal Trainings, Head of Credit Risk, Head of MSME Banking, Duchidze Retail Banking BOG Retail Banking BOG Retail Banking BOG Head of SOLO Lifestyle With the Group since 2007.
BOG Joined as a Deputy Head of Joined as a Credit Portfolio Started his career in banking With the Group since 2005. micro and small enterprise Analyst at the Bank and then at BOG, as a Micro Lending Joined as a Corporate lending at the Bank, having focused on retail lending.
Officer under the EBRD Secretary.
During the past previously advised the Bank In 2006 he implemented Small Enterprise Lending ten years she has carried as part of EBRDs Small the first automated credit Programme.
Played a key role out number of crucial roles, Enterprise Lending Program.
application processing and in the development of MSME including Executive Assistant Promoted to his current role in scoring system in Georgia.
lending in several Georgian to CEO and Head of Internal 2009 and has led the Banks Assumed his current role banks.
Recently, oversaw internal trainings programmes in 2008, leading credit was Deputy CEO at PrivatBank the development of SOLO for seven years now.
underwriting, soft collection, Georgia and following Banking and SOLO Lifestyle.
Enrolled in MBA of Grenoble credit systems and analysis PrivatBanks acquisition, Prior, served eight years at the Ecole fide Management.
rejoined the Group as a Head World Bank Group of which of Express Banking, later two years were at the World 12.
Mikheil Mikhako promoted to his current role.
Bank HQ in Washington DC Head of Solo, Retail Gomarteli as a Programme Assistant Banking BOG Deputy CEO, Retail 18.
Annie Kapanadze at OPIC Department.
Banking BOG Head of Product Joined as a Corporate With the Group since 1997.
David Bezhiashvili Banker at the Bank from Mikhako is a textbook Banking BOG Head of Cards and Intellectbank, which was professional growth story With the Group since 2006.
Payments BOG acquired by the Bank in 2004. made possible in our Group Joined as a Cashier at the With the Group since 1994.
Prior to assuming her current he developed his way from Bank when she was 19.
Joined as an IT developer at role, was Head of Blue Chip selling debit cards door-toAssumed various frontthe Bank.
Was promoted and Corporate Banking Unit door to successfully leading office roles from a Teller to rotated a number of times.
covering structured lending, our Retail Banking franchise the Manager of the Service Played a key role in developing M&As, significant buyouts for over ten years now.
She assumed her our cards and payments in the country, and project current role in 2012. business there were only a financing.
Nino Khorguani handful of cards issued when experience in banking.
Holds Head of Express Banking, 19.
Mikheil Misha he joined our card business, Dual MBA from Granoble Retail Banking BOG Gaprindashvili now the Bank is the leader in Graduate School of Business With the Group since 2006.
Head of Merchants card business and payment & Caucasus University.
Joined as a Consumer Loan Network Development, technologies in Georgia.
Merab Akhvklediani was promoted and rotated a With the Group since 2005.
Head of Mass Retail number of times in product Joined as Head of Merchants Banking BOG development, retail banking Network Development at the With the Group since 1995. credit risk management and Bank, following its merger Joined as a Teller-Operator since 2011 worked as Deputy with Tbiluniversakbank, at the Bank, progressed Head of Retail Banking where he worked as a Head to Branch Manager and Credit Risk Management of Business Development.
then to Head of Mortgage until assuming her current During his ten years at the and Consumer Lending role in 2016.
Graduated Bank, Misha led our efforts in department.
Assumed his from Leadership and creating the countrys largest current role in 2015.
Management Development merchant partners network.
Programme at Manchester Business School, UK.
18 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 22.
David Birman Bekauri Deputy Chief Information Head of Retail Chief Digital Officer BOG Head of Call Centre BOG Officer BOG Communications BOG With the Group since 2010.
Is a leading professional in Joined as a manager of Joined as an IT Helpdesk Joined as a Retail Banking marketing in Georgia.
Later was Specialist at the Bank.
The Brand Manager at the Bank.
charge of several branding and promoted to the Head of Call owner of a green badge Has eight years of experience rebranding projects within the Centre and leads the sales ITIL CEO EXIN in IT Service working as an Account Group, including BGEO, GHG, of banking products through Management.
BSc in Statistics Manager and Consultant Galt & Taggart, Aldagi, Imedi L the call centre as well as and Probability Theory.
for local and international and Evex.
Currently leads the customer service.
Started her projects at leading advertising digital team, responsible for career in banking as a teller 26.
Vigen Bagdasarov agencies of Georgia the digital banking initiatives in TBC Bank in 2005.
Holds Deputy Chief Information Sarke and JWT Metro.
in mobile banking, internet an MBA from the European Officer BOG banking, remote devices, School of Management.
Alexander Sasha websites and social media.
Joined as an IT Specialist Katsman Prior, spent more than ten 23.
Tinatin Kutaladze at the Bank.
Was promoted Deputy CEO, HRM and years leading marketing Deputy Head of HR and rotated a number Branding BOG and branding activities for BOG of times, most recently With the Group since 2010. several local and international With the Group since 2005. assumed the role of Deputy As Partner at the largest banks, cellular operator, Supervises the consistency of CIO in charge of Business communications group in water utility company and HR activities at our subsidiaries Analysis.
Played key roles in Georgia, Sarke, Sasha was private consulting group.
in line with the Groups HR implementing BOGs core actively involved in marketing policies.
Prior, was Head banking system, architectural of Georgias greatest reforms.
Sophio Sopo of HR at TBC Bank.
Holds design and implementation Sasha joined the Bank in Balavadze Masters degree in Work and of Trade Finance, AML, 2010 after graduating from Brand Relations Director Organisational Psychology Custody platforms, as well the Berlin School of Creative BOG from Tbilisi State University.
as successful integration Leadership EMBA Programme With the Group since 2005. of four commercial banks, to transform conventional A manager by education, 24.
marketing communication and Sopo was at the heart of Chief Information Officer PR into a brand value creating creating the Banks internal BOG 27.
Sasha communications system With the Group since 2005.
Deputy Chief Information led the development of a when she joined the Bank Joined as an IT Quality Officer BOG new brand platform with the in 2005.
Today, she is Assurance Engineer at the With the Group since 2009. eminent slogan Feel the Future supervising both external Bank.
Since, he assumed Joined as a Strategic Projects and is now on another journey and internal communications various roles in the IT Manager at the Bank.
Most of transformation involving units, organisational culture department and contributed to recently played a key role HR and brand management.
all major projects undertaken in integration of PrivatBank.
Holds a Masters Prior, worked as IT Project in Applied Mathematics and IT.
Manager for TBC Bank and IT Management Consultant for Tetra Tech.
Holds dual MSc degree in IT and Business from Jonkoping University Sweden and MSc in Project Management from George Washington University US.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 19 Strategic report Strategy A platform to develop talent continued 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 32.
Vasil Khodeli Green State University in the Joined as a Deputy CEO in 40.
Nino Papava Head of Corporate US and Tbilisi State University.
Head of Industry Banking BOG He launched the Banks Research Galt & Taggart With the Group since 2004.
Goga Melikidze industry and macro research, With the Group since 2014.
He has 20 years experience Head of Brokerage brokerage, and advisory Joined as Head of Investor in banking working in various Galt & Taggart businesses, as well as leading Relations at Galt & Taggart.
Actively involved With the Group since 2005. our investments in GGU and Prior, was a Finance Manager in shaping BOGs Corporate Joined as Senior Financial launched Hydro Investments.
at AdGooroo, a Chicago-based Banking business platform Analyst at Galt & Taggart, Prior, he was an Associate technology start-up.
Holds from the very beginning.
and was promoted to DCM at Lehman Brothers Private a BA from the University of Holds an MBA from Grenoble Managing Director in 2009.
Equity currently Trilantic Indianapolis and is enrolled in Business School.
Left the Group in 2010 and Capital Partners in London, the Executive MBA programme rejoined in 2015 as Head of and also worked at Salford at the University of Chicago 33.
Prior to rejoining Equity Partners, EBRD, KPMG Booth School of Business.
Head of Investment the Group, Goga worked in Barents, and the World Bank.
Banking Galt & Taggart the Prime Ministers Office of Holds MBA with distinction 41.
Meri Vashakidze With the Group since 2014. the Government of Georgia, from Cornell University and Head of Personnel Joined as Head of Corporate serving as Senior Economic is CFA charterholder Planning and Recruitment Advisory at Galt & Taggart.
Advisor to two successive BOG Most recently managed Prime Ministers of Georgia.
Tamar Tamuna With the Group since 2005. corporate bond issuances Completed executive Janiashvili Joined as a Recruitment and assisted BGEO Group education programmes in Deputy Head of Corporate Assistant at the Bank.
She in acquiring 25% stake in Private Equity from Harvard Banking, Sectoral Lending has 13 years broad range Georgian Global Utilities.
Business School and in M&A BOG of experience in the areas of Prior, was an Associate at from London Business School.
With the Group since 1999. recruiting, staffing, and talent Altium Capital in Paris and Joined as a Corporate acquisition.
Holds a Masters a Chief Investment Officer 36.
Tamara Tato Banker at the Service in Medical Psychology from at Partnership Fund in Khisanishvili Centre of the Bank.
She Institute of Anthropology Georgia.
Holds Masters Deputy Head of Corporate was promoted and rotated and Political Science.
from Paris Graduate School Banking, Trade Finance a number of times, and since of Management and from BOG 2009 manages sectorial 42.
With the Group since 1998. lending in the Corporate Head of Private Banking Joined as Correspondent Banking.
Eva Bochorishvili Banking Officer at the Bank, in Economics and Law.
Head of Macroeconomic and promoted to Head Prior, was Head of Corporate Research Galt & Taggart of Trade Finance in 2002.
Zurab Kokosadze Banking at Bank Republic With the Group since Left the Group in 2009 and Head of FMCG Sector, part of the Socit Gnrale 2014.
Prior, worked at rejoined in 2011 as Deputy Corporate Banking BOG Group and also held leading Georgias Finance Ministry Corporate Banking Director.
With the Group since 2004. positions in Georgian insurance on EU-sponsored reforms Prior to rejoining the Group, Joined as an Account companies.
Holds a Masters based budget support Tato was Head of Trade at Manager at the central branch degree in International Law programmes and oversaw HSBC Bank Georgia.
In 2005, after from Tbilisi State University and the implementation of the PhD in Economics from creation of the Corporate has completed the Programme US$ 4.5 billion donor-pledged Tbilisi State University.
Banking department, for Leadership Development funds.
Eva is a guest lecturer moved to SME division as from Harvard Business School.
in public finance at University 37.
Holds an MA in Deputy CEO, Corporate holds position of a FMCG economics from Bowling Investment Banking BOG Sector Head in Corporate With the Group since 2009.
20 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information 44 46 47 49 43 45 48 50 51 52 53 43.
Irakli Khomasuridze Head of International Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Head of Problem Assets Head of Quantitative Risk Business, Wealth Officer BOG Management BOG Management and Risk Management BOG With the Group since 2008.
Analytics BOG With the Group since 2008.
Joined as a Deputy CEO in Joined as an attorney of the With the Group since 2013.
Prior to assuming her current charge of finance at the Bank.
Group, having previously Joined as a Financial Risk role in 2015, served as a Senior Left the Group in 2011 and worked as a Prosecutor at Manager at the Bank.
Worked Private Banker at the Bank.
rejoined in 2013 as Deputy the Prosecutors Office of for All Options Netherlands Before that, was a Private CEO, Chief Risk Officer.
Prior Georgia, and an Investigator and ABN AMRO Bank Banker at Bank Republic to rejoining the Group, was at the Investigation Unit of The specialising in the field of part of the Socit Gnrale Deputy CEO at the Partnership Ministry of Finance.
Assumed Quantitative Risk Management Group.
Prior to returning to his current role in 2015. and Risk Modelling.
Masters Banking from Berufsakademie Georgia in 2003, worked at in Financial Mathematics from Mosbach, Germany and the programme trading desk 50.
Nino Okruashvili Twente University, Netherlands a bachelors degree in at Bear Stearns in New York Head of Operational Risk and PhD in Theoretical Business Administration City.
Holds a PhD in physics Management and Controls Physics youngest PhD from from the European School from Johns Hopkins University BOG Tbilisi State University.
Tinatin Kotorashvili operational risk management Rector BOG University Head of Trade Finance, Head of Personnel framework and led With the Group since 2013, Corporate Banking BOG Administration and development of the Banks risk when BOG University was With the Group since 2003.
Has more than Joined as an Associate at the With the Group since 2001. an Undergraduate Degree in 12 years of management Banks Funding Department Joined as an Intern in the HR applied mathematics from experience.
As a Professor of and worked her way up Department of the Bank.
Management, delivers lectures to become Head of Trade She has 15 years extensive at London School of Business Finance in 2009.
Vasil Verulashvili and Finance, London, UK and worked at National Bank of leading HR administration, Head of Credit Risk Grenoble Graduate School of Georgia USAID BANKWORLD compensation, benefits Management BOG Business, Grenoble, France.
Bank Supervision and and reporting.
Holds a With the Group since 2000.
Masters in Economics from Joined as a Micro Loan Tbilisi State University.
Officer at the Bank and has 45.
Constantine Tsereteli been involved in credit risk CEO BNB 48.
George Kukuladze management function for With the Group since 2006.
Head of Credit Risk over 11 years.
Was part of the Since 2009, has led the Analysis BOG working team that executed operations of the Banks With the Group since2003.
two IPOs in LSE and played a subsidiary, Belarusky Narodny Joined as a Credit Risk key role in the Banks recovery Bank, in Minsk Belarus.
Officer at the Bank and after war and financial crisis Prior to his current mission to since contributed to the in 2008.
Holds Masters in Minsk, he worked as Head of implementation of the Banks Applied Mathematics from Strategic Development and loan provisioning, risk rating Tbilisi State University.
later as Co-Head of Retail and social & environmental Banking at the Bank in Tbilisi, risk management systems.
Before joining the Prior, worked at the Ministry of Group, worked in microfinance Finance of Georgia.
Holds BBA and development sectors.
from Caucasus University and Georgia State University USA.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 21 Strategic report Strategy A platform to develop talent continued 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 54.
Levan Kulijanishvili the Department, currently 59.
Aleksandre Sandro Group CFO JSC BGEO overseeing the Banks Head of Tax Reporting Gamkrelidze Group and Deputy CEO, management reporting and Tax Risk Management Head of Legal BOG Finance BOG and budgeting, as well as BOG With the Group since 2007.
With the Group since 1997. regulatory reporting units.
Joined as a Senior Lawyer Joined as a Junior Financial After joining the Bank, was and in six months became the Analyst at the Bank.
Tamar Pkhakadze in charge of the Groups Head of Legal Department various senior positions, Head of Information, tax reporting and tax risk at the Bank.
Prior, worked including Head of Internal Corporate and management.
Prior, Nino as a Lawyer at our insurance Audit, Head of Financial Infrastructure Security was a Senior Tax Advisor at subsidiary, Aldagi.
MBA Monitoring, Head of Strategy BOG EY and Deloitte from 2004. candidate from Grenoble and Planning, and Head of With the Group since 2011.
Holds Undergraduate Degree Graduate School of Business.
Holds Joined as a Fraud Risk Analyst in Business Administration an MBA from Grenoble at the Bank.
Established Know from European School 63.
Nino Meskhi Graduate School of Business.
Your Employee and anti-fraud of Management.
Head of Business Process management frameworks Management and 55.
Lasha Nadareishvili of the Bank.
Tamar Goderdzishvili Procedure Development Head of Group Finance at Socit Gnrale as a Deputy Head of AML BOG BOG Compliance Officer in Risk Compliance BOG With the Group since 1993.
Management division, in Paris, With the Group since 2014.
Joined as an assistant to Joined as Head of Group France.
Tamar is a Certified Joined as a Deputy Head of Chief Accountant at the Bank.
Reporting, Budgeting & Fraud Examiner CFE and a AML Compliance Department.
Prior to taking her current Analysis, leading consolidated member of ACFE Association Prior, worked as a Deputy role, she was promoted a reporting works through the of Certified Fraud Examiners.
Head of Legal Department number of times and served Banks Premium Listing and Holds Masters from Grenoble at NBG National Bank of as a Head of Service Centre Eurobond offerings.
Most Graduate School of Business.
Georgia and served as and as a Head of Procedure recently took part in due a financial expert in the Standardization Unit.
Kakhaber Kakha evaluation of ML TF measures a key role in re-engineering of merger of PrivatBank Davitaia of Montenegro conducted by the Banks processes in 2004.
Prior, worked as Head of Treasury BOG MONEYVAL and a Consultant Senior Auditor at EY.
Holds With the Group since 1995. on Payment System and 64.
Davit Davitashvili a BBA from European Joined as a Trainee in the Services issues for the Head of Internal Audit School of Management.
National Bank of Tajikistan CAE BOG He paved his way to become in the WB funded project.
Tato Tomashvili a Deputy Head of Treasury Holds LLM degree from the Joined as an Auditor and Head of Financial in 1999.
In 2003 he was University of Groningen.
moved up to the Banks Accounting, Reporting promoted to Head of Treasury CAE role.
Has extensive and Budgeting BOG and has held this position 61.
Levan Dadiani experience of leading and With the Group since since then.
Holds Masters Group Senior Counsel managing internal audit to 2003.
Joined as a Junior in Applied Mathematics from BOG provide assurance on controls Reporting Specialist at the Tbilisi State University and With the Group since 2012. and risk management and Bank, right after graduating MBA degree from Grenoble Prior was a partner at a propose business process from college.
Developed his Graduate School of Business.
first tier Georgian law firm.
improvement, cost saving and way from Junior Reporting Holds LLM degree from the change ideas.
Holds EMBA Specialist to the Head of University of Texas at Austin.
22 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 65.
Shota Milorava Head of AML Compliance Head of Settlements Head of Sales and Head of Distribution 2 BOG BOG Marketing m Real Estate Teliani Valley With the Group since 2010.
Joined as the Head of AML Joined the Bank as a Money Joined as a Head of Internal More than ten years of Compliance Department Transfer System Operator Brand Management Unit extensive work experience in at the Bank.
More than 14 and since has worked in at the Bank.
Has over ten sales and distribution.
Joined years of experience in the various roles, including years of experience in real as Sales Manager at Teliani banking industry with ten Economist, Head Account estate development.
Holds a and later laid the foundation years of managerial positions.
Manager, Senior Dealer, Head graduate degree in Marketing for Teliani distribution efforts Member of Certified Antiof International Settlements.
and International Business at and developed it into a leading Money Laundering Specialists Currently, manages the the BA Mosbach, Germany.
Holds MBA from back-office of the Bank.
Prior, he worked Caucasus School of Business.
Shota Kobelia as a Brand Manager at 69.
Irakli Burdiladze CEO Teliani Valley Borjomi renowned Georgian 2 66.
Tornike Gogichaishvili CEO m Real Estate With the Group since 2009. mineral water, where he Deputy CEO, Operations With the Group since 2006.
Having previously worked at started his career as an BOG Joined as a CFO at the Bank.
Pernod Ricard in the USA Assistant Distributor.
Holds With the Group since 2006.
Before taking leadership of our and Easter Europe, joined a Masters in Philosophy.
Joined as a CEO of our real estate business in 2010, Teliani to build up Ukrainian insurance business.
Prior he also served as the COO of distribution.
Elene Jimsheleishvili to his current position, was the Bank.
Prior, was a CFO at CEO for Teliani Valley and Deputy Head of HR - Head of International Banking, a leading real estate developer developed it from a small Personnel Development coordinating the activities and operator in Georgia.
and loss-making winery into BOG of the Groups Ukraine and Holds a graduate degree a major beverage group with With the Group since 2005.
Holds in International Economics own distribution channels Has 10 years of human executive MBA from Said and International Relations on the main markets.
Most resources management Business School, Oxford.
from the Johns Hopkins recently secured exclusive experience including young University School of Advanced trademark licence from Brau talents acquisition, personnel 67.
Union for such well-known development and training, Head of Custody and beer brands as Heineken, HRIS 360, PM.
Emzar Otkhozoria Amstel and Kruovice.
Holds SHRM Society for Human BOG Head of Finance and MS in Sales & Marketing from Resources Management, 2 With the Group since 2006.
Operations m Real Bordeaux Business School.
holds MPA Master of Joined as a Senior Back Estate Public Administration from Office Specialist at Galt & With the Group since 2007.
Koba Chanturia GIPA Georgian Institute Taggart.
Played a key role in Joined as a Chief Accountant Deputy CEO, Finance and of Public Affairs.
2 developing and implementing at m Real Estate and Operations Teliani Valley local and foreign custody assumed his current role With the Group since 2007. models at the Bank, advancing in 2015.
In 2007, he was Joined as the Deputy CFO issuer services, and enabling awarded with the Order of at Liberty Consumer JSC foreign investors to access Honour by the president Groups subsidiary overseeing the local market though the of Georgia for his teaching non-banking investments.
Banks global custodian accomplishments, following Currently, he plays key and ICSD channels.
the success of Georgian role in launching Heineken team in the international brewery in Georgia.
MBA from Ivane Javakhishvili He received a Masters State University of Tbilisi.
degree in Mathematics from Tbilisi State University.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 23
