Strategic report Strategy Resources and responsibilities Sustainability lies at the heart of our business As a leading financial institution in Georgia, we understand our responsibility not only to shareholders but to society at large.
Socially oriented products and The Bank has appointed an Environmental The concept of sustainability lies at services and Social Coordinator, responsible the heart of our business and reflects Corporate Banking.
In order to efficiently for ensuring the proper operation our contribution to sustainable manage its indirect environmental and and maintenance of the ESMS, and development development that social impact, the Bank prioritised will appoint an Environmental and meets the needs of the present without the integration of sustainable finance a Social Risk Manager, responsible compromising the ability of future principles into its credit risk management for the practical, day-to-day generations to meet their own needs.
In 2013, the Bank updated implementation of the Banks ESMS.
its Environmental and Social Risk We consider sustainability to be integral Management Procedures in order We implement the following to the growth of our business.
Our to ensure the proper application of procedures to ensure the operation sustainability agenda allows us to be appropriate, risk-based and sectorand maintenance of the ESMS: profitable as well as environmentally and specific environmental and social risk socially responsible at the same time.
By assessment practices to its commercial We refrain from financing implementing a sustainability approach lending activities.
In 2014, the Bank environmentally or socially sensitive in our activities, we foster long-term actively started to put the procedures into business activities mentioned in the relationships with our main stakeholders by providing high return on investment for practice, which have been carried on in exclusion lists of such Development shareholders, satisfying the financial needs 2015.
The Bank defined priority targets and Finance Institutions as EBRD, IFC, of customers, developing employees and promotes environmental and social risk DEG, FMO, ADB and others.
contributing to the economic and social management activities accordingly.
Since We aim at assessing the relative welfare of local communities, while taking then the Bank ensures it has a consistent level of environmental and social risk into account our environmental footprint.
approach to evaluating and managing associated with clients businesses.
environmental, human health and safety We require certain customers to In order to effectively manage the Groups risks of the financed projects.
These implement specific environmental direct and indirect impact on society procedures are now being integrated or social action plans to avoid or and the environment, the Board of into the Banks credit risk management mitigate their environmental and Directors adopted an Environmental and process and will soon be routinely applied social impact and adhere to specific Social Policy in 2012.
This policy defines to all commercial transactions.
In all that monitoring and reporting requirements the Groups strategy to develop solid the Bank does, it strives to find sustainable that we set in order to minimise management controls which will conserve solutions that make good business sense environmental and social risk.
These natural resources, minimise health and to clients and minimise their impact on requirements are included as covenants safety risks, and provide employees the social and natural environment.
in agreements between certain of with equal development opportunities, our customers and the Bank.
We are The main objective of the Environmental We aim at regular monitoring of pioneering sustainability practices in our and Social Policy is to increase the environmental and social risks operations and are constantly seeking environmental and social benefits for our associated with the Banks activities, new ways to improve our performance.
Through Environmental and Social and assessing clients compliance with Risk Management Procedure, the Bank the terms of respective agreements.
Social matters enhances the clients opportunities to be The Group considers the interests in compliance with national environmental Through ensuring comprehensive of its main stakeholders, which and social regulations and to adopt environmental and social assessment include customers, shareholders, best international practices in this area.
and action plans, as part of the stable employees, lenders, and society, The Environmental and Social Policy due diligence, the Bank encourages in the development of strategy and and Risk Management Procedures, the customers in fulfilment of their operations improvement processes.
along with other tools necessary for environmental and social obligations and We strive to positively contribute to their implementation, comprise the core has established a framework for them to society through the entire scope of components of the Banks Environmental achieve good environmental and social our business activities by developing and Social Risk Management System standards.
In many cases, the Banks socially oriented products and services, ESMS.
Under this concept, the Bank proper and timely management of the implementing responsible approaches endeavours to become an environmentally customers environmental and social risks to our business operations, and carrying friendly financial institution.
facilitate them to avoid financial and legal out sponsorship and charity activities.
sanctions during inspections conducted by the state enforcement agency.
60 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Training activities are also an important As for direct impact on the environment, Environmental and social issues are element for enhancing capacity for JSC Bank of Georgia carried out the tracked at the project site in cooperation policy implementation.
In 2015, the inventarisation of the air pollution sources with the facility staff, providing ongoing Bank provided full opportunities for of heating systems and pollutants emitted advice and guidance on good practice and the development and enhancement from these sources.
The objective of standards and monitoring compliance with of the Environmental and Social Risk the inventarisation was identification of the requirements.
For environmental and Coordinators capacity.
The Coordinator the exhaustion and emission sources social due diligence of certain high-risk participated in the 9th Annual Community of pollutants, evaluation of quantitative and A category projects, the Bank has of Learning which was organised by IFC indices and constituent of emitted contracted independent external experts.
and took place in Washington DC on pollutants as well as identification of other As part of monitoring, the Bank requires 22-23 October 2015.
The Community of emission parameters.
The main pollutants each of its high-risk clients to provide Learning is a knowledge-sharing forum of heating systems working on the diesel the Bank with the annual report on their aimed at strengthening the implementation and natural gas are hydrocarbons, nitrogen environmental and social performance of environmental and social standards by dioxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, and the implementation of applicable Environmental and Social Action Plans financial institutions in emerging markets.
The inventarisation or each client is visited by the Bank staff The event provided an opportunity reports were submitted to the Ministry on a regular basis.
During 2015, the Bank to exchange experiences, learn from of Environment and Natural Resources held extensive ESDD Environmental and investment case studies, and engage Protection of Georgia and approved.
Social Due Diligence, monitored the in dialogue among environmental and In 2015, the Bank also obtained mining clients and developed action plans for social risk management specialists from licence for obtaining fresh water in one non-compliant clients.
It has to be noted all over the globe.
More generally, the of the regional branches.
As for efficient that due to the Banks efforts, a few Bank has delivered several trainings in waste management, the Bank is regularly clients conducted environmental audit this area and more than 100 employees taking measures for waste minimisation and obtained the environmental impact were trained during the last two years.
and reduction in the environmental impact permits to continue implementation of their Leading experts and state inspectors of waste.
Concerning new initiative, business activity legally.
They have started were invited as trainers.
It is envisaged green boxes were placed for separate taking measures to mitigate the impact to continue training activities.
collection of everyday paper waste.
on natural and social environment as has Paper waste is taken to the relevant been required by the permitting body.
Other highlights of the year included a facilities with the aim of recycling.
The purpose of the According to Association Agreement review was to ensure that policy remains The Bank is committed to respecting the between the European Union and Georgia, fit for purpose, taking into account principles of sustainable development, to Georgia has commitment to progressively lessons learned from experience and protecting the environment, and willing approximating its legislation in the changes in the relevant legislation.
The to improve the level of public health and relevant sectors with that of the EU and review process began at the end of safety and protection of human health to implementing it effectively.
Through 2014 and the revised policy document as an essential element for sustainable this approximation process, Georgia is has been adopted and approved by the development and economic growth.
very actively developing and amending its Board of Directors in 2015.
In particular, national legislation in the relevant sectors.
the change in categorisation of the The Bank continues to make progress Therefore, the Bank regularly checks legal transactions took place, assessment towards its objective and to ensure efficient developments and updates with regard procedures of low, medium and highimplementation of the Environmental to environmental, health and safety and risk projects were renewed, monitoring and Social Management System.
The labour issues and places great emphasis procedures of projects were refined, Bank will continue to conduct business on improvement of ESDD opportunities.
and also capacity building and staff with due consideration to environmental It should be noted that with the aim to training activities were defined.
protection and contribute to the creation strengthen the clients knowledge and of a sustainable society.
The Bank will capacity in the area of environmental help increase clients benefits through and social protection the Bank staff very proper and highly active implementation intensively introduces the information of the Environmental and Social Policy.
about existing and new regulations and laws to the clients during the ESDD.
The Bank also continues to support Georgias emerging economy by financing industries that are strategically important for the development of the entire nation.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 61 Strategic report Strategy Resources and responsibilities continued minded people.
Construction of a five star has eight operational blocks, 30 bed Infrastructure development.
worldwide brand hotel was also financed reanimation and a 70 spot hospital.
The Infrastructure development continued to by the Bank in amount of US$ 13.0 million.
clinic also has a high-tech diagnostic be a key financing and guarantee granting centre.
This project is very important theme for the Bank, with almost US$ 36.15 The Bank endeavours to finance the step forward in Georgian healthcare million committed to the construction projects that provide millions of people industry, as it gives Georgian citizens and rehabilitation of the land-reclamation with access to safe drinking water, sanitary more access to high-quality service and system, the rehabilitation of water supply waste water disposal services, wellcreates more than 300 working places.
and wastewater systems, the construction maintained urban roads and other types of of refugee settlements, the construction projects that provide important sustainable Information and communications and rehabilitation of highways, local development benefits to households technology.
In 2015, the Bank municipal roads and bridges, the and enterprises across the country.
continued financing the leading fixed-line construction of a new multipurpose telecommunication service provider in shopping centre, and the construction Hydropower sector.
The Company invested about and rehabilitation of recreational sport facilities and historical buildings.
hydropower sector holds significant US$ 3 million for LTE infrastructure development potential.
The Bank is development, out of which US$ 1.2 From US$ 36.15 million, US$ 12.5 million committed to enhancing the security million was LC financing from the Bank was committed to construction and of energy supply, including the to increase its internet penetration rehabilitation of roads with the aim to development of energy sector, promoting in low density populated areas.
provide easy access to one of the biggest the development of appropriate hydro plant in Georgia and to construction projects in Georgia facilitating the Other.
In 2015, Bank of Georgia financed of permanent operators village.
development of relevant infrastructure the construction of a data centre, and promoting energy efficient and the specialised in Bitcoin mining, BFDC US$ 5.55 million was committed to use of renewable energy sources.
Georgia Bitcoin Mining Data Centre.
A rehabilitation and reconstruction of free industrial zone was created in Tbilisi, Vere highway and Mziuri Park after In 2015, the bank financed construction of which hosts the data centre and provides disastrous flood in June 2015.
Another HPPs and equipment purchase in the total a tax-free zone for the entities working significant financed project was amount of US$ 3.8 million.
In particular, in the information technology industry.
renovation and construction of water the Bank financed construction of smallThe data centre was founded by Bitfury, systems throughout the whole country of scale HPP with installed capacity of a world leader in Bitcoin mining.
The Georgia in amount of US$ 10.0 million.
1.5MW using the water and infrastructure construction was concluded in 2015 and of an existing irrigation system outside the data centre started its operations in With regard to construction of apartment the irrigation period.
Total financing need complex for refugees, refugees who generation is estimated to amount to was US$ 32.0 million, out of which Bank lost their own houses in Samachablo 6.77GWh with a good upside potential in of Georgia financed US$ 5.0 million.
and Apkhazia will soon have their own case the water supply is higher than the apartments in Gori.
The Bank financed minimum flow as stipulated in the supply Retail banking construction of 450 apartments contract with Georgian melioration.
SmallBank of Georgia continues to innovate in amount of US$ 4.0 million.
scale hydro power plants are of paramount and come up with a wide range of socially importance, as it is a renewable and oriented financial products and services The tourism sector has become a vital part clean energy option and improves the that bring added value to individuals and of the Georgian economy as demonstrated sustainability of decentralised electricity.
small and medium-sized businesses by its significant growth since 2000.
The SMEs and meet their respective needs.
Bank continues to finance the hospitality Another financed project was construction sector of Georgia by providing loans of small run-of-river HPP.
This is a hydro Express Banking.
The Georgian banking for hotel construction.
Besides the power plant with an installed capacity sector still experiences difficulties in above-mentioned US$ 36.15 million, the of 3.07MW and an expected yearly overcoming economic and geographical bank financed construction of hotels in generation of 20GWh.
The total budget of barriers on its way to expanding financial amount of US$ 28.5 million.
In particular, the project is US$ 4.1 million, out of which services in remote regions and among US$ 24.0 million Loan Agreement was US$ 2.88 million was financed by the bank, low-income parts of the population.
signed between the client and the Bank with a long-term credit facility and the Our Express Banking service plays an regarding financing more than 200 room letters of credit to purchase the equipment.
important role in addressing this issue: internationally branded hotel in Tbilisi.
It The project was financed through the is co-financed with European Bank for KFW credit line for renewable energy.
As at 31 December 2015, a network Reconstruction and Development out of of 2,589 Express Pay terminals, 90 which the Bank financed US$ 12.0 million.
Express and 24 Metro branches Also US$ 3.5 million Loan was approved Continuous improvement in medical which are located all over the country for construction of 272 bed hostel and 57 services in Georgia remains a top priority including in remote mountain regions.
The place is going for the countrys strategic development.
Express financial products such as to be a combination of inclusive bars, In 2015, JSC Bank of Georgia financed Express card, Express deposit and sound and art studios, co-working space, construction of a multifunctional highExpress loan.
These financial products inner courtyard for events and exhibitions.
tech medical centre and purchase of are uncomplicated, easily accessible It is believed to be the space for equipment in amount of US$ 5.5 million.
and affordable to a segment of the socialising, inspiration and collaboration, The clinics main areas of work include population that would not have access where you can implement new ideas, meet neurosurgery, gynecology, traumatology to banking products and services the artists and their art, have interesting and general surgery.
Since the beginning of the conversations with foreign travellers square metres of space and is equipped Express Banking service in December and connect with free and rebellious with the latest medical technology.
It 2011, the Bank has attracted 425,350 62 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information entertaining centres popular among EnergoCredit loans were provided to SME clients by 31 December 2015, of which children, bookstores, cafes, as well as the clients.
The aim of such loans is to help 58,669 were attracted in 2015 alone.
accumulation of bonuses sCoola for each companies reduce their energy intensity transaction.
To accustom children to use and increase their competitiveness As part of the Express Banking service, we the card and motivate school canteens in through the following means: prioritise development of self-service skills non-cash payments, there is a discount to our clients.
We plan to expand services for POS terminals set up in schools.
As reduction of operating costs for energy: in Express Pay terminals, develop weba result, more and more children use increased production with the same based application processing tools and the card for payments and children cost for energy: and implement a new instalment credit product.
bartenders contact with cash is limited.
increased awareness among business All these changes will provide more operators and management staff accessible banking service to our client.
We continue to provide employees.
financing to SMEs, a backbone of Youth support.
We have developed the Georgian economy that ensures By the use of EnergoCredit the company a wide range of financial products to sustainable development of our country.
has the chance to receive a 10-15% support young people in Georgia.
For Apart from our own micro-financing and subsidy and get an energy audit for example, through the special conditions SME loan programmes, we also participate free if required.
The total amount of of the Child Deposit we provide parents in various programmes that support EnergoCredit SME loans was US$ 43,642. with an opportunity to secure the future of their children.
In 2015, the Bank partnered amount of GEL 10, a deposit can be with a non-profit Agricultural Projects Mass retail.
EnergoCredit residential loans opened for two years minimum at any Management Agency which supports were also provided to various groups of time from a childs birth until the age of agricultural SMEs.
Together, we coretail customers, the aim of which is to 18.
The annual interest rate 12.00% for financed agricultural loans at fixed annual help households reduce their energy costs Georgian Lari and 2.25-4.25% for foreign interest rates which were significantly lower by purchasing energy efficient products, currency is added to the initial deposit.
than previous loans SMEs received by such as boilers and central heating, In 2015, we opened approximately other institutions.
In 2015, the total amount double glazing, insulation for walls, roofs 3,505 Child Deposit accounts.
of Bank loans issued to SMEs was GEL and floors, solar water heating, solar 934.1 million, of which GEL 257.1 million photovoltaic systems, air-conditioning The Bank also offers special products was issued to female entrepreneurs.
systems, home appliances electric ovens, that allow the youth to receive secondary refrigerators, washing machines.
Examples of Combined with supporting SMEs applying for energy efficient loan is entitled such products are school and student financially, the Bank also plans to to receive a 10% subsidy, calculated on loans with favourable terms that do not organise educational events and provide the sub-loan amount disbursed to the require any financial guarantees and financial and business knowledge client.
The project started In November collateral.
The total amount of school and related advice to entrepreneurs in order 2013 and the total amount of EnergoCredit student loans granted in 2015 was GEL to enhance their finance management residential loans was US$ 4.3 million.
skills and ensure the sustainable development of their businesses.
Affordable housing Another example of a product supporting For example, the planned events in Currently, the Georgian real estate youth is a student card which provides flagship service centres mentioned market is vulnerable to various economic special benefits for students of Georgian above will provide entrepreneurs with and financial uncertainties.
The benefits include discounts knowledge and skills in accounting, the construction projects remain unfinished for public transportation, a 2% interest drafting of legal documents, business for long periods of time while there is a rate for savings on the card Georgian Lari development, sales and marketing.
strong growing demand for housing from accounts and 1% for foreign currency, free the Georgian population.
In response distance banking services and others.
In Also the environmental and social risk to this increasing demand, the Groups 2 2015, the Bank issued 82,722 of these management process of SME clients real estate development business, m cards.
In addition, every three months, is embedded throughout the Banks Real Estate was established in order to the Bank awards 20 holders of student activities.
Through ensuring comprehensive offer affordable housing to the emerging cards with three-month scholarships environmental and social risk assessment middle class in Georgia, especially 2 to encourage the student population to and action plans, we encourage the SME young families.
Currently, m Real Estate use financial instruments and support clients to be in compliance with national has completed its third successful them financially during their study.
environmental and social legislation and project for the development and sale achieve good environmental and social of affordable residential apartments.
One more example of supporting youth standards.
During site visits, we provide is a project called sCool Card a advice and guidance on good practice The company uses an innovative approach multifunctional card for school children.
and standards in this area, update the to design and construction processes The project is in its starting process.
The clients with regard to environmental, health so that each square metre is distributed main objective of this social-educational and safety and labour issues and monitor efficiently and fits customers needs and project is to make children get accustomed compliance with the E&S legislation.
As few customers can afford to to a financial culture and improve their In many cases of non-compliance, our buy large flats with an area exceeding 100 financial literacy.
sCool Card is available proper and timely management of the square metres, the company continuously for free and all of the transactions and SME clients environmental and social risks works to optimise the size of the card services are also free of charge.
facilitate avoidance of financial and legal apartments to meet the current demand sCool Card provides special benefits for sanctions during inspections conducted of its customers without compromising school children in Georgian schools.
The by the state enforcement agency.
the apartments convenience and benefits include public transportation in Tbilisi, discounts for educational and Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 63 Strategic report Strategy Resources and responsibilities continued Extensive Geographic Coverage Network of healthcare facilities N N Referral and specialty hospitals Community hospitals Ambulatory clinics Regions of presence 15 15 Tskaltubo Tsalenjikha 15 Chkhorotsku 15 Tkibuli 186 15 Zugdidi Martvili Khoni 15 Terjola 15 Akhmeta 15 Khobi Chakvi 25 220 45 15 Kutaisi Kvareli Kutaisi Kutaisi Abasha 20 70 Tskaltubo 60 266 Poti 124 50 Kutaisi 110 80 Akhaltsikhe 70 Kobuleti 70 60 152 Telavi 134 Batumi 450 82 21 Adigeni 120 Batumi 1,260 35 Tbilisi Akhalkalaki 19 Keda 25 26 Ninotsminda Khulo 15 Shuakhevi usability.
A large segment of the Groups The healthcare services business of Sponsorship and charity customers is represented by young GHG also provides free regular medical Within its sponsorship and charity Georgian families.
We believe that by examinations at various locations across activities, the Group continues to focus continuing to offer affordable housing the country including Batumi, Khulo, on promoting and enhancing access products, we are helping to significantly Keda, shuakhevi, Poti, Kvareli, Telavi and to education, conserving nature and enhance the quality of their lives.
In addition, GHGs specialists supporting children with disabilities.
The deliver free medical services, including Groups Sponsorship and Charity Policy Georgia Healthcare Group PLC GHG examinations and treatments for socially implies partnering with Foundations is the largest private healthcare services and economically disadvantaged parts of and NGOs to deliver sustainable results provider in the Georgian market.
In cooperation with other and bring about positive change.
Our Group operates a network of medical healthcare institutions, Georgia Healthcare priority is to help solve a cause, not the centres and hospitals through healthcare Group arranges free blood transportation symptom.
The Group chose to focus on services business.
It covers more than and donations for its patients.
the three areas bearing utmost importance 67% of the Georgian population with clinics for Georgian society.
Sponsorship and located across the county and provides Apart from healthcare services business, charity funds are channelled through access to high-quality medical services the Group operates a medical insurance the Tree of Life Foundation that in its to the population including those living in business, which participated in the state turn distributes funding via means of remote mountain regions.
The accessibility insurance programme in 2015.
Through grants competitions thus assuring a of medical services is ensured by this programme, it served more than transparent and fair way of financing.
scheduling regular visits by specialists to 400,000 policyholders represented small towns and villages and by providing by people below the poverty level, the patients with transportation to larger clinics elderly, children below five years of age, in urgent cases and in cases when more students, teachers and refugees.
64 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information on a predetermined topic and present On 13 June 2015, Tbilisi experienced one Promoting and enhancing access to in front of a competent jury.
The winner of the worst floods in its recent history.
Bank of Georgia University, is granted a fully paid trip to London, With one of the highways and several established in 2014, welcomed its second to attend the global Public Speaking homes destroyed, casualties and loss intake of MBA in Finance students in competition.
We aim to be part of this caused by the disaster amounted to autumn 2015.
Cost of studies in 2015 competition during 2016 as well.
The Group was were again in big part subsidised by one of the first to come up with an initiative the Bank, GEL 244,500 in total giving The Bank has been supporting every to raise funds to help the flood victims.
a possibility to up to 10 top students to single TEDxTbilisi conference from The Group donated GEL 1 million in total study free of charge while the next 20 when it was first organised, in 2012.
A to fund provision of new housing for those can enjoy a 0% loan and start repaying TEDx conference is a locally organised who were left without one.
In addition, one year after graduation.
Besides TED format event, where communities, GEL 300,000 was donated by corporate providing high-quality education, Bank organisations and individuals join to and individual clients of the Bank to an of Georgia University offers its students initiate a conversation and connect account swiftly opened and promoted by hands-on experience by offering them a possibility to observe various business with each other on different matters Bank of Georgia within days of the flood.
processes at the Groups companies.
which are important for the society.
In 2015, Bank of Georgia provided funding Healthcare services business of GHG In summer 2014, Bank of Georgias startin the amount of GEL 40,646 to a local runs a wide range of charitable activities up incubator, Vegalab, started to operate.
NGO Non-governmental Organisation, on a permanent basis for children In total GEL 300,467 was spent on setting Educate Georgia to translate into Georgian with leukaemia.
It also regularly gifts up and running the Lab which allows its one of the most widespread and popular personal computers to children from incumbents to use a centrally located office free online educational platforms in the socially and economically disadvantaged and its facilities, training and mentoring free world, the Khan Academy.
Additionally, on religious of charge.
Since then, authors individuals will allow some 200,000 Georgian pupils holidays business delivers presents to the and groups of 12 business ideas were with internet access, 65% of who live newborns across the patient network.
selected to join the incubator out of outside Tbilisi to read and listen to the which three projects were nominated highest quality education materials.
Employee matters for the next stage capital financing.
A key factor to our success is a cohesive Conserving nature.
Another priority of the and professional team, capable of In 2013, the Bank became the first Groups charity activities is the preservation accomplishing the Groups objectives.
Georgian company to cooperate with of wildlife diversity.
Since 2010, the We are committed to attracting and one of the most prestigious scholarship Bank has granted US$ 300,000 to the identifying the best professionals, programmes in the world, the Chevening Caucasus Nature Fund CNF to cover the caring and planning for their needs, scholarship, in order to provide Georgian maintenance costs of Borjomi-Kharagauli investing in their development and students with an opportunity to pursue National Park BKNP, one of the most fostering their commitment.
The Group provided treasured national parks in Georgia.
GEL 293,555 in total and funded three The HR department and the management students in 2015.
The partnership with Supporting children.
Since 2014, the system it implements play a vital role in Chevening has been extended for the next Bank has been focusing its efforts on managing our most valuable resources year and the Group is looking forward supporting children with disabilities - our employees.
The HR department selecting students who will continue one of the most vulnerable social develops HR policies and procedures their Masters studies in the UK.
In 2015, the Bank which determine key principles, areas, donated GEL 103,904 to the Tree of approaches and methods that are In 2014, the Bank signed a partnership Life Foundation which distributed the crucial for building HR management agreement with the prestigious US funds through two grants competition systems for all our businesses.
In order to qualify to Bank of Georgias contribution two for the competition, proposals had Examples of some our HR policies and students from Georgia were able to enrol to focus on sustainable results and procedures include, but are not limited to: in a two-year Masters degree programme causing change in one of the following at a US University in 2015.
Funding areas: providing education, developing employee planning and recruiting: provided to the students for their first year infrastructure for disabled children, or staff administration: of studies amounts to GEL 225,450. fostering integration into the society.
compensation and benefits: code of conduct: For the past three years the Bank has Some of the projects financed through the employee development and training: been supporting a Public Speaking grants competition entailed: providing 119 human rights: competition organised by the English wheelchairs to children with disabilities or grievances: Speaking Union, Georgia.
The competition special needs, creation of a paraorchestra, whistleblowing: allows top students who are in their setting up of a social taxi service for the retrenchment: and senior year at a high school, or freshmen disabled, organising adapted playground anti-nepotism.
year at a university, to prepare a speech in one of the largest districts in Tbilisi.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 65 Strategic report Strategy Resources and responsibilities continued Total headcount per employee category broken down by gender Senior 2013 Directors managers Employees Total Female 6 53 8,448 8,507 Male 23 72 3,109 3,204 Total 29 125 11,557 11,711 Senior 2014 Directors managers Employees Total Female 7 57 9,722 9,786 Male 41 81 3,487 3,609 Total 48 138 13,209 13,395 Senior 2015 Directors managers Employees Total Female 16 75 11,623 11,714 Male 47 111 4,083 4,241 Total 63 186 15,706 15,955 The Banks HR management department the views of our employees.
We consult Total headcount by age works closely with HR managers and with our employees regularly and have category executives from our subsidiaries in order implemented feedback systems, such as to ensure proper implementation of the frequent employee satisfaction surveys, Over 51 years old main principles and provision of necessary which ensure that our employees opinions 41-50 years old 31-40 years old support in all HR-related matters.
are taken into account when making 21-30 years old decisions which are likely to affect their Less than 20 years old We recognise the importance of observing interests.
Employee feedback also 9,649 human rights and are committed to helps to improve our customer focused 2,833 implementing socially responsible business orientation and client servicing approach.
Our Human Rights Policy establishes priorities and puts control Talent attraction procedures in place to provide equal Sustained development of the Groups 2,028 opportunities and prevent discrimination businesses requires the strengthening or harassment on any grounds, including of the teams of our subsidiaries both by 4,523 185 disability.
Our Human Rights Policy using the Groups own significant internal 2,237 411 applies to all employees including the resources through staff development 1,427 disabled and includes procedures related and rotation, and by attracting external to employment processes including candidates.
Our recruitment policy and 1,112 2,455 2,389 104 continued employment for employees who relevant control procedures ensure an 242 200 9 58 have become disabled while employed unbiased hiring process that provides 17 6 402 65 22 by us, training and development.
equal opportunities for all candidates.
722 160 162 45 30 46 2 Bank m Aldagi GHG Others We are committed to employee According to the HR Policy, internal engagement.
We believe that knowledge candidates have priority when filling of our Group is key and we strive to vacant positions, especially in situations provide our employees with a continuous where there are vacancies in top flow of information which includes but and middle management.
Thus, in is not limited to information about our 2015, 175 Group employees were corporate culture, the Groups strategy promoted to managerial positions.
and performance, risks relating to its performance, such as financial and In order to attract young talent, we actively economic factors, and our policies and partner with leading Georgian business procedures.
We provide information schools and universities, participate in in a number of ways, including via job fairs and run extensive internship departmental managers, presentations, programmes aimed at the professional our intranet, email and regular town-hall development of young professionals and and off-site meetings.
We also value their further employment.
In 2012, Bank 66 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information 2 relationships.
For example, the Banks of Georgia established a new format for and internal monthly inspections of m 2 mentoring programme is part of a front its traditional internship programme.
In addition, m Real office training process.
Every new attracts promising graduates and provides Estate has a comprehensive reporting employee is provided with regular advice, them with the opportunity to participate procedure for health and safety concerns.
guidance and practical instructions in a major professional training and In 2015, 2014 and 2013, no work-related from an appointed mentor who later leadership development programme.
fatalities or injury incidents occurred at participates in the new employees Interns are directly coached by the the companys construction sites.
Through Banks executives to help them on their this programme, we aim to provide path to gaining their first management With regard to emergency preparedness 2 individual support to our employees in positions in the near future.
In 2015, and response, m Real Estate established achieving their professional results and the number of young professionals an Emergency Management Plan.
It improving their personal effectiveness.
under 30 years old increased by outlines possible scenarios during 21% compared to 2014 and currently emergency situations and determines GHGs healthcare services business represents 36% of total headcount.
specific strategies for the companys provides additional training to its employees, contractors and visitors on employees that work in the specialised Training and development how to react when in a crisis situation.
To manage our employees in a way that field of healthcare.
The company best supports our business strategy, we remains the only healthcare institution Environmental matters seek to help our employees contribute to in Georgia to have in-house training of The Group recognises that its operations business performance through personal personnel.
Since the beginning of 2014, have both an indirect and direct impact on and professional development.
GHG has invested over GEL 3.0 million the environment and therefore seeks to in training and has a dedicated staff establish management approaches which Following our aspiration to develop of 45 trainers, largely focusing on the will help it become a more environmentally strong leaders, we have developed an areas of nursing and critical care.
Being the largest extensive programme for leadership business recently established a unique financial institution in Georgia, the Bank development.
We provide a standard training centre in the Kutaisi region that produces significant indirect environmental Induction Training course for employees will enhance the professional knowledge impact through the projects which it appointed to managerial positions.
This and skills of local medical personnel.
In order to properly manage programme covers a wide range of topics this impact, the Bank has implemented including corporate values, strategy and Occupational health and safety an Environmental and Social Policy objectives, organisational structure, HR Ensuring the safety of the workplace and and Risk Management Procedures, as management policies, history of the Group, providing healthy working conditions described in the Social matters section.
and specific courses for development are among the Groups fundamental of communication, presentation, HR management principles.
The Group As for direct environmental impact, we management and leadership skills, among pays particular attention to preventive believe that the impact of the banking and others.
Selected mid-level and senior-level measures, such as conducting insurance businesses is not significant.
employees are given the opportunity to regular staff training and medical Nevertheless, we undertake a number receive external training in well-known check-ups, certifying workplaces, of measures to reduce electricity, paper, training institutions outside of Georgia.
For example, in 2013 we upgraded our lighting system The Groups corporate learning system The Groups real estate development in the Banks headquarters by installing is comprised of a wide range of internal business is associated with high health energy-saving bulbs and implemented and external training sessions specifically and safety risks for contractors on sites.
KNX EIB System management, which not 2 designed to meet the needs of front and In order to minimise such risks, m only helped us minimise our environmental Real back-office employees at the Groups impact but also reduced our energy Estate established a Health and Safety subsidiaries including banking, healthcare, costs by GEL 4,000-5,000 per month.
Policy and management procedures insurance and real estate development.
We implemented this system in all of the ensuring implementation of the health and In 2014, Bank of Georgia launched Banks branches during 2014.
In addition safety measures at all worksites.
The policy a Leadership Development online to our energy saving efforts, in 2015 we contains a range of precautions that seek programme for senior managers and some started a project Green Box.
With this to prevent any accidents related to the 2 of our key employees.
The programme initiative the Bank continues its work m s contractors or injuries to community was provided by a UK company and aimed towards minimising the paper waste.
members, as well as property damage and to support the individual development of Green Boxes are placed on every floor incidents caused by equipment failure.
The of the Banks headquarters and are programme was running successfully designated to collect paper for recycling In order to enhance the awareness of throughout this year as well and benefited purposes.
The Group is also in the process employees and contractors regarding all participants with a personally tailored of automating its operational processes health and safety risks associated with development experience and gave in order to reduce the volume of printed the construction process the company them a greater awareness of their documents and consequently minimise conducts regular training and educational leadership strengths and opportunities the overall use of paper.
In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the for further growth and effectiveness.
continues to acquire new printers which number of health and safety training hours offer double-sided printing by default.
amounted to approximately 110, 1,008 2 Each of the Groups businesses and 500 respectively.
In addition, the m has developed an extensive training We are considering replacing part publishes brochures and booklets with programme for front office employees of our car fleet, which runs on warnings and special rules to be followed in order to provide them with relevant petrol, with electric vehicles.
Respective control skills, such as effective communication procedures include quarterly audits by and building strong and valued client external health and safety consultants Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 67 Strategic report Strategy Resources and responsibilities continued We aim to reduce greenhouse gas IFC.
The company not only follows high In order to minimise the negative impact emissions resulting from our operations.
environmental standards that IFC imposes to the environment caused by the 2 Refer to the Directors Report for more on its borrowers but has also become construction process, m Real Estate detailed information on the issue.
a participant of the IFC-Canada Climate has adopted an Environmental and 1 Change Programme and thus meets all Social Management Plan which helps The most significant direct impact on mandatory requirements of the programme identify the environmental impacts of the environment within the Group is regarding green building construction.
its activities and define measures to created by our real estate development Aiming at increasing the efficient use prevent them as outlined below.
The of energy, water and materials, m Real company addresses industry-specific Estate installs energy efficient lighting GHGs direct environmental impact is environmental issues and undertakes systems and uses double glazed windows mainly characterised by medical waste appropriate measures to manage them.
and other modern insulation materials which needs special treatment and safe thus reducing the U-value of constructed disposal.
GHG implemented procedures 2 Focusing on enhancing resource efficiency buildings to 0.21W m K. It is expected that are in line with the Georgian legislation 2 of its apartment buildings, m Real that utility costs for these buildings will which defines risk categories of medical Estate started two new development be reduced up to 43% compared to an waste and establishes appropriate projects with financial support from average residential building in Georgia.
procedures for its treatment, storage Environmental aspect Preventive measures Dust Introducing speed limits on unmade roads Damping down using water bowsers with spray bars Sheeting of construction materials and storage piles Using defined moving routes and reductions in vehicle speed limits where required Spills and leaks during refuelling Installing a sealed drainage system at refuelling areas Providing suitable tanks e. g. double skinned, bunds and impermeable liners at fuel stores and refuelling points Using drip trays for static plant e. g. generators and pumps Training staff in refuelling and pump operations Shortening the refuelling line as much as possible Performing regular maintenance checks of hoses and valves Conducting follow-up procedures for proper and safe refuelling by operators Air emissions Ensuring that new vehicles comply with the current European Union EU emissions standards at the time of purchase Implementing a regular maintenance programme to ensure all new vehicles continue to comply with relevant EU emissions standards Ensuring that older vehicles are maintained in order to eliminate extra emissions as much as reasonably practicable Strictly enforcing speed limits in order to optimise fuel consumption and production of exhaust fumes, and minimise dust generation on unpaved surfaces Water contamination Locating fuel stores and refuelling points further away from watercourses and aquifers Fire Providing a fire extinguisher adjacent to each item of mobile plant and equipment Noise Fitting effective silencers at all plant and machinery, and providing ear defenders and or plugs on sites No idling or revving of plant engines and all vehicles Using controlled venting, silenced equipment and absorbing screens Working at preferred times of day daylight hours Monday to Saturday, otherwise communicated to the local community and authorities Vibration Operating the equipment within the manufacturer specification limits and limiting any overuse Depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer Ensuring that no ozone depleting substances ODS such as chlorofluorocarbons CFCs and  HCFCs or products with known global warming potential are used 1.
The IFC-Canada Climate Change Programme, established in 2011, is a partnership between the Government of Canada and IFC to promote private sector financing for clean energy projects, through the use of concessional funds to catalyse investments in renewable, low-carbon technologies that would not otherwise happen www.
68 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information The reported data is collected and OECD Europe and Eurasia average and disposal.
GHG strives to improve its reported for the boundaries of four conversion from the UK Governments efficiency and thus outsources medical of the Groups main businesses: Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors waste management to a company for Company Reporting 2014. specialising in medical waste disposal.
Banking represented by the Bank, Used heat and steam only The total amount of generated medical which includes all of its offices applies to one site of Imedi L. waste in 2015 amounted to 125 tonnes and retail branches where the compared with 159 tonnes in 2014 Bank has operational control.
Scope 3 includes emissions from: and 55 tonnes in 2013, an increase Real estate development represented which correlated with the significant 2 by m Air business travel short haul and expansion of GHGs hospital network.
Real Estate, which includes long haul : information on the class of its offices and construction sites.
travel is unavailable hence we used an Methodology P&C insurance represented by average passenger conversion factor.
We have reported on all of the emission Aldagi, which includes all of its Ground transportation, including sources required under the Companies offices and retail branches where the taxis, coaches and car hire.
Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors company has operational control.
Reports Regulations 2013 Scope 1 Georgia Healthcare Group represented and 2 and additionally have reported on Data on emissions resulting from travel by Evex and Imedi L, which includes those emissions under Scope 3 that are is reported for business-related travel its main office and hospitals where the applicable to our business.
All reported only, and excludes commuting travel.
sources fall within our consolidated Data from joint ventures, investments, financial statements which can be found or sub-leased properties have not been Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation on pages 135 to 215 of this Annual Report.
included within the reported figures.
of facilities includes emissions from: We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in The data is provided by on-site delegates, Combustion of natural gas, diesel our consolidated financial statements.
and petrol in stationary equipment at owned and controlled sites.
In preparing this emissions data, Combustion of petrol, diesel and we have used the World Resources aviation fuel in owned transportation Institute World Business Council devices cars and aeroplane.
for Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Scope 2 electricity, heat, steam and Corporate Accounting and Reporting cooling purchased for own use includes Standard revised edition and emissions emissions from: factors from the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors Used electricity at owned and controlled for Company Reporting 2014. sites: to calculate the emissions, we used the conversion factor for NonTotal greenhouse gas emissions data for the period beginning 1 January 2015 and ended 31 December 2015 tonnes of CO e 2 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 8,453 7,614 6,679 Scope 2 emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 5,457 11,034 12,183 Scope 3 emissions from air travel and land transportation 2,165 3,822 4,487 Total greenhouse gas emissions 16,075 22,470 23,349 FTEs 11,711 13,395 15,955 Total greenhouse gas emissions per FTE 1.37 1.68 1.46 Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 69
