BH BH MACRO MACRO LIMITED, LIMITED, ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT AND AND AUDITED AUDITED DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 2015 2015 5 5 Directors Report 31 December 2015 The Directors submit their Report together with the Companys The Company may employ leverage for the purposes of financing Audited Statement of Assets and Liabilities, Audited Statement share purchases or buy backs, satisfying working capital of Operations, Audited Statement of Changes in Net Assets, requirements or financing further investment into the Master Fund, Audited Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes for the subject to an aggregate borrowing limit of 20% of the Companys year ended 31 December 2015.
The Directors Report together net asset value, calculated as at the time of borrowing.
Borrowing with the Audited Financial Statements and their related notes the by the Company is in addition to leverage at the Master Fund Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the financial level, which has no limit on its own leverage.
They have been prepared properly, in Results and dividends conformity with United States Generally Accepted Accounting The results for the period are set out in the Audited Statement Principles US GAAP, are in accordance with any relevant of Operations on page 23.
The Directors do not recommend the enactment for the time being in force and are in agreement with payment of a dividend.
The figures stated in note 9 of the Notes to the Audited Financial The Company Statements for Net Investment Losses are, in the Directors The Company is a limited liability closed-ended investment opinion and in accordance with the Companys investment company incorporated in Guernsey on 17 January 2007. objectives, not the most appropriate reflection of the Companys The Company was admitted to a Secondary Listing Chapter 14 overall performance.
Considering the investment objectives of on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange LSE on 14 the Company, the Directors consider that the figures disclosed in March 2007.
On 11 March 2008, the Company migrated from note 9 for Total Returns are a more appropriate reflection of the the Secondary Listing to a Primary Listing pursuant to Chapter Companys overall performance during the year.
15 of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
As a result of Share capital changes to the UK Listing Regime, the Companys Primary Listing The number of shares in issue at the period end is disclosed in became a Premium Listing with effect from 6 April 2010. note 5 to the Financial Statements.
As of 20 October 2008 the Company obtained a Secondary Viability statement Listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange and with effect from The investment objective of the Company is to seek to generate 11 November 2008, the US Dollar Shares of the Company were consistent long-term capital appreciation through an investment admitted to a Secondary Listing on NASDAQ Dubai.
policy of investing all of its assets net of funds required for its The proceeds from the original issue of shares on listing short-term working capital in the ordinary US Dollar, Euro and amounted to approximately US$1.1 billion.
On 26 October 2007 Sterling denominated Class B shares issued by the Master Fund.
the Company issued further shares in a cash placing amounting The Companys investment performance depends upon the to approximately US$0.1 billion.
performance of the Master Fund and the Manager as manager of Investment objective and policy the Master Fund.
The Directors, in assessing the viability of the The Company is organised as a feeder fund that invests all of its Company, paid particular attention to the risks facing the Master assets net of short-term working capital requirements directly in Fund.
The Manager operates a risk management framework Brevan Howard Master Fund Limited the Master Fund, a hedge which is intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and where fund in the form of a Cayman Islands open-ended investment appropriate, mitigate key risks identified by it or its affiliates in company, which has as its investment objective the generation of respect of the Master Fund.
consistent long-term appreciation through active leveraged trading The Companys assets exceed its liabilities by a considerable and investment on a global basis.
The Master Fund is managed by margin.
Further, the majority of the Companys most significant Brevan Howard Capital Management LP, the Companys Manager.
liabilities, being the fees owing to the Manager and to the The Master Fund has flexibility to invest in a wide range of Companys administrator, fluctuate by reference to the Companys instruments including, but not limited to, debt securities and investment performance and net asset value.
obligations which may be below investment grade, bank loans, The Directors confirm that their assessment of the principal risks listed and unlisted equities, other collective investment schemes, facing the Company was robust and that they have assessed the currencies, commodities, futures, options, warrants, swaps and viability of the Company over the period to 31 December 2018. other derivative instruments.
The underlying philosophy is to The viability statement covers a period of three years, which the construct strategies, often contingent in nature, with superior risk Directors consider sufficient given the inherent uncertainty of return profiles, whose outcome will often be crystallised by an the investment world and the strategy period.
In selecting this expected event occurring within a pre-determined period of time.
period the Directors considered the environment within which the Company operates, its liabilities, the performance of the Master Fund and the risks associated with the Company.
BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 6 DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Directors Report continued 31 December 2015 Viability statement continued The Board The continuation of the Company in its present form is dependent The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for safeguarding the on the Management Agreement with the Manager remaining in Companys assets, for the determination of the investment policy of place.
The Directors note that the Management Agreement with the Company, for reviewing the performance of the service providers the Manager is terminable on two years notice by either party.
The and for the Companys activities.
The Directors, all of whom are nonDirectors know of no current reason why either the Company or executive, are listed on page 3 and on the inside back cover.
the Manager might serve notice of termination of the Management The Articles provide that, unless otherwise determined by ordinary Agreement during the three year period covered by this viability resolution, the number of Directors shall not be less than two.
To ensure that the Company maintains a constructive and Companys policy on Directors Remuneration, together with details informed relationship with the Manager, the Directors meet regularly of the remuneration of each Director who served during the year, is with the Manager to review the Master Funds performance, and detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 13. through the Management Engagement Committee, they review the nature of the Companys relationship with the Manager.
The Board meets at least four times a year and between these formal meetings there is regular contact with the Manager and the Besides the possible termination of the Management Agreement, Administrator.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment at the Company level the main risk to the Companys continuation and financial controls, and other matters that are relevant to the would be that adverse investment performance by the Master Fund business of the Company are brought to the attention of the could precipitate extended downwards pressure on the Companys Directors.
The Directors also have access to the Administrator share prices from shareholders seeking to liquidate their investment and, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to in the Company by selling their shares.
The Companys shares independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
could consequently trade at a more significant discount to NAV, In addition to these scheduled meetings, 14 ad hoc meetings which, if it persisted, could in turn increase selling pressure.
were held to deal with matters that were of a fundamentally The Companys discount management programme is described administrative nature, the majority being the conversions between within Note 8, including details as to when class closure share classes.
These meetings were attended by those Directors resolutions would have to be put to shareholders.
The Company available at the time.
actively undertakes discount management actions, including share Directors buybacks, so that as far as possible the share prices properly For each Director, the tables below set out the number of Board, reflect the Companys underlying performance: such actions Audit Committee and Management Engagement Committee mitigate the risk of a class closure resolution being triggered.
But meetings they were entitled to attend during the year ended buybacks necessarily reduce the size of the Companys market 31 December 2015 and the number of such meetings attended capitalisation, with some consequent diminution in the liquidity of by each Director.
the Companys shares and if, in the face of larger-scale selling by shareholders, the Board were to determine that it would be in the Scheduled Board Meetings Held Attended interests of shareholders as a whole to initiate a more structured Ian Plenderleith 4 4 operation to offer shareholders a partial return of capital, the David Barton 4 4 reduction in the Companys capitalisation and in the liquidity of its Huw Evans 4 4 shares could be more substantial.
Colin Maltby 2 2 Christopher Legge 4 4 The Directors, having considered the above risks and reviewed Talmai Morgan 2 2 budgeted ongoing expenses and on the assumption that they Claire Whittet 4 4 are managed or mitigated in the ways noted above, have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue Audit Committee Meetings Held Attended in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the threeHuw Evans 5 5 year period of their assessment.
Christopher Legge 5 5 Claire Whittet 5 5 Going concern After making enquiries and given the nature of the Company and Management Engagement its investment, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to Committee Meetings Held Attended continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Ian Plenderleith 1 1 Financial Statements and, after due consideration, the Directors Huw Evans 1 1 consider that the Company is able to continue for the foreseeable Christopher Legge 1 1 future.
In reaching this conclusion the Board is mindful of the Claire Whittet 1 1 nature of the assets that underlie its investment in the Master Fund, including the Master Funds liquidity, and has concluded that Indicates the meetings held during their membership of the Board during adverse investment performance would not have a material impact the year ended 31 December 2015. on the Companys ability to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 7 Directors independence Directors indemnity In January 2016 the Chairman and Christopher Legge will both Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in have served on the Board for over nine years and under the AIC respect of the Directors.
Code may not be considered to be independent of the Company.
The Directors entered into indemnity agreements with the Company The Board however, takes the view that independence is not which provide for, subject to the provisions of the Companies Guernsey necessarily compromised by the length of tenure on the Board Law, 2008, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs which they and experience can add significantly to the Boards strength.
It has may incur relating to the defence of proceedings brought against them therefore determined that in performing their role as Directors, the arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or Chairman and Christopher Legge remain wholly independent and all judgement is given in their favour by the Court.
The agreement does not the Directors except for David Barton who resigned from the Board provide for any indemnification for liability which attaches to the Directors on 29 February 2016 are considered to be independent of the in connection with any negligence, unfavourable judgements, breach of Company.
As noted on page 14, Christopher Legge will be retiring as duty or trust in relation to the Company.
Chairman of the Audit Committee in June 2016.
David Barton was an employee of the Manager and therefore deemed Corporate governance not to be independent of the Manager for the purposes of LR15.2.
12-A To comply with the UK Listing Regime, the Company must and served as a Director until his resignation on 29 February 2016. comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Company is also required to comply with the Code Directors interests of Corporate Governance issued by the Guernsey Financial The Directors had the following interests in the Company, held Services Commission.
either directly or beneficially: US Dollar The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Shares Companies the AIC and by complying with the AIC Code of 31.12.15 31.12.14 Corporate Governance AIC Code is deemed to comply with Ian Plenderleith Nil Nil both the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Guernsey David Barton Nil Nil Code of Corporate Governance.
Huw Evans Nil Nil Christopher Legge Nil Nil The Financial Reporting Council the FRC issued a revised UK Colin Maltby Nil N A Corporate Governance Code in September 2014 for accounting Talmai Morgan N A Nil periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The AIC updated the Claire Whittet Nil Nil AIC Code including the Guernsey edition and its Guide to Corporate Governance to reflect the relevant changes to the FRC document in Euro Shares February 2015.
The Board has adopted this revised code.
31.12.15 31.12.14 Ian Plenderleith Nil Nil The Board has considered the principles and recommendations David Barton Nil Nil of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, Huw Evans Nil Nil as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set Christopher Legge Nil Nil out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out Colin Maltby Nil N A additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of Talmai Morgan N A Nil specific relevance to the Company.
Claire Whittet Nil Nil The Board considers that reporting against the principles and Sterling Shares recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC 31.12.15 31.12.14 Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, Ian Plenderleith Nil Nil will provide better information to Shareholders.
To ensure ongoing David Barton Nil Nil compliance with these principles the Board receives and reviews Huw Evans 710 710 a report from the Secretary, at each quarterly meeting, identifying Christopher Legge Nil Nil whether the Company is in compliance and recommending any Colin Maltby Nil N A changes that are necessary.
Talmai Morgan N A 1,200 Claire Whittet Nil Nil The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 8 DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Directors Report continued 31 December 2015 Corporate governance continued Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
An The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions induction programme is provided for newly-appointed Directors.
relating to: In line with the AIC Code, as the Company is a FTSE 250 listed the role of the chief company, Section 21.3 of the Companys Articles requires all Directors to retire at each Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual executive directors remuneration General Meeting of the Company on 25 June 2015, Shareholders the need for an internal audit function re-elected all the Directors of the Company with the exception of Talmai Morgan who did not put himself forward for re-election.
whistle-blowing policy For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in The Board regularly reviews its composition and believes that the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these the current appointments provide an appropriate range of skill, provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company as it is experience and diversity.
an externally managed investment company with a Board formed exclusively of non-executive Directors.
The Company has therefore The Board, Audit Committee and Management Engagement not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Company Committee undertake an evaluation of their own performance does not have employees, hence no whistle-blowing policy is and that of individual Directors on an annual basis.
However, the Directors have satisfied themselves that to review their effectiveness, the Board and its Committees the Companys service providers have appropriate whistle-blowing carry out a process of formal self-appraisal.
The Board and policies and procedures and seek regular confirmation from the Committees consider how they function as a whole and also service providers that nothing has arisen under those policies and review the individual performance of their members.
This process procedures which should be brought to the attention of the Board.
is conducted by the respective Chairman reviewing the Directors performance, contribution and commitment to the Company.
The Company has adopted a policy that the composition of the Board of Directors is at all times such that i a majority of the Directors are Christopher Legge, as Senior Independent Director, takes the lead independent of the Manager and any company in the same group as in reviewing the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman also the Manager the Managers Group : ii the Chairman of the Board has responsibility for assessing the individual Board members of Directors is free from any conflicts of interest and is independent training requirements.
of the Managers Group: and iii no more than one director, partner, In accordance with the AIC Code which requires external evaluation employee or professional adviser to the Managers Group may be a of the Board every three years, the Board commissioned an external Director of the Company at any one time.
evaluation of its performance by Optimus Group Limited at the end The Company has adopted a Code of Directors dealings in of 2014.
The report of the evaluation confirmed that the Company shares, which is based on the Model Code for Directors dealings applies a high standard of corporate governance and is compliant contained in the LSEs Listing Rules.
with relevant Codes in all areas.
The report indicated that there were no significant issues to raise: some helpful procedural suggestions The Companys risk exposure and the effectiveness of its risk were offered, which the Board has implemented.
management and internal control systems are reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board at their meetings.
The Board believes The Board needs to ensure that the Financial Statements, taken that the Company has adequate and effective systems in place to as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the identify, mitigate and manage the risks to which it is exposed.
information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In seeking to achieve In view of its non-executive and independent nature, the Board this, the Directors have set out the Companys investment considers that it is not necessary for there to be a Nomination objective and policy and have explained how the Board and its Committee or a Remuneration Committee as anticipated by delegated Committees operate and how the Directors review the the AIC Code.
The Board as a whole fulfils the functions of the risk environment within which the Company operates and set Nomination and Remuneration Committees, although the Board appropriate risk controls.
Furthermore, throughout the Annual has included a separate Remuneration Report on page 13 of Report the Board has sought to provide further information to these Financial Statements.
The Board has adopted a Nomination enable Shareholders to better understand the Companys business Policy covering procedures for nominations to the Board and to and financial performance.
Policy to combat fraud, bribery and corruption For new appointments to the Board, nominations are sought The Board has adopted a formal policy to combat fraud, bribery from the Directors and from other relevant parties and candidates and corruption.
The policy applies to the Company and to each are then interviewed by an ad hoc committee of independent of its Directors.
Further, the policy is shared with each of the Directors.
The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to Companys service providers.
the Company, and the Directors believe that any changes to the BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 9 Ongoing Charges and reasonable for the Shareholders, along with the Companys Ongoing charges for the year ended 31 December 2015 and year agreements with all other third party service providers other than the ended 31 December 2014 have been prepared in accordance Independent Auditors.
The Terms of Reference of the Management with the AICs recommended methodology.
Engagement Committee are available from the Administrator.
The principal contents of the Managers contract and notice The following table presents the Ongoing Charges for each share class.
period are contained in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
31.12.15 The Board continuously monitors the performance of the Manager US Dollar Euro Sterling and a review of the Manager is conducted by the Management Shares Shares Shares Engagement Committee annually.
Company Ongoing Charges 1.98% 1.99% 1.96% Master Fund Ongoing Charges 0.62% 0.60% 0.62% The Manager has wide experience in managing and administering Performance fee 0.01% 0.03% 0.02% investment companies and has access to extensive investment management resources.
Ongoing Charges plus performance fee 2.61% 2.62% 2.60% At its meeting on 14 September 2015, the Management Engagement Committee concluded that the continued 31.12.14 appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed was in the US Dollar Euro Sterling interests of the Companys Shareholders as a whole.
At the date Shares Shares Shares of this report the Board continued to be of the same opinion.
Company Ongoing Charges 1.94% 1.94% 1.94% Master Fund Ongoing Charges 0.60% 0.58% 0.61% Internal Controls Performance fee 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of an Ongoing Charges plus appropriate system of internal control rests with the Board and to performance fee 2.54% 2.52% 2.55% achieve this, a process has been established which seeks to:- Review the risks faced by the Company and the controls in The Master Fund Ongoing Charges represent the portion of the place to address those risks Master Funds operating expenses which have been allocated to the Company.
The Company invests substantially all of its investable Identify and report changes in the risk environment assets in ordinary US Dollar, Euro and Sterling denominated Class Identify and report changes in the operational controls B shares issued by the Master Fund.
These shares are not subject to management fees and performance fees within the Master Fund.
Identify and report on the effectiveness of controls and The Master Funds operating expenses include an operational service errors arising fee payable to the Manager of 1 12 of 0.5% per month of the NAV.
Ensure no override of controls by its service providers, the Manager and Administrator Performance graphs The graphs shown on page 1 detail the share price returns over A report is tabled and discussed at each Audit Committee the period.
meeting, and reviewed once a year by the Board, setting out the risks identified, their potential impact, the controls in place to Audit Committee mitigate them, the residual risk assessment and any exceptions The Companys Audit Committee conducts formal meetings identified during the period under review.
at least four times a year for the purpose, amongst others, of considering the appointment, independence, effectiveness of The Board has delegated the management of the Company, the audit and remuneration of the auditors and to review and the administration, corporate secretarial and register functions recommend the annual statutory accounts and interim report to including the independent calculation of the Companys NAV and the Board of Directors.
Full details of its function and activities are the production of the Annual report and Financial Statements, set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 14 to 16. which are independently audited.
Whilst the Board delegates these functions, it remains responsible for the functions it delegates and Management Engagement Committee for the systems of internal control.
Formal contractual agreements The Board has established a Management Engagement have been put in place between the Company and the providers Committee with formal duties and responsibilities.
On an ongoing basis Board reports are provided Management Engagement Committee meets formally at least at each quarterly Board meeting from the Manager, Administrator once a year and comprises Huw Evans, Christopher Legge, Ian and Company Secretary and Registrar.
A representative from the Plenderleith and Claire Whittet.
Huw Evans is the Chairman of the Manager is asked to attend these meetings.
In common with most investment companies, the Company The function of the Management Engagement Committee is to does not have an internal audit function.
All of the Companys ensure that the Companys Management Agreement is competitive BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 10 DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Directors Report continued 31 December 2015 Internal Controls continued its shares can continue to be recommended by UK authorised management functions are delegated to the Manager, persons to ordinary retail investors.
Administrator and Company Secretary and Registrar which have Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act their own internal audit and risk assessment functions.
For purposes of the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the Company registered with the US Internal Revenue Services A report is tabled and discussed at each Audit Committee IRS as a Guernsey reporting Foreign Financial Institution meeting, and reviewed once a year by the Board, setting out FFI, received a Global Intermediary Identification Number the Companys risk exposure and the effectiveness of its risk 5QHZVI.
831, and can be found on the IRS FFI list.
management and internal control systems.
The Board believes that the Company has adequate and effective systems in place to The Company is subject to Guernsey regulations and guidance identify, mitigate and manage the risks to which it is exposed.
based on reciprocal information sharing inter-governmental agreements which Guernsey has entered into with the United Further reports are received from the Administrator in respect Kingdom and the United States of America.
The Board will take of compliance, London Stock Exchange continuing obligations the necessary actions to ensure that the Company is compliant and other matters.
The reports were reviewed by the Board.
No with Guernsey regulations and guidance in this regard.
material adverse findings were identified in these reports.
Common Reporting Standard Principal Risks and Uncertainties The CRS is a standard developed by the Organisation for The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal Economic Co-operation and Development OECD and is a controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board is satisfied global approach to the automatic exchange of tax information.
that by using the Companys risk matrix in establishing the Guernsey has now adopted the CRS which came into effect on Companys system of internal controls while monitoring the 1 January 2016.
Companys investment objective and policy the Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties The CRS has replaced the UK Inter-Governmental Agreement facing the Company.
The principal risks and uncertainties which IGA from 1 January 2016.
However, it will still be necessary to have been identified and the steps which are taken by the Board submit the 2014 and 2015 reports for the UK IGA by 30 June to mitigate them are as follows: 2016.
The first report for CRS will be made to the Director of Income Tax by 30 June 2017.
Investment Risks: The Company is exposed to the risk that its portfolio fails to perform in line with the Companys objectives The Company is subject to Guernsey regulations and guidance if it is inappropriately invested or markets move adversely.
on the automatic exchange of tax information and the Board will The Board reviews reports from the Manager, which has total therefore take the necessary actions to ensure that the Company discretion over portfolio allocation, at each quarterly Board is compliant in this regard.
meeting, paying particular attention to this allocation and to the performance and volatility of underlying investments: Relations with Shareholders Operational Risks: The Company is exposed to the risks arising The Board welcomes Shareholders views and places great from any failure of systems and controls in the operations of the importance on communication with the Companys Shareholders.
The Board receives reports annually The Board receives regular reports on the views of Shareholders from the Manager and Administrator on their internal controls: and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet Shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting of the Accounting, Legal and Regulatory Risks: The Company is Company provides a forum for Shareholders to meet and discuss exposed to risk if it fails to comply with the regulations of issues with the Directors of the Company.
The Company provides the UK Listing Authority or if it fails to maintain accurate weekly unaudited estimates of NAV, month end unaudited accounting records.
The Administrator provides the Board estimates and unaudited final NAVs.
The Company also provides with regular reports on changes in regulations and accounting a monthly newsletter.
These are published via RNS and are also requirements: and available on the Companys website.
Risk reports of the Master Financial Risks: The financial risks faced by the Company, Fund are also available on the Companys website.
include market, credit and liquidity risk.
These risks and The Manager maintains regular dialogue with institutional the controls in place to mitigate them are reviewed at each Shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the quarterly Board meeting.
In addition, Board members are available to respond The Board reviews and updates the risk matrix to reflect any to Shareholders questions at Annual General Meetings.
changes in the control environment.
Shareholders who wish to communicate with the Board should contact the Administrator in the first instance.
Having reviewed the Financial Conduct Authoritys restrictions on the retail distribution of non-mainstream pooled investments, the Company, after taking legal advice, announced on 15 January 2014 that it is outside the scope of those restrictions, so that BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 11 Significant Shareholders As at 21 March 2016, the following Shareholders had significant shareholdings in the Company: Total Shares % holding Held in class Significant Shareholders US Dollar Shares Chase Nominees Limited 4,076,111 25.88% Nortrust Nominees Limited 2,733,351 17.36% Vidacos Nominees Limited 1,478,153 9.39% Morstan Nominees Limited 1,175,315 7.46% J P Morgan Clearing Corporation 914,256 5.81% Luna Nominees Limited 836,796 5.31% State Street Nominees Limited 627,352 3.98% The Bank of New York Nominees Limited 509,267 3.23% Lynchwood Nominees Limited 481,488 3.06% Euro Shares Nordea Bank Danmark A S 1,268,571 33.69% State Street Nominees Limited 342,867 9.11% Lynchwood Nominees Limited 216,055 5.74% Vidacos Nominees Limited 211,149 5.61% Computershare Investor Services Plc 163,213 4.33% Smith & Williamson Nominees Limited 142,390 3.78% Aurora Nominees Limited 134,750 3.58% HSBC Global Custody Nominee UK Limited 132,578 3.52% Goodbody Stockbrokers Nominees Limited 120,825 3.21% Securities Services Nominees Limited 113,399 3.01% Sterling Shares Luna Nominees Limited 6,009,896 19.24% Chase Nominees Limited 4,497,491 14.40% Nutraco Nominees Limited 2,749,617 8.80% The Bank of New York Nominees Limited 1,818,508 5.82% HSBC Global Custody Nominee UK Limited 1,645,032 5.27% Ferlim Nominees Limited 1,449,711 4.64% State Street Nominees Limited 1,131,220 3.62% Rathbone Nominees Limited 1,119,079 3.58% Pershing Nominees Limited 996,600 3.19% Signed on behalf of the Board by: Ian Plenderleith Chairman Christopher Legge Director 21 March 2016
