BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED MANAGERS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 17 17 Managers Report Brevan Howard Capital Management LP is the Manager of the Company and of Brevan Howard Master Fund Limited the Fund.
The Company invests all of its assets net of short-term working capital in the ordinary shares of the Fund.
Performance Review The NAV per share of the USD shares of the Company depreciated by 1.42% in 2015, while the NAV per share of the Euro shares depreciated by 0.77% and the NAV per share of the Sterling shares depreciated by 0.86%.
BH Macro Limited BHM NAV and NAV per Share data is provided by BHMs administrator, Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited.
BHM NAV per Share % Monthly Change is calculated by BHCM.
BHM NAV data is unaudited and net of all investment management fees as described in note 4 and all other fees and expenses payable by BHM.
Shares in the Company do not necessarily trade at a price equal to the prevailing NAV per Share.
PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 18 MANAGERS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Managers Report continued Performance Review continued The above strategies are categorised as follows: The Funds largest exposures at the start of the year were short positions in both the Swiss Franc and the Euro currencies, which Macro: multi-asset global markets, mainly directional for the were held in expectation of further European Central Bank easing.
Fund, the majority of risk in this category is in rates In aggregate, gains in FX trading were more than offset by losses Rates: developed interest rates markets in other areas.
FX: global FX forwards and options The Fund successfully avoided the turmoil caused by the Swiss National Bank unexpectedly fide-pegging the Swiss Franc from the EMG: global emerging markets Euro in January 2015, whilst profiting from the European Central Equities: global equity markets including indices and other Banks subsequent Quantitative Easing announcement, to finish derivatives up approximately 3% at the end of the first quarter.
Roughly half of these gains were given back in the second quarter, as positions Commodities: liquid commodity futures and options held in anticipation of an increase in market volatility due to the Greek crisis, led to losses.
Credit: corporate and asset-backed indices, bonds and CDS During the second half of the year the Funds positions Systematic: rules-based futures trading increasingly reflected the view that the economic slowdown in Europe, and the likelihood that inflation expectations would start Commentary and Outlook to decline substantially, would lead the European Central Bank The central bank policy divergence that we have been anticipating to ease much more aggressively than already discounted for by for over a year has now finally arrived, which we believe should market expectations.
Market anticipation of increased European materially improve the opportunity set for macro trading.
Central Bank easing led to gains on those positions in November.
However, in the event, the European Central Bank disappointed In December, after 6 years at zero interest rates the US Federal the market at its December meeting and the gains made in Reserve the Fed started a hiking cycle.
However, the brief November were negated by losses in December.
Overall the view period of unity among Federal Reserve policy makers following cost the Fund a little more than 1% over the two months.
lift off appears to be fraying.
On the one hand, hawks see an economy making progress on both the employment and Strategy Group Exposure % of capital allocation inflation mandates with financial market volatility that has done little to dent the expansion.
On the other hand, doves worry Commodities 0.0% Systematic 1.2% that inflation has been too low for too long and the risks from Credit 9.8% the unsettled international environment threaten to derail the Equities 1.2% expansion when the Fed would have few attractive easing FX 4.4% options.
The debate seems poised to continue until one group Rates 29.5% gains the upper hand.
EMG 11.1% At the same time, the zero bound for rates has been well and truly broken which means that the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, amongst others, have room to further cut interest rates if they deem it necessary.
In addition, the low volatility environment prevailing since the Macro 42.8% end of 2011 appears to have come to an end.
The slowdown of global growth seems to be accelerating and disinflationary Source: Brevan Howard Capital Management LP, as at 31 December 2015. pressures appear to be intensifying.
Should these trends continue, Data may not sum to 100% due to rounding.
major central banks may in the future find it increasingly difficult to offer the level of support to capital markets that investors have Capital allocations are subject to change.
BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED MANAGERS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 19 Commentary and Outlook continued The European Central Bank seems to have fallen into a reactive mode.
With price developments in the Eurozone continuing to undershoot both European Central Bank and market expectations, the risks of fully fledged deflation have not gone away.
In the UK, business surveys have fallen markedly, in part due to concerns over the referendum on whether the UK should remain in the European Union.
Uncertainty around the referendum may hinder investment and hiring, providing a dampener to growth whilst also contributing to increased market volatility.
Brevan Howard wishes to thank shareholders once again for their continued support.
Brevan Howard Capital Management LP, acting by its sole general partner, Brevan Howard Capital Management Limited.
