BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED BOARD MEMBERS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 3 Board Members The Directors of the Company, all of whom are non-executive, are United States, National Association of Securities Dealers NASD.
listed below: Mr Barton was appointed to the Board in April 2014 and resigned on 29 February 2016.
Ian Plenderleith Chairman, age 72 Ian Plenderleith retired at the end of 2005 after a three-year term Christopher Legge, Senior Independent Director, age 60 as Deputy Governor of the South African Reserve Bank.
He served Christopher Legge is Guernsey resident and has over 25 years on the Banks Monetary Policy Committee and was responsible experience in the financial services industry.
He qualified in for money, capital and foreign exchange market operations and for London in 1980 with Pannell Kerr Forster and subsequently international banking relationships.
He previously worked for over moved to Guernsey in 1983 to work for Ernst & Young, 36 years at the Bank of England in London, where he was most progressing from audit manager to Managing Partner in the recently Executive Director responsible for the Banks financial Channel Islands.
Mr Legge retired from Ernst & Young in 2003 market operations and a member of the Banks Monetary Policy and currently holds a number of directorships in the financial Committee.
He has also worked at the International Monetary sector.
Mr Legge is an FCA and holds a BA Hons in Economics Fund in Washington DC and served on the Board of the European from the University of Manchester.
Mr Legge was appointed to the Investment Bank and on various international committees at Board in 2007. the Bank for International Settlements.
Mr Plenderleith holds Colin Maltby, age 65 an MA from Christ Church, Oxford University, and an MBA Colin Maltby is a resident of Switzerland.
His career in investment from Columbia Business School, New York.
Mr Plenderleith is management began in 1975 with NM Rothschild & Sons and non-executive Chairman of Morgan Stanley International and was included 15 years with the Kleinwort Benson Group, of which a non-executive director of BMCE Bank International in London he was a Group Chief Executive at the time of its acquisition by until his resignation on 31 January 2016.
He is also Chairman of Dresdner Bank AG in 1995.
He was Chief Executive of Kleinwort the Governors of Reeds School in Surrey.
Mr Plenderleith has held Benson Investment Management from 1988 to 1995, Chief the role of Chairman of the Board since 2007.
Investment Officer of Equitas Limited from its formation in 1996, Huw Evans, age 57 and Head of Investments at BP from August 2000 to June Huw Evans is Guernsey resident and qualified as a Chartered 2007.
Colin has served as a non-executive Director of various Accountant with KPMG then Peat Marwick Mitchell in 1983.
He public companies and agencies and as an adviser to numerous subsequently worked for three years in the Corporate Finance institutional investors, including pension funds and insurance department of Schroders before joining Phoenix Securities Limited companies, and to private equity and venture capital funds in in 1986.
Over the next twelve years he advised a wide range of both Europe and the United States.
He is currently an Investment companies in financial services and other sectors on mergers and Advisor to Wolfson College, Oxford.
Colin holds a Double First acquisitions and more general corporate strategy.
Since moving to Class Honours degree in Physics from the University of Oxford Guernsey in 2005, he has acted as a professional non-executive and also studied at the Stanford University Graduate School of Director of a number of Guernsey-based companies and funds.
Mr Maltby is a Fellow of Wolfson College, Oxford, a He holds an MA in Biochemistry from Cambridge University.
Fellow of the Royal Institution of Great Britain and of the Royal Mr Evans was appointed to the Board in 2010.
Society of Arts, and a member of the Institut National Genevois.
Mr Maltby was appointed to the Board in June 2015.
David Barton, age 36 resigned 29 February 2016 During the reporting period, David Barton was Jersey resident.
He Claire Whittet, age 60 joined Brevan Howard in July 2007.
He was the Head of Legal at Claire Whittet is Guernsey resident and has over 38 years Brevan Howard Capital Management LP, the Companys manager, experience in the financial services industry.
After obtaining a MA and a director of a number of the groups global entities.
Prior to Hons in Geography from the University of Edinburgh, she joined joining Brevan Howard, David worked as a transactional lawyer in the Bank of Scotland for 19 years and undertook a wide variety the Corporate group of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in London of roles including running two city centre offices.
She moved to 2005 - 2007, advising on the structuring and launch of listed and Guernsey in 1996 and was Global Head of Private Client Credit unlisted hedge, private equity and other investment funds.
Prior for Bank of Bermuda before joining Rothschild Bank International to Freshfields, David worked as a solicitor in the Corporate and Limited where she is now Managing Director and Co-Head.
Finance groups of Freehills in Sydney 2002-2005 advising on a Mrs Whittet is an ACIB member of the Chartered Institute of wide range of M&A, ECM DCM and investment fund transactions.
Bankers in Scotland, a member of the Chartered Insurance David holds a Bachelor of Commerce Economics and Finance Institute and holds an IoD Directors Diploma in Company and Bachelor of Laws Hons from Macquarie University in Sydney Direction.
She is a Non-Executive Director of four other listed and is admitted to practice as a solicitor in England and Wales investment funds and holds various directorships in addition to and a solicitor and barrister in New South Wales, Australia.
Mrs Whittet was appointed to the Board in June 2014.
David is Series 3 Commodities and Futures qualified with the
