Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BUSINESS MODEL We provide a unique wealth management service, where our experienced professional advisers take time to understand a clients individual circumstances, attitude to risk and investment objectives, to build a tailored financial solution.
Our services The table below outlines the services currently provided by the Group, and indicates those that are a strategic focus.
Service Available to Strategic focus Wealth Management Private Clients Integrated approach to protecting and growing wealth that combines both Financial Planning andInvestment Management.
Investment Management Private Clients Designed for clients who want to benefit from a personal focus on their investment portfolio but Private Clients via do not require financial advice.
Financial Intermediaries Charities This service is provided to both direct clients and via intermediaries.
Corporates Financial Planning Private Clients This service helps address our clients wider financial planning needs including advice on investment, protection or retirement requirements.
Managed Portfolio Service MPS Private Clients via Financial Intermediaries This service is provided for financial advisers who offer a suite of risk graded model portfolios designed for their clients who do not require, or for whom it is not cost effective, to have a bespoke solution.
Brewin Portfolio Service BPS Private Clients A low-cost service of professionally designed portfolios for people with smaller sums 10,000to 200,000 to invest who do not need advice.
It combines the investment expertise of Brewin Dolphin with the freedom for individuals whoare happy making their own risk decisions and investment choices.
It gives access tosixrisk-rated portfolios.
Advisory Private Clients The service provided is either Advisory Managed, where we provide advice on both the Charities structure and individual investments within the portfolio, or Dealing with Advice where advice is provided on a transactional basis only.
Corporates Execution Only Private Clients We provide custody, trade execution and settlement services to those clients who have no Charities need for advice and prefer to make their own investment decisions.
This service is limited andwe no longer provide it on a standalone basis.
Corporates 10 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Access to our services How our business generates value Our services can be accessed by clients either directly or via financial intermediaries.
Value for Brewin Dolphin: We earn income for services based on the amount of funds For more information, see who our clients are in the Business Overview on page 9. we manage or the investment business we transact on clients behalf.
The graph below shows the split of discretionary FUM at We provide a personalised approach to client service, 30 September 2015, between direct and intermediated clients.
combined with the expertise of our professionally qualified staff to demonstrate the value of our services.
By doing that Discretionary FUM well, we earn the trust of clients and create loyal, often longterm client relationships, giving us a competitive advantage bn and adding value to the business through generation of new leads via referrals and brand enhancement.
24.8 Value for our clients: We help clients to manage their money and to plan their finances to achieve their long-term goals.
Each client is bn bn different and our approach is to assess their individual 19.2 5.6 needs and develop a plan tailored to deliver their particular Direct Intermediated goals.
Increasingly, clients want to talk to us about financial planning for key stages in their lives, such as saving for a pension or preparing for retirement, rather than simply investment performance.
We guide them through what is an ever more complex financial services system, helping them nurture their savings in a tax-efficient manner.
In our industry, we have led the way when it comes to transparent charging and we will continue to look at ways in which we can make our charges simple and transparent.
Increasingly, we will use our scale to achieve lower charges for our clients.
The management of the clients investment portfolio is of Delivering our services paramount importance.
As an independently owned business Our business model is based on providing a personal wealth without in-house products we can look across a wide range of management service delivered through our professional advisers financial products.
Our personal service is underpinned by both Investment Managers and Financial Planners.
our award winning in-house research and a firm-wide asset allocation framework within which our Investment Managers have Our Investment Managers are responsible for both the the flexibility to tailor portfolios to each clients individual needs, investment decisions taken on behalf of clients and for managing taking into account their risk profile and goals.
the relationship with their clients.
Our Financial Planners help clients address their wider needs including advice on investment, We offer a comprehensive service for private clients, including protection or retirement requirements.
Self-Invested Personal Pensions, Individual Savings Accounts and Estate Planning, in addition to specialised investment Our service to direct clients is built around the following services for Charities, Corporates and Pension Funds.
key elements: When clients come to us through a third party intermediary, the A comprehensive assessment of the clients financial needs.
intermediary is responsible for providing the financial planning Understanding the clients financial circumstances and related advice, and our Investment Manager is responsible for objectives including: what does the client want to achieve with managing the clients investments.
their investments, are they prepared for retirement, and are In addition to the tailored service described above, we have also their family provided for in the event of death.
established two model portfolio offerings: MPS and BPS see Reviewing the clients investment risk profile establishing the table opposite.
how the client feels about investment risk, their willingness to MPS is provided via the IFA market and is designed to provide accept it, and the financial capacity to withstand it.
fund management to clients for whom a bespoke service may Providing a written client investment proposal a proposed not be necessary or cost-effective.
BPS is a non-advised product, available directly, made up We then combine the output from the above assessment and of professionally designed portfolios for those with 10,000 advice process to create and manage for the client an investment to 200,000 to invest.
An individual selects the required portfolio and broader financial plan.
portfolio based on their preference and long-term goals.
The appropriate portfolio is made up of several funds without the need for financial advice.
11 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
