Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Brewin Dolphin is a leading provider of wealth management in the United Kingdom, Channel Islands and the Republic of Ireland.
Who we are Where we are Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC is listed on the London Stock Local presence and proximity to our clients are key to our Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250 index.
business and help us to maintain a high level of personalised service, which we provide via 27 offices.
We take an integrated advice-led approach to protecting and growing clients wealth combining our skills and experience in investment management and financial planning.
Office locations Our Financial Planners help clients to develop a sound strategy Office locations for managing their financial affairs and safeguarding their longterm wealth.
Our Investment Managers create portfolios tailored to a clients needs, based on what the client wants to achieve with their investments and the risk they are comfortable taking.
Total Funds are 32.0 billion, of which 24.8 billion is in our Discretionary Wealth service.
1 The Group employs around 1,900 people.
Bristol 25 15 14 22 24 23 16 17 27 08 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Discretionary FUM by portfolio size Who our clients are We have two distinct categories of clients: those who have a 000 direct relationship with the Group, and those who are introduced 43% 1,000 to us via financial intermediaries: 21% 5011,000 Direct clients include private clients, charities and corporates, including their pension funds.
21% 251500 Third party financial advisers, and other intermediaries, are 13% 101250 also clients of the Group.
The Group provides investment 0100 2% management services for the clients of the financial advisers: the underlying clients are typically private clients.
Private clients whether direct or via intermediaries account for 20.8 billion of discretionary funds under management, with Discretionary FUM by client type their investment portfolios including Individual Savings Accounts, Self-Invested Personal Pensions and offshore bonds.
The average managed portfolio size is 498,000 Direct 63% 2014: 478,000. private clients We manage 4.6 billion in pension related assets for individuals 21% Intermediated and corporates.
private clients Charities 9% Corporates 7% Investment rationale for shareholders Respected business providing investment Opportunity to capitalise on our brand and scale expertise and trusted advice As one of the largest providers of wealth management services in a fragmented sector, the Group is in a strong position to build The Group has a long tradition as a respected retail financial on its brand and scale to grow the business, cementing its services provider to private clients.
Over time the Group has relationships with existing clients and winning new ones.
established a reputation for trust, integrity and client service.
Chief Executive, David Nicol, discusses this further in his report For more information on how we do business, see our Business on page 16.
Group positioned for even stronger growth Trends for our markets are positive The Group is well positioned for further growth as we have Investment management and financial advisory services are strengthened our operations, putting us in a strong position to growth markets with good long-term prospects.
In particular, see further growth and increase our market share.
there is increasing demand as society becomes more self-reliant in specific areas such as retirement provision and long-term care Chief Executive, David Nicol, discusses this further in his report as well as savings in general.
For more information, see Market Environment on page 12.
09 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
