34 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements Although listed assets make up the bulk of the portfolio the Company may for the year ended 30 September 2015. also invest in unlisted assets with the prior approval of the Board.
Status The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge The Company is registered as a public limited company under the exposures through the use of derivative instruments and may also Companies Acts and is an investment company under Section 833 hedge its foreign currency exposures.
It is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
There are no geographic limits on exposure, as the Company invests wherever it considers that there are opportunities for capital growth.
On 5 November 2015, the Companys name was changed by Board Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which resolution from British Empire Securities and General Trust plc to British themselves are diversified companies.
The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more than The Company has been approved as an investment company under Sections 15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company continues to conduct its affairs as an Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys investment Approved Investment Trust under the Investment Trust Approved Company objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of holdings Tax Regulations 2011. in the portfolio will vary depending upon circumstances and opportunities within equity markets at any particular time.
The Company is a qualifying company for the purposes of Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts.
The Company may gear its assets through borrowings which may vary substantially over time according to market conditions but which will The Companys Investment Manager is authorised as an AIFM by the FCA not exceed twice the nominal capital and reserves of the Company.
The Company has provided disclosures on its website, www.
co. uk, incorporating the requirements of the Gearing Levels AIFMD regulations.
As set out on page 12, taking account of the 15m debenture liability, the Companys debt-to-equity ratio as at 30 September 2015 was 2.2%.
Investment Objective, Policy and Restrictions To allow for flexibility in the future, the limits set under AIFMD are higher The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through than this, and state that it is expected that no more than 50% of NAV would a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose be employed as gearing under the Gross Method and no more than 30% shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
of NAV under the Commitment Method.
The Board is currently assessing the merits of further long-term borrowing.
Up-to-date information is available Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised stock in an AIFMD Investor Disclosure Document on the Companys website exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include investment holding www.
Further, the Companys formal Investment Policy companies, investment trusts and other companies, the share prices of which and Restrictions, as set out above, allow a much higher level of gearing, are assessed to be below their estimated net asset value or intrinsic worth.
being twice the nominal capital and reserves of the Company, while the Articles of Association permit gearing of up to three times the nominal capital and reserves.
Results and Dividends Company loss for the year was 66,711,000 which included a profit of 16,268,000 attributable to revenue 2014: profit of 49,208,000 which included a profit of 15,589,000 attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: Company 000 Revenue available for dividends Interim dividend of 2.0p per Ordinary Share paid on 26 June 2015 2,740 Recommended final dividend payable on 6 January 2016 to shareholders on the Register as at 4 December 2015 ex dividend 3 December 2015 : Final dividend of 9.7p per Ordinary Share 12,976 15,716 Based on shares in circulation on 4 November 2015.
35 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Directors Management Arrangements The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 32 and 33.
All served Asset Value Investors Limited is the Companys appointed Alternative throughout the period under review.
Investment Fund Manager, and is engaged under the terms of an Investment Management Agreement IMA dated 17 July 2014.
The IMA In accordance with the recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate is terminable by one years notice from either party, other than for cause.
Governance Principle 3, all of the Directors of the Board will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
The Investment Manager is entitled to a management fee of 0.70% of the net assets of the Company, calculated quarterly by reference to As set out on page 39, the Board carries out an annual review of the net assets at the preceding quarter end and paid monthly.
each Director and of the Board as a whole.
The Board considers that all Directors contribute effectively, possess the necessary skills and J. P. Morgan Europe Limited was appointed as Depositary under an experience and continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as agreement with the Company and AVI dated 2 July 2014, and is paid a fee non-executive Directors of the Company.
Following the performance on a sliding scale between 0.5 basis points and 4 basis points based on review, it was agreed that all Directors should stand for re-election, and the assets of the Company.
The Depositary Agreement is terminable on 90 the re-election of each of the Directors is recommended by the Board.
calendar days notice from either party.
The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their connected JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch, has been persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2015 appointed as the Companys Custodian under an agreement dated are set out in the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report 2 July 2014.
The agreement will continue for so long as the Depositary on page 74.
Agreement is in effect and will terminate automatically upon termination of the Depositary Agreement, unless the parties agree otherwise.
Nigel Rich is a director of Matheson & Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Jardine Matheson which is an investee company.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited was appointed as corporate Company Secretary on 1 April 2014 for an annual fee of 55,000, which Subsidiary Company is subject to an annual RPI increase.
The Agreement may be terminated The Company owns one subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited, an investment by either party on six months written notice.
During the year, the share capital of the subsidiary was reduced from 250,000 to 1 through the cancellation of 249,999 With the Boards consent, with effect from 1 April 2014 AVI sub-contracted shares and 249,999 was repaid to the Company.
As at the year end, certain fund administration services to Capita Asset Services.
The cost of the subsidiary had assets amounting to 1.
As permitted under IFRS these sub-contracted services is borne by AVI from its own resources and 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company's results are not not by the Company.
consolidated see notes 1 a and 1 d. Interests in Share Capital Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to share capital is given on page 31.
At 30 September 2015 and 4 November 2015, the following holdings representing more than 3% of the Companys issued share capital had been reported to the Company: Number held at Percentage held at Percentage held at 30 September 2015 30 September 2015 4 November 2015 1607 Capital Partners, LLC 11,349,612 8.45 8.48 Brewin Dolphin 8,202,205 6.11 6.13 Halifax Share Dealing 7,525,119 5.60 5.63 Alliance Trust Limited 6,746,321 5.02 5.04 Wells Capital Management, Inc 6,474,842 4.82 5.04 Lazard Asset Management LLC 6,446,023 4.80 4.82 Charles Stanley & Co Limited 5,788,559 4.31 4.33 AXA Investment Managers UK 4,469,525 3.33 3.34 On 12 October 2015, the Company was informed that the interest of Wells Capital Management, Inc had increased to 6,747,536 shares.
No other changes have been notified since 30 September 2015.
36 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Financial Risk Management Resolution 12 Authority to issue shares outside of pre-emption rights The principal financial risks and the Companys policies for managing The Directors seek to renew the authority to allot, other than on a prethese risks are set out in note 17 to the financial statements.
emptive basis, Ordinary Shares including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any securities into Ordinary Shares up to a maximum Greenhouse Gas Emissions of 6,688,285 Ordinary Shares, being approximately 5% of the Ordinary The Companys environmental statements are set out in the Strategic Shares excluding shares held in treasury in issue as at 4 November 2015, Report on page 13. and to transfer or sell Ordinary Shares held in treasury.
Auditor The Directors would only exercise this authority if they consider it to be Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and advantageous to the Company.
The Directors do not currently intend a Resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to issue shares or sell shares from treasury other than at or above the to re-appoint them as Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the prevailing NAV.
Auditors remuneration for the ensuing year.
Resolution 13 Share buy-back facility Ernst & Young LLP have held office as Auditor to the Company since At the Annual General Meeting held on 17 December 2014, the Directors June 1993.
The Audit Committee periodically reviews the appointment were authorised to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the shares of Ernst & Young LLP and the Board recommends their reappointment.
in circulation at the date of that meeting.
At the forthcoming Annual General Further information on the work of the Auditor can be found in the Report Meeting, the Directors will seek to renew the authority for up to 14.99% of the Audit Committee on pages 68 to 70. of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury, representing 20,051,481 Ordinary Shares as at 4 November 2015.
Purchases would Special Business at the Annual General Meeting be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Rules.
The authority would expire 15 months after the date of the The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 December passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the next Annual General Meeting 2015 the Notice is set out on pages 77 to 80. of the Company.
Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares Details of shares bought back during the year under review can be The Directors seek to renew the general and unconditional authority found in note 14 to the financial statements.
to allot up to 44,588,572 Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing approximately one-third of the issued Ordinary Share capital excluding Ordinary Shares bought back may be held in treasury for cancellation shares held in treasury.
The Directors would only exercise this authority or sale at a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
if they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
The Directors would not exercise the authority granted under this This authority would expire 15 months after the date of the passing of the Resolution unless they consider it to be in the best interests of resolution or, if earlier, at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
As at 4 November 2015, 26,248,371 shares are held in treasury, Details of the above resolutions are contained in the Notice.
representing 16.40% of the issued share capital.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
37 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Corporate Governance The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the corporate governance code to which the issuer is subject.
The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 are applicable for the year under review.
The related Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in February 2015 addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide will meet the obligations in relation to the UK Code and associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
The AIC Code can be viewed at http: www.
co. uk sites default files uploads files .
pdf The UK Code can be viewed at http: www.
pdf The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code provides shareholders with full details of the Companys Corporate Governance compliance.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2015 the Company has complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to the role of the Chief Executive, Executive Directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no Executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
38 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three sections covering: The Board Board Meetings and the relationship with the Investment Manager Shareholder communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Strone Macpherson, was independent of the Investment Manager at the time of his appointment independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the Investment Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
A majority of the Board should The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent of the Investment Manager.
be independent of the manager.
No member of the Board is a Director of another investment company managed by the Companys Investment Manager, nor has any Board member been an employee of the Company, its Investment Manager or any of its service providers.
Steve Bates is the Senior Independent Director.
Strone Macpherson is Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc, the ultimate parent of Winterflood Securities Limited which is the Companys Corporate Broker and which receives a retainer of 25,000 per annum, paid by the Company.
The Board has determined that this does not compromise his independence.
Directors should be submitted All Directors submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
for re-election at regular intervals.
Nomination for re-election should The individual performance of each Director standing for re-election is evaluated annually by the remaining not be assumed but be based members of the Board and, if considered appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote on disclosed procedures and in favour of their re-election at the AGM.
The Board should have a policy The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, considers the structure of the Board and recognises the need on tenure, which is disclosed in the for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board does not have a formal policy requiring that Directors should stand down after a fixed period.
It considers that a long association with the Company and experience of a number of investment cycles can be valuable to its deliberations and does not compromise a Directors independence.
Strone Macpherson has served as a Director for over 12 years and Steve Bates has now served for 9 years.
The remaining members of the Board have considered the length of their service and any impact that this might have on their continuing independence.
They have determined that both Mr Macpherson and Mr Bates continue to be demonstrably independent of the Investment Manager.
The Board is, however, mindful of the need to refresh the Board periodically through the retirement and appointment of Directors.
Two new Directors have been appointed within the last four years.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in Letters of Appointment which are available for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
39 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 5.
There should be full disclosure All of the Directors are resident in the UK and their biographical details, set out on pages 32 and 33 of this of information about the Board.
Report, demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on page 44 of this Report.
The Audit Committee membership comprises all of the Directors, all of whom are considered independent.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not chair it.
His membership of the Audit Committee is considered appropriate given the Chairmans extensive knowledge of the financial services industry.
The Board considers that, as it is comprised of non-executive Directors, it is not necessary to establish a separate Remuneration Committee.
Whilst the whole Board considers Directors remuneration, the Chairman will absent himself from the discussion on his remuneration.
The Board should aim to have a The Nomination Committee conducts annually a skills audit to enable the Board to identify any skill shortages balance of skills, experience, length to be filled by new Directors.
of service and knowledge of the company.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in the biographies of the Directors, set out on pages 32 and 33 of this Report.
When considering new appointments, the Board reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The Company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled by the most qualified candidates and recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board positions become available as a result of retirement or resignation, the Company will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
The Board should undertake The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, has a formal process to evaluate its own performance and a formal and rigorous annual that of its Chairman annually.
The Chairman leads the assessment which covers the functioning of the Board evaluation of its own performance as a whole, the effectiveness of the Board Committees and the independence of each Director.
Where necessary and that of its committees and the Chairman discusses the responses with each Director individually.
The Chairman absents himself from individual directors.
the Boards review of his effectiveness as the Company Chairman, and the review is led by the Senior Independent Director.
During 2014, an independent review of the Board was undertaken by Boardroom Review, the results of which were considered by the Board.
The Board has agreed that an independent review of the Board will be commissioned regularly and a further review will be commissioned in 2017.
The Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
40 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 8.
Directors remuneration should The Board periodically reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the reflect their duties, responsibilities Companys peer group and the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment and the value of their time spent.
and responsibility of each Board member.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report on pages 73 and 74 and in note 3 to the financial statements.
As all of the Directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors fees.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Board in his absence.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
All Directors own shares in the Company.
No stock options or other performance-related elements have been awarded.
The Independent Directors The Nomination Committee is comprised of the whole Board which is made up entirely of Independent Directors should take the lead in the and, subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Committee are entitled to vote on appointment of new Directors and candidates for the appointment of new Directors and on recommending for shareholders approval the Directors the process should be disclosed seeking re-election at the AGM.
Directors should be offered New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the relevant training and induction.
Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise, including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary through its appointed representative which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Board Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore not applicable to the Company.
should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
41 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Board Meetings and the relationship with the Investment Manager AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 12.
Boards and managers should The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of the Investment Manager is in attendance, operate in a supportive, co-operative when appropriate, at each meeting and most Committee meetings.
The Chairman encourages open debate to and open environment.
foster a supportive and co-operative approach for all participants.
The primary focus at regular The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes Board meetings should be a review establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, the permitted types or categories of investments, of investment performance and the markets in which transactions may be undertaken, the level of permitted gearing and borrowings, the amount associated matters, such as gearing, or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any category of investment or in any one investment, and the asset allocation, marketing investor Companys treasury and share buyback policies.
relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial data, revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
The Audit and Management Engagement Committees of the Board respectively review the Companys risk matrix and the performance and cost of the Companys third party service providers.
The Board has agreed arrangements under which the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for strategy and has established a predetermined annual programme of agenda items attention to overall strategy.
under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at each meeting.
In addition to the regular Board meetings, the Board meets specifically on one additional day each year to focus on strategy and any other issues that require in-depth attention.
The Board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once a year.
It reviews annually the performance of review both the performance of, the Investment Manager.
The Committee considers the quality, cost and remuneration method of the service and contractual arrangements with, provided by the Investment Manager against its contractual obligations and the Board receives regular reports on the manager or executives of a selfcompliance with the Investment Restrictions which it has set.
It also considers the performance analysis provided managed company.
In view of the level of data available from independent service providers, and the appraisal undertaken by the Board, the Board does not consider an independent appraisal of the Investment Managers service to be necessary.
The Audit Committee reviews the Investment Managers compliance and control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company and the Board undertakes periodic reviews of the arrangements with and the services provided by the Custodian, to ensure that the safeguarding of the Companys assets and security of the shareholders investment is being maintained.
42 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 16.
The Board should agree policies The Investment Management Agreement between the Company and the Investment Manager sets out the limits with the manager covering key of the Investment Managers authority, beyond which Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed operational issues.
detailed investment guidelines with the Investment Manager, which are considered at each Board meeting.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Investment Manager is required to refer to the Board, for example investing in unquoted investments.
The Board has delegated discretion to the Investment Manager to exercise voting powers on its behalf, other than for contentious or sensitive matters which are to be referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board has reviewed the Investment Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and which is published on the Investment Managers website: www.
Reports on commissions paid by the Investment Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
Boards should monitor the The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares in the market level of the share price discount or and takes appropriate action when considered necessary.
premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Board considers the discount or premium to NAV of the Companys share price at each Board meeting and reviews the changes in the level of discount or premium and in the share price since the previous Board meeting and over the previous twelve months.
At each meeting the Board reviews reports from the Investment Managers marketing department on marketing and shareholder communication strategies.
It also considers their effectiveness as well as measures of investor sentiment and any recommendations on share buy-backs.
The Board should monitor and The Management Engagement Committee reviews, at least annually, the performance of all of the Companys evaluate other service providers.
third party service providers, including the level and structure of fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010, together with their policies on whistle-blowing and cyber-crime prevention.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon.
The Directors have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control as they have operated over the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Given the nature of the business, the Company is reliant on its service providers and their internal controls.
The Company has in place a system for assessing the adequacy of those controls.
Other than circumstances surrounding the Westgrund corporate action, noted in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 68, there were no material matters arising from the review of the Companys controls that required further investigation and no significant failings or weakness were identified.
43 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly A detailed analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company is provided to the Directors at each Board monitor the shareholder profile of meeting.
Representatives of the Investment Manager regularly meet institutional shareholders and private client the company and put in place a asset managers to discuss strategy and to understand their issues and concerns and, if applicable, to discuss system for canvassing shareholder corporate governance issues.
The results of such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
views and for communicating the Boards views to shareholders.
Regular reports on investor sentiment and industry issues from the Companys broker are submitted to the Board.
The Directors are available to meet shareholders.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM, where they are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager will make a presentation to shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Board should normally All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by the Board taking take responsibility for, and have a into account representations from the Investment Manager, the Auditor, legal advisers, broker and direct involvement in, the content Company Secretary.
of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure that The Board aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy shareholders are provided with and activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of informative Annual and Half Year sufficient information for them to reports.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset understand the risk reward balance value of the Companys shares and the publication by the Investment Manager of a monthly fact sheet.
to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
The Annual Report provides information on the Investment Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Strategic Report under Principal Risks on pages 12 and 13, and in note 17 to the financial statements.
The Investment Portfolio is listed on pages 14 and 15.
co. uk, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys Financial Reports and Announcements.
44 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Board Committees Stewardship Policy The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for In principle, the Board delegates investee company communication decision by the full Board, subject to which the Board has delegated and voting to the Investment Manager, to be managed as part of the specific duties to Committees of the Board which operate within written investment management process.
The Board has reviewed the Investment terms of reference.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited acts Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance as Company Secretary to each Committee.
No persons other than the and Voting Guidelines, and is published on the Investment Managers Committee members are entitled to attend Committee meetings unless website: www.
formally invited by the Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference for Board Committees are available from the Company Secretary and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy on the Company's website.
The Company has adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and has reviewed the statements regarding compliance with the Bribery Act Management Engagement Committee 2010 by the Companys Investment Manager and key service providers.
The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each year These statements are reviewed regularly by the Management Engagement and comprises the whole Board, being independent Directors.
functions of the Committee are to define the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, ensuring that they follow good industry Statement of Directors Responsibilities practice, are competitive and are in the best interests of shareholders.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Committee has taken note of the changes referred to in the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Chairman's Statement on pages 6 and 7.
It monitors the Investment Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to Managers compliance with the terms of the Investment Management prepare Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Agreement and the Investment Managers performance.
Following a law they are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with formal annual review, and bearing in mind the long-term performance International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS of the Company, the Board concluded that, in its opinion, the continuing and have elected to prepare the financial statements on the same basis.
appointment of AVI, the Investment Manager, on the terms agreed, They are also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes is in the interests of its shareholders as a whole.
information required by the Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Committee also reviews the services and performance of the The Company financial statements are required by law and IFRS to present Companys other third-party service providers.
A review of the Investment fairly the financial position of the Company and the financial performance Manager and the other service providers undertaken during the year and cash flows of the Company for the relevant period.
The Companies concluded that the services provided to the Company were satisfactory Act 2006 the Act provides, in relation to such financial statements, that and that the Agreements entered into with them were operating in the references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a best interests of the shareholders.
true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the Company financial statements the Directors are required to: Nomination Committee select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently in The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting to undertake the annual appraisal of the performance of the Board, its Estimates and Errors: Committees and the Directors and, if agreed, to propose the re-election make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: of the Directors, each of whom will retire at the Annual General Meeting.
state whether the financial statements have been prepared in It also meets to consider the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed Candidates for nomination may be sourced from outside the Company and explained therein: using third party search and selection services as well as potential provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific candidates known to Directors through their extensive knowledge requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient to enable users of the industry.
to understand the impact of particular transactions, events and conditions on the financial position and performance: and The Board has agreed to follow the recommendations of the AIC Code prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless Principle 3 that the Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue to annual re-election by shareholders.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and comprises the whole Board, being independent Directors.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee has set out a formal Report on pages 68 to 70 of the Annual Report.
45 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Financial statements of the Company are published on the Companys The Companys long-term debt falls due for repayment in 2023, with a website at www.
The Directors are responsible for principal liability of 15 million in 2023.
This debt was covered some 47 ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the information relating to the times as at the end of September 2015 by the Companys total assets.
Company published on this website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom The Directors are of the view that the Company will have sufficient governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may resources to meet the costs of annual interest and eventual repayment differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of principal on this debt.
The Company has a large margin of safety over the covenants on The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Company its debt.
complies with the provisions of the Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority which, with regard to corporate governance, require the Given the high levels of cover set out above, the Directors have a Company to disclose how it has applied the principles, and complied reasonable expectation that the Company can continue in operation with the provisions, of the corporate governance code applicable to the and meet its liabilities over the period for which the long-term debt is Company.
The Companys viability depends on the global economy and markets continuing to function.
The Directors do also consider the Disclosure of information to the Auditor possibility of a wide ranging collapse in corporate earnings and or the The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Report of the market value of listed securities.
To the latter point, it should be borne in Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit mind that a significant proportion of the Companys expenses are in ad information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director valorem investment management fees, which would naturally reduce has taken all of the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to if the market value of the Companys assets were to fall.
make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
In order to maintain viability, the Company has a robust risk control framework which, following guidelines from the Financial Reporting Requirements of the Listing Rules Council, has the objectives of reducing the likelihood and impact of: Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include specified information in poor judgement in decision-making: risk-taking that exceeds the levels a single identifiable section of the Annual Report or a cross reference table agreed by the Board: human error: or control processes being deliberately indicating where the information is set out.
The information required under circumvented.
4 10 in relation to contracts of significance in which a Director is or was materially interested, is set out on page 38.
The Directors Declaration confirm that no additional disclosures are required in relation to Listing The Directors listed on pages 32 and 33, being the persons responsible, Rule 9.8.
4. hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Going Concern applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the The Directors have carefully reviewed the current financial resources and assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and the projected expenses of the Company and its subsidiary for the next 12 the Strategic Report and the Investment Managers Review include months.
On the basis of that review and as the majority of net assets are a fair review of the development and performance of the business securities which are traded on recognised stock exchanges, the Directors and the position of the Company together with a description of the are satisfied that the Companys resources are adequate for continuing in principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
business for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
In the opinion of the Board, the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and it provides Viability the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, The Directors consider viability as part of their continuing programme of business model and strategy.
The Directors consider three years to be a reasonable time horizon to consider the continuing viability of the Company, although they By Order of the Board do have due regard to viability over the longer term and particularly to key points outside this time frame, such as the due date for the repayment Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited of long-term debt.
The Company is an investment trust whose portfolio Corporate Secretary is invested in readily realisable listed securities and with some short-term 6 November 2015 cash deposits.
The following facts support the Directors view of the viability of the Company: In the year under review, expenses including finance costs and taxation were covered some 2 times by investment income.
The Company has a highly liquid investment portfolio.
