10 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY AIM The Company is an investment trust.
Its investment objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of mainly listed investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
Investment Approach TOTAL RETURNS TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 The Companys assets are managed by Asset Value Investors Limited.
AVI aims to deliver superior returns while managing Company 1 Year risks and specialises in investment in securities that for a number % of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
-8.3 The Investment Manager has the flexibility to invest around the 10 Years world and is not constrained by any fixed geographic or sector % weightings but does seek to maintain a concentrated yet diversified 55.9 portfolio.
No more than 10% of the Companys investments may be in unlisted securities.
AVIs investment philosophy is described in more detail on page 18 of the Annual Report.
Benchmark 1 Year MSCI All Country Key Performance Indicators KPIs % World ex-US Index -5.6 The Companys Board of Directors meets regularly and at each meeting reviews performance against a number of key measures.
10 Years Net asset value total return % 64.6 The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return as being the overall measure of value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
Total return reflects both net asset value OTHER COMPARATORS growth of the Company and also dividends paid to shareholders.
The Investment Managers investment style is such that performance Morningstar Investment 1 Year Trust Global Index is likely to deviate materially from that of any broadly based equity % index.
The Board considers the most important comparator to be 3.7 the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index, which was adopted as the Companys benchmark from 1 October 2013.
The Company 10 Years will also continue to report performance against the MSCI All % Country World Index and the Morningstar Investment Trust Global 94.0 Growth Index, which is a peer group index and was the Companys benchmark index until 30 September 2013.
MSCI All Country 1 Year A full description of performance and the investment portfolio is World Index % contained in the Investment Review, commencing on page 18 0.4 of the Annual Report.
10 Years % 92.7 11 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 The discount at which the Companys shares trade compared DISCOUNT with net asset value The Board believes that an important driver of an investment trusts 30 September 2015 30 September 2014 discount or premium over the long term is investment performance.
However, there can be volatility in the discount or premium.
Therefore, % % 11.6 10.3 the Board takes powers each year to buy back and issue shares with a view to limiting the volatility of the share price discount or premium.
During the year under review, the discount has moved in a range from 8.0% to 13.9% based on closing prices and, as at 30 September ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE ADDED TO 2015, stood at 11.6%.
NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE FROM BUYBACKS During the year under review, no new shares were issued and 2015 2014 9.3m shares were bought back and placed into treasury, adding an estimated 0.77% to net asset value per share to the benefit of % % 0.8 0.8 continuing shareholders.
Value for money The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works hard to maintain a sensible balance between strong service and costs.
ONGOING CHARGES RATIO For the year ended 30 September 2015, the ongoing charges ratio 2015 2014 was 0.9%, unchanged from the prior year.
% % 0.9 0.9 12 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY Principal Risks POSITIONS THE COMPANY TYPICALLY HOLDS When considering the total return of the investments, the Board must also take account of the risk which has been taken in order to achieve that return.
There are many ways of measuring investment 40-50 risk, and the Board takes the view that understanding and managing risk is much more important than setting any numerical target.
The Board looks at risk from many different angles, an overview of which TOP TEN INVESTMENTS REPRESENT is set out below.
It has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its % business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
40 of the portfolio A plethora of statistical tools exist to measure risk, none of which offers a complete insight into the actual risks in a portfolio, as all rely on historical data and there is no single agreed definition of what risk is.
The Investment Manager presents reports on portfolio returns and a set of contribution and risk statistics at each Board meeting.
The objective of using these techniques is not to be prescriptive, but to understand levels of risk and how they have changed over time.
The purpose of this focus on risk is to ensure that the returns earned are commensurate with the risks assumed.
The investment approach followed by the Investment Manager has led, over the long term, to returns in excess of those given by the market, while taking less risk in so doing.
Portfolio diversification Conventional wisdom holds that the most effective way of reducing risk is to hold a diversified portfolio of assets.
The Company typically holds 40-50 positions, which could be considered a relatively concentrated and therefore risky portfolio.
It is important to note that, in line with its investment objective, the Companys holdings are mostly in stocks which are themselves owners of multiple underlying businesses.
Thus, the portfolio is much more diversified on a lookthrough basis than if it were invested in companies with a single line of business, for example.
For the same reason, the top 10 portfolio positions, representing 40% of assets at the year end, are in practice highly diversified on a look-through basis.
This diversification is evident at country, sector and currency levels.
Gearing and liquidity Historically, the Company has held large liquidity positions, mostly in government bonds, when the Investment Manager cannot find sufficient value in its investment universe.
This position has normally been in the range of 0-25% but could in extremis be higher.
This use of liquidity allows an expression of caution to be reflected in the portfolio at times of high valuation without altering the basic investment strategy.
The Company is permitted to use gearing, and has a 15 million debenture.
The Board is currently assessing the merits of further long-term borrowing.
13 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Taking account of the 15 million debenture liability, the Companys Environmental and Social Issues debt-to-equity ratio as at 30 September 2015 was 2.2% 2014: 1.8%.
The Company recognises that social, human rights, community and environmental issues can have an effect on some of its Foreign exchange investee companies.
AVIs Stewardship Policy also recognises Foreign exchange risk arises if there are falls against the Pound that the social and environmental consequences of corporate activity Sterling in the currencies in which the Companys investments are are important factors in determining the creation and maximisation denominated.
These risks are managed by the Investment Manager of shareholder value over the long term.
mainly by way of portfolio diversification but the Investment Manager may, with Board approval, hedge currency risk.
The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct environmental impact is minimal.
The Company has no greenhouse Discount gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have The shares of investment trusts frequently trade at a discount to responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the their published net asset value.
The Board seeks to manage the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports risk of any widening of the discount by regularly reviewing the level Regulations 2013. of discount at which the Companys shares trade, and it will, if necessary and appropriate, limit any significant widening through The Directors do not have service contracts and the Company measured buybacks of shares.
There are five Directors, four male and one female.
Further information on the Boards policy on recruitment The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject of new Directors is contained on page 39. to the interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price Future Strategy will accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the The Board and the Investment Manager have long believed Company cannot guarantee that the share price will appreciate in their focus on investment in high quality undervalued assets in value.
and that, over time, this style of investment has been well rewarded.
Other risks The Companys overall future performance will, inter alia, Further risks which can impact on performance are a loss of key be affected by: the Investment Managers decisions: investee personnel especially within the investment management team : companies earnings, dividends and asset values: and by stock regulatory principally breaches of either UKLA Listing Rules, Disclosure market movements globally.
Stock markets are themselves and Transparency Rules or Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act affected by a number of factors, including: economic conditions: 2010 and failure of systems or controls.
In managing these risks, the central bank and other policymakers decisions: political and Company reviews staffing and succession planning of the Investment regulatory issues: and currency movements.
Manager at least annually to ensure that there are adequate qualified staff capacity available, and in particular requires the Investment The Companys performance relative to its peer group and Manager to notify the Board promptly of any changes in senior staff.
benchmarks will depend on the Investment Managers ability The Company also reviews the relevant systems and controls at the to allocate the Companys assets effectively, and manage Investment Manager and at other third party suppliers, including the its liquidity or gearing appropriately.
More specifically, the Custodian and Administrator.
Companys performance will be affected by the movements in the share prices of its investee companies in comparison The Board monitors the risks inherent in the changing of a supplier, to their own net asset values.
and also considers the risk controls at new suppliers.
There were no material changes to the Companys risk profile during the year, other The overall strategy remains unchanged.
than normal movements in market risk, and an increased risk from cyber-crime.
The Company has received from its principal suppliers reports on their cyber-crime controls.
The principal financial risks are examined in more detail in note 17 to the financial statements on pages 61 to 65.
