18 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW OVERVIEW OF AVIS INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY Invest in companies Identify good Focus on balance Look for catalysts Focus on Be willing to hold trading at discounts quality underlying sheet strength.
to narrow bottom-up stock cash from time to to net asset value.
time if investments appreciation do not meet AVIs potential at strict investment compelling criteria.
BRITISH EMPIRE IS MANAGED BY ASSET VALUE INVESTORS LTD The aim of AVI is to deliver superior investment returns while managing Look for catalysts to narrow discounts.
AVI specialises in investing in securities that for a number of Once we find a good quality business on an attractive reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
valuation, we then consider whether it is likely that the discount will narrow.
Many companies trade at a discount AVIs investment philosophy is to: for a reason and if that reason persists, then the discount may persist.
Catalysts differ for the various types of company Invest in companies trading at discounts to net asset value.
For example, in the case of a closed-end Our focus is to find listed companies that own assets such fund, where we are a large shareholder we can influence as listed securities, property, cash and other businesses.
a board to pursue a strategy for discount narrowing.
In the We then estimate the value of all of those assets.
After case of a family controlled company where we cannot exert deducting any liabilities such as debt or pension liabilities, influence to the same extent, our analysis would involve we arrive at an estimate of net asset value for that company.
trying to understand the interests and objectives of the We will consider investing in companies where the discount controlling shareholder, and whether our interests were between the current share price and our estimate of the aligned with theirs.
value of that business is wide.
The types of company which we typically find include investment holding companies, Focus on bottom-up stock picking.
conglomerates, closed-end funds and property companies.
We are not asset allocators attempting to invest a pool Our approach naturally leads to investment in a variety of of money across various asset classes.
We are equity companies with diverse underlying businesses.
investors focusing on a particular style of value investing.
We do not hug benchmarks and we will not own a Identify good quality underlying assets with appreciation company just because it is in a benchmark.
We seek to potential at compelling valuations.
invest in companies that meet the criteria described above.
There are many companies trading at discounts to net asset value.
Our aim is to identify companies that own high quality Be willing to hold cash if investments do not meet businesses where there is not only a wide discount, but also our criteria.
where we consider there to be a reasonable likelihood of Very simply put, if we cannot find companies that meet those assets appreciating in value.
our valuation and quality criteria we will not invest our shareholders money.
We will preserve capital until Focus on balance sheet strength.
an appropriate investment opportunity arises.
Debt works very well when markets are appreciating.
However, debt can also destroy a lot of value when markets Our focus on buying high-quality businesses trading at wide are falling and the business environment for a particular discounts to their net asset value has served us well over the long company deteriorates.
We consider very carefully the balance term.
There are periods of time, however, when our style is out of sheet strength of the companies in which we invest.
Factors favour and the types of companies in which we invest are ignored which we look at include the actual quantum of debt relative by the broader market.
This requires us to be patient and to remain to the assets of the companies, the maturity profile of the true to our style, so that when other investors begin to appreciate debt and the cashflows that the businesses generate.
the value in those companies, we are well placed to benefit.
In the short term, this means that there could be some volatility in our returns.
However, we are confident that we own high quality businesses, which are trading on cheap valuations and which generate reasonable cash dividends for us as we wait for the value to be appreciated by the market.
Members of the investment team at AVI invest their own money in funds which they manage.
As at 30 September 2015, AVI, its directors and staff owned approximately 900,800 2014: 872,000 shares in British Empire Trust plc.
19 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 John Pennink Joe Bauernfreund John has managed the Companys portfolio for the past thirteen Joe is an Executive Director of Asset Value Investors Limited.
years and is the Chief Executive Officer of Asset Value Investors He has been working with John Pennink in the management Limited.
He is a Chartered Financial Analyst.
of the portfolio over the past eight years and has been co-manager during the past two years.
Joe Bauernfreund became British Empire's named portfolio manager with effect from 1 October 2015, continuing the natural progression that has seen only three portfolio managers at British Empire Trust in the last 30 years.
John Pennink will remain as CEO and Chairman of AVI.
SOFINA BOWERS & WILKINS For more information visit: B&W Group specialises in the manufacture and marketing of high quality www.
The group continued its efforts in terms of innovation speakers home audio nautilus with the development of the Nautilus, which was very well received by consumers and critics alike.
With five years of research, the science behind Nautilus came out of Bowers & Wilkins' research and development lab in Steyning.
Commonly known as the University of Sound, it was the world's first facility dedicated exclusively to analysing the reproduction of sound.
Copyright Sofina Photography Bowers & Wilkins 20 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO OVERVIEW HARBOURVEST GLOBAL PRIVATE EQUITY TYNTEC tyntec is a telecom-web convergence enabler for interaction between the For more information visit: mobile and internet worlds for personal and business use.
com launched its REST API for Number Information Services NIS, granting developers the full capabilities of tyntecs Global Number Portability and Global Number Verification services.
Using the REST API, businesses are able to validate customer mobile data, ensure user registration and activation, deploy user authentication, manage employee mobile access, as well as optimise SMS and voice routing.
The companys ongoing effort to broaden its API offering is a testament to tyntecs commitment to simplifying the integration of telephony functionality and gleaning intelligence for all businesses across the board.
Photography Top and right: Getty Images representing tyntec 21 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 NAV 10 YEAR TOTAL RETURN GROWTH PER SHARE % 55.6 Over 10 years your Companys NAV has grown by 55.6%.
The second half of the Companys financial year has been marked Since the market lows reached in March 2009 following the financial by intense volatility across equity markets around the world as a crisis, the MSCI All Country World Index is up by 130.3% in GBP slowdown in economic growth in China and fears that the Federal terms.
Over the same period, your companys benchmark, the MSCI Reserve in the US would raise interest rates caused a sharp sell-off All Country World ex-US index is up by 88.7% in GBP terms.
highlights one particular feature of the market environment over the past six and a half years: performance has been particularly strong Having returned 7.2% during the first half of the year, your Companys in the US.
As shareholders know, we have today and have always NAV total return in the second half of its financial year was -14.5%, had very little exposure to US markets and hence when comparing making the total return for the full year -8.3%.
our performance to many in our peer group of global growth trusts, we have been at a distinct disadvantage.
We have made no secret The Companys formal benchmark MSCI All Country World ex-US of not investing in the US, a decision which reflects the absence of returned -5.6% over the full year.
companies there which meet our investing criteria.
Indeed, our formal benchmark is explicitly an ex-US index.
Over three years the NAV total return has been 10.7% against a 15.8% return for the benchmark and over five years your Company Ratio of BTEM against MSCI All Country World ex-US Value has delivered a total return of 11.2% against the benchmarks 16.4%.
125 The past five years have been challenging for your Company.
Whilst 120 markets in general have rallied strongly, our performance in NAV terms has failed to keep pace.
This is frustrating for all shareholders 115 of course, but nevertheless we remain committed to our philosophy 110 and to the value style of investing we have been pursuing with longterm success since 1985.
We wanted to explain why this is not simply 105 a worn mantra, but remains today as valid as it has over the long run.
100 We are committed to building a portfolio of stocks that are cheap 95 and likely to make money for investors over the long term.
We do 90 not acquire stocks simply because they are in an index and, indeed, Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12 Sep 13 Sep 14 Sep 15 our portfolio does not resemble a broad market index in any way.
Being entirely benchmark agnostic means that our performance will necessarily deviate from that of a broad market index for periods of Ratio of MSCI All Country World ex-US Value against MSCI time.
Over the long term we would expect that our focus on quality All Country World ex-US Growth companies and cheap valuations will result in stronger performance 105 than such indices.
This has been the case over the long term.
That it has not happened over the past few years, we put down to the 100 particular features of a market that has been driven more by macro factors than by fundamentals.
By continuing to build a portfolio that 95 focuses on absolute levels of valuation, and with an approach that defines risk as permanent loss of capital rather than underperforming 90 an index, we are confident that we will once again demonstrate the benefits of our approach to investing.
85 Over the long term, studies have shown that value investing 80 outperforms growth.
This has not been the case over the seven years Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12 Sep 13 Sep 14 Sep 15 since the financial crisis.
However, your Companys performance has been greater than that of the MSCI World ex-US Value Index over seven and ten years.
The reason for our confidence that the trend will reverse at some point, and that value will once again outperform growth, is based on valuations.
The key determinant of long-term returns is the valuation that an investor pays for an asset at the outset.
Looking across equity markets around the world today, it is clear that some markets are highly valued, whilst others are less so.
22 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO OVERVIEW The US market has done well because the country has been the In trying to understand why markets have behaved as they have, we engine of developed market growth in recent years.
In the run up to the need to consider the impact of ultra-low interest rates and quantitative financial crisis, the US dollar had weakened, which left US exporters easing on market behaviour.
These policies reflect the continuation of in a good position at the low point of the cycle.
In the aftermath of that weak growth across the world which, in the absence of a sharp pick-up crisis, the policy response from the Federal Reserve was extreme, with in economic activity, may hold back central banks from attempting to interest rates dropping to and remaining effectively at zero.
These two normalise interest rates.
Recent events in the US have illustrated how factors combined to make the recovery stronger than that seen in other challenging it is for the Federal Reserve to move away from zero interest developed economies.
In contrast, Europe has lagged the US as its rates.
In the UK too, where growth has been relatively better, the data economy has been weaker and the policy response from the Central is not entirely supportive of an interest rate hike.
The simple fact is that Bank has been slower in coming.
In addition, the Euro area had to after years of massive stimulus, growth remains weak and evidence of contend with crises surrounding the stability and viability of its currency inflation is absent.
In this environment, not only have investors tended which added further volatility.
to allocate capital to the US and hence push up valuations to expensive levels there, but they have also concentrated on certain types of Investors have therefore found good reasons to allocate capital to the company.
In an economic environment where growth is scarce, it is US and to worry about anaemic growth, deflation and structural issues perhaps unsurprising that the markets have favoured companies with in Europe.
This has been the correct decision.
Over the past five years, high growth potential such as technology or biotech business, or large US markets have returned 14.2% pa in GBP terms, whilst Europe, cap, high-quality defensive businesses where cash flows are deemed to Japan and Asia ex-Japan have returned 5.9%, 8.1% and 1.5% be stable and where dividends can provide superior returns to the near respectively.
Despite, or perhaps because of, the relatively stronger zero interest rates on offer by government bonds.
returns in the US, the result today is that US markets look expensive.
On the basis of very long-term valuation measures which adjust for These are not the type of asset-backed companies trading on discounts short-term earnings oscillations, the US is very highly valued.
The best to NAV which we prefer.
With popularity come high valuations, while known of these measures, Schiller CAPE shows that on 10 year figures with disinterest come low valuations.
After a multi-year trend that has the US is trading at an earnings multiple of almost 23 times, which is clearly favoured companies outside our investment universe, the gap higher than most European and Asian countries.
between valuations on companies within our portfolio and those of the broader market is extremely wide.
Whilst we cannot be precise about As investors who believe that the price paid for a stock is the most when this trend will reverse, we are confident that it will do so as it important predictor of its future return, our fundamental perspective always has in the past.
It is also worth noting that the companies which supports the argument in favour of cheaper international markets over we favour may trade at substantial discounts to underlying asset value, the US.
Cheapness alone will not give us much of a clue about the timing but that does not mean that they offer no growth.
On the contrary, many of when the current trend might reverse and, while we acknowledge that of our underlying assets show the same characteristics of sustainable the bias against value can persist for a time, ultimately we believe that growth which have done so well over the last several years.
It is the fact there will be mean-reversion in favour of cheaper markets.
that both the assets and the growth of our businesses are hidden which has put investors off.
We think that offers an unusual opportunity.
Weighted average discount GBP Strengthening Weighted Average Discount to NAV in Portfolio Percentage Discount to Nav 240 40% 220 35% 200 180 30% 160 25% 140 120 20% 100 15% 80 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12 Sep 13 Sep 14 Sep 15 Sep 11 Mar 12 Sep 12 Mar 13 Sep 13 Mar 14 Sep 14 Mar 15 Sep 15 EUR CAD NOK SEK BRL IDR Source Estimated by Asset Value Investors.
23 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 PORTFOLIO REVIEW Academic studies suggest that this is an exceptionally promising starting point for long-run returns.
The final piece of the puzzle in understanding the level of absolute Portfolio review returns over recent years is foreign exchange.
The strength of the Pound Sector has been a significant headwind.
With a portfolio that is overwhelmingly Local CCY Dividend Contribution international in nature, your Company's returns have been hurt by the Return FX Income to Return weakness of the Euro, the Nordic currencies and the Canadian Dollar.
Holding Companies Europe -2.5% -2.3% 1.1% -3.4% In absolute terms, over the last three years almost 6% of NAV has been Holding Companies Asia -2.9% 0.6% 0.2% -2.1% lost in translation back into Sterling.
Many of the companies which we Mining & Resources -0.8% -0.1% 0.0% -0.9% own have performed well in local currency terms, as readers will see in Closed-end Funds -0.7% 0.8% 0.9% 0.9% the following section.
For the most part, the companies which we have Property -1.9% -0.4% 1.1% -1.2% invested in have not been bad companies.
However, macro-economic Other -0.3% -0.6% 0.2% -0.5% policy has distorted exchange rates and that has had a greater impact Conglomerates -1.1% -0.2% 0.0% -1.2% on absolute Sterling returns than historically.
Ultimately, businesses Cash Government Bonds Expenses 0.0% 0.2% -0.1% 0.1% operating in countries where the currency is weakening may benefit Grand Total -10.3% -1.9% 3.4% -8.3% from a boost to profits and in some cases we expect profit growth to be accompanied by a turnaround in currencies too.
Please note that, due to rounding effects some numbers may not reconcile exactly.
The attribution and returns are generated from Your Companys portfolio is valued cheaply relative to the rest of the Asset Value Investors internal reporting system and there may be small differences market.
The weighted average discount to underlying assets is currently between the figures shown in this table and those shown in the accounts, primarily due to differing approaches to the recognition of income.
This compares to approximately the 10% level at which it traded in 2006 the last time value embarked on a multi-year outperformance Sacyr is a Spanish holding company with investments in Spanish of growth, and the last time the rest of the world outperformed the property, various toll road concessions, Infrastructure and also Repsol, US.
In addition, your Companys portfolio is cheaper than the broader the Spanish integrated oil company.
We invested in Sacyr on the market given the discount at which it trades as well as the level of premise that the market was undervaluing Sacyrs stake in Testa, earnings multiples on the businesses which we own.
a prime Spanish property company and that management would reduce their exposure to Repsol.
We were proved correct in regard to Academic studies suggest that this is an exceptionally promising starting the Testa sale when, in June, Sacyr announced that they had agreed point for long-run returns.
The headwinds that we have faced as a result to sell the asset to Merlin Properties for 19.0% uplift to the last reported of our investment style and our geographic areas of focus have been NAV.
At this time, Repsol traded at around 17, and given its poor huge.
Despite the reasons why these headwinds have persisted, we strategic fit in Sacyrs portfolio, it made sense to us for management to do not believe that they will persist forever.
Ultimately, capital will flow dispose of this stake.
However, Sacyr did not do so and that decision out of expensive assets in search of more attractive valuations.
This will was painfully wrong in the short term, with Repsol falling by 36.7% to be a strong tail-wind to our performance in the same way the reverse the end of September, reducing Sacyrs NAV by approximately 29%.
The fact that we have made these arguments in Today, the company is trading on a discount of 37% and the valuation the past makes it no less likely that we will be proven correct in coming of Repsol looks cheap, albeit that it is dependent on the oil price.
We remain excited by the potential in your Company's portfolio.
We retain our holding in the company, believing there to be The following section describes many of the companies we own and substantial upside.
highlights the successes and challenges that we have experienced in the past 12 months.
Rallyes principal asset is Casino, a food and electronics retailer with operations predominantly in France, Thailand, Brazil, Colombia European Holding Companies and Argentina.
Casino has good market positioning with a variety This area was the second largest part of the portfolio, with an average of brands that target different consumers.
For example, their French weight of 29.2% over the year.
It was the greatest detractor to returns brand Monoprix aims its products at wealthy Parisians while Leader for your Company, contributing -3.0% to our overall performance.
Price is a discount store targeted towards the more price conscious consumer.
The greatest drag on Casinos performance over the last Our performance in this area was disappointing and can largely year has been the difficulties in Latin America, particularly with regard be attributed to three companies: Aker ASA, Rallye and Sacyr, to the weakening currencies.
The Colombian Peso fell by 25.9% and which together subtracted 4.3% from our returns.
However, other the Brazilian Real fell by 30.0%, which together reduced our estimated investments in European Holding Companies returned 5.5% value of Casino by 12.3%.
In addition to this, the French business contributing 1.3% to our performance and outperforming the has been struggling, particularly their hypermarket banner, Gant, MSCI Europe, which fell 1.98% in Sterling terms.
which has had to reduce prices drastically to retain its market share.
Encouragingly, Rallye has taken the opportunity to increase its stake in Casino on share price weakness.
24 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW Gearing at Rallye has compounded the downside, but we believe that Portfolio value on a look through basis given the extent to which emerging market assets and currencies have 2015 2014 sold off, there could be a lot of upside in Rallyes share price.
% % Canada US 24.1 27.5 Aker ASA has been in the portfolio for over seven years now and, Continental Europe 37.7 31.5 given the cyclical nature of its business, we expect there to be periods Japan 8.9 5.3 of underperformance.
We did not foresee the savage fall in the oil price Asia Pacific 15.5 22.3 over the last 18 months and its impact on Akers share price, which United Kingdom 13.0 11.7 fell sharply.
However, we remain optimistic about Akers businesses.
They are well funded and cash flow generative.
The holding company Liquidity 0.8 1.7 has been adding to its positions in some of its businesses at sharply Based on location of companies reduced valuations and this ought to create value over the long term.
We see Aker as one of the survivors of the oil industry and, given that it trades at a 44% discount to its asset value, we find the investment case compelling at recent price levels.
TUI was our most successful investment amongst the European Equity portfolio value holding companies.
Our thesis that it would merge with its subsidiary, by market capitalisation London-listed TUI Travel, to unlock the holding company discount 2015 2014 played out earlier than anticipated.
Although the price of getting the % % merger through was some dilution to TUIs NAV, this was more than 1 billion 48.9 38.7 offset by the discount contracting from 35% at purchase to 10% at 1 billion 5 billion 26.0 29.3 exit.
We sold TUI early in the financial year, for a total return of 34% 5 billion 10 billion 6.1 11.3 in local currency 28% in GBP over the financial year.
10 billion 18.8 20.5 Investor, Sofina and Eurazeo contributed 0.44%, 0.43% and 0.17% respectively to NAV.
Once again they delivered market-beating NAV performance, with NAV growth in aggregate of 8.2%.
In addition, their discounts contracted by 3.7 percentage points on average.
We sold out of GBL, whose discount contracted by 5.4 percentage points over the year, but kept our exposure to the same assets through an investment in GBLs parent company, the more cheaply valued Pargesa.
The discount disparity between GBL and Pargesa Portfolio value by sector is the largest it has been for over ten years, with GBL trading on a 2015 2014 20.6% discount and Pargesa on 33.7%.
It makes no sense for there % % to be such a big gap between two companies that offer exposure to Investment Holding the same pool of underlying assets.
We think it highly likely that the Companies 42.0 45.1 discount on Pargesa will move back to far narrower levels and close Investment Companies 38.3 29.6 the gap with GBL.
Real Estate Companies 14.1 12.6 Conglomerates 3.6 6.7 Closed-end Funds Other 0.0 4.1 With an average exposure of 35% for the year, closed-end funds were Mining & Resources 1.2 0.3 our largest allocation and added 0.9% to our overall return.
Ten of Liquidity 0.8 1.7 our 16 closed-end fund positions made a positive contribution for the financial year.
The weighted average total return of 2.48% modestly Source Asset Value Investors.
Percentages outperformed the FTSE All-Share Equity Investment Instruments for the Geographic Breakdown and the Sector Breakdown are net asset value, calculated Indexs 2.11%.
after deducting liabilities to Debenture Stock holders from the liquidity figure.
Listed Private Equity was again a source of robust returns, adding The percentages for Market Capitalisation 2.1% to NAV, but our exposures to energy mining-exposed funds hurt are of the portfolio excluding liquidity.
us, with positions in BlackRock World Mining, Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities and Fondul Proprietatea detracting from returns.
25 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 The largest contribution across our closed-end funds came from Other significant contributors to performance amongst our listed private AP Alternative Assets, which registered a 23.3% return and added equity holdings were NB Private Equity Partners and Harbourvest Global 0.54% to NAV.
The companys sole remaining asset, a stake in Private Equity HGPE, each adding 0.29% to our NAV.
Towards the unlisted Athene Insurance, continues to perform well and generate end of the period, HGPE completed its long-awaited move to introduce healthy returns.
As a result of integration issues following the voting rights and gain a full listing on the London Stock Exchange.
acquisition of Avivas US annuities business, Athene had to restate This should bring long-term benefits to liquidity and improve the broader its GAAP financials which delayed plans for an IPO.
Now that Athene appeal of the company.
In the short term, we expect index tracker has caught up with its reporting, the company has confirmed it will file demand to have a positive impact on the rating with the change to a for its IPO in early 2016.
Although AP Alternative Assets now trades in Sterling quote facilitating entry into the FTSE All-Share Index towards line with its NAV, we believe the carrying valuation of Athene to be very the end of the year.
We continue to encourage NB Private Equity, our conservative and that an IPO will unlock value comfortably in excess largest listed private equity holding, to make a similar move.
of the current share price.
Our stakes in closed-end funds tend to be very sizeable and we use Our position in J. P. Morgan Private Equity was our next largest this leverage to engage actively with the management and boards contributor with a total return of 18.1%, adding 0.42% to NAV.
This will usually take the form of constructive Following the imminent redemption of the companys ZDPs, recommendations regarding the efficacy of various discount control shareholders will have the option to move into a redemption share mechanisms, but we will not hesitate to adopt a more aggressive class which will see the discount effectively eliminated over time as stance to defend our interests and extract value when required.
the proceeds from realisations are returned to shareholders.
We have been encouraged by the newer investments made in terms of One such instance occurred during the period when LMS Capital, entry multiples and growth characteristics, and the high visibility and in which AVI owns a 15% stake, announced proposals to cease transparency as a consequence of them being mature single assets returning realisation proceeds from its private equity portfolio to bought in secondary transactions effectively direct co-investments shareholders, and instead re-invest them in oil & gas assets under rather than stakes in diversified funds.
Since we re-established a a new management team.
We wrote a lengthy letter to the board holding in the company, the NAV has grown by 13% and the discount and other significant shareholders detailing our concerns: the has narrowed from 31% to 27%.
board responded by postponing the General Meeting called to vote on the new investment policy.
After further discussions with SVG Capital was another strong performer, contributing 0.37% the board, we were pleased to see the proposals officially withdrawn to NAV as our position recorded a gain of 19.6% over the financial shortly afterwards.
Since then, the companys holding in Wesupply, year.
Since 2012, SVG Capital has been transitioning from a quasirepresenting 6% of NAV, has been sold, adding to the substantial direct private equity investor only investing in Permira funds to a cash balance that we estimate now stands at 32% of NAV.
We expect fund-of-funds model, albeit much more concentrated than peers further realisations and a significant return of capital at NAV later this such as Harbourvests and Pantheons closed-end vehicles, holding year.
Despite the 7% rise in the share price since the withdrawal of just 8-10 fund relationships rather than the hundreds held by these the proposals, the portfolio is being implicitly valued at a discount competitors.
Our investment thesis when we acquired our position of 32% after adjusting for the companys cash balance.
in November 2014 was that continued secondary market sales of the large position in publicly-quoted Hugo Boss would reduce that part Another example of AVIs engagement is DWS Vietnam, an Irish-listed of SVGs discount attributable to excessive portfolio concentration, OTC-traded closed-end fund in which we also own a 15% stake and while realisations from the rest of the mature portfolio would drive which added 0.25% to our NAV over the year.
Our investment thesis increases in NAV and fund further capital returns to shareholders.
was based on the company holding a portfolio of attractively-priced listed securities, and a track record of private equity holdings being Our thesis has largely panned out, with the stake in Hugo Boss being sold at significant uplifts to carrying values.
It was our contention that sold in its entirety, the announcement of Freescale Semiconductors the wide discount of almost 40%, in large part due to the egregious merger with NXP Semiconductor, and various realisations of unlisted management contract featuring a performance fee with no high holdings all contributing to NAV growth of 19% since we acquired our water-mark, would disappear as the fund approached its wind-up vote stake.
The company has persisted with its shareholder-value driven at the end of 2016.
Indeed, the manager, Duxton Asset Management, approach exhibited since its near-death experience in the financial had persistently said in meetings with investors that they wanted to crisis with substantial capital returns being made through tender open-end the fund ahead of the wind-up vote, and that no new private offers and buy-backs.
Having sold two-thirds of our holding at an equity investments would be made given the relatively short time until average weighted discount of 12% to then-prevailing NAVs, we think the vote.
To mitigate the risk of the managers failing to follow through the shares are attractively priced at a discount of 25% following the with their promises, AVI has engaged in an active, persistent, and market sell off towards British Empires financial year-end.
dogged year-long campaign that has so far resulted in the removal of three directors employed by the manager, and the cancellation 26 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW of 10% of shares held in treasury thus allowing for the resumption Asian Holding Companies of an aggressive share buyback programme.
The board has made This area contributed -2.0% to overall return with an average weight a public statement that proposals to open-end the fund will be put in the portfolio of 8.9% over the year.
Asian markets were particularly forward in 2016.
In the coming weeks, there will be a vote held to weak, with the MSCI Asia ex-Japan Index, in Sterling, falling by 8.3% elect two new independent directors proposed by AVI.
over our financial year and falling by 47.7% from the April high to the end of September.
The three largest closed-end fund detractors all had exposure to energy mining.
Fondul Proprietatea, the Romanian-listed fund that First Pacific was the largest detractor, reducing overall performance by now has a secondary listing in London, suffered due to its 40% 1.0%.
The stock suffered from weak emerging markets and with debt exposure to the oil & gas sector.
Its NAV decline of 9% was further held mostly in USD the NAV fell by 9% solely on currency movements.
exacerbated by the Romanian Leu falling by 5% versus the British Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co PLDT, First Pacifics largest Pound, costing British Empire 0.29% of NAV in total.
investment accounting for 47% of its NAV, has been struggling of late.
PLDT derived a large amount of revenue from fixed line rental Our position in Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities ECWO was which has been cannibalised by the increase in smart phone usage down by 24%, costing us 0.68% of NAV as its top holding, US and wireless broadband.
PLDT was slow to recognise this, lagging and Australian-listed shale oil play Lonestar Resources, fell by 69% behind its duopoly peer Globe Telecom which has taken market share in a torrid market for smaller Oil & Gas Exploration & Production in the mobile internet segment.
First Pacifics mining investment also E&P stocks.
Given the substantial amount of Lonestars expected performed poorly, falling by 52.9% over the year.
As a consequence production that is hedged, the low-cost nature of its drilling activities of this, the discount has widened substantially from 43.1% to 51.3%.
in the Eagle Ford basin in Texas, and the companys access to We have engaged with management in order to encourage them significant liquidity from the large undrawn balance on its credit facility, to be more proactive in managing their discount.
As yet there has the share price reaction seems overdone and we note that Lonestar been no activity on this front.
Nevertheless, we believe the current trades on a significant valuation discount to US E&P peers.
In an effort valuations of the underlying assets to be cheap and this, combined to correct this mispricing, Lonestar is in the process of moving to a with an extremely wide discount, should provide a good basis for main board NYSE or NASDAQ listing.
ECWO has also suffered from returns from these levels.
share price declines in its energy infrastructure holdings despite these investments only having indirect linkage to oil and gas prices.
Jardine Matheson also suffered from the emerging market fall out, although its discount has contracted from 28.4% to 21.1% over the Lastly, extremely weak commodities markets proved costly for our year.
Its NAV return in USD was -28.0% which, compared with the position in BlackRock World Mining BRWM.
We established a MSCI Asia ex-Japan Index falling by 12.2%, was disappointing.
We position in the fund in February 2015, a few months after the writehad reduced our holding in this company earlier in the year, which has down of a royalty investment had led to the discount deteriorating proven to be a sensible decision.
The fall in the Indonesian Rupiah and from a level close to NAV to low double digits.
In hindsight, this was the general weakness of Indonesia hit its holding in Astra International.
too early an entry point given the further savage falls in the sector, A reversal of this trend would be a big boost to NAV and we therefore with BRWMs price falling by 30% adjusted for dividends over our retain a reasonable position in Jardine, which has been a tremendous holding period.
The position cost us 0.62% of NAV.
We have added long-term value creator for shareholders.
to the position on the way down, and take comfort from the fact that, with many commodities trading below their marginal cost of We initiated a holding in Toyota Industries during the financial year.
production, the industry's return on capital has fallen to historically In addition to the holding in Toyota Motor and a number of other low levels, preventing reinvestment.
Capital expenditure has been auto and auto parts businesses, it also operates two world leading cut sharply, and the sector is looking very cheap on a number of businesses forklifts and compressors.
It trades on a discount to NAV metrics.
If BRWMs dividend is maintained for 2015, as seems likely, of over 40% and will benefit from dividend increases at Toyota Motor.
this equates to a dividend yield of over 10% based on the year-end In addition, the continued success of its operating business has share price.
been under-appreciated by the market.
Improvements in corporate governance and in operating performance ought to be strong drivers of both NAV growth and discount contraction.
27 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 MITSUI FUDOSAN CO LTD LALAPORT Mitsui Fudosan is a Japanese real estate company which owns, leases, develops and operates properties across all sectors, with a focus on metropolitan Tokyo.
LaLaport Tokyo Bay was Mitsui Fudosans first retail centre.
For the following 30 years the company has grown the concept with LaLaport branded retail centres now located throughout Japan.
LaLaport represents a space where the community comes together to socialise and have their shopping needs covered, all under one roof.
co. jp Photography Above: Mitsui Shopping Park, LaLaport Tokyo Bay: Left: Mitsui Shopping Park, LaLaport Iwata, Iwata City 28 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW WENDEL BUREAU VERITAS Created in 1828, Bureau Veritas is a global leader in Testing, Inspection and For more on Wendel's investment visit: Certification TIC, delivering high quality services to help clients meet the www.
com en company bureau-veritas growing challenges of quality, safety, environmental protection and social responsibility.
As a trusted partner, Bureau Veritas offers innovative solutions that go beyond simple compliance with regulations and standards, reducing risk, improving performance and promoting sustainable development.
Bureau Veritas operates in Asset Management, Classification, Inspection Audits, Training, Certification, Consulting, and Testing and Analysis.
Copyright Bureau Veritas Photography Top and bottom: Bureau Veritas 29 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Property support an equity raise.
These changes included replacing the Property had an average weighting of 11%, with exposure to Europe, board, reducing the management fee significantly and tightening Asia and North America, and detracted 0.93 percentage points from the investment strategy to focus on five core projects.
Management performance over the twelve months.
incentives are now closely aligned to returning capital to shareholders through asset sales, which we believe is key to extracting value from Property across most regions has performed well since 2012 in this company.
a low interest rate environment as investors sought secure income.
In many developed markets this has led to listed property companies We have reduced our exposure to Canadian real estate, with 1.3% trading on premia to NAV, and thus falling outside our investment of the portfolio invested as at the year end.
Property values are under remit.
Despite this, we believe we can still find real estate companies pressure as demand for office and residential space is slowing, in certain sectors which trade at a discount to our valuation estimates especially in Western Canada, due to pressures on the oil industry.
and provide NAV growth and discount contraction.
However, through our continued holding in Brookfield Canada Office Properties, we believe we own a prime office portfolio which is hard German residential property companies have been a source of to replicate at a discount of 23% to NAV.
The company has been success for us in past years and over the last 12 months another, successful in managing lease expiries in a difficult rental market which Westgrund, contributed 0.30% to performance.
We acquired our will support current valuations.
While performance over the last 12 stake in September 2014 via a capital raising when the company months has been disappointing, with the share price falling 9% in local purchased a 12,000 unit portfolio.
This stake was acquired at a currency, the current 23% discount is at the wide end of the historical discount of 28% to NAV, versus peers which were trading at an range.
The largest shareholder, Brookfield Asset Management, has average premium of 10% to NAV.
We believed the company had good a history of buying in subsidiary companies, which we believe offers growth prospects and our valuation would be supported by corporate potential for discount contraction.
This proved to be the case as our shares in Westgrund were acquired by another German residential company, Adler, in a cash Over the course of the year we also owned two Canadian-listed, plus equity deal which valued our shares at 5 per share versus our property-related, companies whose performance diverged significantly, initial acquisition cost of 3.50.
We still own our stake in Adler Real Dundee Corp and Hudsons Bay.
Dundee Corp has large exposure Estate and are confident that it will provide good performance in the to land and developments via their holdings in DREAM Unlimited future as transactions in the market point towards further NAV growth.
Land values have suffered due to the slowing Canadian economy, which in addition to their exposure to The major European office markets such as London and Paris have commodities has led to a negative contribution of 1.4% over the year.
recovered well since 2012, posting record low valuation yields.
However, the European periphery has been slower to react and Conversely, Hudsons Bay has been one of our most successful we believe that this is an area where we can source undervalued investments over the financial year.
Our original investment thesis was companies at present.
We have a stake in a Spanish listed property based upon the market not reflecting the full value of the real estate company, Inmobiliaria Colonial, which arguably owns the best quality portfolio that the retailer owned.
Over the course of the year Hudsons office portfolio in Madrid and Barcelona.
While yields have come in Bay embarked upon several transactions, which proved that the value quite quickly from 6% to 4.25% in Madrid, capital values are still 30% of their real estate portfolio was well above market expectations.
We expect the next leg up in Colonial to be news of transactions came through we sold our position at an average driven by rental growth in a supply constrained office market, which price of C$27.1, a gain of 53% in local currency since the start of the has seen almost no new development since the global financial crisis.
We are looking for further opportunities in Spain which will benefit from improving consumer confidence and from the supply constrained Last year we initiated a position in Mitsui Fudosan, a Japanese office markets.
company which owns a prime office and shopping centre portfolio throughout Japan.
Trading on a discount of 28%, we believe the Dolphin Capital Investors returned negative 56.8% over the year.
The company is trading significantly below its real worth as transactions company develops luxury hotel and golf resorts in Southern Europe in the market point towards yields of below 4%.
With the first shoots and Central America.
However, after the sale of one large asset in of improved corporate governance coming through in Japan and the Cyprus fell through it became apparent the company required extra boon of the 2020 Olympics to come, we believe Mitsui will provide funding.
We were involved in extensive discussions with management discount contraction and NAV growth in the future.
and other major shareholders to bring about changes in order to 30 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW OUTLOOK We continue to look for undervalued property companies, but are Value, as an investment style, has underperformed the broader equity mindful of the interest rate environment which drives short-term markets for a number of years.
This has left many of our holdings sentiment for property stocks.
Despite this, we are seeing opportunities unloved and, we believe, undervalued.
This undervaluation sets to invest further in well run companies with strong balance sheets and up the possiblity of strong future performance.
attractive assets which we believe will deliver strong performance.
At the time of writing, economic data appear to be weakening, Conglomerates and Other increasing fears of a decline in profits and so weakening the case Conglomerates made up approximately 4.2% of the portfolio over the for equities.
The worsening data makes it more difficult for Central year and generated -1.1%.
Morrison was not a successful investment Banks in particular the Federal Reserve to start raising interest overall as it generated a negative total return of 19.1%.
A continuation of ultra-low interest rates could be positive for generate a positive contribution of 0.28% during the financial year, equities despite valuations in some markets not being particularly as we benefited from a partial recovery in the price.
However, after seven years of historically unprecedented monetary accommodation, the real risk to global markets must surely The main detractor of performance amongst this group of companies be that investors start to question the omnipotence of Central Banks, was Hitachi, which has been a disappointing investment despite at which point bad economic news should translate directly into bad delivering strong profit growth, substantial corporate governance news for equities.
improvements and increases in returns on equity.
It looks cheap on absolute valuation metrics, with a current PE multiple below 10x and While we claim little insight into the future direction of markets, on a discount to sum of the parts of 44%.
We have recently added we do know that we are still able to find attractively priced assets.
to our holding following a sharp selloff over the summer.
The valuations which we see in our portfolio are both relatively and absolutely low, and we believe that this provides us with a substantial long-term margin of safety regardless of wider market gyrations.
INVESTOR AB A ELECTROLUX For more information visit: The global appliances industry is highly competitive due to low growth in mature http: www.
co. uk markets and a tough industry structure.
Emerging markets growth is high, supported by a fast-growing middle class and increased appliance penetration.
Industry margins are low, but returns are healthy thanks to high capital turnover.
With a successful completion of the GE Appliances acquisition, Electrolux will be the global industry leader.
Photography Getty Images representing Electrolux
