16 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT TEN LARGEST EQUITY INVESTMENTS 1 3 INVESTOR AB A NB PRIVATE EQUITY PARTNERS The top ten equity investments make Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Holding 41.3m Investment Company 32.2m up 40% of the portfolio, Company Valuation basis % of total assets less Valuation basis with underlying % of total assets less Market Price current liabilities Market Price current liabilities 4.5% businesses spread 5.8% across a diverse range A Swedish industrial holding company which owns A London and Euronext-listed closed-end fund investing of sectors and regions.
significant shareholdings in public multi-national mostly in US-based private equity co-investments and companies and private companies.
We expect NBPEs discount to narrow due to its an active ownership role in many companies and transition from a fund of private equity funds to making at year end was on a 25% discount to NAV.
direct investments, and due to the growing income from its debt holdings.
Copyright Investor AB A Copyright NB Private Equity Partners Photography Husqvarna Group Photography Neuberger Berman View our investment platforms: www.
co. uk how-to-invest platforms 2 4 SOFINA HARBOURVEST GLOBAL PRIVATE EQUITY Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Holding 34.5m Investment Company 30.6m Company Valuation basis % of total assets less Valuation basis % of total assets less Market Price current liabilities Market Price current liabilities 4.3% 4.8% A diversified Belgian holding company trading on a A highly-diversified London and Euronext-listed closed- 30% discount to estimated NAV.
Over half the portfolio end fund investing in private equity limited partnerships.
comprises listed companies: they also own a portfolio A focus on top quartile managers has resulted in a of private equity holdings.
strong NAV growth track record, while realisations aided by buoyant IPO, credit and M&A markets have been Copyright Sofina achieved at substantial uplifts to carrying value and Photography Bowers & Wilkins confirmed the conservative nature of the valuations.
Photography Getty Images representing Big Heart Pet All discounts are estimated by AVI as at 30 September 2015.
17 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 5 7 9 INVESTMENT AB KINNEVIK B MITSUI FUDOSAN CO WENDEL Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Holding 28.2m Real Estate Company 23.6m Investment Holding 23.0m Company Company Valuation basis % of total assets less Valuation basis Valuation basis % of total assets less Market Price current liabilities Market Price % of total assets less Market Price current liabilities 3.3% current liabilities 4.0% 3.2% Kinnevik is a Swedish holding company that focuses A Japanese listed property company operating in Wendel is a French listed holding company with on building digital consumer brands with investments the ownership, leasing, development and operations exposure to a diverse range of industrial sectors.
in unlisted and listed assets.
Investments are made of office and retail properties, throughout Japan, with Major business lines include industrial certification around four key areas: Communication, E-commerce a focus in metropolitan Tokyo.
The company also has and inspection services, building material production & Marketplaces, Entertainment, and Financial Services.
a strong presence in residential condominium sales and mobile telephone infrastructure through their Kinnevik trades at a 22% discount to NAV.
and sponsors three Japanese REITs.
Mitsui Fudosan investments in Bureau Veritas, Saint-Gobain and IHS.
is trading on a 28% discount to its NAV.
The company is trading on a discount of 29% to NAV.
Copyright Investment AB Kinnevik B Copyright Mitsui Fudosan Co Copyright Wendel Photography Hellofresh Photography Mitsui Fudosan Co Photography IHS 6 8 10 JARDINE MATHESON HOLDINGS AP ALTERNATIVE ASSETS DWS VIETNAM FUND Nature of business Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Valuation Investment Company Investment Holding 27.5m Investment Company 23.5m 22.9m Company % of total assets less Valuation basis % of total assets less Valuation basis Valuation basis current liabilities % of total assets less Market Price current liabilities Market Price Market Price 3.2% current liabilities 3.3% 3.9% An Irish-listed OTC-traded closed-end fund.
Following An Asian holding company which controls Mandarin Originally established to co-invest alongside Apollos a prolonged period of engagement with the board, Oriental, Hongkong Land, Jardine Cycle & Carriage and private equity funds, the company now owns just one the company has taken action to narrow the discount Dairy Farm.
The group also has a significant investment asset following a restructuring: a stake in unlisted Athene with the cancellation of treasury shares and a renewed in insurance as well as other private investments.
Athene continues to perform well and generate buyback programme.
On a discount of 20% at our Jardine Matheson is trading on a 21% discount healthy returns.
Although AP Alternative Assets now trades financial year-end with open-ending proposals now to the sum of its parts.
in line with its NAV, we believe the carrying valuation of set to be put forward in 2016, we continue to believe Athene to be very conservative and that an IPO will unlock Copyright Jardine Cycle & Carriage the shares are attractively priced.
value comfortably in excess of the current share price.
Photography Astra International Photography Getty Images representing Vinamilk Thanh Photography Getty Images representing Athene Holdings Ltd. Hoa Co. Ltd.
