Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Remuneration policy Introduction Objectives Set out below are the material elements of the directors remuneration The key objectives of the Remuneration Committee in setting the policy which was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting companys remuneration policy are as follows: of the company held on 17 July 2014.
The policy came into effect on that remuneration of executive directors should be linked to the companys date and is next due to be put for approval by shareholders in 2017, unless long term performance and its business strategy the Remuneration Committee wishes to implement any changes earlier.
performance related remuneration should seek to align the interests There have been no changes to the policy since its implementation and of executive directors with those of the shareholders the extracts shown below are for information only and to provide context a significant proportion of executive directors remuneration should be for the 2015 annual report on directors remuneration which follows.
The linked to the performance of the company and only receivable if performance conditions for the deferred bonus plan and the performance demanding performance targets are achieved share scheme described in the policy table and the notes thereto have been updated to incorporate the new performance measures adopted remuneration packages for executive directors should be competitive, by the Remuneration Committee in November 2014.
References to share but not excessive, in terms of market practice in order to attract, retain awards held by executive directors at the date of approval of the policy and motivate executive directors of the quality needed to manage and which have since been exercised have been removed and it has also been grow the company successfully.
noted where share awards have met their performance targets since implementation of the policy.
The full directors remuneration policy is contained on pages 42 to 48 of the companys annual report 2014, which is available in the Literature section of Caledonias website at www.
Remuneration structure Executive directors The table below sets out Caledonias policy in relation to each component of executive director remuneration, with further explanations in the notes that follow.
Salary fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To support the recruitment and retention of executive directors of the calibre required to manage and grow the company successfully.
The basic salaries of the executive directors on implementation of the policy were as follows: W P Wyatt 506,480 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 303,890 S A King 359,380 The current salaries of the executive directors are set out in the annual report on directors remuneration.
Opportunity and recovery or Salary increases are normally awarded by reference to any increase in the cost of living, but may take into withholding provisions account other factors such as external market positioning, change in the scope of the individuals responsibilities or level of experience, development in the role and levels of pay elsewhere in the company.
Other than in exceptional circumstances or where there is a change in role or responsibilities, year on year increases in basic salaries will not exceed inflation by more than 5%.
No recovery or withholding provisions.
Performance measurement framework Not applicable.
Benefits fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To provide a range of benefits alongside basic salary to recruit and retain high calibre executive directors.
Operation Executive directors are provided with family private medical insurance cover, death-in-service insurance, and permanent health insurance and, in the case of Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin, a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
They are also entitled to receive minor benefits that are available to other Caledonia staff.
The executive directors are also covered by the companys directors and officers liability insurance policy and have the benefit of an indemnity under the companys articles of association.
Where there is a valid business reason for doing so, the company may pay for the cost of spouses accompanying directors on business trips and reimburse directors for hotel accommodation and travel expenses including payment of any tax thereon.
Executive directors are also eligible to receive other minor benefits and expenses payments again including payment of any tax thereon.
Opportunity and recovery or A taxable benefits package that is competitive with the marketplace.
withholding provisions The value of taxable benefits provided, other than ad hoc items incurred in connection with Caledonias business that may be deemed taxable benefits such as travel and other expenses, will not in aggregate exceed 10% of basic salary.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 41 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Short term incentives variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To reward performance on an annual basis against key financial, operational and individual objectives.
Operation Discretionary annual bonus scheme and deferred bonus plan under which a proportion of bonus may be compulsorily or voluntarily deferred into shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum potential bonus is 100% of basic salary.
Any bonus over 50% of basic salary is compulsorily withholding provisions deferred into shares and up to half of any remaining cash bonus may be voluntarily deferred, each for a period of three years.
Shares derived from compulsory or voluntary deferral of bonus are matched on a one for one basis, subject to performance conditions as described under long term incentives below.
All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also retains discretion to amend the proportions of bonus subject to compulsory or voluntary deferral or not to require or offer any deferral.
In order to be entitled to an annual bonus, an executive director must normally be in the groups employment and not under notice of termination either given or received at the time the bonus is paid.
The Remuneration Committee has the right to cancel or reduce any bonus compulsorily or voluntarily deferred into shares which have not yet vested in the circumstances described under long term incentives below.
Performance measurement framework By reference to a combination of company performance against external benchmarks and individual performance against personal objectives.
Executive directors with responsibility for pools of capital will have a proportion of bonus determined by reference to pool performance and objectives.
Long term incentives variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To motivate executive directors to deliver long term shareholder value, thereby aligning the interests of management with those of shareholders.
To encourage long term retention of key executives.
Operation Caledonia operates a performance share scheme under which participants are awarded nil-cost options over the companys shares.
The performance share scheme replaced an executive share option scheme under which market value options were awarded to senior executives.
The last awards under the executive share option scheme were made in 2010, although Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin retain options under this scheme which have yet to be exercised.
Under the companys deferred bonus plan, matching share awards are granted in respect of compulsory and voluntary deferral of pre-tax bonus.
The current deferred bonus plan replaced an earlier plan introduced in 2005 under which there are no matching share awards still outstanding.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum value of nil-cost options that may be granted in any year under the performance share scheme withholding provisions rules is 200% of basic salary, although the companys policy is to grant annual awards of no more than 125% of basic salary.
Matching shares are granted on a one for one basis for shares derived from bonus deferral.
On exercise of nil-cost options or calling of matching share awards, participants will also receive an amount equivalent to the dividends and any associated tax credits that would have accrued on the shares during the relevant performance measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee has the right, in respect of awards granted after 1 April 2014, to cancel or reduce long term incentive awards which have not yet vested, in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, miscalculation of a participants entitlement, individual misconduct or an event resulting in material loss or reputational damage to the company or any member of the group.
In the event of a change of control before the expiry of the performance measurement period of a long term incentive award, the vesting level of the award will be determined by the Remuneration Committee based on the extent to which the performance targets have been achieved and vested shares will then be scaled down to reflect the shortened measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee may modify such vesting levels if it considers that the performance target would be met to a greater or lesser degree at the testing date and or if the application of time pro rating would be inappropriate in the circumstances.
Performance measurement framework For Mr Wyatt and Mr King, nil-cost options awarded under the 2011 performance share scheme are subject to the performance, on an absolute basis, of the companys diluted net asset value per share on a total return basis NAVTR measured on an annualised basis over three or five years.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, the nil-cost options are subject to a combination of the performance of the companys NAVTR as above and the total returns achieved by the Funds pool, for which he is responsible, again measured on an annualised basis over three or five years.
Matching share awards granted under the deferred bonus plan are subject to the performance, on an absolute basis, of the companys NAVTR, measured on an annualised basis over three years.
The rules of each scheme provide discretion to the Remuneration Committee to amend the performance targets or impose different performance targets.
The performance targets for all outstanding options granted under the companys executive share option scheme have been met.
42 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Pension related benefits fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To provide a means of retirement saving as part of a range of benefits alongside basic salary to recruit and retain high calibre executive directors.
Operation Executive directors are offered defined contribution funding, based on a percentage of salary, to a personal pension scheme or a cash salary supplement or a combination of both at their choice.
Opportunity and recovery or The percentage of basic salary for the Chief Executive is 22.5% and for other executive directors 17.5%.
If a withholding provisions director chooses to take a cash supplement in lieu of some or all of his or her pension entitlement, the payment is reduced by such amount as is necessary to make the cash supplement cost neutral for the company after taking into account National Insurance contributions.
The Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to increase the percentage of salary relating to pension benefits from time to time in line with market conditions, up to a maximum of 30% of basic salary.
Performance measures and targets performance measures, averages of the companys NAVTR and the two Annual bonus benchmark indices over the three months prior to the start and end of the For the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, a maximum of 50% of performance period are used to reduce volatility.
To the extent that the bonus is determined by reference to company performance and 50% by performance targets are met, awards may be exercised between the date reference to individual performance objectives.
For executive directors of vesting and the tenth anniversary of the date of grant, except that only responsible for a specific pool of capital, 25% of bonus is determined by two-thirds of the shares that have vested may normally be exercised after reference to the companys performance, 25% to pool performance, 35% three years, with the remaining one-third normally becoming exercisable to pool objectives and 15% to individual performance objectives.
cases, the company performance element is determined by reference to For nil-cost options granted in the 2014 financial year, the performance the relative performance of the companys NAVTR against RPI.
For bonus criteria are as above, except that one-half of the shares comprised in an awards for the 2016 and subsequent financial years, RPI will be taken as award will be measured against the Gilts index over three years and the the higher of actual RPI over the bonus year or 3%, being broadly in line other half against the FTSE index over five years, with shares that vest in with its historic long term average.
Bonus payments for this element each case becoming exercisable immediately.
commence with a 10% pay-out if NAVTR matches RPI, increasing incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if outperformance of For nil-cost options granted to Mr Wyatt and Mr King in the 2015 financial 7% or more is achieved.
Pool performance is judged by the Remuneration year and subsequently, awards will vest on a graduated basis, with vesting Committee by reference to the return achieved by the pool against a set commencing at 10% on the achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 3%, target return and by objectives such as deal flow and delivery of portfolio rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised strategy.
Individual performance is assessed by reference to personal NAVTR of 10%, measured over three and five years.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, objectives set at the start of the year, including non-financial measures who is head of the Funds pool, 60% of his performance share scheme such as risk management, marketing of the company, team leadership, awards will be measured against the annualised total returns achieved by management skills and promotion of Caledonias corporate culture and the Funds pool, measured over three and five years.
Awards will similarly image both internally and externally.
vest on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised Funds pool total return of 6%, rising The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to amend or adopt incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised total alternative annual bonus targets in order to achieve better alignment return of 13.5%.
The remaining 40% of Mr Cayzer-Colvins performance with the companys strategic objectives.
share scheme awards will be measured against Caledonias NAVTR Compulsory and voluntary deferral of bonus as above.
Shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest if the For nil-cost options granted in the 2015 financial year, one-half of the director remains an employee of the Caledonia group for a three year shares comprised in the awards will be measured over three years and period commencing on the first day of the financial year in which the one-half over five years.
For subsequent financial years, one-third will be award is made.
measured over three years and two-thirds over five years.
In all cases, Shares comprised in a voluntary deferral are not subject to any conditions shares that vest will become immediately exercisable and will lapse if not and will normally vest at the earlier of three years from the first day of exercised within ten years of grant.
the financial year in which the award is made or the date that the director Deferred bonus plan matching awards ceases to be an employee of the Caledonia group for any reason.
The performance targets for matching shares awarded under the Long term incentive plans deferred bonus plan in the 2015 and prior financial years are the same as Performance share scheme those described above for the nil-cost options granted under the For nil-cost options granted prior to the 2014 financial year under the performance share scheme prior to the 2014 financial year, except that performance share scheme, one-third of the shares comprised in an shares that vest can be called immediately following the end of the award are subject to a performance condition which compares the measurement period and will lapse if not called within twelve months performance of Caledonias NAVTR against the FTSE Actuaries UK thereafter.
Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index Gilts index over three Matching awards to be granted in the 2016 and subsequent financial years.
For the other two-thirds, NAVTR is measured against the FTSE years will be subject to performance measurement by reference to All-Share Total Return index FTSE index, also over three years.
Awards Caledonias NAVTR on an annualised basis over three years, with vesting vest on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance commencing at 20% on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 4%, rising of the relevant benchmark, rising on a straight line basis to maximum incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of vesting on 3.5% outperformance.
There is no re-testing of either 10%.
Again, shares that vest can be called immediately following the end performance target and, to the extent a performance target is not met, of the performance measurement period and will lapse if not called within the relevant award will lapse.
For the purpose of calculating the twelve months thereafter.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 43 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Rationale for choice of performance measures for the short and long term The targets for each component of the long term incentive plans have incentive plans been set by the Remuneration Committee with the aim of delivering The Remuneration Committee has chosen NAVTR as the basis of increasing reward for greater outperformance.
The Remuneration performance measurement for the company for both its short term and Committee keeps these measures and the levels at which incremental long term incentive arrangements as it regards this as the best indicator and maximum entitlements are earned under review in order to ensure of the success or failure of management decisions in terms of creating that they remain sufficiently challenging and aligned with the companys value for the company.
strategy and key performance indicators.
For the company performance element of the annual bonus scheme, the New components introduced into the new remuneration policy board has taken the view that benchmarking against a stock market index There are no new components included in the above policy table which or indices over a short period is not relevant given Caledonias long term were not a part of the remuneration framework previously operated for investment horizon and the nature of its portfolio.
The Remuneration executive directors by the company.
Committee has therefore instead chosen RPI as the comparator, as on Changes to components included in the previous remuneration policy this basis executives will only be rewarded to the extent that they are The only changes to the remuneration policy operated for the year to able to deliver positive real returns for shareholders.
The Remuneration 31 March 2013 were the adoption of RPI as the measure of the company Committee will review the rate of increase in RPI at the start of performance element of the annual bonus scheme, the phased adoption each financial year and may adjust the level of outperformance required of a five year performance measurement period for a significant for the incremental and maximum bonus payments in order to ensure proportion of awards under the companys performance share scheme that they remain a fair measure of performance.
and the introduction of malus provisions for long term incentive awards For awards under the performance share scheme and matching shares and bonus deferral.
under the deferred bonus plan, the Remuneration Committee has Since its approval by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting, chosen Caledonias NAVTR on an annualised basis as the performance there have been no changes to the policy, although new performance measurement, as it believes that this is the most effective method of measurement conditions for the performance share scheme and the aligning directors rewards with the long term strategic objective of the deferred bonus plan matching shares have been adopted within the terms company of delivering annualised returns over rolling ten year periods of of the policy, as described above.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, the Remuneration Committee believes that a significant proportion of his variable pay How the remuneration policy for executive directors relates to should be weighted towards the annualised total return performance remuneration of Caledonia group employees generally of the Funds pool of capital for which he is responsible and has therefore Caledonias executive directors remuneration packages tend to be higher determined that 60% of his performance share scheme awards should than those of other group employees, but also include a higher proportion be tested by reference to this.
Chairman and non-executive directors The table below sets out each component of the Chairmans and the non-executive directors remuneration and the approach taken by the company in relation thereto.
Component Approach Chairmans and The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee and the non-executive directors fees are set by the board.
non-executive These are reviewed periodically taking into account the responsibilities and time commitments required and non-executive directors fees director fee levels generally.
The Chairman receives an annual fee, which includes his basic non-executive directors fee, but does not receive any other remuneration.
Non-executive directors receive basic fees, which are subject to an annual limit for non-executive directors ordinary remuneration contained in the articles of association, currently 350,000.
In addition, special fees are paid for the chairmanship and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and also for the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Governance Committee.
The fees of the Chairman and the non-executive directors on implementation of the policy were as follows: Chairman 184,500 Basic non-executive directors fee 39,900 Audit Committee chairman 5,600 Audit Committee member 2,300 Remuneration Committee chairman 4,900 Remuneration Committee member 1,600 Senior Independent Director Governance Committee chairman 5,100 The current fees paid to the chairman and non-executive directors are set out in the annual report on directors remuneration, but are unchanged from the above.
Additional fees payable for Exceptionally, non-executive directors may receive fees from group companies for services provided to them.
services to other group The Hon C W Cayzer receives such a fee, currently 60,000, for his chairmanship of The Sloane Club, a position which companies he held as an executive director of Caledonia prior to becoming non-executive.
Fees for services provided to subsidiary companies are set and reviewed by the boards of those companies, but will not exceed 100,000 per annum in aggregate for any non-executive director.
Other benefits The Chairman and the non-executive directors are all covered under the companys directors and officers liability insurance policy and have the benefit of an indemnity under the companys articles of association.
The Chairman is also provided with an office and some secretarial support.
The company may, where appropriate, pay for the cost of spouses accompanying non-executive directors on trips where there is a business reason for doing so and reimburse non-executive directors for hotel accommodation and travel expenses in each case including payment of any tax thereon.
44 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Remuneration policy for new appointments Legacy arrangements Executive directors The policy is essentially forward looking in nature.
In view of the long term In the case of the appointment of a new executive director, the nature of the companys remuneration structures including obligations Remuneration Committee would typically seek to align the remuneration under service contracts, pension arrangements and incentive schemes package with the above remuneration policy.
The Remuneration a substantial number of pre-existing obligations will remain outstanding Committee however retains the discretion to make special remuneration at the time that the new policy is approved, including obligations that commitments on the appointment of a new executive director, including are grandfathered by virtue of being in force at 27 June 2012.
It is the the use of awards made under Rule 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules, if such were companys policy to honour in full any pre-existing obligations that have absolutely necessary to ensure the recruitment of an exceptional been entered into prior to the effective date of this policy.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee would take into Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and consideration all relevant factors, including, but not limited to, overall non-executive directors letters of appointment quantum, type of remuneration offered and comparability with the Executive directors packages of other Caledonia senior executives and the total variable Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group pay would not exceed the maxima stated in the policy table for executive Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, details of which director remuneration above.
are summarised below: The Remuneration Committee may in addition make bonus commitments Notice period or share awards on the appointment of an external candidate to for the company Unexpired compensate for remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a Date of contract and the director term previous employer, taking into account factors such as any performance W P Wyatt 2 June 2005 12 months 12 months conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were S A King 19 November 2009 12 months 12 months granted, for example cash or shares, and the time over which they would J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19 April 2005 12 months 12 months have vested.
The aim would be to ensure that replacement awards would be made on no greater than a comparable basis.
If notice is served by either party, the director can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension payments for the duration of the notice In order to attract and retain suitable executives, the Remuneration period, during which time the company may require the individual to Committee retains discretion, in exceptional circumstances, to offer continue to fulfil his current duties or may assign a period of gardening service contracts with up to an initial 24 month notice period, which then leave.
Alternatively, the company may, in its discretion, terminate the reduces to 12 months at the end of this initial period.
If it considers it contract without notice and make a lump sum payment in lieu of notice.
appropriate, the Remuneration Committee may also offer a lower This lump sum would include an amount equivalent to the basic salary salary initially, but with a series of increases to achieve the desired salary and benefits based on a fixed percentage of salary specified in the positioning over a period of time, as the individual develops into the role.
service contract for the unexpired period of notice to which the payment relates.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins service contracts provide that If a new appointment is the result of an internal promotion, the an amount equivalent to 80% of the average of the annual bonuses paid Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any pre-existing for the previous three financial years would also be included in the contractual arrangements or benefits package agreed with the relevant payment in lieu of notice.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins service individual.
In the event that a new director resides overseas, the contracts also include provisions whereby a liquidated sum is payable in Remuneration Committee may agree a reasonable relocation package the event of termination within one year following a change of control.
The payment would be calculated on the same basis as a payment in lieu In recruiting any new executive director, the Remuneration Committee of notice, except that an amount equivalent to 100% of the average of the would apply the overall policy objective that executive directors annual bonuses paid for the previous three financial years would be remuneration should be competitive, but not excessive.
In the event that included.
the Remuneration Committee agreed that it was necessary for special Mr Kings service contract contains provisions whereby, as an alternative commitments or sign-on arrangements to be offered to secure the to the payment of a lump sum in lieu of notice, the company may elect recruitment of a new executive director, an explanation of why these to pay the equivalent amount in equal monthly instalments, such were required and details thereof would be announced at the time of instalments to be reduced by 50% of one-twelfth of the basic salary in appointment.
excess of 20,000 per annum that Mr King receives from any alternative Chairman and non-executive directors employment that he takes up during the notice period.
Terms for the appointment of any new Chairman or non-executive Executive directors service contracts may be terminated without notice director would also be determined by the Remuneration Committee and without any further payment other than in respect of amounts due or the board within the above remuneration policy.
at the date of termination on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 45 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Chairman and non-executive directors Executive directors would also be entitled under their service contracts to The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service be paid on termination for any accrued, but untaken, holiday entitlement.
contracts, but are appointed under letters of appointment, which provide The Remuneration Committee may, where it considers it appropriate in for termination without notice or compensation.
the circumstances, make payments for loss of statutory rights or waiver thereof and a contribution towards legal and outplacement fees.
The Inspection Remuneration Committee may also make a payment to ensure that any Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and nonrestrictive covenants remain enforceable.
executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection Where the director holds unvested awards under the companys long at the registered office of the company.
term incentive schemes, the Remuneration Committee would exercise its Policy on external non-executive directorships held by discretions as to vesting in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
In executive directors good leaver circumstances, for example where cessation of employment It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold nonis by reason of death, retirement, injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, executive directorships unrelated to the companys business to broaden or such other reason as the Remuneration Committee may decide, the their commercial experience, provided that the time required is not Remuneration Committee will normally determine the level of vesting material.
Normally the company will retain any fees arising from such based on the attainment of the performance targets, either at the time of non-executive directorships, but may permit the executive director to cessation or at the normal test date if permitted by the scheme rules, but retain fees on a case by case basis.
in the case of the former may decrease or increase the level of vesting if the Remuneration Committee considers that the targets would have been Details of any fees from external non-executive directorships retained by met to a lesser or greater extent at the end of the performance period.
executive directors are disclosed in the annual report on directors The number of shares that vest will normally be reduced to reflect the remuneration.
proportion of the performance period that the director was in Policy on payments for loss of office employment, although the Remuneration Committee has discretion not Executive directors to scale down the number of shares if it believes it appropriate in the It is the policy of the company that, other than in exceptional circumstances.
circumstances on recruitment as stated above, no executive director Following termination, the Remuneration Committee may agree to pay should be offered a service contract that requires more than one years a director consultancy fees and continue insurance related benefits until notice of termination or which contains provision for predetermined the end of the policy period.
The companys directors and officers compensation in excess of one years total emoluments.
In the event of liability insurance policy also provides for a six year period of run-off cover a termination, the Remuneration Committee will consider a directors for former directors.
In limited circumstances, the company may permit past performance and the circumstances of the departure in exercising a director to remain in employment after ceasing to be a director for any discretions relating to the arrangements for loss of office, including a limited period to allow time for an effective handover or for a successor contractual obligations, prevailing best practice, the reason for the to be appointed.
departure and any transition or handover required.
Chairman and non-executive directors The termination provisions in executive directors current service The Chairman and the non-executive directors have no entitlement to any contracts are described above in the section on executive directors compensation on termination of their appointments, although they would service contracts.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention that all have the benefit of run-off cover under the directors and officers liability future executive directors service contracts should include provisions insurance policy as described above.
enabling the company to reduce compensation payments in the event that the director takes up alternative employment within the notice period.
However, if a new director is appointed internally, the Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any existing contractual arrangements agreed with the relevant individual before he or she becomes a director.
In applying the companys right to make a lump sum payment in lieu of notice, the Remuneration Committee would normally expect to pro rate the lump sum for the unexpired period of notice to which the payment relates.
In appropriate circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may make a payment in respect of the full twelve months notice period, even if the director works under notice for part of it.
The companys annual bonus scheme provides that an employee must be in the groups employment and not under notice of termination either given or received in order to be entitled to receive a bonus for the relevant financial year.
The Remuneration Committee would expect to apply this principle to executive director terminations, but retains discretion to make bonus payments on termination if it believes it appropriate to do so.
46 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Annual report on directors remuneration The following report sets out details and explanations of remuneration paid to directors over the financial year to 31 March 2015 and describes how Caledonias remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2016 financial year.
Single total figure of remuneration for each director audited Executive directors The table below provides an analysis of total remuneration of each executive director for the financial year ended 31 March 2015 and a comparison with the previous financial year.
Taxable benefits The total bonuses awarded to Mr Wyatt, Mr King and Mr Cayzer-Colvin for the year Taxable benefits comprised private medical insurance cover and a small Christmas were therefore determined as follows: supplement paid to all Caledonia staff.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins taxable W P Wyatt S A King J M B Cayzer-Colvin benefits also included a cash allowance of 15,024 in lieu of a company car.
Award Max Award Max Award Max In addition to taxable benefits, other non-taxable benefits were provided to % % % % % % executive directors, including death-in-service insurance 4x basic salary, Performance permanent health insurance, directors and officers liability insurance and certain other benefits of minor value provided to all of Caledonias staff.
Short term incentives Pool n a n a n a n a 25 25 In accordance with the rules of the companys deferred bonus plan, the following Objectives amounts included in the total of short term incentives were compulsorily deferred, Pool n a n a n a n a 35 35 satisfied by share awards made shortly after the announcement of the companys final results for the relevant year: Individual 50 50 50 50 15 15 Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 2015 2014 CompulCompul- 3.
Long term incentives sorily sorily The long term incentive awards whose performance measurement period ended deferred Cash Total deferred Cash Total during the year were awards granted in 2012 under the companys performance 000 000 000 000 000 000 share scheme.
The vesting of the awards was dependent on the performance of the companys NAVTR over the three financial years ended 31 March 2015 W P Wyatt 253 253 506 247 247 494 measured against two separate performance benchmarks.
For two-thirds of the S A King 179 180 359 175 176 351 shares comprised in an award, Caledonias NAVTR was measured against the FTSE J M B Cayzer-Colvin 152 152 304 148 148 296 All-Share Total Return index FTSE index and for the remaining one-third against the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index Gilts index.
For Mr Wyatt and Mr King, a maximum of 50% of bonus was determined by In each case, vesting was on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on achievement reference to company performance and 50% by reference to individual of 0.5% outperformance of the relevant benchmark index, rising on a straight line performance objectives.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who has specific responsibility for basis to 100% vesting on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant index.
For the the Funds pool of capital, 25% of his bonus was determined by reference to the purpose of calculating the performance measures, averages of the figures for the companys performance, 25% to his pools performance, 35% to his pools companys NAVTR and the two benchmark indices published over the three months objectives and 15% to individual performance objectives.
For the 2015 financial prior to the start and end of the performance period were used to reduce volatility.
year, the company performance element was determined by reference to the The companys NAVTR increased by 53.2% over the performance period, compared relative performance of the companys NAV per share on a total return basis with increases of 35.9% for the FTSE index and 23.2% for the Gilts index.
NAVTR against the Retail Prices Index RPI, with bonus payments for this Accordingly, both of the performance targets were met and the performance share element commencing with a 10% pay-out if the companys NAVTR matched RPI, awards granted in 2012 therefore vested in full.
increasing incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if outperformance of 7% or more was achieved.
Mr Cayzer-Colvins pool performance was assessed The amounts shown in the table above under long term incentives therefore by reference to the return achieved by the Funds pool over the year against an comprised the value of the vested performance share scheme awards granted in annualised target return set for that pool of 12.5% and by pool objectives such 2012 based on the companys share price at 31 March 2015 of 2281p, together with as deal flow and delivery of portfolio strategy.
Individual performance for each the value of dividends and associated tax credits that would have accrued on the executive director was assessed by reference to personal objectives set at the start vested shares during the performance measurement period as follows: of the year, including non-financial measures such as risk management, marketing Value of of the company, team leadership, management skills and promotion of Caledonias performance Value of corporate culture and image both internally and externally.
share scheme dividend The companys NAVTR was 14.2% over the year, compared with an increase awards equivalents Total of 0.9% in RPI, resulting in a maximum bonus entitlement for the company 000 000 000 performance element.
The Funds pools return over the year was 45.2%, W P Wyatt 1,080 74 1,154 significantly ahead of its target return and therefore triggering the maximum entitlement for pool performance.
The Remuneration Committee judged that S A King 766 53 819 significant progress had been made over the year in identifying and promoting J M B Cayzer-Colvin 648 44 692 Caledonia to high quality private equity and quoted market fund managers in Asia and the US and in building the strategic portfolio for the Funds pool, which merited a maximum bonus for Mr Cayzer-Colvins pool objectives.
Based on an assessment of their individual performance objectives over the year, the Remuneration Committee also awarded Mr Wyatt, Mr Cayzer-Colvin and Mr King maximum bonuses for that component.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 47 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration Chairman and non-executive directors Defined benefit Fees and other remuneration paid to the Chairman and the non-executive The Hon C W Cayzer has deferred pension entitlements under the directors during the year ended 31 March 2015 and the previous year Caledonia Pension Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme.
He were as follows: ceased to be an active member of the scheme in December 2012 and therefore has not accrued any further pensionable service since then, Fees nor have any contributions been made on his behalf into the scheme.
2015 2014 The Hon C W Cayzers normal retirement age is 60, however early 000 000 retirement can be taken from age 55 with the companys consent.
R D Kent 185 168 In such circumstances, the accrued pension would be reduced to take 1 H Y H Bol account of its early payment.
2 S J Bridges 46 40 3 Hon C W Cayzer 100 96 Details of The Hon C W Cayzers accrued pension benefits were as follows: C H Gregson 47 43 Row 4 D C Stewart 2 ref R B Woods 42 38 Accrued pension at 31 March 2015 a 184,434 5 C M Allen-Jones 47 44 Accrued pension at 31 March 2014 b 177,642 6 R Goblet dAlviella 10 38 Increase in accrued pension during the year c 6,792 1.
Mr Bol was appointed a director on 25 June 2014 and has waived his entitlement Transfer value of accrued pension to all fees arising from his appointment.
Mr Bridges non-executive directors fees were paid to Hiscox Group Underwriting Transfer value of accrued pension Services Ltd. 3.
The Hon C W Cayzers fees for 2015 and 2014 included 60,000 paid by a subsidiary at 31 March 2014 e 3,250,539 in respect of his services as Chairman of The Sloane Club.
Change in transfer value over the year f 403,206 4.
Mr Stewart was appointed a director on 17 March 2015.
Mr Allen-Jones retired from the board on 17 March 2015.
The accrued pensions shown in rows a and b represented the deferred pension 6.
Mr Goblet dAlviella retired from the board on 25 June 2014. that would be paid at normal retirement age, ignoring any revaluation.
The increase in accrued pension during the year shown in row c represented the increase in deferred pension in accordance with the revaluation of pension provisions of the Total pension entitlements audited Caledonia Pension Scheme applicable to all deferred members.
The transfer values shown in rows d and e were the present values of the Pension benefits paid to executive directors during the year, either as accrued pension revalued to normal retirement age and associated benefits at the relevant date.
Transfer values were calculated using the transfer value basis contributions to personal pension arrangements or as cash supplements as determined by the trustees of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, which reflected were as follows: market conditions at the relevant date.
The change in transfer value over the year shown in row f calculated as row d Pension Cash less row e, also reflected the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the contribution supplement Total control of the company and the directors, such as movements in financial markets.
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 These changes can cause transfer values at different points in time to fluctuate significantly.
Disclosed changes in transfer values may therefore be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
In particular, the Caledonia W P Wyatt 37,059 100,139 65,130 100,139 102,189 Pension Schemes transfer value assumptions have been updated to allow for S A King 55,265 53,916 55,265 53,916 changes in market conditions.
J M B CayzerColvin 31,022 38,912 19,472 11,398 50,494 50,310 Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited The table below sets out the awards made to each executive director during the year under the companys performance share scheme and matching share awards made under the deferred bonus plan.
Receivable Shares if minimum Face value Share price comprised performance End of 1 2 of award at grant in award achieved performance Scheme Type of award Basis of award 000 p Number % period W P Wyatt Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 633 2294 27,598 10 31.03.19 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 247 2186 11,302 100 31.03.17 Deferred Bonus Plan Matching award 1:1 247 2186 11,302 10 31.03.17 Total scheme interests awarded 1,127 50,202 S A King Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 449 2294 19,582 10 31.03.19 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 175 2186 8,019 100 31.03.17 Deferred Bonus Plan Matching award 1:1 175 2186 8,019 10 31.03.17 Total scheme interests awarded 799 35,620 J M B Cayzer-Colvin Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 380 2294 16,558 10 31.03.19 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 148 2186 6,781 100 31.03.17 Deferred Bonus Plan Matching award 1:1 148 2186 6,781 10 31.03.17 Total scheme interests awarded 676 30,120 1.
The number of shares comprised in the awards under the performance share scheme and the deferred bonus plan was determined by reference to the companys share price at the time that the awards were made.
The performance targets for awards under the performance share scheme and matching shares under the deferred bonus plan are set out under the statement of directors share scheme interests below.
48 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information External directorships For the Chief Executive, the minimum guideline shareholding has been The table below sets out details of external directorships held by set at 200% of basic salary and for other executive directors 150% of basic executive directors where it had been agreed that they could retain salary.
Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin both significantly exceed their the fees arising therefrom.
minimum guideline shareholdings, although Mr King has yet to achieve his as he has not received sufficient vested share awards since he joined the Fees company in December 2009.
The values of the relevant shareholdings of 2015 2014 each executive director as at 31 March 2015, calculated by reference to Name Position 000 000 Caledonias closing share price on that date of 2281p, were as follows: S A King Non-executive director, TT Electronics plc 47 47 Minimum J M B CayzerNon-executive chairman, Value of shareholding shareholding achievement Colvin The Henderson Smaller m % Companies Investment Trust plc 29 28 W P Wyatt 25.1 2,456 S A King 0.5 56 Payments to past directors audited J M B Cayzer-Colvin 8.6 1,859 There were no payments made to former directors during the year.
Directors shareholdings Payments for loss of office audited The interests of the directors who served during the year and their There were no payments for loss of office made during the year to any connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the company as at director or former director.
31 March 2015, or date of retirement if earlier, were as follows: Statement of directors shareholdings and scheme interests audited Beneficial Non-beneficial 1 2 1 2 2015 2014 2015 2014 Executive directors minimum shareholding guidelines No No No No In order to align the interests of executive directors with those of R D Kent 10,000 10,000 shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted guidelines for 3 W P Wyatt 1,060,365 1,034,420 28,293 23,293 minimum shareholdings, which executive directors will be expected to S A King 4,054 650 attain through the retention of all post-tax share awards vesting under 3 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 364,314 355,298 65,953 64,453 the companys long term incentive plans until the minimum shareholding 4 H Y H Bol is met.
For these purposes, shareholdings include those of connected persons and also the value, net of any exercise costs, income tax and S J Bridges 5,000 3 National Insurance contributions, of unexercised options granted under Hon C W Cayzer 40,092 45,092 21,500 18,985 the companys executive share option schemes and awards granted C H Gregson 610 610 5 under its performance share scheme for which the performance targets D C Stewart have been met.
Also included are bonuses deferred, compulsorily or R B Woods 2,000 2,000 voluntarily, under the companys deferred bonus plan and any uncalled 6 C M Allen-Jones 15,273 15,273 bonus matching shares for which the performance targets have been 7 R Goblet dAlviella met, again net of income tax and National Insurance contributions.
Or date of retirement, if earlier.
Or date of appointment, if later.
Mr Wyatts beneficial interests included 9,000 shares 2014 6,485 shares in which The Hon C W Cayzer had a non-beneficial interest and 953,066 shares 2014 934,125 shares held by The Dunchurch Lodge Stud Company, a private family company controlled by Mr Wyatt and certain of his connected persons.
The Hon C W Cayzers beneficial interests included 4,200 shares 2014 4,200 shares in which Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin had non-beneficial interests and his non-beneficial interests included 12,500 shares 2014 12,500 shares in which Mr Wyatt also had a non-beneficial interest.
Mr Bol was appointed a director on 25 June 2014.
Mr Goblet dAlviella retired from the board on 25 June 2014.
There have been no changes in the directors interests shown above notified up to the date of this report.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 49 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration Directors share scheme interests The interests of directors as at 31 March 2015 in the share-based incentive schemes operated by the company are set out in the following table.
Unvested Share price Unvested with without at date performance performance Vested but of award conditions conditions unexercised Total W P Wyatt Executive share options Granted 01.06.06 exercise price: 1878p 1878p 6,789 6,789 Granted 29.05.09 exercise price: 1446p 1446p 8,471 4,236 12,707 8,471 11,025 19,496 Performance share scheme awards Granted 28.05.12 nil-cost 1267p 15,776 31,553 47,329 Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 34,275 34,275 Granted 27.11.14 nil-cost 2294p 27,598 27,598 61,873 15,776 31,553 109,202 Deferred bonus plan compulsory awards Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 13,310 13,310 Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 11,302 11,302 24,612 24,612 Deferred bonus plan matching awards Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 13,310 13,310 Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 11,302 11,302 24,612 24,612 Total share scheme interests 86,485 48,859 42,578 177,922 During the year, Mr Wyatt exercised executive share options and deferred bonus awards over a total of 21,760 shares at a pre-tax gain of 278,795.
50 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information 1.
Performance conditions Performance graph of total shareholder return and table of Executive share option scheme Chief Executives total remuneration Options outstanding under the executive share option scheme have all met their The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return TSR performance targets.
against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for the six financial Performance share scheme Nil-cost options awarded under the performance share scheme on 28 May 2012 years ending on 31 March 2015.
TSR has been calculated assuming that and 12 June 2013 are subject to targets related to the companys NAVTR all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend dates.
The FTSE All-Share performance against two benchmark indices, the FTSE index and the Gilts index.
Total Return index has been chosen as it is the benchmark by which the Awards vest on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance of the relevant benchmark, rising to maximum vesting on 3.5% outperformance.
There is company measures its delivery of value over the longer term.
For no re-testing of either performance target and, to the extent that a performance comparison, the table below the graph shows the total remuneration target is not met, the relevant award will lapse.
For the purpose of calculating the received by the Chief Executive in each of the six years to 31 March 2015, performance measures, averages of the companys NAVTR and the two benchmark indices over the three months prior to the start and end of the performance period prepared on the same basis as in the single total figure in the table on is used to reduce volatility.
To the extent that the performance targets are met, page 47, and the percentage of the maximum potential short and long vested awards may be exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth term incentives received in those years.
anniversary of the date of grant.
For nil-cost options granted on 28 May 2012, two-thirds of the shares comprised in an award are tested against the FTSE index and one-third against the Gilts index.
TSR growth over six years In each case the performance period is a period of three years commencing with Caledonia TSR the financial year in which the awards are granted.
For the nil-cost options awarded FTSE All-Share TR on 12 June 2013, one-half of the shares comprised in an award are measured 250 against the Gilts index over three years and the other half against the FTSE index over five years.
200 For nil-cost options granted to Mr Wyatt and Mr King on 27 November 2014, shares will vest on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 10% if the company achieves an annualised NAVTR of 3%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on 150 achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who is head of the Funds pool, 60% of his performance share scheme awards granted on 27 November 2014 will be measured against the annualised total returns achieved 100 by the Funds pool.
Awards will similarly vest on a graduated basis, with vesting 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised Funds pool total return of 6%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised total return of 13.5%.
The remaining 40% of Mr Cayzer-Colvins performance share Years ended 31 March scheme awards will be measured against Caledonias NAVTR as above.
For all nil-cost options granted on 27 November 2014, the relevant performance 2010 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 conditions will be tested over three years for one-half of the shares comprised in Chief T C W T C W W P W P W P W P W P an award and over five years for the other half of the shares comprised in an award.
Executive Ingram Ingram Wyatt Wyatt Wyatt Wyatt Wyatt Deferred bonus plan matching awards Total The performance targets for the matching awards are the same as those for nil-cost options granted under the performance share scheme on 28 May 2012.
Shares that remunervest must be called within 12 months of vesting.
Other exercise conditions Short term Executive share option scheme Once the performance conditions have been met, options granted under the incentives executive share option scheme may normally be exercised between three and vested as a ten years from the date of grant, although only one-third of the shares comprised percentage of in an option may be exercised three years after grant, with the remaining maximum % 47.5 67.5 100.0 100.0 100.0 two-thirds becoming exercisable six years after grant.
Performance share scheme Long term For nil-cost options granted under the performance share scheme on 28 May 2012, incentives to the extent that a performance target is met, two-thirds of the shares that vest vested as a may normally be exercised three years after grant, with the remaining one-third normally becoming exercisable five years after grant.
percentage of For nil-cost options granted on 12 June 2013 and 27 November 2014, shares that maximum % 1.5 50.0 10.1 100.0 vest following three or five year performance testing become immediately 1.
Mr Ingram served as Chief Executive until his retirement on 21 July 2010, at which exercisable.
time Mr Wyatt was appointed as his successor.
Vested but unexercised represents the amounts paid to each in the period that they served as Chief Shares vested but unexercised represent those awards that are immediately Executive in that financial year.
The long term incentives held by Mr Ingram which exercisable without any conditions.
vested in 2011 were HMRC approved executive share options granted in 2008, which the Remuneration Committee determined should vest based on the measurement of the performance targets up to the date of his retirement.
The percentage of short term incentives shown as vesting for Mr Wyatt in 2011 relates to his annual bonus for that year, the total amount of which has been included in the corresponding single figure for total remuneration.
Subsequent to his retirement, Mr Ingram exercised further share options at a pre-tax gain of 119,413 in the 2014 financial year.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 51 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive Chairmans and non-executive directors fees The following table shows the percentage change in the basic salary, value The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees are reviewed of taxable benefits and short term incentives paid to the Chief Executive triennially.
The last review was in April 2014 and therefore their fees in the year to 31 March 2015 against the previous financial year, are unchanged since that date, as follows: compared with the average percentage changes in those components Fees for years of pay of Caledonias other staff on a per capita basis.
Caledonias staff to 31 March received a standard increase in basic salary of 2.5% and the standard 2016 and 2015 bonus was the maximum entitlement, the same as the Chief Executive.
Chairman 184,500 However, the average per capita percentage changes shown below were Non-executive director basic fee 39,900 higher due to the effect of non-standard increases or bonus awards for a number of staff reflecting promotion, increased responsibilities Chairman of the Audit Committee 5,600 or other such adjustments.
Member of the Audit Committee 2,300 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4,900 Staff average Member of the Remuneration Committee 1,600 Chief Executive per capita % change % change Senior Independent Director Chairman Basic salary 2.5 6.0 of the Governance Committee 5,100 Taxable benefits 0.7 3.5 Annual bonus scheme Short term incentives 2.5 10.5 The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the performance target for the company performance element of the annual bonus scheme and Relative importance of spend on pay decided that, for the financial year ending 31 March 2016 and subsequent The graph below shows the personnel expenses for the year of group years, the current target, whereby payments commence with a 10% companies consolidated under IFRS 10, compared with amounts pay-out if the performance of the companys NAVTR matches RPI, distributed to Caledonias shareholders by way of dividends and share increasing incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if buy-backs.
outperformance of 7% or more is achieved, should be qualified such Relative importance of spend on pay that the RPI comparator should be the higher of actual RPI or 3%, being broadly in line with the historic long term average.
2015 2014 m Long term incentive schemes No changes to the companys long term incentive schemes are anticipated 60 for the 2016 financial year.
-32.9% 40 Approach 43.4m The Remuneration Committee will keep the implementation of the 2.1m 20 remuneration policy under review in order to take account of any changes 34.4% in the companys business environment and remuneration practice 12. m. 6m generally, but with the overall aim of ensuring that Caledonias 0 Personnal expenses Dividendsshare uyacs remuneration arrangements continue to attract and retain talent and reward executives appropriately in the light of the companys performance.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the 2016 financial year The company expects to operate the remuneration policy as described in the previous section without any changes in the financial year ending 31 March 2016.
Basic salaries of executive directors In respect of the 2016 financial year, the Remuneration Committee has already awarded the executive directors inflation-based increases in basic salary of 1.0%, as follows.
Salary for year to 31 March 2016 2015 W P Wyatt 511,550 506,480 S A King 362,980 359,380 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 306,930 303,890 52 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Charles Gregson Chairman, David Stewart and Robert Woods.
Mr Gregson and Mr Woods served throughout the year and Mr Stewart became a member of the Committee on 17 March 2015.
Charles Allen-Jones also served as a member of the Committee until his retirement from the board on 17 March 2015.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the companys main legal advisers, in relation to the preparation of the 2014 directors remuneration report, the adoption of new performance measures for the long term incentive plans and the implications of the introduction of clawback provisions into the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the Chairman and the Chief Executive in relation to the remuneration of the executive directors and internal support was provided to the Remuneration Committee by the Company Secretary.
Statement of voting at general meetings At the annual general meeting of the company held on 17 July 2014, the proxy votes lodged for the resolutions relating to directors remuneration were as follows: Number % To approve the 2014 directors remuneration report other than the directors remuneration policy Votes in favour 36,607,789 99.8 Votes against 68,129 0.2 Total votes cast 36,675,918 Votes withheld 274,305 To approve the directors remuneration policy Votes in favour 36,427,822 99.8 Votes against 88,185 0.2 Total votes cast 36,516,007 Votes withheld 434,216 This report was approved by the board on 27 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Charles Gregson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 53
