Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Valuation methodology Investments are measured at the directors estimate of fair value Maintainable earnings balance reliability and relevance.
Generally, at the reporting date, in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value the latest historical accounts are used unless reliable forecast results Measurement.
Fair value is the amount for which an asset could for the current year are available.
Earnings are adjusted where be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms appropriate for exceptional or non-recurring items and an average length transaction.
of more than one years earnings may be used to estimate maintainable earnings for cyclical or volatile businesses.
Publicly traded securities Investments listed in an active market are valued at their bid price Net assets on the reporting date.
When a bid price is unavailable, the price The net assets methodology is likely to be appropriate for a business of the most recent transaction will normally be used.
whose value derives mainly from the underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, such as a property holding company or an Unlisted companies investment business.
It may also be appropriate for a business that Unlisted company investments are valued by applying an is not making an adequate return on assets and for which a greater appropriate valuation technique, which makes maximum use of value can be realised by liquidating the business and selling its market-based information, is consistent with models generally used assets.
A third party valuation may be used to give the fair value by market participants and is applied consistently from period to of a certain asset or group of assets.
period, except where a change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
Fund interests Fund interests refer to participations in arrangements to create The value of an unlisted company investment is generally a designated pool of capital to invest in a wider range of assets than crystallised through the sale or flotation of the entire business, is feasible for an individual investor and to share the costs and rather than the sale of an individual instrument.
estimation of fair value is based on the assumed realisation of the underlying business at the reporting date, based on the Open-ended funds, including investment companies with variable International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation capital, typically report regular net asset values, which usually Guidelines December 2012.
Recognition is given to the provide a reliable basis to estimate fair value.
If the price reported uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value of unlisted by the fund is not available at the reporting date, the latest available companies and appropriate caution is applied in exercising price is used and may be adjusted to take account of changes or judgments and making the necessary estimates.
events to the reporting date.
Enterprise value is normally determined using one of the Closed-ended funds include unlisted investment companies and following valuation methodologies: limited partnerships.
For these investments, the fair value estimate is based on a summation of the estimated fair value of the Price of recent investment underlying investments.
Fund manager valuation reports may be Where the investment being valued was recently acquired or used where there is evidence that the valuation is derived using fair a recent transaction has taken place, its cost or transaction price value principles and may be adjusted to take account of changes or will generally provide a good indication of fair value.
This events to the reporting date.
Adjustment may also be necessary for methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period features of the fund agreement not captured in the valuation report, after the date of the relevant transaction.
such as performance fees or carried interest.
Multiples Other investments This methodology involves the application of an earnings multiple Other investments include preference shares, loan notes or facilities, to the maintainable earnings of the business and is likely to be options, warrants and treasury instruments that are not publicly appropriate for an investment in an established business with traded and do not form part of an investment in an unlisted an identifiable stream of continuing earnings.
For such investments, appropriate valuation techniques The earnings multiple used is determined by reference to marketare adopted and used consistently.
based multiples appropriate for the business and correlating to the period and calculation of earnings of the company being valued.
The aim is to identify comparator companies that are similar in terms of risk and growth prospects to the company being valued.
Earnings multiples are adjusted for points of difference between the comparator and the company being valued where appropriate, including the ability of Caledonia to effect change in the company and risks associated with holding an unlisted share.
24 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc
