Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information usiness model and strategy Business model Caledonia is a self-managed investment We aim to deliver long term growth to both shareholder capital trust company with net assets of and income by investing in a balanced, risk managed range of asset classes, across diversified sectors and regions.
We focus 1. b n u. r heritage can be traced on established businesses, where return on capital employed is back to the shipping empire established a differentiator of longer term performance and where underlying real assets provide risk mitigation to the balance sheet.
We use by Sir Charles Caye r in 188 e. have gearing cautiously and focus it within appropriate asset classes, the backing of the Caye r family, which principally to mitigate risk rather than to drive returns.
This typically arises within the Unquoted pool, where the existence of preference owns some 48.5 of the share capital share capital and structured loans provides both a level of additional and provides both support for our security over assets and a mechanism for preferential annual income flows.
long term value investment horion We have funding flexibility, through a 125m revolving credit facility and a foundation to our culture of in the company, which is used to mitigate any short term illiquidity within the portfolio, facilitating the bridging of short term conservative generational wealth investment flows.
We also have a 50m revolving credit facility in management.
a subsidiary treasury company, used to provide long term funding to subsidiaries and for liquidity management.
Our business model has been developed over many years to deliver long term growth in capital and an increasing annual dividend to shareholders.
Pools of capital We manage our portfolio through distinct pools of capital, each headed by an experienced, specialist investment executive.
Each pool invests to achieve target capital and income returns, combining to provide a managed total return for Caledonia.
The Quoted pool focuses on identifying opportunities to build meaningful positions in long term value businesses.
The Unquoted pool takes direct minority and majority stakes in private companies, where an opportunity exists to partner a strong management team with capital, without the traditional restrictions of short term private equity financing.
We take board seats in all significant private company investments.
The Funds pool contains investments in both private equity and quoted market funds, providing Caledonia with diversified overseas reach in areas where our investment model would make direct investing more difficult to manage.
The Funds pool is primarily focused on investment in North America and Asia.
The Income & Growth pool provides an exposure to global companies offering higher dividend yield and dividend growth expectations.
This pool provides both a reliable platform for our overall income requirements and a source of readily accessible liquidity.
6 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Investment principles The key principles we apply in building and financing our portfolio are: Principles Where we are now We allocate our capital predominantly amongst quoted equities, Strategic Allocation allocation 2015 private companies and funds.
We identify a strategic allocation Pool Investment style % % range to each of these classes commensurate with our overall risk Quoted Large equity holdings in 35-50 28 and return objectives.
These allocation ranges are reviewed high quality companies regularly to ensure they remain consistent with our strategy and Unquoted 8-10 direct stakes in private 20-35 31 market conditions.
companies 25m Funds Private equity and quoted 15-20 20 market funds US and Asia focus Income & Growth Global equity portfolio, 15-20 13 4.5% net yield Cash and other 10 -10 8 Net assets 100 We look to achieve a diverse investment portfolio, managed Pool distribution Asset class distribution through distinct investment pools.
Quoted Listed equities Despite a significantly sterling based asset portfolio, we achieve Unquoted Private companies geographic exposure outside the UK through, in particular, Funds Private equity funds our Funds and Income & Growth pool investments.
Income & Growth Quoted market funds Overall exposures to geography, currency and asset classes are Cash and other items Cash and other items actively monitored and managed by our executive management, under the supervision of the board.
The portfolio is further Currency distribution Geographic distribution diversified through our fund investments and the selection of external fund managers with clear mandates.
Pound sterling United Kingdom US dollar Continental Europe Euro North America Other currencies Asia Other countries We look to mitigate concentration risk by managing the value of an Investment concentration 31 March 2015 31 March 2010 investment in any one company to less than 10% of our net asset % value and will look for appropriate market opportunities to recycle 100 value throughout the portfolio to achieve this in an appropriate 75 timeframe.
In recent years, our investment concentration has reduced.
50 25 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Cumulative number of investments We maintain portfolio liquidity to provide both risk mitigation and 31 March 2015 Portfolio liquidity 31 March 2010 increased flexibility in opportunistic markets.
% 75 Our portfolio is increasingly focused on established businesses of scale, particularly within the Quoted and Income & Growth pools, 50 which has enhanced liquidity.
25 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Months We maintain borrowing facilities primarily to provide additional temporary liquidity between buying and selling investments.
We would not expect gearing to exceed 10% of net assets.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 7 D e t v n s t e a l n n o c fi e p e i t n b m w g u t i o s s r s i e k e n v k e a n s s i M s e M t c i s t o i o e n n b n t i u r t y Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information usiness model and strategy continued Investment process Our investment process is built from a disciplined series of steps, individual investments and the portfolio as a whole are periodically leveraging Caledonias reputation and the experience of our measured against a number of risk control metrics, including investment team.
We look to identify long term value through each concentration, liquidity, volatility and sector and geographical stage, including sourcing opportunities and initial reviews, through diversity.
In addition, we ensure that we have formal representation due diligence, approval and deal execution.
The performance of on the board of all our core private company investments and, our investments is subject to a formal review process and both where we have a significant holding, some listed investments.
Attract preferential deal flow Identify best opportunities Make significant investments Our reputation, network of deal originators We adopt a disciplined process of research We invest directly in both listed and and family tradition enable us to access and due diligence to identify value unlisted opportunities around the premium investment opportunities not opportunities in well-managed, long term world.
Our minimum investment size always available to others.
This derives businesses with established business is 10m and we aim to invest between from both tracking quality management models and strong cash flows.
Such 25m and 100m for significant equity teams in proven businesses and through opportunities are typically not reliant on interests in companies.
the contacts we make through our leverage for returns and offer long term extensive board representation network.
The Caledonia team At its heart, our investment process is focused on recruiting and retaining high quality investment executives to maintain deal flow and investment continuity, who understand and are able to execute Caledonias investment philosophy.
o Develop business network Monitor and control risk Manage and support investees Maintaining our reputation as a Individual investments and the investment We manage our investments as pools supportive and constructively involved portfolio as a whole are monitored for of capital, focusing ownership and long term investor enables us to develop risk against our strategic objectives.
responsibility on our executive team.
our network of contacts, who will give us Consideration is given to concentration Where we take a board seat, we can priority consideration when new deal exposure, volatility levels, liquidity and both actively monitor the development opportunities arise.
geographical and industry sector diversity.
of our investment and contribute long term support and governance.
8 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc t f o l ti r r r i n o a s e k p n d p d I o l s a u ti p n M p w e a o r r o n e t f l a i f e n g r l v a p e e e a s t t c n d e a d e r s tt A Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Target returns Our investment approach is aimed at delivering high single digit We target real return and the chart below shows Caledonias total annual returns, over rolling ten year periods.
This investment annualised ten year rolling RPI adjusted net asset value total return horizon provides the time frame for businesses to grow and NAVTR growth, compared with the RPI adjusted FTSE All-Share accumulate value in a controlled manner, within both the public Total Return index FTSE All-Share TR.
and private markets, whilst mitigating some of the volatility inherent in short term trading investment strategies.
Annualised ten year rolling performance, RPI adjusted Caledonia NAVTR Over rolling ten year periods, we believe such an investment FTSE All-Share TR approach both optimises risk return characteristics and % outperforms most markets.
Over a ten year investment horizon, 10 we target a sustainable annual yield from portfolio assets, providing 5 a balance to total return between income and capital appreciation.
