Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Responsibility statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Disclosure of information to auditors annual report and the financial statements Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the confirms that: directors remuneration report and the financial statements in 1. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information of which accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the companys auditor is unaware Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 2. the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the of that information.
Under company law, the directors must not approve This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these Responsibility statements under the Disclosure and financial statements, the directors are required to: Transparency Rules and The UK Corporate Governance Code select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 30 and 31 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 1. the group financial statements, which have been prepared in prudent accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union has been of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 2. the strategic report contained on pages 1 to 29 includes a fair review in the group and parent company financial statements respectively of the development and performance of the business and the position prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Signed on behalf of the board by: that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Will Wyatt Stephen King Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Chief Executive Finance Director Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding 27 May 2015 27 May 2015 the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 57
