The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Corporate Information Status Operational Disruption to, or failure of, Hendersons or its administrators The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of BNPParibas Securities Services accounting, dealing or payment the Companies Act 2006 the Act and operates as an investment systems could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed to the 2010 Section 1158.
The Company is subject to the UK Listing operational risk that one or more of its suppliers may not provide Authoritys Listing Rules and also the Listing Rules of the New therequired level of service.
It is governed by its Articles of Association, amendments to which must be approved by shareholders by way of a The Board considers the loss of the Fund Manager as a risk but this special resolution.
The Company is not a close company.
is mitigated by the experience of the team at Henderson as detailed onpage 16.
The Company has obtained approval from HM Revenue & Customs HMRC of its status as an investment trust under Section 1158: the Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its Borrowings affairs in compliance with Section 1158 since approval was granted The Company has a borrowing facility of 80m with HSBC Bank plc, and intends to continue to do so.
The Company is liable to corporation of which nil was drawn at the year end 2014: nil.
The Company tax on its net revenue profits but is exempt from corporation tax on also has two debentures totalling 40.0m 2014: 46.0m and capital gains if it has complied at all times with Section 1158.
Thelevelof gearing at 30 June 2015 was 6.0% of net asset value 2014: 7.1%.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and Future Developments has put in place a schedule of investment limits and restrictions, While the future performance of the Company is mainly dependent on appropriate to the Companys investment objective and policy, in the performance of international financial markets which are subject order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks to various external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company which have been identified and the steps taken by the Board to will continue to pursue its stated investment objective and strategy mitigate these are as follows: explained earlier.
The Chairmans Statement and Fund Managers Report provide commentary on the outlook for the Company.
Portfolio and market price Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that are Key Performance Indicators KPIs listed on recognised markets, share prices may move rapidly.
The companies in which investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its or fail entirely.
A fall in the market value of the Companys portfolio objective and to evaluate the performance of Henderson, the would have an adverse effect on equity shareholders funds.
The Board Directors take into account the following KPIs: reviews the portfolio at the seven Board meetings held each year.
The Fund Manager closely monitors the portfolio between meetings and Performance against the Companys peer group mitigates this risk through diversification of investments.
The Company is included in the AIC UK Equity Income sector.
TheBoard considers the size weighted average net asset value Investment activity, gearing and performance totalreturn of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
During An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset theyear under review the Company outperformed the peer group allocation or the level of gearing may result in underperformance against by0.2%.
The Board monitors investment performance at each Board meeting and regularly reviews the level of gearing.
Performance against the OEIC sector The Board considers the performance of theportfolio against the Tax and regulatory UKEquity Income OEIC sector.
During the year under review the A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could Company underperformed the sector by 0.6%.
lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to corporation tax.
A Performance against market indices breach of the UKLA UK Listing Authority Listing Rules could The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the performance result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a breach of the of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and share price for the Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal proceedings, or financial Company and the FTSE All-Share Index.
During the year under or reputational damage.
The Company must also ensure compliance review the Company outperformed the index by 3.8% on a total with the Listing Rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
Henderson provides investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal control reports produced by Henderson on a quarterly basis, which confirm regulatory compliance.
18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Premium discount to net asset value NAV Decisions not to support resolutions and the rationale are fed back The Boards aim is for the Companys share price to reflect closely its to the investee company prior to voting.
At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the Companys premium discount to NAV per The Henderson responsible investment policy and further details share and reviews the average premium discount for the Companys ofHendersons responsible investment activities can be found on AIC sector.
At 30 June 2015 the Companys shares were trading at a theHenderson website, www.
The Company publishes NAV per share figures on a daily basis, through the official Employees, Social, Community, Human Rights newswire of the London Stock Exchange and on the New Zealand and Environmental Matters Stock Exchange where it has an overseas listing.
The Companys core activities are undertaken by Henderson, which has implemented environmental management practices, including Ongoing Charge systems to limit the use of non-renewable resources and to minimise The Board regularly reviews the ongoing charges and monitors the impact of operations on the environment, and is focused on Company expenses.
For the year ended 30 June 2015 the reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising waste, where OngoingCharge as a percentage of shareholders funds was 0.42% possible.
The Company has therefore not reported on these, or social, 2014: 0.43%.
community or human rights issues.
The charts and data on pages 2 and 3 show how the Company has Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included on the performed against these KPIs.
In 2012 it was granted CarbonNeutral Company status which it has committed to maintain at least until the Corporate Responsibility end of 2015.
Responsible Investment The Companys Annual Report is printed on paper produced using Henderson is responsible for reporting on its work on corporate 50% recycled post-consumer waste and 50% wood fibre from fully governance and corporate responsibility or social, environmental sustainable forests with certification by the Forest Stewardship andethical issues in the companies in which it invests on its clients Council: the printing company used is certified as CarbonNeutral.
behalf, across all funds as part of its management duties.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
The Principles, developed Board Diversity under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary It is the Companys aim to have an appropriate level of diversity in andaspirational framework for incorporating environmental, social theBoardroom.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity and corporate governance issues into mainstream investment generally when making appointments to the Board, taking into decision-making and ownership practices.
account relevant skills, experience, knowledge and gender.
Our primeresponsibility, however, is the strength of the Board and our The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate overriding aim in making any new appointments must always be to responsibility can affect their business performance, both directly select the best candidate.
Currently the Board comprises of six and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on social responsibility Directors, five male and one female.
The Company has no employees and the environment is considered by Hendersons Risk Team but and, therefore, there is nothing further to report in respect of gender investments are not necessarily ruled out on social and representation within the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board Voting Policy and the UK Stewardship Code Hendersons responsible investment policy sets out its approach tocorporate governance and corporate responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients and its policy Philip Remnant CBE on proxy voting.
The policy also sets out how Henderson Chairman implements the Stewardship Code.
The Company has reviewed the 17 September 2015 policy and has delegated responsibility for voting to Henderson.
TheBoard receives regular reports on the voting undertaken by Henderson onbehalf of the Company.
The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship and a means of signalling shareholder viewson board policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations are guided by the best interests of the investee companies shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution the Fund Manager will give specific instructions on voting non-routine and unusual or controversial resolutions.
