Our strategy Our clear and concise strategic direction We have articulated our strategy around a simple mission: to make insurance much easier and better value for our customers.
We believe that delivering this strategy will allow us to grow sustainably, whilst targeting at least a 15% return on tangible equity.
Our mission Make insurance much easier and better value for our customers Our strategic pillars Great Smart & efficient Lead & disrupt retailer manufacturer the market Long-term ambition: Sustainable growth and at least 15% RoTE Our key enablers Data & technology Culture & capability Capital & risk management 14 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Great Smart & efficient retailer manufacturer Compelling brands, propositions and customer Efficiency and flexibility to deliver better experience to meet diverse and long-term claims and customer service at lower cost customer needs We aim to make it easy for our customers to access our We aim to improve efficiency and effectiveness across products and services at every stage.
This includes increasing the organisation.
We intend doing this by delivering online servicing for customer policies and claims, and evolving transformational initiatives, and making sure we provide telephone sales and servicing by investing in next-generation quality and value for money every day.
This goes beyond customer systems.
We focus on training our contact centre reducing costs.
We always seek to design and deliver employees to understand customer needs better.
new capabilities in a cost-efficient way.
How we performed in 2015 How we performed in 2015 Work to differentiate our brands has continued with enhancements We continued to improve efficiency in 2015 with a reduction for the Direct Line brands customers.
Following a succession in total costs of 4.6% while continuing to invest in capability.
of initiatives during 2015, Direct Line customers now benefit Reductions in underlying costs have been achieved in a from a seven day car repair service, guaranteed hire car number of areas including marketing, technology and property.
as standard on comprehensive motor policies, an eight hour New pricing projects have been implemented which aim turnaround to dispatch certain lost or damaged household to broaden our competitive quote footprint for Motor and goods and the removal of amendment fees from all Direct Line Home products.
We continue to invest in and to evolve the branded products.
sophistication of our telematics pricing.
Churchills branding has also been refreshed with a campaign We have given our customers additional self service options to highlight its dependability.
We have reinforced the product within claims management where certain stages of Motor, and service to differentiate it from other brands, including Home, pet and travel claims can be managed online.
This, together with an increased trading capability This has improved efficiency and led to faster settlement times.
across Churchill and Privilege, has contributed to an improvement Were continuing to aim to beat market claims inflation.
in Motor and Home own brands PCW sales.
We are importing relevant Personal Lines capabilities into These improved propositions, as well as a focus on improving our Commercial operations, including improved Van technical customer experience and reducing complaints, have contributed pricing and the launch of webchat for the broker market.
to an increase in our Direct Line brands Net Promoter Score, along with further improvements in retaining customers in our Our objectives for 2016 Motor and Home own brands.
We continue to strive to improve operating efficiency and Our investment in digital capability continued with the roll aim to reduce total costs in absolute terms in 2016 compared out of smartphone and tablet optimised websites, including to 2015.
The rate of reduction will be lower in 2016 than new quote and buy journeys, for Home and Green Flag in 2015 due in part to the cost of the Flood Re levy.
These have built on last years successful Partnerships remain strategically important and we will look implementation of a new quote and buy journey for Motor.
to build on our improving manufacturing capability to deliver Quote and buy journeys have continued to be optimised what we aim to be market leading propositions to current to take account of customer preferences depending on brand partners, as well as to build relationships with future partners.
Our objectives for 2016 Improving customer experience remains a key target, with a focus on cross-channel distribution, while reducing complaints and improving the customer renewal process.
com 15 Our strategy continued Lead & disrupt Data & the market technology Maximise existing growth opportunities while Harness the power of technology creating and driving future areas of value and scale ofour data We aim to remain a leading competitor in our chosen markets We aim to harness the power of technology to make things by providing quality propositions and value for money.
easier for our customers and our people.
By implementing Where there are opportunities, we will look to launch new integrated systems that are flexible and efficient, we can and exciting products and services.
These will aim to put reduce costs while improving customer interactions such as us at the forefront of disruptive market changes.
We also enjoy a wealth of data from being a major insurer for a number of years, which we can use to make our How we performed in 2015 business better for our customers.
We continue to build on our current strong market position How we performed in 2015 by identifying and investing in market developments we believe can contribute to future growth.
In particular, were focusing We have now essentially finished the migration of our on growing our telematics-based motor insurance product, IT systems from RBS.
This has been a complex and challenging more than doubling our telematics customers in the year to programme for the business.
As of the fourth quarter of 2015, 28% of our under Our investment in digital capability continued with the build, 25 year olds driver Motor premium was from telematics roll out and support of smartphone and tablet optimised products.
This growth has been achieved with the help of websites for our Home and Green Flag insurance products.
wider market appreciation of the benefits of telematics for These have built on last years successful implementation younger drivers, recognition of our straightforward, self-install and support of a new website for Motor.
product and improved distribution through PCWs.
Retention has proved strong amongst better drivers.
Furthermore, the Consumers are surrounded by emerging technologies, Group has launched an app-based over 25s offering and so we continued to develop our next generation of systems has supported a major motor manufacturer by using telematics that can help us interact with our customers in a digitally as a key part of a new car customer proposition.
In Commercial, we continue to be recognised for our leading Our objectives for 2016 capabilities in eTrade and direct Commercial insurance, We are targeting improved performance and cost effectiveness both of which are expected to be growing parts of the from our IT systems.
Commercial products are now more widely available to customers directly, with the launch of Churchill Van on two of the major PCWs.
Commercials product offering has been extended with the roll-out of professional indemnity for Direct Line for Business and cyber cover for NIGs customers distributed through the broker channel.
These new products are fully reinsured.
Our objectives for 2016 New car technology centred on improving safety is emerging at a fast pace and the Group aims to take a lead by becoming the insurer of choice for the owners of these cars.
The Group is the insurance partner to the Move UK research consortium which is looking at analysing the development and deployment of automated driving systems, as well as investigating the motor liability legal framework in the future.
In Commercial, the Group is looking at ways to leverage its leading capabilities in eTrade and direct Commercial insurance as these markets adapt to evolving distribution trends.
16 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Culture & Capital & risk capability management Unlock and accelerate our peoples potential Sound foundation of capital and riskmanagement We are continuing to invest in our employees skills.
This will Our capital management policy seeks to maintain an help us to improve effectiveness and customer experiences, appropriate level of capital and solvency to support our and get the best from our new systems.
We aim to create business, whilst growing dividends annually in real terms.
excellent Group-wide employee engagement by focusing How we performed in 2015 on leadership and people management at all levels.
This has helped improve our employee engagement metrics year Our hard work throughout 2015 meant we were well on year.
positioned for Solvency IIs introduction at the start of 2016.
We submitted an application to the PRA for the Groups How we performed in 2015 principal underwriter, U K Insurance Limited UKI, to use Our people engagement scores improved during 2015 its internal economic capital model, validated by external and we made progress in preparing our staff for new experts, as part of a Group-wide partial internal model.
We launched a number of people We have a strong culture of considering customers perspectives.
engagement events over the course of the year, including: Our objectives for 2016 Launch pad event, communicating our new strategy framework to our people managers We aim to embed further and build on our risk management decision-making processes developed in 2015, and to Idea Lab launched with more than 6,000 employees continue to identify and mitigate risks.
Additionally, and subject active on it.
They submitted more than 1,500 business to PRA approval, we plan to operate from mid-2016 using our development ideas in the first month alone and internal model for calculating solvency capital requirements.
4,000 entries have been received to date Our objectives for 2016 We will aim to sustain high performance whilst building onourimprovements in people engagement in 2015.
Improving efficiency and effectiveness across the organisation will also be an important part of our 2016 plans.
com 17 18 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Our strategic pillars Great retailer Were delivering improved customer experience and satisfaction This year, we built on Direct Lines new These initiatives have helped strengthen positioning.
For example, we made the retention of customers.
bold move to include a guaranteed hire Aside from introducing new propositions, car as standard for all Direct Line Motor we were also there for our customers customers, a benefit that customers can at their time of need during the floods that only get with our motor insurance product.
hit homes in the northern parts of England In addition, we introduced or continued and in parts of Scotland towards the end the following Direct Line propositions: the of 2015.
The robust plans that we have proposition to repair vehicles within seven in place for handling these types of events days: replace stolen or damaged essential meant we were able to respond quickly household items with cash or a brand to the needs of our customers.
new replacement within eight hours: and remove amendment fees.
96,000 1,100 social media interactions homes affected by floods visited www.
com 19 Our strategic pillars Smart & efficient manufacturer Were delivering efficiency and improving processes for our customers We aim to reduce costs by improving and Motor customers can now upload images embedding efficiency throughout the business.
of damage to their vehicles and track repairs on an online portal, plus we have Delivering efficiency in our claims methods also introduced a service to repair cars and processes benefits us and our within seven days for Direct Line customers.
This year, we introduced new propositions that helped us drive down claims inflation and improve efficiency.
10% 300,000 increase in productivity from vehicle repair SMS text updates sent nitro-thermal painting spraying system 20 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 www.
com 21 22 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Our strategic pillars Lead & disrupt the market Were focused ondelivering innovation to meet customer needs Direct Line for Business targets the UKs This highly flexible cover for landlords and growing number of small businesses.
buy-to-let owners gives them the confidence It appeals to customers who want to buy of knowing their properties are protected.
robust and clear cover quickly and easily.
Customers also receive support from Our award-winning Landlord Insurance a dedicated claims handler, who manages is delivering on this promise.
claims efficiently from start to finish.
71,000 4,000 new Landlord insurance in-force policies downloads of smartphone Landlord app www.
