Directors report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended The Board recommends a final dividend of 9.2 pence per 31 December 2015. share to shareholders.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Companys 2016 AGM, this will become payable on 19 You can find the forward-looking statements disclaimer May 2016 to all holders of Ordinary Shares on the Register of on page 176. members at close of business on 11 March 2016.
A second special interim dividend has also been declared of 8.8 pence Strategic report per share and will have the same record and payment dates The Companys Strategic report is on pages 1 to 45.
It as the final dividend for 2015. includes the following information that would otherwise need to be disclosed in this Directors report: The final dividend resolution provides that the Board may cancel the dividend and therefore payment of the dividend at Subject Pages any time prior to payment if it considers it necessary to do so Use of financial instruments 43 and 44 for regulatory capital purposes.
Detailed explanatory notes can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Important events since 10 to 13 the financial year end The Company paid a special interim dividend of 27.5 pence Likely future developments in 13 and 34 to 37 per share in July 2015.
This represented substantially all of the business the net proceeds from the sale of the International division.
Employee involvement 32 and 33 The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.6 pence per Corporate governance statement share in September 2015.
The FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules require a corporate governance statement in the Directors report to Due to uncertainty about the timing of completion of the include certain information.
You can find information that fulfils International division sale and related distribution, the Board the corporate governance statements requirements in this declared a second interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend Directors report: the Corporate Governance report: the for 2014 of 8.8 pence per share.
It also declared a second Committee reports: and the Directors remuneration report, special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share for the 2014 on pages 46 to 95.
This information is incorporated in the financial year, which was paid in April 2015, at the same Directors report by reference.
time as the second interim dividend.
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The special interim dividends are consistent with the Groups policy to distribute excess capital.
Subject Page Contracts of significance 98 Including the special, interim and final dividends, the total Details of shareholder 97 dividend for the 2015 financial year is 50.1 pence per share dividend waivers 2014: 27.2 pence.
Of this, 36.3 pence relates to special Significant shareholder 97 interim dividends 2014: 14.0 pence.
agreements Further information about dividends and capital management can be found in the Finance review on pages 44 and 45, Post-balance sheet events and note 15 to the financial statements on page 143.
There were no post-balance sheet events to report.
Directors Dividends You can find the current Directors biographies on pages 48 The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value to 49.
All Directors will retire and be submitted for election for shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, or re-election at the 2016 AGM except for Priscilla Vacassin, rating agency and policyholder requirements.
The Board has who steps down from the Board on 1 March 2016.
This is a progressive dividend policy for the Company.
This aims in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and to increase the dividend annually in real terms to reflect the Articles of Association of the Company, which govern the the Companys cash flow generation and long-term appointing and replacing of Directors.
The Directors listed on pages 48 and 49 were the Directors The Group expects that one-third of the annual dividend will of the Company throughout the year apart from Richard Ward, generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend, who was appointed on 18 January 2016, and Glyn Jones, and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second who resigned as a Director on 13 May 2015 due to quarter of the following year.
The Board may revise the increasing commitments elsewhere.
dividend policy from time to time.
The Companys Articles of Association set out the Directors Additionally, if the Board believes the Group has capital powers.
You can obtain a copy of these on the Companys surplus to its view of its requirements, it is intended that such website at www.
The Directors powers excess capital will be returned to shareholders.
The Company are also subject to relevant legislation and, in certain may consider a special dividend and or a repurchase of its circumstances, authority from the Companys shareholders.
own shares to distribute surplus capital to shareholders.
96 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 96 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Secretary The Company has not held any shares in treasury during the period under review.
Roger Clifton is the Company Secretary of Direct Line Insurance Group plc.
He can be contacted at the Companys Registered You can find out more about the Companys share capital Office, details of which are on the inside back cover.
and shares under option at 31 December 2015 in notes 28 and 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors interests You can find details of the Directors remuneration, service Under the Companys Share Incentive Plan, shares are held contracts, employment contracts and interests in the shares by a Trustee on behalf of employee participants.
The Trustees of the Company in the Directors remuneration report on will only vote on those shares and receive dividends that are pages 70 to 95. beneficially owned by a participant, in accordance with the participants wishes.
An Employee Benefit Trust is also in Directors indemnities operation, the Trustee of which has discretion to vote on any The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to shares it holds as it sees fit, save for any shares owned indemnify the Companys officers and officers of any beneficially by participants, in which case the Trustee will only associated company against liabilities arising from vote on such shares as per instructions from the participant.
conducting Company business, to the extent permitted by law.
The Trustee of this Trust has waived its right to dividends on As such, the Company has executed deeds of indemnity for all shares within the Trust.
You can find out more about the each Directors benefit, regarding liabilities that may attach number of shares held by the employee share plan trusts in to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company or note 28 on page 150.
The Company is only aware of the associated companies.
These indemnities are qualifying thirddividend waivers and voting restrictions mentioned above.
party indemnities as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
No amount was paid under any of these Rights attaching to shares indemnities during the year.
All of the Companys issued Ordinary Shares rank equally in all respects.
The Companys Articles of Association set out the The Company maintains directors and officers liability rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Ordinary insurance.
This provides appropriate cover for legal actions Shares.
You can obtain a copy of this on the Companys brought against its Directors.
The Company has also provided the directors of DLG Pension All issued shares are fully paid and free from any restrictions Trustee Limited with qualifying pension scheme indemnities.
on their transfer, except where law requires, such as insider This is in accordance with section 235 of the Companies trading rules.
All employees must conform to the Companys Act 2006.
DLG Pension Trustee Limited acts as trustee for share dealing rules.
These rules restrict particular employees two of the Companys occupational pension schemes.
ability to deal in the Companys shares at certain times, and mean they need to obtain permission to deal before doing so.
Share capital Some of the Companys employee share plans also include The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are held Exchange.
As at 31 December 2015, its share capital within the plans.
comprised 1,375,000,000 fully paid Ordinary Shares of 10 10 11 pence each.
Each general meeting notice will specify the time for determining a shareholders entitlement to attend and vote at On 29 June 2015, shareholders approved a share the meeting.
This will not be more than 48 hours, excluding consolidation.
This resulted in issuing 11 new Ordinary Shares any part of a day that is not a working day, before the time of 10 10 11 pence each for every 12 Ordinary Shares of fixed for the meeting.
To be valid, all proxy appointments must 10 pence each in issue at close of business on 29 June 2015. be filed at least 48 hours before the meetings time.
Shareholders approved certain authorities at the Companys Where the Company has issued a notice under section 793 2015 AGM related to the Companys share capital.
As part of the Companies Act 2006 which is in default for at least of the share consolidation approved at the General Meeting 14 days, the person s interested in those shares shall not on 29 June 2015, these authorities were refreshed and be entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting until the adjusted to account for the share consolidation.
Therefore, default has been corrected or the shares sold.
the Directors now have authority to: There is no arrangement or understanding with any allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, shareholder, customer or supplier, or any other external party or convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate that provides the right to appoint a Director or a member of nominal amount of 50,000,000: the Executive Committee, or any other special rights regarding allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of control of the Company.
100,000,000, for the purpose of a rights issue: and Articles of Association make market purchases of up to 137,500,000 shares in the Company, representing approximately 10% of Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of the Companys issued share capital at the time.
Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
To date, the Directors have not used these authorities.
Shareholders will be asked to renew them at the 2016 AGM in line with the most recent institutional investors guidelines.
com 97 Directors report continued Significant agreements affected by a change of control Scope 1 direct emissions including fuels used in office buildings, accident repair centres and owned vehicles A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
None of these Scope 2 indirect emissions resulting from generating electricity agreements are considered to be significant in terms of its purchased for office buildings and accident repair centres impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Total GHG emissions for continuing operations for 2015 were All of the Companys employee share incentive plans contain 22,611 tonnes 2014: 27,308 tonnes, as set out in the table provisions relating to a change of control.
This primarily comprised emissions from purchased would typically vest and become exercisable.
This is subject to electricity and natural gas, diesel fuel and refrigerant gas used.
satisfying any performance conditions, and normally with an additional time-based pro-rata reduction where performance In addition to total emissions, the Group also monitors conditions apply, and approval from the Remuneration Committee.
emissions per million of net earned premium.
In 2015, this was 7.7 tonnes per million of net earned premium for Substantial shareholdings continuing operations 2014: 9.1 tonnes.
This is a measure In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the FCAs of how efficiently insurance products are provided and allows Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company has been comparison between our year-on-year performance and notified of the following indirect interest in the Companys voting performance against insurance companies.
The Company has not been notified of any direct interests.
Ecometrica has externally verified the GHG emissions data.
31 December 9 March Verification statements can be found on the Groups website 2015 2016 at www.
BlackRock, Inc. 5.08% 5.08% You can find further information on the Groups approach to Political donations energy and the environment in the CSR section on page 32.
The Group made no political donations during the year 2014: nil.
Greenhouse gas emissions Total Group including Employees with disabilities CO2e tonnes Continuing operations discontinued operations The Group is committed to promoting diversity across every 2015 2014 2015 2014 area of the business.
At recruitment, we adjust and enhance Scope 1 direct 7,643 7,784 7,645 7,787 our application and selection process and also guide and Scope 2 indirect 14,968 19,524 15,498 20,972 provide additional training for interviewers, where necessary.
Total gross emissions 22,611 27,308 23,143 28,759 An element of our Diversity Network Alliance focuses on matters important to employees with disabilities.
It also Emissions per identifies areas where we can improve.
To help people million of net continue working for us, we make reasonable adjustments to earned premium 7.7 9.1 8.8 8.7 their working environments and equipment, and roles and role Longer term viability and going concern basis requirements.
We also ensure that everyone can access the same opportunities.
The statements required to be included in the Annual Report following the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions Greenhouse gas emissions C. 1.3 and C. 2.2 can be found on pages 56 and 57, The Group has followed the 2013 UK Government and are incorporated here by reference.
environmental reporting guidance for greenhouse gas GHG emissions, used the UK Governments greenhouse gas conversion factors, and adopted the financial control approach to setting the organisational boundaries of responsibilities for GHG emissions.
GHG emissions are classified as direct or indirect, and divided into scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.
Direct GHG emissions are those from sources that the Group owns or controls.
Indirect GHG emissions are those that are a consequence of the Groups activities, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another organisation.
The Group has considered the six main GHGs, reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e, and set 2013 as the base year.
2 The Group has included emissions from the International division, until its sale in May 2015, under discontinued operations in the table opposite.
It has not included emissions associated with its investment portfolio.
98 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 98 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Disclosing information to the Auditor The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Each Director at the date of approving this Annual Report & transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy, the Accounts confirms that: Companys financial position at any time, and enable them to as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act information of which Deloitte LLP, the Companys external 2006.
Additionally, they are responsible for safeguarding the auditor, is unaware: and Companys assets and hence taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken responsible for maintaining and ensuring the integrity of the as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant corporate and financial information included on the Companys audit information and establish that Deloitte LLP is aware website at www.
Legislation in the UK of that information.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Companies Act 2006. pages 48 and 49, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Auditor the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial as the external auditor.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP position, and profit or loss of the Company, and the will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
You can find an undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a assessment of the effectiveness and recommendation for whole: and Deloitte LLPs reappointment in the Audit Committee report on pages 59 and 60. the Strategic report on pages 1 to 45 and Directors report on pages 96 to 99 include a fair review of the Directors responsibility statement development and performance of the business, and the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report position of the Company and the undertakings included in and financial statements in accordance with applicable law the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a and regulations.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial The Board reviewed and approved this report on statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the 29 February 2016.
Directors must prepare the Group financial statements in By order of the Board accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS regulation.
They have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements under IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the Companys state of affairs and profit or loss for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 requires Roger C. Clifton that Directors: Company Secretary Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance Assess the Companys ability to continue as a going concern www.
Trade and other payables including 159 Independent Auditors report 101 insurance payables 36.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 160 Consolidated financial statements 37.
Contingent liabilities 160 Consolidated income statement 106 38.
Commitments 161 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 107 39.
Fair value 162 Consolidated balance sheet 108 40.
Related parties 163 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 109 Consolidated cash flow statement 110 Parent Company financial Notes to the consolidated statements financial statements Parent Company balance sheet 164 1.
Accounting policies 111 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 165 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 118 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 165 3.
Risk management 121 Parent Company cash flow statement 166 4.
Discontinued operations and disposal group 136 Notes to the Parent Company 6.
Net earned premium 138 financial statements 7.
Net assets per share and return on equity 144 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 145 12.
Directors and key management remuneration 171 24.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 150 28.
Retirement benefit obligations 155 100 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 100 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015
