Committee reports All Committee members are members of the Institute of Chartered Audit Committee report Accountants in England and Wales.
They also have recent and relevant financial experience, enabling them to contribute diverse expertise to the Committees proceedings.
To keep their skills current and relevant, in addition to Board training, members of the Committee have received training by Deloitte LLP focused on changes to the Code and in particular the new requirements for the longer term viability statement.
Meetings The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2015, at appropriate times in the financial and regulatory reporting and audit cycle.
This table shows attendance at the Andrew Palmer scheduled meetings: Chair of the Audit Committee Scheduled Percentage The Audit Committees role meetings attendance The Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging Andrew Palmer Chair 5 of 5 100% the effectiveness of the Groups systems of financial and other Jane Hanson 5 of 5 100% controls.
It also monitors the work and effectiveness of the 1 Glyn Jones 2 of 2 100% Groups internal and external auditors and actuaries.
Clare Thompson 5 of 5 100% The Committee has unrestricted access to management and external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied that Sub-committees of the Audit Committee met in May and in 2015 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information November 2015 to approve the Groups Interim Management to perform its responsibilities effectively.
Statements for the first and third quarters of 2015.
The quorum of both sub-committee meetings comprised Andrew Palmer, Responsibilities Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: There were four additional meetings to consider outputs and Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements approve reports from the Solvency II programme.
and any other formal announcement relating to its The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk financial performance Officer, Group Financial Controller and Head of External Review and monitor the reserving process and recommend Reporting are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings.
The the quarterly reserves to the Board Actuarial Director, external actuarial advisers, External Auditor Continually review the adequacy and effectiveness of and Group Head of Audit are also invited to attend meetings the Groups internal financial controls and internal control and meet privately with the Audit Committee, in the absence systems, and the monitoring procedures of management.
The Managing Director of Claims, Business Services and Technology Services is also invited to attend Monitor and evaluate the Group Audit functions performance appropriate sections of Audit Committee meetings.
Monitor and manage the relationship with the External Auditor, including agreeing the external audit fee, assessing The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee effectiveness, and managing any tender process for the meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
audit services contract Main activities during the year You can find the Audit Committees terms of reference at At every scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee www.
receives reports on financial reporting, reserves, internal controls, Group Audit and Solvency II.
You can find out more Committee composition, skills and experience about this in the following sections.
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs: Andrew Palmer, Jane Hanson and Clare Thompson.
You can find their Financial reporting biographies on pages 48 and 49.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the preliminary announcement of the Groups 2014 financial results, the 2014 On 13 May 2015, Glyn Jones stepped down as a NED Annual Report & Accounts, and the 2015 Half Year Report.
The and a member of the Committee.
Committee then recommended them to the Board for approval.
The review process focused on critical accounting policies and practices, emphasising those requiring a major element of judgement.
The review also considered the going concern assumptions, impairment reviews, reserving provisions, unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures and significant audit adjustments.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend.
58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee also advised the Board whether the financial Internal control and Group Audit statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy understandable and provided sufficient information to and effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
enable the reader to assess the Groups performance, The Groups Financial Reporting Control Framework FRCF is business model and strategy.
part of its wider internal controls system.
It addresses financial When considering the Annual Report & Accounts for 2015, the reporting risks.
The Board delegates supervision of the FRCF to Committee focused on the significant risks and judgements which the Audit Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer is responsible could be material to the financial statements.
These included: for the FRCF on a daily basis.
Reserve valuation The Committee reviewed the actuarial During 2015, the Audit Committee received regular reports on best estimates of the level of reserves with external consultants.
the FRCF and the testing of it.
Part of those reports focused on Further information on reserves is given below.
control deficiencies, and mitigating and remedial actions taken.
Reinsurance recoverables The Committee considered the The Committee considered the Groups internal controls and proposed methodology for an impairment provision.
processes for identifying and responding to risks.
Financial investments The Committee considered reports on the judgements applied to the carrying value of the Groups The Audit Committee oversees Group Audits work and seeks financial investments and the need for any impairment provision.
to ensure it adopts industry best practice appropriately.
The Group Head of Audits primary reporting line is to the Chair of Goodwill and other intangible assets The Committee the Committee.
The secondary reporting line for day-to-day considered the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible administration is to the Chief Financial Officer.
Group Audit assets and whether any impairment provision was required.
gives the Committee independent and objective reports on Transformation projects The Committee considered the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal major change projects including the IT migration from controls and governance frameworks.
The Committee approves RBS Group systems.
Group Audits annual plan of reviews, and receives quarterly reports detailing internal audit activity, key findings, Internal control environment The Committee considered management responses, and proposed action plans.
Group reports on the internal control environment and associated Audit also monitors that these actions are completed.
The mitigating actions remedial action plans.
Committee also approves the Group Audit Charter.
The Committee considered reports prepared by management on the significant estimates and judgements that were material During the year, the Committee assessed whether the Group to the financial statements and challenged the judgements Audit function was effective and concluded that it was.
The Committee also discussed these matters included the Committee satisfying itself that the Group Audit with Deloitte, the External Auditor.
function has the appropriate resources.
The Committee also continued monitoring ongoing actions from 2014s external Reserves quality assessment review.
Every quarter, the Committee reviews and challenges the key Solvency II assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, movements, and analysis of uncertainties underlying the actuarial best During the year, the Committee held four additional meetings estimate of technical provisions.
At the same time, the to consider matters relating to the Solvency II governance and Committee considers and challenges the appropriateness of Internal Model Approval Process IMAP application.
At the Chief Financial Officers proposals for managements best those meetings, the Committee considered: estimate of reserves.
These are informed by actuarial analysis, Reports to the PRA for the preparatory reporting stage of wider commercial and risk management insights, and Pillar III as at 31 December 2014 and 30 September 2015 principles of consistency from period to period.
Reviews by the external auditor, mandated by the PRA The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, for the Pillar III reports for 31 December 2014 informed by emerging internal and external issues.
External audit It also considers an appropriate balance between internal and The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the External external actuarial review.
Consultants appointed to provide Auditor and agreeing the audit fee.
This also involves actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the approving the annual audits scope.
The external actuarial review was carried out by  LLP for the Directors of Direct Line The Committee monitored the performance of the work of and 1 Insurance Group plc and its relevant affiliates.
relationship with the External Auditor during the year.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as Auditor to the Group at IPO in 2012.
After reviewing the actuarial best estimate and managements Deloitte LLP, as the auditor of the RBS Group, audited the best estimate of reserves, the Committee recommends them to Group as a division of RBS between 2000 and 2012.
Company cannot reappoint Deloitte LLP as its auditor after June 2023.
This complies with the transitional rules for audit tendering and auditor rotation, as set out in the Competition & Markets Note: Authoritys CMA Order and the EU Audit Regulation.
The relevant affiliates are U K Insurance Limited and Churchill Insurance Company Limited.
com 59 Committee reports continued Deloitte LLP must regularly rotate the partner it engages on the The non-audit fee of 0.9 million relates to audit-related audit.
The current partner is David Rush.
He will be rotated assurance services, tax services and an IT project.
after completing the 2015 year-end audit.
This complies with The Committee reviewed how the Group applied its minimum the Groups Minimum Standard on making sure the external standard on audit and non-audit services in 2015.
It is satisfied audit remains independent.
that the Group has adequate procedures to make sure the The Committee has fully considered how the EU Audit Regulation External Auditors are independent and objective.
and the CMAs Order on mandatory audit contract tendering Effectiveness of the external audit process and affect the Group.
Under the CMA Order, the Group will conduct reappointing Deloitte as External Auditors a competitive tender and enter into a new audit services contract In 2015, the Audit Committee assessed the External Auditors before June 2023.
The Committee will tender the audit contract effectiveness.
This was in addition to regularly questioning the for the year ended 31 December 2021 at the latest.
The Auditor during its meetings.
The Audit Committee assessed Committee considers that this is in the best interests of the the Auditor through: a detailed questionnaire which key shareholders as it will coincide with the next audit partners stakeholders completed: discussing matters with the rotation and therefore limit operational disruption during a time Chief Financial Officer: formally reviewing Deloitte LLPs of significant regulatory and organisational change over the next independence: and assessing whether it fulfilled the few years.
However, in conjunction with the results of the annual agreed audit plan.
assessment of the Auditors effectiveness, this position will be reviewed again in 2016.
The Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team selected to review the audit of the 2014 Group financial There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys statements as part of their 2015 annual inspection of audit choice of external auditor and no auditor liability agreement firms.
The focus of the review and their reporting was on has been entered into.
Equally, any recommendation to identifying areas where improvements were required rather reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company depends than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected on continued satisfactory performance.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee received a full Auditor independence and non-audit services policy copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and The Group has an Independence of External Audit minimum discussed these with Deloitte.
The Committee confirms that standard.
This established parameters for preventing or mitigating there were no significant areas for improvement identified anything that compromises the External Auditors independence or within the report.
The Committee is also satisfied that there objectivity, by virtue of them providing the Group with non-audit is nothing within the report which might have a bearing on services.
The Committee reviews and refreshes the standard the audit appointment.
annually to make sure it remains appropriate.
The Committee, after taking into account all of the information Before each financial year, the Committee formally approves a available, concluded that Deloitte LLP had performed its list of audit and non-audit services that the External Auditor will obligations effectively and appropriately as External Auditor provide.
This is in accordance with the minimum standard.
The Group has delegated authority to the Audit Committees The Audit Committee subsequently recommended to the Board Chair to approve any non-audit services costing up to that the Group reappoint Deloitte LLP as External Auditor.
Non-audit services costing over 100,000 Group will put a resolution regarding this to the shareholders require the Committees approval.
At least twice a year, the at the 2016 AGM.
Committee receives and reviews a report on all consultancy The Audit Committees effectiveness spending, including non-audit services.
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review During the year, the Committee approved fees of 0.9 million of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary to Deloitte LLP for services unrelated to audit work.
The also prepared a report based on responses from Committee following is a breakdown of fees paid to Deloitte LLP for the members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed year ended 31 December 2015. questionnaire.
After reviewing and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, and Fees has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
m Proportion 1 Audit fees 1.9 67.9% The Board reviewed and approved this report on Non-audit fees 0.9 32.1% 29 February 2016.
Total fees for audit and other services 2.8 Andrew Palmer Chair of the Audit Committee Note: 1.
You can find further information in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee composition, skills and experience Board Risk Committee report The Committee comprised four independent NEDs: Jane Hanson, Andrew Palmer, Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin.
You can find their biographies on pages 48 and 49.
Meetings The Board Risk Committee held six scheduled meetings in 2015.
One of these was a joint meeting with the Remuneration Committee.
Additionally, six sub-committee meetings were held to consider Solvency II and IMAP matters.
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: Jane Hanson Scheduled Percentage Chair of the Board Risk Committee meetings attendance Jane Hanson Chair 6 of 6 100% The Board Risk Committees role Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 100% The Committee is responsible for overseeing and advising Clare Thompson 6 of 6 100% the Board on the Groups current and potential future risk Priscilla Vacassin 6 of 6 100% exposures, and its strategic approach to managing risk.
The Committee recommends risk appetite and tolerance levels to The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Board, and supports the Board in promoting a risk-aware Chief Risk Officer, Group Head of Audit, General Counsel culture across the Group.
and a representative from the External Auditor are invited to The Committee has unrestricted access to management and attend meetings.
In addition to regular one-to-one meetings external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied with the Chair, the Chief Risk Officer also met privately with that during 2015 it received sufficient, reliable and timely the Committee.
information to perform its responsibilities effectively.
The Board Risk Committee also invites the Director of Responsibilities Compliance and Regulatory Risk, Director of Financial Risk and The Committees main responsibilities are to: Enterprise Risk Director to appropriate sections of its meetings.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee Consider and recommend the Groups risk appetite, meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
framework and tolerance to the Board for its approval Review and approve the design and implementation of Main activities during the year the Enterprise Risk Management Framework, and the Risk monitoring procedures for monitoring its adequacy and effectiveness At each of its scheduled quarterly Committee meetings, the Consider the Groups risk profile relative to current and Committee receives a report from the Chief Risk Officer.
This future Group strategy, and to risk appetite report highlights the outputs of regular risk monitoring and provides further detail of specific issues to the Committee.
Approve the Risk Management and Compliance Operating Plans The Committee received regular reports regarding the three Review the governance of, and methodology and strategic risk appetite statements: maintain capital adequacy: assumptions used in, the Groups internal economic stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity: and capital model and approval of changes to the model maintain stakeholder confidence.
The Committee also received and associated policies and minimum standards reports on the risks pertaining to the lower level risk appetite statements that support the three main statements.
The Review and recommend the ORSA process and report Committee monitored the Groups exposure to these appetites, to the Board and assessed the drivers that affect its risk appetite status.
Review and recommend the High Level Control and System of Governance Framework to the Board The Committee robustly assessed the principal risks facing the Company, which you can find listed on pages 28 and 29. Review the Groups procedure for detecting internal The Committee achieved this by reviewing and challenging the and external fraud Groups MRA in the context of the Groups risk appetite.
You can find the Board Risk Committees terms of reference On behalf of the Board, the Committee also monitored the at www.
Companys risk management systems, and reviewed their effectiveness.
The monitoring and review involved examining an assessment of the control environment and material controls at Group level, based on directorate-level risk and control selfassessments.
These assessments were subject to challenge by the Risk and Group Audit functions.
com 61 Committee reports continued Additionally, the Committee considered more detailed subjects As part of this, the Committee considered the stress and scenario at each scheduled meeting.
These related to: compliance and testing plan, and monitored and challenged the test results.
regulatory risk including oversight of the Groups regulatory Solvency II and IMAP relationships: operational risk: financial risk, Solvency II and One of the Committees main considerations in 2015 was IMAP: and risk governance.
The Committee also requested preparing for the implementation of Solvency II.
This is the specific reviews of areas of the risk and control environment.
European Insurance Industrys new framework for ensuring Compliance and regulatory risk capital adequacy.
It involves using a forward-looking risk During the year, the Committee considered the Groups assessment based on ORSA principles.
The Committee compliance with regulatory requirements including conduct also monitored and challenged progress on the Groups and financial crime.
In particular, the Committee reviewed IMAP application.
how the PRAs Senior Insurance Managers Regime and the During the year, the Committee reviewed and considered FCAs Approved Persons regime would affect the Group.
Solvency II matters, including: The Committee also reviewed the outputs from conduct and compliance assurance activity, including approving the The 2015 IMAP validation framework, scope and process, Annual Assurance Plan.
including an independent assessment and the resolution of validation issues and delivery against regulatory deadlines Additionally, the Committee monitored the Groups actions relating to a financial promotions assurance review: and the The Groups Solvency Capital Requirement SCR, management of ongoing regulatory interactions, in particular including the key assumptions and dependencies within the with the FCA and the PRA.
calculation methodology such as the materiality limits and the approach to catastrophe modelling The Committee received regular reports on the Groups whistleGovernance around the calculation of the Standard blowing process: and the Groups actions to prevent financial Formula, and the justification of this capital requirement crime, including review of the Annual Financial Crime Report.
including a comparison to the IECM SCR Operational risk Approval of the ORSA including its alignment to the The Committee considered and monitored the risks associated business planning process with the migration of the Groups IT infrastructure away from The ongoing application of, and controls over, the IECM RBS Group.
The Committee monitored the Companys risk including recommendation for Board approval of the management and internal control systems, and reviewed their defined management actions and the validation approach effectiveness.
The monitoring and review covered all material for 2016 risks, including financial, operational and compliance, reviewing the net risk position after the operation of controls, The Committee also received comprehensive training on and also considered the effectiveness of any associated the requirements of Solvency II.
The Committee is overseeing the ongoing work to improve the performance across the board of the Risk governance Groups IT systems, including focusing on risks relating to IT Every year, the Committee reviews and approves the Enterprise systems stability, cyber security and the internal control Risk Management Framework, which includes the Group risk environment.
The Committee reviewed and challenged each Group policy and recommended the The Committee also received regular updates on the Groups final versions for approval by the Board.
The Committee also major change programmes, including the next generation of considered the results from the annual Group assessment of the customer systems, and considered progress towards the effectiveness of the internal control environment undertaken by planned significant change to the Groups IT capabilities, each business directorate, as well as monitoring controls on including the development of new technology and new an ongoing basis.
The Committee considered, challenged and approved The Committee considered the Groups broader operational the Annual Risk and Compliance Plan.
It also reviewed risk control environment and commissioned reviews by the Risk an Assessment of Risk Behaviours and Attitudes across the function on controls relating to major third-party suppliers and Group, which is part of an ongoing process to drive continued the execution of pricing changes.
In addition, the Committee improvement in these areas by providing feedback on current considered the Groups cyber risk assessment and associated state, highlighting areas of good practice and areas for focus.
controls, as well as the governance structures across the Group.
Additionally, the Committee held a Risk Strategy day.
During Financial risk the event, the Committee considered the Groups approach At each meeting, the Committee monitored the Groups to the management of risk, the risk oversight model and the performance against the financial risk appetite through the operation of the Three Lines of Defence model in the Group.
The Committee also considered risks in the strategic plan against risk appetite.
62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration Corporate Social Responsibility During the year, the Board Risk and Remuneration Committees Committee report held a joint meeting.
This was to ensure the Groups remuneration arrangements were still appropriate in the light of regulatory developments and did not encourage excessive risk-taking.
As part of this review, the joint Committee also considered the Groups preparedness for Solvency II.
This followed published requirements, including how the Group would assess the performance of individuals in Control Functions.
This Committee also monitored how incentive schemes operated for roles in the insurance sales and service contact centres, and for technicians and support staff in the UK Assistance Accident and Repair Centres.
Clare Thompson The Board Risk Committees effectiveness Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary The Corporate Social Responsibility Committees role also prepared a report based on responses from Committee The CSR Committee oversees and advises on how the Group members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed conducts its business responsibly.
This includes matters relating questionnaire.
After reviewing and discussing the report, to environmental, employee engagement and wellbeing, the Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, community involvement, and ethics.
and has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
Responsibilities The Board reviewed and approved this report on The Committees main responsibilities are: 29 February 2016.
Approving the Groups CSR strategy Reviewing the Groups performance relating to CSR matters Assessing the Groups role in society Committee composition The Committee comprised three independent NEDs: Clare Jane Hanson Thompson, Jane Hanson and Sebastian James.
Paul Geddes, Chair of the Board Risk Committee Chief Executive Officer, and Angela Morrison, Chief Information Officer, are also Committee members.
You can find their biographies on pages 48 to 50.
Meetings The CSR Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2015.
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance Clare Thompson Chair 3 of 3 100% Paul Geddes 3 of 3 100% Jane Hanson 3 of 3 100% Sebastian James 3 of 3 100% Angela Morrison 3 of 3 100% The Human Resources Director, Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability, and CSR Manager are invited to attend CSR Committee meetings.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
com 63 Committee reports continued CSR strategy The CSR Committees effectiveness The Groups CSR strategy focuses on four areas.
A member of The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review the Executive Committee sponsors each area.
They are: of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary also prepared a report based on responses from Committee Helping to make our society safer Mike Holliday-Williams members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed Proud to be here Simon Linares questionnaire.
After reviewing and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, Being recognised as part of our communities and has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
Jon Greenwood Reduce, Reuse and Recycle Steve Maddock The Board reviewed and approved this report on 29 February 2016.
You can find out more about the Groups CSR approach and priorities in the CSR section on pages 30 to 33.
Main activities during the year The Committee monitors the implementation of the CSR strategy through regular updates on the different focus areas.
It challenges the robustness of the targets in relation to each Clare Thompson strand.
It receives regular updates on each element of the CSR Chair of the CSR Committee strategy and at each of its meetings the Committee receives a report on developments in CSR.
Helping to make our society safer During the year, the Committee held a strategy session to consider how the Group could best use its expertise and experience to reduce deaths and life-changing injuries on the UKs roads.
The overall aim is to cut deaths in the first 1,000 miles of driving to zero, by engaging young drivers and helping them to drive more safely.
The Committee received regular progress reports on, and provided valuable insight into, this initiative.
You can find further details on this initiative and the manifesto in the CSR section on page 31.
Proud to be here The primary objective of this strand was to improve employee engagement in order to support a key enabler of the Groups 2015 strategy.
The KPIs for this element are linked to the People Strategy and focus on employee engagement and wellbeing.
During the year the Committee discussed and challenged the proposed targets and the focus of the work stream.
It was agreed that the focus should be on i pride in working for the Group: ii telling others that the Group is a great place to work: and iii employee wellbeing.
Being recognised as part of our communities The Committee received reports about how the Group was strengthening the level of support provided to the network of Community and Social Committees operating at the main Group locations.
The main targets which had been agreed related to volunteering, fund raising and matched payroll giving.
The One Day volunteering initiative and Community Cashback scheme were considered to be the two areas with the greatest potential for impact.
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle This strand of the strategy considered energy use, waste management and resource use within our operations as well as environmental matters in the Groups supply chain.
Key objectives related to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and diverting waste from landfill.
64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Meetings Investment Committee report The Investment Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2015.
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance Clare Thompson Chair 4 of 4 100 % Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100 % 1 Glyn Jones 2 of 2 100 % Andrew Palmer 4 of 4 100 % The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Director of Investment Management and Treasury, Clare Thompson and Director of Financial Risk are invited to attend Investment Chair of the Investment Committee Committee meetings.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with The Investment Committees role at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing how the Group develops its investment strategy.
It also oversees the management Main activities during the year and performance of the Groups investment portfolio.
Investment strategy Responsibilities After considering and challenging, the Committee recommended to the Board the following material changes The Committees main responsibilities are to: to the Groups investment strategy.
The Board approved the Examine the rationale for, and the risks and financial changes during 2015. implications of, any proposed changes to the Groups investment strategy and, where agreed, recommend these A revised minimum requirement for access to liquidity changes to the Board in stressed business or economic conditions Consider and approve material changes to the risk The introduction of three new asset mandates.
Two framework that underpins investment activity, and any mandates will invest in global credit and subordinated proposals to change the operating model.
This typically financial credit respectively, and the third mandate will relates to how outsource service providers are used invest in Sterling commercial real estate loans, a new asset class for the Groups investment portfolio Review global financial market developments and changes Changes to benchmark allocations for various existing asset to the regulatory environment, and consider the ongoing classes including gilts, investment-grade credit, high-yield appropriateness of investment activities in light of such credit, securitised credit and investment property developments Monitor the results from investment activities, namely A revised investment objective for existing investment-grade adequacy of financial results delivered, compliance with fixed-income mandates agreed risk tolerances and external service provider Risk framework and operating model performance.
The Committee also ensures that any material In October, the Committee agreed to proposals to move breaches are reported to the Board Risk Committee custody and middle-office services to a new provider.
During Committee composition, skills and experience the year, the Committee reviewed the credit exposure limits framework and agreed changes to issuer and concentration The Committee comprised three independent NEDs: Clare limits.
It also agreed to limited changes to commercial property Thompson, Jane Hanson and Andrew Palmer.
You can find guidelines during the year.
This gave the Group some flexibility their biographies on pages 48 and 49. to invest in property that needs development or major Clare Thompson was appointed Chair of the Committee on refurbishment before letting.
13 May 2015, after the AGM and when Glyn Jones stepped down as a NED and Committee member.
com 65 Committee reports continued Monitoring investment activity and performance Nomination Committee report The Committee monitored the performance of investments every quarter.
It also received reports from the Director of Investment Management and Treasury on various matters.
These included: key market developments: financial results from investment activity: investment performance versus benchmark for internally and externally managed portfolios: operational performance by the custodian and other service providers: and compliance with risk limits and internal delegated authorities.
The Committee also received presentations from Investment Managers on their performance against benchmark.
Solvency II Mike Biggs The Committee examined progress on initiatives linked to Chair of the Nomination Committee preparing for Solvency II, notably: The Nomination Committees role Preparing a liquidity plan and contingent management The Committee is responsible for keeping the Boards structure, actions size, composition, and balance of skills, experience, Developing various asset and derivative reports to submit to independence and expertise under review.
It also provides the PRA and European Insurance and Occupational guidance to management on executive succession planning.
Pensions Authority Responsibilities Restructuring the securitised credit portfolio to meet Solvency The Committees main responsibilities are: II requirements Considering and recommending to the Board matters The Investment Committees effectiveness regarding appointment of Directors, membership and The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review of chairmanship of Board Committees its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary also Succession planning for Directors and other senior prepared a report based on responses from Committee executives, accounting for the skills and expertise the Group members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed needs to deliver its strategy questionnaire.
After reviewing and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, and has Keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
Reviewing the NEDs continued independence The Board reviewed and approved this report on Considering and recommending to the Board Directors 29 February 2016. annual re-election and reappointment at the end of their term in office You can find the Nomination Committees terms of reference at www.
Committee composition The Committee comprised the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and two Clare Thompson independent NEDs, Andrew Palmer and Priscilla Vacassin.
You Chair of the Investment Committee can find their biographies on pages 48 to 49.
Priscilla Vacassin was appointed as a Committee member on 13 May 2015, when Glyn Jones stepped down as a NED and Committee member.
Richard Ward was appointed a member of the Committee on 25 February 2016.
Meetings The Nomination Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2015.
It also held additional meetings to deal with membership of the Boards Committees and the search for the new SID.
66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: Electing and re-electing Directors Before the proposed re-election of Directors at the 2015 Scheduled Percentage AGM, the Committee reviewed the independence of NEDs.
meetings attendance It concluded that Jane Hanson, Sebastian James, Andrew Mike Biggs Chair 3 of 3 100% Palmer, Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin were all 1 Glyn Jones 2 of 2 100% independent within the Codes meaning.
Mike Biggs was Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 100% independent when appointed as Chairman.
The Committee 1 recommended to the Board and shareholders to re-elect all Priscilla Vacassin 1 of 1 100% serving Directors at the Companys 2015 AGM.
The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend Nomination Diversity Committee meetings.
The Human Resources Director is also The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce.
It seeks invited to attend appropriate sections of the Nomination to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout the Committee meetings.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with business, whatever their gender.
At the date of this report, at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled three of the Groups nine Directors are women, which equates Board meeting.
This is the target set in Lord Davies Women on Boards Review Five Year Summary published in Main activities during the year October 2015, to be achieved by 2020.
The Board also Board composition acknowledges the benefit of diversity.
The Nomination During the year, the Committee: considered the Boards skills Committee has encapsulated in its terms of reference a and experience: reviewed the structure, size and composition requirement to consider candidates for appointment to the of the Board: reviewed the membership and chairmanship of Board on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard the Boards Committees: and reviewed NEDs letters of to diversity, including gender diversity.
appointment, terms of appointment and time commitment.
You can find out more about the Groups approach to diversity Succession planning in the CSR section on page 33.
The Committee acknowledges the importance of Board and executive succession planning, monitoring its progress as a The Nomination Committees effectiveness standing agenda item at each of its scheduled meetings and The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review providing guidance on executive succession planning to of its effectiveness during the year.
also prepared a report based on responses from Committee Board changes members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed Glyn Jones stepped down from the Board following the AGM questionnaire.
After reviewing and discussing the report, the on 13 May 2015, due to his increasing responsibilities as Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, and Chairman of other listed companies.
On 18 January 2016, has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
the Group appointed Richard Ward as a NED of the The Board reviewed and approved this report on Company and SID.
Board appointment and reappointment process The Committee oversaw the process to appoint Richard Ward as a NED and SID.
The Committee reviewed the Board members expertise and experience.
It then produced a detailed brief and engaged external search consultants, JCA Group, to find suitable candidates.
Michael N Biggs JCA Group is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct Chair of the Nomination Committee for executive search firms.
It is not connected in any way to the Company.
JCA Group prepared a long list of candidates of appropriate merit from diverse backgrounds.
The Committee agreed a shortlist and interviewed candidates.
It then approached the PRA and FCA for approval, and recommended appointing Richard Ward as a NED to the Board.
As Richard Ward was appointed since the last AGM, he will submit himself for election at the Companys 2016 AGM.
He is considered independent within the Codes meaning.
com 67 Committee reports continued In addition, the Committee actively interacts with the Audit Remuneration Committee report Committee and Board Risk Committee when considering the setting of targets and payouts.
As part of this, the Committee receives reports from the Chairs of those Committees at least twice a year.
The Chair of the Audit Committee serves on the Committee.
The Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended on three occasions.
The Chief Executive Officer, Human Resources Director and senior representatives of the Human Resources function are invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings.
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP, who act as independent advisers to the Committee, are also invited to attend Priscilla Vacassin Remuneration Committee meetings.
The Chair reports on Chair of the Remuneration Committee matters dealt with at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
The Remuneration Committees role The Committee is responsible for setting and overseeing how Main activities during the year the Group implements its remuneration policy.
The Committee Annual Incentive Plan oversees the level and structure of remuneration arrangements During the year, the Committee monitored the operation of the for senior executives, approves share incentive plans, and Annual Incentive Plan AIP.
For the 2014 financial year, this recommends them to the Board and shareholders.
Where involved assessing the Groups performance against the targets applicable, it also oversees share plan changes that need that the Committee set at the start of the year.
It also received shareholder approval.
reports from the Chairs of the Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee about whether the Group had achieved the Responsibilities required performance within risk appetite.
The Committee The Committees main responsibilities are: concluded that no clawback of awards was required in 2015.
Setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors For the 2015 financial year, the Committee approved the and Board Chairman and monitoring its operation performance metrics and monitored performance against them.
Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of The Committee also discussed and challenged the AIPs remuneration for senior executives performance metrics for the 2016 financial year and, Considering how the Groups strategy or performance subsequent to the year end, approved the metrics.
might affect its remuneration policy Long-Term Incentives Approving the Groups remuneration governance framework.
In 2015, the first awards, made in November 2012 under the This includes approving the design and target of any Direct Line Insurance Group 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan performance-related pay arrangements, and liaising with the LTIP, vested.
These awards were made shortly after the IPO, Board Risk and Audit Committees where appropriate and had two performance metrics based on RoTE and TSR.
After assessing performance against these metrics, the awards Reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for the vested at a level of 89.2%.
Before vesting, the Committee Board and shareholders to approve considered the LTIPs financial and risk underpins.
The You can find the Remuneration Committees terms of reference Committee considered whether to operate the malus at www.
You can find out more about this in the Directors remuneration report on pages 70 to 95.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee comprised three independent NEDs: Priscilla The Committee also determined the quantum of awards in Vacassin, Sebastian James and Andrew Palmer, and the 2015 under the LTIP in view of business and individual Chairman of the Board, Mike Biggs.
You can find their performance.
The Committee advised and supported RBS Group when it Meetings was assessing the Groups performance for the purpose of LTIP awards it had made.
The awards were made under an RBS The Remuneration Committee held five scheduled meetings in Group LTIP scheme to Direct Line Group employees over 2015.
One was a joint meeting with the Board Risk Direct Line Group shares prior to the IPO.
Committee to discuss matters relating to overlapping remits between the two Committees.
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance Priscilla Vacassin Chair 5 of 5 100% Mike Biggs 5 of 5 100% Sebastian James 5 of 5 100% Andrew Palmer 5 of 5 100% 68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors and other senior executives During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the level and structure of the pay and incentives of the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Additionally, it oversaw remuneration for the strategic leadership team.
As part of this review, the Committee considered the Share Ownership Guidelines for the Executive Directors and Executive Committee members.
The Committee also considered how the 11-for-12 share consolidation would affect existing awards under the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
It also considered how selling the Groups International division would affect overseas participants in the Companys share incentive plans.
Remuneration strategy In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the Committee held an additional meeting to review the remuneration framework and ensure that it was aligned to the Group strategy, and to set future priorities.
Joint Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee meeting During the year, the Remuneration and Board Risk Committees held a joint meeting to ensure all remuneration arrangements remained appropriate.
You can find out more about this in the Board Risk Committee report.
The Remuneration Committees effectiveness The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary also prepared a report based on responses from Committee members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed questionnaire.
After reviewing and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, and has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
The Board reviewed and approved this report on 29 February 2016.
Priscilla Vacassin Chair of the Remuneration Committee www.
