Business model Creating value for our customers Our multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel business offers different propositions to distinct customers.
We believe this approach should enable us to generate value for customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Read more about our key performance indicators on page 24 Read more about our risk management on page 26 Premiums Our customers Claims Managing Servicing nances Costs Our people Investment and other income Reinvest in the business profit Capital Dividends Our shareholders Managing risk 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Making insurance much easier and better value for our customers Everyone, from our front-line staff to employees in support Customers are at the centre of our business model.
So our and central functions, helps ensure we meet customers mission is clear: we want to make insurance much easier and needs.
Without our people, we could not generate value better value for them.
We aspire to give them products that for customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
best suit their needs, and exceptional service throughout their relationship with us.
We also strive to adapt to their changing Our shareholders are a big part of our business model.
From the moment customers choose our products, They invest in the business expecting to achieve a good to the time they claim or need to resolve an event, we treat level of return.
So we aim to give our shareholders value every step of the customer journey as an opportunity to provide bygenerating sustainable business profits.
We reinvest excellent service and outcomes.
partof this profit in the business or add to capital and, where appropriate, distribute the remainder to shareholders as dividends.
Our focused processes Our business has operated on a large scale for almost We aim to make it easy for our customers to access 30 years, giving us a deep insight into the risks we our products, and to give them what they are looking for.
This insight enables us to make our pricing Wewantto make sure they have appropriate cover more accurate.
Italso allows us to invest substantially to protectagainst the unexpected.
in data and increase efficiencies.
Again, this means Customers can buy products online including through we are better able to set accurate prices for the risks PCWs by phone, and indirectly through our partners.
InourCommercial business, they also buy our products Customers experience the value of their cover when they throughbrokers.
So we aim to settle claims as quickly and easily as possible by engaging closely with our customers.
Each brand provides products for one or more insurance This helps us demonstrate why our products and services segments: motor, home, rescue, pet, travel and commercial.
are valuable, and to manage our claims costs.
Bytailoring the mix of distribution channels for each product, we offer customers a blend of brands, products and services that best suit their needs.
Our disciplined approach We ensure our products meet regulatory standards and We seek to make sure our business is well governed and thatcustomers understand what they are buying from us.
We manage our finances carefully and balance We also aim to price our policies accurately and invest thiswith targeting a suitable and sustainable return for ourassets appropriately to minimise potential losses.
We transfer insurance risk through reinsurance in our normal We hold assets that exceed our expected liabilities as capital.
External experts review our insurance This is intended to absorb unexpected losses that might occur claims reserves regularly.
We mitigate risks by implementing and is important to meet our regulatory capital requirements.
our Group policies and minimum standards.
These are We prefer to adopt a conservative approach to claims reviewed regularly to ensure we are in line with the risk reserving in order to hold sufficient funds to pay customer appetite that the Board sets.
This may result in subsequent releases from these reserves, whichcontribute to our annual profit.
