Market overview Our changing environment We operate in a dynamic environment and the way we interact with customers is evolving.
Customer expectations of insurance are being shaped by changes both inside and outside the industry with technology and regulation important parts of this.
Providing excellent customer service and managing claims remain key aspects.
Digitalisation New services and escalating risk The retail world continues to digitalise.
Insurance needs to keep pace with customers who expect great service using different types of devices, and to interact directly with products and services themselves.
Customers are willing to buy multiple products from one source, where businesses can provide what the customer needs and wants.
The digital economy creates new data sources.
These are useful for marketing and underwriting, but come with new risks.
Cyber risk affects insurers like any other online business.
However, it also gives the industry new protection product opportunities.
of 25 to 34 year olds willing to 1 77% buy insurance via smartphone Motor claims trends Managing bodily injury claims costs remains key UK road accidents have fallen for a number of years, but this trend has recently reversed.
The cost per claim is also climbing, with bodily injury and repair costs being aspects of this increase.
The UK still has one of the highest whiplash claims rates in Europe, over double that of many other European countries.
This raises the potential for claims fraud.
Insurers need to keep focusing on anti-fraud activities, without compromising service for genuine claimants.
Civil justice reforms in 2013 have helped, but the industry and Government need to do more to tackle this fully.
The recently announced Government intention to change the approach to soft tissue injury claims should be a step in the right direction.
reduction of casualties 2 3% from all severities Notes: 1.
Deloitte report UK Insurance Disrupted 2.
Department for Transport Statistical Release published on 4 February 2016 for year ending September 2015 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Customer expectations Every customer is different Some see buying motor insurance as a way of staying on the right side of the law.
Others see it as vital for protecting their livelihoods.
People tend to view home and pet insurance as a more personal purchase, and the flooding in December has shown that home insurance can be invaluable.
Whatever customers needs, it is essential we offer them the best products and services, at the right price.
UK households with one 1 90% or more insuranceproducts Regulation The pace of change remains rapid The regulatory environment has changed significantly over the last few years.
We expect this to continue.
Solvency IIs arrival, changes to add-on selling practices and Flood Res expected introduction in 2016 are major developments for the industry.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has indicated that consumer data will be an area of interest in the future.
It remains important for us to continue communicating with regulatory bodies and to be ready to adapt in our changing world.
industry expenditure 2 3bn on Solvency II Car technology Disruptive technologies emerging now and in thefuture This is an exciting time for the motor industry, creating opportunities and challenges for supporting companies.
Telematics and diagnostics products are available through third-party and  devices.
The cost of these devices continues to drop as take-up increases.
Advanced safety technologies, such as autonomous emergency braking, are here today and will advance in the next few years.
Connected car technologies are still developing and are likely to become more common in future models.
In time, the world may see fully autonomous cars.
The insurance industry will need to be ready.
of new vehicles on sale have the available option 3 41% of an autonomous emergency braking system Notes: 1.
Association of British Insurers ABI Agenda 2015-2020 Insurance matters 2.
Thatcham, Autonomous Emergency Braking: The Facts, January 2016 www.
