16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 20 05 2015 13:27 Page 13 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT Market Review The year ending 31 March 2015 produced a total return of 6.6% for the UK equity market, as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index, the Companys benchmark index.
The market performance was held back for most of the year as a result of concerns over future profit growth caused by the strength of sterling, the end to the Quantitative Easing QE programme in the US, rising geopolitical risk, and the prospect of UK domestic elections.
A renewed sense of optimism developed at the Mark Barnett start of 2015 fuelled by a significant fall in energy prices, declining bond yields, and by an increase in M&A speculation despite uncertainty ahead of the UK general election in May.
As the year unfolded, fears over Chinas growth rate and a weakening European economy became more relevant concerns.
However, offsetting this, the fall in the price of oil in the second half of the year increased optimism that consumer disposable income would rise as fuel and utility costs fell.
The deflationary impact of this would also serve to reduce any short-term upward pressure on interest rates.
A final positive factor for the market was the news in January that the European Central Bank had decided to introduce a programme of QE in Europe.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys total return net asset value debt at market was 16.2% during the year compared to 6.6% for the benchmark index.
The portfolios continued rise in value over a period which saw several high profile profit warnings and pronounced swings in sentiment is encouraging.
The market has been driven by a more positive view of those companies able to deliver sustainable growth in earnings, cash-flow and, particularly, dividends.
The portfolios holdings in tobacco companies delivered a significant positive contribution to performance over the period under review.
A combination of continuing robust profit margins and solid dividend growth helped drive performance.
Altria Group the parent company of Philip Morris USA, Reynolds American, and Imperial Tobacco delivered total share price returns of 58%, 51% and 32% respectively over the year.
The two strongest performers, Altria Group and Reynolds American, both operate in the North American market.
The underlying driver of the US market has been to prioritise prices over volume which has resulted in a positive pricing environment for all companies in the sector.
At the company level, Reynolds Americans agreed acquisition of North American competitor Lorillard announced last summer, should further strengthen its position in the US market.
Imperial Tobacco also stands to benefit from the deal, which is currently awaiting approval from the US Federal Trade Commission, as it will make a strategic purchase of some of Lorillards North American brands.
Within the global tobacco industry, there remain high barriers to entry for new competitors and the existing premium brands strategy continues to demonstrate revenue growth despite a more difficult operating environment in many parts of the world.
All three companies held in the portfolio continue to offer above average dividend yields, in spite of the strong share price performance over the last 12 months.
Other strong contributors to performance during the financial year were BAE Systems and AstraZeneca.
BAE Systems reported in February that defence spending remained a high priority in a number of international markets and commented that in spite of continuing pressure on public spending in the UK, the company benefited from having long-term contracts in place.
The company also highlighted that its large order backlog of 40.5 billion continued to provide good, multi-year visibility across many of their businesses.
The value inherent in AstraZenecas drug pipeline was highlighted in April 2014 when Pfizer made a bid for the company, which was subsequently rejected by the AstraZeneca board.
The company has continued to make progress and, at the time of the companys full year results in February, the chief executive described 2014 as having been a remarkable year during which six product approvals were announced and the drugs pipeline was accelerated across all main therapy areas.
The company continues to expand in China which is now its second largest national market.
AstraZeneca remains a core holding in our portfolio.
16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 16310 Edinburgh pp07 18 20 05 2015 13:27 Page 14 14 STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT continued The other industry that contributed positively to performance over the period was financials.
The portfolio has maintained significant holdings in insurance companies, specialist lenders, and property companies all of which have contributed positively to performance during the period.
The portfolio continues to have no exposure to banks.
Among the detractors to performance were the holdings in Drax, Rolls-Royce and Serco.
Whilst the portfolios exposure to the oil and gas sector is relatively low, the impact of a falling oil price was felt through the holdings in UK power generators, especially Drax, as earnings forecasts were downgraded and sentiment turned negative.
Furthermore, Drax was also impacted by the UK governments decision to change its method of subsidy for future biomass conversions and by the possibility of EU intervention.
There was continuing disappointing news from the holding in Rolls-Royce.
Having issued a profits warning at the start of 2014, the company warned again in September that sales would decline in 2014 as a whole and could fall again in 2015 as a result of lower demand for defence equipment, client specific order delays, and Russian sanctions, which have blocked diesel-engine exports to Russia.
It was widely felt that the company could have communicated this news to the market more effectively and action has subsequently been taken by the company to address this issue.
The holding in Serco fell in value.
The company had a difficult year with several profit warnings and a change of management, which resulted in significant provisions and impairments being made.
Portfolio Activity In terms of portfolio activity, new investments were made in Game Digital, P2P Global Investments, Workspace Group and TalkTalk Telecom.
The holdings in Sanofi, Paypoint and Catlin Group were sold.
Outlook The recent performance of the UK equity market has seen further strong positive returns, with the FTSE All-Share Index recently hitting a new all-time high, which makes the near term outlook more subdued.
The continued rerating of equities primarily as a result of the policies of central banks has resulted in boosting asset values to the point where the market looks more fully valued than for many years.
This high level of valuation coupled with a low level of earnings growth is the primary risk to the current level of share prices.
Furthermore, the increased probability of a change in monetary policy from the US central bank represents a more difficult backdrop for government bond markets which will inevitably have a knock-on impact into equities.
The unexpected outright Conservative victory in the general election was positive for business and for UK plc.
Importantly, it removes the uncertainty that would have surrounded a hung parliament and fears of anti-business legislation.
However, as a result of this outcome two new political risks have risen to prominence.
First, the risk surrounding the successful integration of the Scottish Nationalist Party SNP into the UK parliamentary system and second, the longer term risk relating to the EU in-out referendum in 2017.
The latter will certainly have an impact on financial markets and the domestic economy in due course.
Notwithstanding the challenging backdrop, the portfolio remains well positioned to prosper in this environment of continued low interest rates and low nominal GDP growth.
Identifying companies that can cope with this environment and where the ability to fund a sustainable and growing dividend remains a key principle of corporate strategy is central to the portfolio managers approach.
The portfolio is well represented with businesses with these qualities which should, over the long term, provide the shareholders of the Company with a healthy total return from a combination of capital and income growth.
Mark Barnett Portfolio Manager The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2015.
Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary
