Large Direct Unlisted Investments AXIO DATA GROUP In 2013 Electra invested 91 million in debt and equity to finance the Date of initial investment: Apr 2013 148 million acquisition of UBM plcs Data Services division, since renamed AXIO Data Group.
Type of deal: Buyout AXIO originally comprised seven information businesses serving a range Growth themes: International, of sectors in over 25 countries: healthcare, intellectual property licensing, Digital economy containerised trade and breakbulk services, aviation and forest products.
Equity ownership: 69% AXIOs businesses are defensive by virtue of their industry and geographic Cost: 21 million diversity.
Its strong brands occupy leadership positions in niche markets and it is robust and cash-generative.
The investment plan is to transform each Valuation: 200 million business by developing the right long-term strategy and delivering through Valuation: Based on multiple operational improvement and M&A, and then to realise multiple arbitrage by selling the portfolios components to strategic acquirers.
of earnings Multiple: 3.1x During the year AXIO sold three of its seven businesses, namely JOC Group, Breakbulk and, most recently, MIMS.
All three of these sales have been to Location: International strategic acquirers at valuation multiples more than twice Electras entry multiple.
Following these transactions, in which AXIO has sold businesses Website: www.
net representing less than 50% of the profits it acquired in 2013, Electras total Management: Henry Elkington, CEO: cash proceeds from the investment will be 180 million, 2x original cost.
Hans Gieskes, Chairman The group has continued to make progress developing growth and business improvement initiatives in its remaining businesses, which produced 9% profits growth on flat sales in 2014 and are showing a similar growth rate in 2015.
In January 2015 AXIO announced that its aviation division, OAG, had acquired FlightView, Inc. the leading provider of real-time flight information for the aviation and travel industries.
The acquisition has created a market leader in the growing global flight status and schedules data markets.
42 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 PARK RESORTS In 2012 Electra acquired senior debt in Park Resorts for 70 million at a significant Date of initial investment: Jan 2012 discount to face value, making Electra the largest lender to the group.
Type of deal: Debt Park Resorts is a UK operator of caravan holiday parks.
The company has a strong management team and operates in a defensive, fragmented sector that has Growth themes: Austerity Value, performed strongly throughout the recession as a result of its customer Demographic change demographic and value proposition.
Equity ownership: 49% While the investment case produced attractive returns in the event of the debt Cost: 93 million position being held to maturity, the strategy was to take an equity position in Park Resorts through a restructuring of the companys debt and thereafter to Valuation: 185 million grow the business both organically and through acquisition.
Valuation: Based on price of The restructuring of Park Resorts debt was completed in August 2013, when recent transaction funds managed or advised by Electra Partners became the majority shareholders, Multiple: 2.0x and a significant amount of capital was made available to improve park facilities.
In 2015 Electra invested a further 25 million in preference shares issued by Park Location: UK Resorts which were acquired from GI Partners at a discount to their face value.
com In August 2015 Electra announced the proposed merger of its portfolio Management: David Boden, CEO: companies Park Resorts, South Lakeland Parks and Southview and Manor Park with Parkdean Holidays.
This transaction followed a strong performance by all Alan Parker, CBE, Chairman three companies in the year to December 2014, with a number of investment and operational improvement programmes driving aggregate revenue and profits growth of 8% and 28% respectively: strong performance has continued into the current financial year.
Completion of the transaction is anticipated in November 2015.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 43 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview ELIAN In June 2014 Electra made an 81 million equity investment in the 180 million Date of initial investment: Jun 2014 management buyout of Elian, formerly Ogier Fiduciary Services, from Ogier LLP.
Type of deal: Buyout Elian is a leading provider of offshore trust, fund and company administration services employing over 500 people.
It is headquartered in Jersey and has Growth themes: International, operations in Cayman, Luxembourg, Guernsey, BVI, Bahrain, Hong Kong, Regulation Dublin, New York, Tokyo and London.
The company serves 3,000 corporate, Equity ownership: 59% private and investment fund clients worldwide.
Cost: 76 million The business enjoys a high level of recurring revenue and strong cash generation.
It has a blue chip client base and strong relationships with its Valuation: 120 million regulators.
Its fragmented, global market benefits from high barriers to entry Valuation: Based on multiple as well as a number of growth drivers: demand is driven not only by legislation and regulation which favour larger players, but also by the increasing levels of of earnings international trade and investment which require corporate or fund structures Multiple: 1.6x to be established and administered.
Location: International Elian is continuing to grow by developing its international office network, expanding the team and through acquisition.
com Management: Paul Willing, CEO: The company has seen particular success in a number of initiatives to strengthen new business development, expand the companys product range John Connolly, Chairman and improve cost efficiency.
These have led to revenues and profits growing by 5% and 10% respectively in the year to January 2015, ahead of Electra Partners investment case.
Growth has continued into the current financial year.
In September, Elian agreed to acquire SFM Europe, a leading provider of administration services to securitisation and structured finance vehicles.
The acquisition remains subject to regulatory approvals.
44 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 THE ORIGINAL BOWLING COMPANY In September 2014 Electra made a 50 million equity investment in the Date of initial investment: Sep 2014 91 million management buyout of The Original Bowling Company TOBC from private shareholders and CBPE Capital.
Type of deal: Buyout TOBC operates 44 ten-pin bowling centres under the Hollywood Bowl and AMF Growth themes: n a brands.
TOBC offers high-quality bowling centres, predominantly located in Equity ownership: 85% leisure or retail parks, which offer a complete family entertainment experience with restaurants, licenced bars and state-of-the-art family games arcades.
Cost: 50 million Ten-pin bowling is a robust and growing part of the UK leisure sector, offering Valuation: 103 million opportunities for further expansion through new openings.
TOBC is the UK Valuation: Based on multiple market leader and has grown ahead of the market thanks to its management of earnings team and history of investment-backed growth, as a result of which its estate is well positioned to make further advances.
Multiple: 2.0x TOBCs historical growth trend is expected to continue with close management Location: UK of the existing estate in order to optimise yield and return on capital.
The business plan also anticipates a number of site refurbishments as well as Website: www.
co. uk: openings of new bowling centres.
co. uk Management: Steve Burns, CEO: The companys financial performance since completion of the investment in September 2014 has been significantly ahead of expectations and it is now Peter Boddy, Chairman anticipated that profits in the current year will exceed those planned for the year to September 2017 in the Electra Partners investment case.
This performance is the result of improved yield management, particularly in the peak holiday and weekend periods, as well as the success of a number of site refurbishment projects.
In April 2015 TOBC announced that it had agreed to acquire Bowlplex, which operates 16 ten-pin bowling centres: completion of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain undertakings given by TOBC to the Competition and Markets Authority.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 45 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview AUDIOTONIX FORMERLY KNOWN AS CONSOLE GROUP In 2013 Electra invested 42 million in the acquisition of Allen & Heath.
In Date of initial investment: Aug 2014 March 2014 Electra invested a further 15 million in Allen & Heath for the acquisition of Calrec.
In August 2014 Allen & Heath was merged with DiGiCo to Type of deal: Buyout create a new professional audio group valued at 143 million.
Electra retained a 58% interest in the new group at a cost of 64 million.
Growth themes: International Equity ownership: 58% Allen & Heath, Calrec and DiGiCo all design and manufacture audio mixing consoles used to manage live sound in settings ranging from concert venues Cost: 61 million or houses of worship to live television broadcasts.
All three businesses have strong premium brands, well-regarded products and a history of product Valuation: 91 million innovation.
The group sells worldwide, with over 90% of revenues derived Valuation: Based on multiple outside the UK.
The global market for professional audio products is growing, of earnings fuelled by an increasing number of live events in both developed and developing markets.
Multiple: 1.5x The business is gaining market share by optimising new product development Location: UK and sales and marketing activities across the brand portfolio.
Further opportunities to consolidate the fragmented professional audio market Website: www.
com through acquisition are also being considered.
Management: James Gordon, CEO: Malcolm Miller, Chairman In the year to March 2015, Audiotonix produced revenue growth of 8% reflecting the launch of new products and continued growth into new territories.
Profits in the year were ahead of the Electra Partners investment case due to the realisation of cost synergies in excess of expectations since completion of the merger.
Further growth is anticipated as a result of a number of important new product launches, such as the Allen & Heath dLive and the DiGiCo S21, as well as initiatives to share expertise and to develop cross-selling opportunities.
46 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 ALLFLEX CORPORATION In 1998 Electra invested 23 million in the US$160 million buyout of Allflex.
Date of initial investment: Jul 2013 In 2013 Electra sold its investment in Allflex generating a return of 15x original cost and an IRR of 28%.
Electra made a new equity investment of 57 million Type of deal: Co-investment for a minority stake in Allflex alongside the private equity buyer.
In January 2015 Electra made a further investment of 11 million to support the Growth themes: Regulation, $250 million acquisition of SCR Engineers Ltd. International Equity ownership: 15% Allflex is the worlds leading manufacturer and distributor of visual and electronic animal identification tags.
Headquartered in the US and with Cost: 68 million operations in key global livestock markets, including Brazil, France and China, Allflex sells more than 200 million tags each year in over 60 countries Valuation: 73 million worldwide.
The acquisition of SCR, the worlds largest manufacturer of Valuation: Based on multiple electronic milk meters and smart tags for monitoring cow fertility and health, has brought a leadership position in an adjacent market which cements of earnings Allflexs position as the worldwide leader in animal traceability and farm Multiple: 1.1x livestock management products.
Location: International The company operates in attractive growth markets driven by greater regulation of the food chain to ensure food safety, as well as increasingly Website: www.
com sophisticated farm management techniques.
In addition to these demand Management: Jacques Martin, CEO: growth dynamics, the opportunity to build on the groups combined distribution, technology and product development resources creates strong Jean-Baptiste Wautier, Chairman long-term growth prospects for Allflex.
The integration of SCR into Allflex is progressing well with significant focus on revenue and cost synergies.
In June 2015 the group acquired SureFlap, a UK supplier of microchip-enabled pet doors and feeders, and continues to seek further add-on acquisition opportunities.
In 2014 the group reported revenue and profits growth of 8% and 10% respectively: growth has been maintained in 2015 albeit at a lower rate as a result of the weakness in the China dairy market and strengthening of the US Dollar, Allflexs reporting currency.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 47 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview HOTTER SHOES In January 2014 Electra invested 84 million in equity in the management Date of initial investment: Jan 2014 buyout of Hotter Shoes Hotter from Stewart Houlgrave, the companys founder, and Gresham LLP.
Type of deal: Buyout Established in 1959, Hotter is Britains largest shoe manufacturer and sells over Growth themes: International, two million pairs of shoes each year in the UK and internationally in stores, in Demographic change catalogues and online.
The company, with a strong focus on comfort and Equity ownership: 61% service, serves customers whose age, health or lifestyle are such that they require more cushioned and supportive footwear.
Cost: 84 million Hotter is a growth business whose sales had more than doubled in the four Valuation: 61 million years prior to the buyout, driven by demographic change, in particular Valuation: Based on multiple population ageing, and international growth opportunities in the US and South Africa.
of earnings Multiple: 0.7x The companys growth strategy is built on a continued store opening programme in the UK, further growth in international markets, increasing Location: International online sales and on range development and extension to broaden the target market.
com Management: Peter Taylor, CEO: The company has continued to implement its growth plans, including opening UK stores, entering the German home shopping market and improving its Alan White, Chairman online presence.
Revenue growth, which was 8% for the year to January 2015, has continued into the current financial year, supported by particularly strong growth in the US.
In April 2015 Hotter announced that it had won the Queens Award for Enterprise in recognition of its success in international trade.
Investment in promotional activity, customer acquisition and operational improvements have also continued.
Some short term operational difficulties over the late summer and autumn in reconfiguring the warehouse facilities have hampered stock availability and driven excess warehouse costs, meaning that profits have declined slightly year-on-year.
48 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 SOUTH LAKELAND PARKS In September 2013 Electra invested 21 million in equity in the 47 million Date of initial investment: Sep 2013 management buyout of South Lakeland Parks from White Ocean Leisure and its lenders.
Of this investment, 2 million was subsequently syndicated Type of deal: Buyout to a co-investor.
Growth themes: Austerity Value, South Lakeland owns and operates nine freehold holiday parks with 2,500 Demographic change pitches in the English Lake District and Morecambe Bay area.
Since acquisition Equity ownership: 71% these parks have been managed by Park Resorts.
Cost: 19 million The holiday park sector is defensive and fragmented and has performed strongly throughout the recession as a result of its customer demographic and Valuation: 61 million value proposition.
South Lakelands estate of high-quality parks fits well with Valuation: Based on price of the existing Park Resorts portfolio.
recent transaction At the time of acquisition, a number of opportunities were identified.
First, to Multiple: 3.0x deliver operational improvements and profits growth in the South Lakeland portfolio through improved management of the estate.
Second, to invest in Location: UK the infrastructure and facilities of the holiday parks in order to further enhance their appeal to both caravan owners and holiday-makers.
Third, to consider the Website: further development of the existing South Lakeland estate.
co. uk In August 2015 Electra announced the proposed merger of its portfolio Management: David Boden, CEO: companies Park Resorts, South Lakeland Parks and Southview and Manor Park Alan Parker, Chairman with Parkdean Holidays.
This transaction followed a strong performance by all three companies in the year to December 2014, with a number of investment and operational improvement programmes driving aggregate revenue and profits growth of 8% and 28% respectively: strong performance has continued into the current financial year.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 49 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview PINE Electra first invested in PINE in 2005 as a start-up to exploit an identified Date of initial investment: Jun 2005 opportunity to create a new institutionally acceptable property asset class in conjunction with an experienced property specialist and a nursery Type of deal: Co-investment school operator.
Growth themes: n a PINE initially comprised a sale and leaseback property investment portfolio of Equity ownership: 99% nursery schools let on index-linked leases to nursery school operators, as well as a nursery school operating business.
In 2012 Treetops Nurseries was spun Cost: 38 million out of PINE as part of a refinancing and is now a standalone investment in Electras portfolio, valued at 27 million at 30 September 2015.
Valuation: 56 million Valuation: Derived from property The objective is to expand PINEs investment focus to the education sector investment value generally, in order to broaden its appeal and range of exit options.
During the year PINE acquired additional freehold properties, the largest of which was a Multiple: 1.5x property relating to two special educational needs schools, operated by Priory Group.
PINE now owns a portfolio of over 30 properties leased to education Location: UK providers with a value of more than 78 million.
com Management: Harry Hyman, CEO Nexus Group 50 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 CALA GROUP In 2013 Electra made an equity investment of 13 million alongside Patron Date of initial investment: Mar 2013 Capital Partners and Legal & General in the 210 million acquisition of CALA Group from Lloyds Banking Group.
During 2014 Electra increased its investment Type of deal: Co-investment to 32 million to support land purchases and the acquisition of Banner Homes.
Growth themes: n a CALA Group is a national house builder which provides high quality homes in Equity ownership: 11% Scotland, the Midlands and South East England.
Banner Homes focus on premium homes in the South East represents a strong strategic fit for CALA and Cost: 32 million accelerates its strategy to double in size by 2017.
Following the acquisition CALA is one of the ten largest housebuilders in the UK.
Valuation: 50 million Valuation: Based on net assets The UK currently experiences a significant undersupply of new houses.
Loosening planning regulations, measures to improve mortgage availability and Multiple: 1.6x an improving macro-economic environment have created favourable conditions for an investment in the housebuilding sector.
co. uk cala-group The integration of Banner Homes into CALA is now complete: the acquisition contributed to strong financial performance, with revenues for the year to June Management: Alan Brown, CEO: 2015 exceeding 500 million.
The groups return on capital has risen by four Anthony Fry, Chairman percentage points to 18.4% and operational improvements are expected to improve this further to in excess of 20%.
The group now operates from around ninety sites across the UK and has a controlled land bank of over 14,000 plots with a potential GDV of almost 5.2 billion.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 51 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview SOUTHVIEW AND MANOR PARK In August 2014 Electra made a 20 million equity investment in the 49 million Date of initial investment: Aug 2014 acquisition of Southview and Manor Park holiday parks from Bluebird Partners and a European bank of this investment, 2 million was subsequently Type of deal: Buyout syndicated to a co-investor.
Growth themes: Austerity Value, Southview and Manor Park SVMP are large and established holiday parks Demographic change Southview in Skegness, Lincolnshire and Manor Park in Hunstanton, Norfolk.
Equity ownership: 72% Together the parks comprise more than 2,000 pitches, a 9-hole golf course as well as the four-star Southview Park Hotel.
Electras existing portfolio company, Cost: 18 million Park Resorts, has managed both parks since 2010 and continues to do so.
Valuation: 41 million This was the second bolt-on transaction for Park Resorts, the first being Valuation: Based on price of South Lakeland Parks which was completed in September 2013.
Each of these investments benefits from: a resilient market supported by customer recent transaction demographics and strong value propositions: high barriers to entry: a Multiple: 2.2x cash-generative business model: and growth potential.
SVMPs large and well-invested sites offer growth potential through the development of Location: UK new pitches.
This transaction followed a strong performance by all Alan Parker, Chairman three companies in the year to December 2014, with a number of investment and operational improvement programmes driving aggregate revenue and profits growth of 8% and 28% respectively: strong performance has continued into the current financial year.
52 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 KNIGHT SQUARE FORMERLY KNOWN AS PEVEREL GROUP In 2012 Electra made a 22 million equity investment in the 62 million Date of initial investment: Mar 2012 acquisition of Peverel, the UKs leading property management services group, from its administrators.
In October 2014 the company completed a refinancing Type of deal: Buyout that allowed it to make loan repayments of 14 million to Electra.
Growth themes: Austerity Value, Peverel, now known as Knight Square, is one of the UKs leading property Demographic Change services businesses.
Through its FirstPort business, the group provides general Equity ownership: 49% management services to almost 4,000 retirement and other residential developments across the UK.
Through Appello, it also provides telecare and Cost: 9 million telehealth monitoring services that allow people to live independently in their own homes.
Valuation: 34 million Knight Square is the leader in a robust market.
At the time of investment, the Valuation: Based on multiple intention was to invest in process and service improvement initiatives in order of earnings to enable the business to solidify this leadership position.
With much of this work Multiple: 2.1x now complete, the focus is now on targeting opportunities to grow not only as a result of demographic change but also by taking advantage of the companys Location: UK nationwide coverage and economies of scale.
com Profits growth in the year to December 2014 was 9% on revenues which were Management: flat.
Revenue growth in the current financial year has strengthened as the Paul Lester CBE, Chairman negative effects on revenues of reduced property transaction volumes have been offset by new business development as well as Appellos acquisition of Call24, a call monitoring centre in the South West.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 53 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview PREMIER ASSET MANAGEMENT In 2007 Electra made a 33 million minority equity and debt investment in Date of initial investment: Sep 2007 the take-private of Premier.
In 2009 Electra made a further 24 million equity investment to support the acquisition of two OEICs from Aberdeen Asset Type of deal: Buyout Management.
In 2014 Electra sold a majority shareholding in Premier to funds under the management of Elcot Capital Management for a consideration Growth themes: Regulation comprising 20 million in cash and 26 million of preference shares while Equity ownership: 25% retaining an equity interest of 25%.
Cost: 30 million Premier is a retail asset manager, with the bulk of its assets under management AUM in branded retail funds, of which the largest franchises are in multiValuation: 33 million asset, UK equities, global equities and fixed income.
Valuation: Based on multiple of earnings The retail investment market displays growth drivers including demographic and regulatory change from which Premier is well placed to benefit due to its Multiple: 0.9x strong product portfolio and investment performance.
The intention remains to accelerate growth by investing in sales and marketing and by exploring Location: UK other opportunities to extend the scope of the business.
co. uk Following a strong performance in the year to September 2014, with revenue Management: Mike OShea, CEO: and profits growth of 16% and 29% respectively, Premier has continued its Mike Vogel, Chairman success in growing assets.
AUM now stand in excess of 4 billion, more than 30% ahead of the prior year, thanks to strong fund performance, investment in marketing and distribution and a favourable demand environment.
54 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 INNOVIA GROUP In April 2014 Electra made a 40 million 33 million equity investment in the Date of initial investment: Apr 2014 498 million buyout of Innovia Group from the Candover 2001 Fund.
Type of deal: Co-investment The group is headquartered in Cumbria and operates five manufacturing sites worldwide.
Innovias Security division is the leading manufacturer of polymer Growth themes: International banknote substrate for central banks.
Polymer banknotes have numerous Equity ownership: 24% advantages over paper notes including security, durability and cleanliness, yet today account for only a small share of all banknotes in circulation.
Cost: 33 million Innovia Security benefits from a strong intellectual property portfolio and a 20-year track record producing substrate for 36 central banks.
Valuation: 30 million Valuation: Based on multiple Innovias Films division is a leading global producer of speciality high of earnings performance films primarily used in packaging applications for the food and tobacco industries.
Innovia Films benefits from high barriers to entry and Multiple: 0.9x steadily growing demand.
It occupies leading positions in mature niche markets and enjoys long-term customer relationships.
Location: International The groups strategy is to develop its banknote substrate business as central Website: www.
com, banks around the world increasingly choose to benefit from the advantages of www.
com polymer over paper banknotes, while at the same time continuing to grow its Management: Mark Robertshaw, CEO: packaging films business through product innovation and capacity expansion.
Malcolm Fallen, Chairman In the year to December 2014 Innovia generated profits growth of 3% on revenues which were flat.
Performance in the current year is at a similar level.
In early 2014 Innovia Security announced a new contract with the Bank of England for the supply of polymer substrate for the next generation 5 and 10 notes.
The investment in new manufacturing capacity in Cumbria to support this contract continues, with production scheduled to commence in 2016.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 55 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview TREETOPS NURSERIES In 2012 Treetops Nurseries was spun out of PINE as part of a refinancing and Date of initial investment: Feb 2012 is now a standalone investment in Electras portfolio.
Electra invested a further 2 million in 2013 to finance the acquisition of Toybox four freehold sites in Type of deal: Buyout Bedfordshire and a further 5 million in 2014 to fund the acquisition of Happy Child 15 nurseries.
Growth themes: Demographic change Headquartered in Derby, Treetops is the sixth-largest nursery school operator in Equity ownership: 79% the UK, operating 50 nurseries 30 freehold, 20 leasehold predominantly in the Midlands and South East and with over 3,300 registered places.
More than 90% Cost: 12 million of the companys nurseries are rated Good or Outstanding by OFSTED.
Valuation: 27 million Treetops was separated from PINE in order to allow it to benefit from dedicated Valuation: Based on multiple management focus and access to growth capital to effect a buy and build strategy.
Treetops expects to grow organically, in particular through improved of earnings marketing and investment in the sites, designed to improve occupancy.
Multiple: 2.0x Opportunities to grow through acquisition of other operators in the highly fragmented nursery market are also being actively pursued.
The cash Location: UK generative nature of the business model creates capacity to finance smaller acquisitions internally with additional funding available from Electra for more Website: www.
Management: Charles Eggleston, CEO: Since 2012, the company has made a number of acquisitions which have more Stephen Booty, Chairman than doubled profitability and brought it greater scale in the attractive markets of London and the South East.
Further M&A opportunities are under active consideration.
Operational improvement and site enhancement programmes have been implemented in acquired sites.
Financial performance in the year to September 2014 was strong, with sales and profits growth including the impact of acquisitions of 33% and 41% respectively: strong performance has continued into the current year.
56 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 DAVIES GROUP In 2011 Electra invested 36 million in equity in the 60 million management Date of initial investment: Sep 2011 buyout of Davies Group from LDC.
A further 3 million was invested in December 2013 to fund the acquisition of Garwyn.
Type of deal: Buyout Davies is a leading insurance claims service provider.
It employs 580 people Growth themes: Austerity Value across the UK and Republic of Ireland and offers a full spectrum of validation Equity ownership: 57% and fulfilment services including claims management, loss adjusting, restoration and repair.
Daviess focus is on servicing claims relating to residential property, Cost: 39 million commercial and specialist liability policies.
The business handles over 120,000 claims each year and manages more than 600 million of indemnity spend.
Valuation: 23 million Valuation: Based on multiple The current focus of Davies is on the broker and MGA market and the of earnings development of selective additional business areas both organically and through M&A.
The companys strategy is to invest in technology and other Multiple: 0.6x service improvement and extension initiatives in order to become a partner of choice for insurers increasingly outsourcing claims management.
Location: UK Davies has continued to make good progress following the business Website: www.
Revenue growth of 9% in the year to July 2015 Management: Dan Saulter, CEO: reflected new business wins as well as the acquisitions of ALA, an Irish specialist Adrian Hill, Chairman loss adjuster, and MFS, a leading provider of claims handling services for insurers and fleet operators.
The acquisition of MFS was financed by bank facilities.
Completion of these acquisitions means that Davies is able to offer claims-related services across property, casualty and motor, providing the group with crossselling opportunities.
Profits were flat in the year to July 2015 as a result of ongoing investment in technology to enhance customer service and to streamline business processes in order to position the group to provide best-in-class services.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 57 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview DALER-ROWNEY In 2011 Electra made a 17 million equity investment in support of the buyout Date of initial investment: Mar 2011 of Daler-Rowney from private shareholders.
Electra invested a further 3 million in 2014 in order to provide additional liquidity.
Type of deal: Buyout Daler-Rowney is one of the largest suppliers of fine art materials in the world Growth themes: International with a comprehensive product range including artists paints, brushes, papers Equity ownership: 41% and canvases which meet the needs of artists ranging from beginners to professionals.
The company manufactures its products in the UK and the Cost: 20 million Dominican Republic and sells in more than ninety countries worldwide.
Valuation: 12 million The company occupies a leading position in a stable, niche market benefiting Valuation: Based on multiple from high barriers to entry created by products, brands and supply chain of earnings complexity.
The intention is to continue to invest in product development and in sales and marketing in order to grow market share, and at the same time to Multiple: 0.6x undertake further geographic expansion.
Location: International Daler-Rowney experienced a decline in profits in 2014 as a result of a number of factors, including the weakening of the Euro against Sterling, operational Website: www.
co. uk reorganisation following the integration of an acquisition made in 2013, and Management: Patrick Giraud, CEO: movements in product mix.
Following a number of new appointments to Chris Parratt, Chairman strengthen the management team, a plan to improve performance is now being implemented.
A variety of growth initiatives underway, including investment in manufacturing capacity as well as in developing new products and customer relationships, continue to offer opportunities for further value creation.
58 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 PROMONTORIA In 2002 Electra provided acquisition funding to a new company to allow it Date of initial investment: Oct 2007 to undertake the sale and leaseback of certain German retail property assets.
The company was itself acquired in 2007 by Promontoria, an unleveraged Type of deal: Buyout investment company, for which Electra received consideration in the form of ordinary shares and loan stock.
Growth themes: n a Equity ownership: 11% Today Promontoria owns 55 retail properties situated throughout Germany.
Of these, 41 are leased to the German discount chain Woolworth, which Cost: 8 million underwent a financial restructuring in 2010.
The business strategy is to continue to develop the portfolio and improve the tenant mix.
Properties Valuation: 11 million are being sold when attractive and deliverable offers are received.
Valuation: Based on net assets The realisation of the portfolio has also continued and in the twelve months to Multiple: 2.2x September 2015 thirty-three stores were sold for a consideration of 89 million.
This takes total proceeds from the fifty-four stores divested over the past six Location: Germany years to 273 million.
These proceeds have been distributed to shareholders, Website: n a with Electras share being 29 million.
Contracts have been exchanged in respect of the sale of nine further properties.
Management: n a as holding company Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 59 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview
