Report of the Directors To the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC The Directors present the audited Accounts of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2015 and their Report on its affairs.
In accordance with the requirement for the Directors to prepare a Strategic Report and an enhanced Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2015, the following information, some of which has been previously included within the Directors Report, is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 9 to 17: a review of the business of the Company including details about its objective, strategy and business model, details of the principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Companys activities, information regarding community, social, employee, human rights and environmental issues and the Companys policy regarding Board diversity.
Information about Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares and or Subordinated Convertible Bonds is included within the Annual Report in the Remuneration section of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 120 to 124.
Results and Dividends A revenue profit attributable to shareholders of 28,573,000 2014: profit of 19,996,000 was transferred to Revenue Reserves.
Following a review of the Companys capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Electra Partners, in February 2015 the Board announced details of a revised distribution policy to return to shareholders a targeted 3% of NAV per annum by way of cash dividend or share buybacks.
In line with the revised distribution policy, an interim dividend of 38p per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 24 July 2015 2014: nil.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 78p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015 2014: nil, making a total payment for the year ended 30 September 2015 of 116p per ordinary share 2014: nil.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 January 2016, the final dividend will be paid on 26 February 2016 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 22 January 2016.
Based on the number of shares that will be in issue following the mandatory conversion of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds Management Arrangements Electra Partners is appointed as the Manager of the Company under an agreement dated 12 October 2006 and amended on 11 July 2014 to facilitate compliance with AIFMD regulations and as further amended to facilitate Electras review of its capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Electra Partners on 10 February 2015 the Management Agreement.
Electra Partners is also responsible for the investment management of a number of limited partnership funds to which the Company has subscribed.
Electra Partners manages the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by the Directors and as specified in limited partnerships and the management and investment guideline agreements.
During the year, the Board agreed with Electra Partners certain revisions to the arrangements under the management agreement whereby Electra Partners receives a management fee equal to 1.5% per annum on the gross value of Electras investment portfolio, including cash.
It was agreed that, with effect from 1 April 2015, no management fee would be payable on cash and the management fee on Non-Core Listed and Primary Fund Investments would reduce to 1% per annum.
The incentive arrangement under which members of Electra Partners receive a carried interest of 18% of net profits on Direct Investments and 9% on Primary Fund Investments, subject to Electra receiving a return of 8% per annum on the relevant investment pool, remained unchanged.
During the year the Company continued to operate carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Electra Partners and details of these schemes are contained in Notes 22 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The agreement with Electra Partners may be terminated by either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
If the Company terminates the Management Agreement, whatever notice period is worked, Electra Partners is entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
If Electra Partners terminates the Management Agreement, Electra may pay compensation in lieu of any part of the notice period but Electra Partners is not entitled to any additional compensation.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 113 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview As part of the review of the fee arrangements referred to above, it was agreed that by way of a transitional arrangement, on 12 months notice being given up to and including 31 March 2017, compensation payable to Electra Partners under the existing termination provisions, which is based on a multiple of management fees, would be calculated on the basis of the fee structure existing prior to 1 April 2015.
For notice from 1 April 2017, any termination compensation will be based upon the revised fee structure described above.
As part of Electra Partners long-term succession plan, Bill Priestley has replaced David Symondson as a Keyman under the relevant limited partnership agreement.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the Board reviews the activities of Electra Partners on an ongoing basis and believes the continuing appointment of Electra Partners on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Share Capital On 29 December 2010 the Company issued 100 million of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds due 29 December 2017 at an issue price of 100 per cent and with an initial conversion price of 2,050 pence.
As a consequence of the payment of the interim dividend referred to above to ordinary shareholders on 24 July 2015, with effect from 4 June 2015 the conversion price of the bonds was adjusted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the bonds to 2,025 pence the conversion price being subject to adjustment to deal with certain events which would otherwise dilute the conversion of bondholders.
These events include dividends paid to ordinary shareholders, share rights and share related securities issued to shareholders, issue of other securities to shareholders, demergers and other events detailed in the Prospectus for the Bond.
During the year ended 30 September 2015, 11,165 Subordinated Convertible Bonds were converted into 547,187 ordinary shares 2014: 3,392 Subordinated Convertible Bonds were converted into 165,459 ordinary shares.
At 30 September 2015 there were 36,054,938 ordinary shares of 25p each in issue.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Since the year end and prior to 20 October 2015 being the latest practicable date prior to the signing of this Directors Report no Subordinated Convertible Bonds have been converted into ordinary shares.
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds the Terms and Conditions, whereby the Company is entitled, following the satisfaction of the relevant requirements under the Terms and Conditions, to exercise its option to convert all of the outstanding Bonds into new ordinary shares, the Board has elected to exercise this option and proposes to issue the Mandatory Conversion Notice to Bond Holders in November 2015, following which, on 29 December 2015, in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, the outstanding Bonds will convert into new ordinary shares when approximately 4,215,753 new ordinary shares in the Company will be issued, bringing the total number of ordinary shares in issue following the mandatory conversion to approximately 40,271,691.
The Conversion Price in respect of each Bond will be 2,025 pence.
Notwithstanding the issue of the Mandatory Conversion Notice as described above, Bond Holders remain entitled to elect to convert their Bonds into ordinary shares of the Company up to and including 29 December 2015.
In order to be entitled to the interest payment on the Bonds for the period to 29 December 2015, Bond Holders will need to be on the register of Bond Holders at the record date of 14 December 2015.
Authority to Make Market Purchases of Shares As at 30 September 2015, the Company had authority to purchase for cancellation up to 5,330,427 shares.
This authority will lapse at the 2016 Annual General Meeting when it is intended that a Special Resolution will be proposed to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
During the year the Company did not purchase any shares for cancellation.
114 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 Multi-Currency Loan Facility At 30 September 2015 borrowings under the 275 million 2014: 195 million multi-currency revolving credit facility amounted to nil 2014: 151,912,000, under the 195 million multi-currency revolving credit facility.
During the year to 30 September 2015, the facility was increased from 195 million to 275 million and the term extended from December 2017 to December 2019.
At the same time the margin, commitment fees and other terms were improved.
Following the Directors review of the Companys capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Electra Partners that was announced in February 2015, the multi-currency revolving credit facility was repaid in full in March 2015.
Should the facility remain undrawn, commitment fees will continue to be paid at a cost of 2 million per annum.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 134 to 135.
Mr R Yates, Dame Kate Barker, Ms F Barnes, Mr G Cullinan, Mrs J Gold and Mr R Perkin served as Directors throughout the year ended 30 September 2015.
No other person was a Director of the Company during any part of the year.
All of the Directors currently intend to retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2016 and, being eligible, to offer themselves for re-election.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Directors report on actual or potential conflicts of interest at each Board meeting.
The Board has agreed that the Remuneration and Nomination Committee is responsible for considering and reviewing conflicts of interest.
Any Director or Directors with a potential conflict would be excluded from such a review.
After consideration, if required, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee would subsequently make a recommendation to the Board of Directors.
Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers Liability insurance has been put in place.
In addition, the Company provides, subject to the provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any proceedings brought against them and also liabilities owed to third parties, in either case arising out of their positions as Directors.
Substantial Interests The Company has received the following notifications of interests of 3% or more in the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares: Voting Rights Notified Percentage of Voting Rights Direct No.
Direct % Indirect % Prudential PLC Group of Companies 3,920,506 1,825 10.87 Sherborne Investors Management Guernsey LLP and its associates 11,148,042 30.91 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 1,289,876 3.57 Aviva plc & its subsidiaries 1,088,628 3.01 P ercentage shown as a percentage of 36,054,938 ordinary shares, being the number of shares in issue at the latest practicable date before the publication of this Directors Report.
499,555 voting rights 1.38% via the Companys 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds.
423,061 voting rights 1.17% via the Companys 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Year ended 30 September 2015 Electra has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, including those within its underlying investment portfolio.
Statement of Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 115 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview Independent Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting authorising the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
The Auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Going Concern The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The Viability Statement of the Company is in the Strategic Report on pages 9 to 17.
Risk Management and Internal Controls Details of the Companys risk management and internal control arrangements, including the Boards annual review of the effectiveness of the system of the Companys risk management and internal control are contained in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 125 to 129.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 25 January 2016 in The Upper Sugar Room at The Brewery, 52 Chiswell Street, London, EC1Y 4SD.
The formal notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out in a separate circular, which will be posted to shareholders with the Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015.
Authority to Purchase own Shares It is intended that a special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 5,404,635 of the Companys ordinary shares or such other number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in net asset value per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of this resolution.
Additional Information for Shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Alteration of Articles of Association Any change to the Companys Articles of Association needs to be approved by shareholders by means of a special resolution.
Share Capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
116 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 Voting Rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed has one vote.
However if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution, and is instructed by one or more of those members to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or is instructed by one or more of those members to vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
Every corporate representative present who has been duly authorised by a corporation has the same voting rights as the corporation would be entitled to.
On a poll every member present in person or by duly appointed proxy or corporate representative has one vote for every share of which he is the holder or in respect of which his appointment as proxy or corporate representative has been made.
A member, proxy or corporate representative entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses the same way.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders, and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register of members.
A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of the Company.
The appointment of a proxy shall be deemed also to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.
Delivery of an appointment of proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting or at any adjournment of it.
A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall have the right to vote at any general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition if a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006 the member shall not be entitled to vote.
Deadlines for exercising Voting Rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of a proxy form in hard copy and electronic form of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
In the case of a poll taken subsequently to the date of the meeting or adjourned meeting, the proxy form must be received not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Directors may determine before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Variation of Rights The Articles specify that if the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, rights attached to any class may be varied, either in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights: or in the absence of any such provision, with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class, but not otherwise.
At every such separate meeting other than an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class in question excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
At an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding shares of the class in question other than treasury shares or his proxy.
Transfer of Shares The instrument of transfer of a share in certificated form may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of shares is, for the time being, a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded on an operator register of members as being held in uncertificated form may be transferred by means of the relevant system.
The transfer may not be in favour of more than four transferees.
Transfers of shares in uncertificated form are effected by means of the relevant system.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 117 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: a is lodged, duly stamped, at the Office or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one class of share: and c is in favour of not more than four transferees.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of a share, they shall as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in certificated form or the date on which the Operator-instruction was received by the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in certificated form send to the transferee notice of the refusal together with reasons for the refusal.
The Directors shall send such further information about the reasons for the refusal to the transferee as the transferee may reasonably request.
Nothing in the Articles shall preclude the Directors from recognising a renunciation of the allotment of any share by the allottee in favour of some other person.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Unless otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution the number of Directors disregarding alternate Directors shall not be less than three nor more than fifteen.
At the annual general meeting in every year all Directors who held office at the time of each of the two preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at either of them shall retire from office by rotation and such further Directors if any shall retire by rotation as would bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of Directors in office at the date of the notice of the meeting or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not greater than one third.
The additional Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, but, as between persons who became or were last reappointed Directors on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
Any non-executive Director other than the chairman who has held office as a non-executive Director for nine years or more shall retire from office at each annual general meeting and shall be eligible for reappointment.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may be reappointed.
If he is not reappointed or deemed to have been reappointed, he shall retain office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the close of the meeting.
If the Company, at the meeting at which a Director retires under any provision of the Articles, does not fill the vacancy the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been reappointed unless at the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or a resolution for the reappointment of the Director is put to the meeting and lost.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if a Director: i becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: ii is prohibited by law from being a Director: 118 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 iii has a court order made in respect of his mental health which wholly or partly prevents him from exercising powers or rights which he would otherwise have: iv sends a notice to the Company that he is resigning or retiring from his office and such resignation or retirement has taken effect: v sees his appointment at an executive office terminated or expiring and the Directors resolve that he should cease to be Director: vi is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that the office is vacated: or vii notice is served upon a Director in writing by all other co-Directors.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Directors shall restrict the borrowings of the Company and exercise all powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to secure that the aggregate principal amount including any premium payable on final repayment outstanding of all money borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries shall not at any time, save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, exceed i the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the share capital of the Company or ii the total of any credit balance on the distributable and undistributable reserves of the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to certain adjustments.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in such currency as the Directors may determine.
The Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The Directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Significant Agreements: Change of control If there is a no fault termination by the Company of the Management Agreement between the Company and Electra Partners, dated 12 October 2006, as amended on 11 July 2014 to facilitate compliance with AIFMD regulations, and as further amended on 10 February 2015 to facilitate the Boards review of the Companys capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Electra Partners: within 24 months of a change of effective control of the Company, 100% of the carried interest which has accrued as at the date of termination will be payable to the members of Electra Partners over three years and any future additional carry on existing investments will vest at 80% and will be paid on the realisation of investments when it becomes due in the ordinary course.
By order of the Board of Directors Frostrow Capital LLP, Company Secretary Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London, EC4M 8AB 23 October 2015 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 119 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview
