New Investment TGI FRIDAYS In December 2014 Electra invested 99 million of equity in the management Date of initial investment: Dec 2014 buyout of the UK franchise of TGI Fridays TGIF from its American parent.
Additional financing for the transaction was provided from bank facilities Type of deal: Buyout arranged by Electra Partners.
Growth themes: n a TGIF, which has the exclusive UK rights to operate under the TGI Fridays brand, Equity ownership: 78% has 67 American-styled restaurants in a range of locations, including city centres, shopping centres and leisure parks.
This is an established brand which Cost: 99 million works well across the country.
It offers bold, distinctive American food as well as an innovative cocktail list, and provides a high-energy, fun environment with Valuation: 113 million a wide demographic appeal.
Key to the success of the customer experience is Valuation: Based on multiple the companys focus on hiring and retaining enthusiastic front-of-house staff to offer a high level of service and in March 2015, TGIF topped the Sunday of earnings Times Best Big Companies to Work For list.
Location: UK The company offers a differentiated product, with a wide demographic appeal, Website: www.
co. uk in the growing casual dining market.
It demonstrates attractive financial characteristics, outperforming its peers across a range of key performance Management: Karen Forrester, CEO: indicators and offering a high return on capital expenditure.
The intention is Murray Hennessy, to continue to grow through new restaurant openings, at an average rate of six Non-Executive Chairman new sites a year, as well as improving yield management through pricing and marketing initiatives.
Trading has been in line with expectations since completion of the investment in December.
One new site, in Leicester, has been opened and a number of other site openings are imminent, including a flagship restaurant in Londons Leicester Square.
36 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015
