The Manager About Electra Partners Electra Partners is an independent private equity fund manager with over 25 years experience in the mid-market.
During this time, the Electra Partners team has invested in excess of 4.5 billion in more than 200 deals, with a consistent focus on mid-market companies.
This track record of investing through numerous economic cycles gives Electra Partners both broad and deep experience across sectors, geographies and business models.
At 30 September 2015 Electra Partners had funds under management of over 1.8 billion including capital available for investment of nearly 350 million.
Electra accounts for more than 95% of Electra Partners funds under management: the balance is managed on behalf of US and European pension funds, asset managers and family offices.
Superior Performance Over the last ten years Electra, which is managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Electra Partners, has seen a diluted NAV per share return of 244%.
This is seven times the NAV per share return of the Morningstar Private Equity Index and is equivalent to a ten-year annualised return of 13%, at the upper end of Electras target range of 10-15% over the long-term.
The Electra Partners team has delivered investment performance in the top quartile when compared with similar fund sizes, strategies and vintages.
The Electra Difference Flexible Capital Electras investment strategy and structure is different from that of almost every other private equity fund.
This has two key implications: First, Electra Partners is able to invest across the full range of private equity opportunities: control and minority, equity and debt, direct and indirect.
This means that it can tailor its investment strategy to suit changing market conditions and invest where many others cannot.
Second, Electra Partners is able to provide stable long-term capital.
It doesnt face expiring investment periods or exit pressure driven by fund-raising cycles.
This means that it can fully support investee companies with a long-term strategy and access to capital, and exit when returns are maximised for shareholders.
Investment Strategy Throughout its history, Electra Partners has focused on investing for profits growth by backing the right management teams, comprising talented and experienced people with a credible strategy.
Electras flexible capital allows Electra Partners to invest across all forms of private equity situations, which it categorises into three groups: 1.
Buyouts and Co-investments: direct investment in high-quality, well-managed businesses that have the potential for profits growth through organic growth, operational improvement or acquisition.
As lead investor, Electra Partners typically targets investments of 40 million to 150 million in UK-centric companies with an enterprise value of up to 300 million.
Electra Partners also co-invests 30 million to 100 million in minority positions in UK or international companies alongside founders, other private equity firms, corporates or the public markets.
18 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 2.
S econdaries: secondary purchases of existing investors positions in either individual or portfolios of private equity funds, as well as acquisitions of portfolios of businesses, known as secondary directs.
D ebt: secondary purchases from existing lenders of individual or portfolios of either performing or stretched loans, where stretched refers to debt in good businesses with bad balance sheets where Electra Partners can take a role in the restructuring of the capital structure.
Electra Partners applies the disciplines of buyout investing to its appraisal and management of investments in all three of these groups.
Active Ownership Electra Partners takes an active ownership approach to managing Electras portfolio.
This means that before making a new investment, Electra Partners independently develops its own investment thesis and strategy, identifying the key drivers of investment return as part of its due diligence on each opportunity.
It then develops an effective working relationship with a portfolio companys management team in order to implement this strategy, and engages more broadly with the portfolio company itself as well as the industry within which it operates.
In particular Electra Partners contributes to the development of each portfolio company, and therefore to Electras investment, in a range of areas including: Management: building the right management team by hiring experienced and ambitious people with the appropriate skills and talents, and by aligning their interests with Electras through economic incentives: Business performance: on the basis of its own analysis and specialist external support, identifying opportunities to improve the companys effectiveness or efficiency: Strategy: agreeing long-term strategic objectives with the management team, ensuring the company has access to the resources required to deliver its strategy, measuring progress and taking appropriate action to correct any deviations from the agreed course: M&A: identifying, originating and executing add-on acquisition and merger opportunities using Electra Partners extensive internal expertise and external networks: and managing the exit of each investment: and Financing: ensuring that the company has a financing structure appropriate to its objectives, for example where there is a short-term change programme underway which requires flexibility.
Well-structured financing can also contribute to other objectives such as hedging a companys operational FX exposures.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 19 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview Growth Themes Electra Partners investment strategy targets businesses driven by one or more macro growth themes, including: Description Example Austerity Value A UK operator of holiday parks.
Demand is Consumers and businesses are supported by the value proposition of static increasingly focused on saving money caravan parks to consumers looking for second through scale, technology or value homes or holidays.
Regulation A leading supplier of animal identification products.
Increasing regulation drives growth Growth is driven by increased regulation of the food opportunities for compliance chain to ensure food safety.
products services and market consolidation.
Demographic change The UKs largest shoe manufacturer.
Demand for Changes in population structure and Hotters cushioned and supportive footwear is profile create demand for specialist growing due to population ageing.
International A leading supplier of professional audio equipment.
The internationalisation of business Growth is based on an increasing number of live offers domestic or regional companies events in developed and developing markets.
opportunities to enter new geographic markets using a range of strategies.
Digital economy An international group of information services Processing and communication businesses.
New software applications are creating technology development creates further opportunities to sell or integrate information opportunities for new products into customers workflow.
20 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 Investment Model Electra Partners investment team is managed by Chief Investment Partner Alex Fortescue and reports to the Investment Advisory Committee and the Investment Commitments Committee.
Electra Partners operates a rigorous and disciplined investment model, as described below: Managing networks of intermediaries, industry experts and other introducers: thematic and sector analysis to identify interesting areas and businesses: Origination developing investment theses and strategies as well creating as relationships with target company management teams and vendors.
deal flow: 372 investment opportunities considered during the year to 30 September 2015 80% of completed UK buyout deals in Electras space seen in the year Evaluation and pricing of investment opportunities: in-house and third-party due diligence: raising debt from specialist capital markets: developing 100-day Execution and business plans with management teams: making winning deals: structuring, negotiation and closing.
investments: 1 direct unlisted and 2 secondary transactions completed in the year to 30 September 2015 Over 788 million of new debt raised in the year Putting in place the right management team to drive profits growth and cash generation: working closely with the team to develop strategy, set Portfolio targets, measure and manage performance: Management making use of M&A and financing: and dealing with problems and opportunities.
creating returns: 10 bolt-on transactions announced in the year to 30 September 2015 16% year on year profits growth in direct unlisted portfolio Identifying strategic financial acquirers: timing the exit: creating buyer appetite and competitive tension: supplementing M&A with refinancings.
Exit 259 million of capital realised in the year realising the to 30 September 2015 Including 78 million of cash returned from investment: repayment of loans in the year Weighted average, excluding investments held for less than 12 months and property investments Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 21 Investment Process: pre-investment: weekly and monthly investment team deal flow meetings: weekly and ad hoc investment committee meetings to consider new investments.
Investment Process: post-investment: weekly investment committee review of trading data: for each investment, 100-day review, biannual valuation process and annual strategy review.
Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview Investment Team Electra Partners senior management team is one of the most experienced teams in the industry and has on average 25 years experience in private equity.
The investment team has an average of 20 years experience in private equity and is supported by a team of specialists in compliance, finance, investor relations and marketing.
Hugh Mumford Alex Fortescue David Symondson Managing Partner Chief Investment Partner Deputy Managing Partner Years private equity experience: 35 Years private equity experience: 23 Years private equity experience: 32 Chris Hanna Alex Cooper-Evans Charles Elkington Partner Partner Partner Years private equity experience: 18 Years private equity experience: 22 Years private equity experience: 22 Steve Ozin Bill Priestley Partner Partner Years private equity experience: 27 Years private equity experience: 19 22 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 Zoe Clements Sarah Williams Owen Wilson Investment Director Investment Dire tor Investment Director Years private equity experience: 15 Years private equity experience: 14 Years private equity experience: 15 Ian Wood Nicola Gray Tom Stenhouse Investment Director Investment Manager Investment Manager Years private equity experience: 14 Years private equity experience: 6 Years private equity experience: 4 Nigel Elsley Rhian Davies Oliver Huntsman Property Investment Manager Senior Adviser Portfolio Manager Years private equity experience: 28 Years private equity experience: 23 Years private equity experience: 34 For more information about Electra Partners please visit www.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 23 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview
