Realisations LABCO In 2008 Electra invested 30 million in a minority equity position in Labco.
Date of initial investment: Jul 2008 Labco is a leading pan-European clinical laboratory services group.
The Date of realisation: August 2015 company is the market leader in France, Spain and Portugal and also occupies leading positions in Italy and Belgium.
It operates over 200 laboratories in Type of deal: Co-investment which its 500 senior chemists and doctors perform 150 million tests for Growth themes: Demographic 20 million patients each year.
change The company operates in fragmented markets in which overall demand is Cost: 25 million growing due to demographic change, medical advances and an increased propensity to test preventatively.
At the same time, regulatory changes and Proceeds: 16 million public spending pressure are expected to lead to market consolidation Multiple: 0.6x favouring larger players.
IRR: n a The strategy was to support Labco in its acquisition of smaller laboratory groups, with the companys scale and infrastructure subsequently being used Location: International to improve the acquired businesses.
Numerous acquisitions were completed in Germany, Spain and Italy.
eu Management: Philippe Charrier, CEO: In August 2015, Electra sold its interest in Labco in a transaction with an Andreas Gaddum, Chairman enterprise value of 1.2 billion.
Electra received proceeds of 15 million, equivalent to 0.6x cost.
The conclusion of this investment reflected prolonged difficult conditions in European markets, none-the-less the exit was achieved at an attractive multiple of earnings.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 37 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview NUAIRE Electras investment in Nuaire The Deal In 2007, Electra invested 23 million in the 73 million buyout of Nuaire.
The Business Nuaire, headquartered in Caerphilly in south Wales, is one of the UKs leading manufacturers of energy-efficient domestic and commercial ventilation systems.
Its innovative products help customers to reduce their energy consumption and carbon emissions and are used in all types of commercial and residential buildings in the UK and around the world.
Investment rationale and strategy The business had grown strongly in the years prior to Electras investment, with compound sales and profits growth of 9% and 10% respectively.
The plan was for a continuation of this performance as a result of the companys differentiated positioning within an industry which was experiencing regulatory-driven growth.
This differentiation had been achieved by a focus on market-leading delivery and product quality: on speed to market with new product development: and on developing a specification-led sales approach which ensured that Nuaires products were designed into building projects from an early stage.
Market growth was being driven by the increasing focus on energy efficiency.
This had resulted in a tightening of the UKs building regulations in order to reduce energy wasted by heating commercial and residential buildings through better insulation, which in turn required improved ventilation to ensure indoor moisture control and air quality.
A series of UK and EU legislative steps have supported ventilation market growth of 8% p. a. since 2006. Business growth During the period of Electras ownership, Nuaires profits grew at a compound rate of 10% per annum.
This has resulted from the company successfully capitalising on fundamental, long-term growth drivers.
The challenge of constructing more energy-efficient, and so increasingly tightly-sealed, buildings while maintaining indoor air quality has resulted in ventilation systems becoming more complex, incorporating heat recovery technology and sophisticated controls to reduce energy usage and system losses.
It has also driven technology convergence, with an increasing number of HVAC functions being integrated into a single unit.
Nuaire has been at the forefront of these developments in the UK.
Its technical expertise and track record of engineering innovation have enabled it to launch new products before its competitors.
Its development skills have enabled it to innovate in areas such as heat recovery, acoustic performance and integrated controls.
Nuaire has also successfully grown internationally.
Its core export markets are in the Middle East and Continental Europe, where building regulations have increasingly been standardised in line with the UKs.
Moreover this growth has been achieved against the backdrop of a construction industry downturn between 2008 and 2012.
Nuaires positioning enabled it to outperform the broader ventilation market and meant that it was well-placed for an acceleration in financial performance as the construction industry recovered after 2012: 38 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 Sales and EBITDA progression 70 25% 60 20% 50 15% 40 10% 30 5% 20 0 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15f Sales EBITDA margin Electra Partners role Electra Partners had originally identified an opportunity to participate in regulatory-driven growth in the ventilation market in 2006.
Electra Partners identified Nuaire as a platform in which Electra could take an equity interest to benefit from the same growth theme.
In structuring the transaction, Electra Partners took a prudent approach to leverage which meant that the business was able to trade through the recession without becoming financially stressed.
Electra Partners flexible capital enabled it to adjust its time horizons as the construction cycle softened.
This allowed it to develop a strategy to invest in product development and manufacturing capacity during the downturn to create growth momentum in the recovery.
Having created an attractive growth in profits, Electra Partners initiated and managed a sales process involving both private equity and strategic buyers.
This resulted in the business being sold well, at the right time, with the benefits of competitive tension.
Outcome In August 2015 Electra sold its interest in Nuaire to Polypipe Group plc, a London Stock Exchange-listed manufacturer of plastic piping systems, in a transaction with an enterprise value of 145 million.
Electras total return on the investment was 3.8x original cost, an 18% IRR.
Earnings growth created favourable conditions for an exit process and drove 45% of Electras realised profit: strong cash generation contributed 43% with the remainder resulting from the increase in the multiple of earnings at which the company was sold: Returns attribution, multiple of money 4.0x 0.3x 3.8x 1.2x 3.0x 1.3x 2.0x 1.0x 1.0x 0 Cost EBITDA growth Cash ow Multiple expansion Realisations Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 39 Sales m EBITDA margin Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview
