36 Corporate Governance continued Accountability Board Committees Audit Committee Responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Committee are to assist the Board in discharging its duties in respect of: agreeing the scope of the external audit, receiving and reviewing reports from the Groups external auditor, monitoring its effectiveness and independence, and making recommendations to the Board in respect of its remuneration, appointment and dismissal: monitoring and reviewing Internal Audit activities: reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group and other announcements relating to its financial performance: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls: and reviewing the Group whistleblowing policy.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek any information Shirley Garrood that it requires from any employee.
It has the right to consult professional advisors and, if it is not satisfied with the advice Directors attendance received, seek further independent professional advice.
Meetings Possible Director attended attendance The Committees Chairman formally reports to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
Shirley Garrood Chairman 5 5 1 Anthony Hobson 2 2 Meetings 3 Anne Richards 4 5 The Committee meets at least four times a year, or more 2 frequently if required, and any two members constitute Mike Evans 3 3 a quorum.
All the Committees meetings in 2015 Peter Ward 5 5 were scheduled.
Anthony Hobson left the Company on 13 May 2015 Terms of reference 2.
Mike Evans left the Company on 12 August 2015 The Audit Committees terms of reference can be viewed on 3.
Anne Richards left the company on 25 February 2016 our website at www.
Martin Pike was appointed as a member of the Committee These are reviewed annually and were updated on on 1 March 2016 7 March 2016.
Composition Overview of the actions taken by the The Audit Committee currently has three serving members, Audit Committee to undertake its duties.
all independent Non-Executive Directors, and is chaired In undertaking its responsibilities, the Committee concentrated by Shirley Garrood.
The members of the Committee and on five main areas.
attendance at scheduled meetings in 2015 are set out in the table above.
Although not members of the Committee, 1 Financial reporting the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, With support and input from the external auditor, the Committee Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer and General has challenged and reviewed the financial reporting for the Counsel & Company Secretary are invited to attend each Group, and assessed whether suitable accounting policies have meeting as well as senior representatives from both external been adopted, whether management has made appropriate and Internal Audit.
Other members of senior management estimates and judgements and whether disclosures in this Annual are invited to present reports as necessary to enable the Report for the Group are fair, balanced and understandable.
Committee to undertake its duties.
The Board considers The Committee has also considered and reviewed the that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant annual PRA return for the Groups regulated general insurance financial experience see biographies on page 30 to 31 and underwriter and the Groups annual return to the PRA that the skills, qualifications and commercial experience under the Insurance Groups Directive solvency regime of its members are sufficient for it to be able to perform and recommended the returns to esure Insurance Limited its duties.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 37 The Groups control environment underpins the integrity The external auditor explained to the Committee the work of the financial statements.
The Committee has considered it had conducted during the year, including how its audit reports from the Chief Risk Officer, Internal Audit function and procedures were focused on those areas of claims outstanding external auditor to satisfy itself that the control environment that involve the most judgement.
On the basis of its audit supporting the financial statements is properly designed work, the external auditor reported no inconsistencies and operating effectively.
or material misstatements in the context of the financial statements, and in the Committees view this supports Significant financial judgements and the appropriateness of the Groups reserving methodology financial reporting for 2015 and valuation.
As part of its work in the year, the Audit Committee, on behalf After further discussion and debate, the Committee agreed of the Board, has reviewed the Annual Report and Financial that the internal and external reserve projections were Statements, the Interim Report and Financial Statements, equally appropriate and supportable projections and that and the Groups significant annual regulatory returns.
the differences between them were reasonable in the context In doing this, the Audit Committee has considered various of the overall size of the reserves.
issues and discussed how these are addressed: Having considered and challenged the results of the internal Claims outstanding reserving review compared with the independent external After discussion with management and the external auditor, review and reports from both the internal and external auditor, the Committee determined that the most significant the Committee concluded that the Groups outstanding claims judgement relating to the Groups financial statements is the reserves are appropriate and include a reasonable margin estimation of claims outstanding, which comprise provisions above the internal actuarys best estimate.
for the cost of settling all claims incurred but not settled Other matters at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, and The Committee also considered a number of less significant including related reinsurance recoveries and claims handling issues, including the acquisition accounting, disclosure and expenses.
The Groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions regulatory reporting relating to the Groups acquisition of to meet all liabilities as they fall due, inclusive of a margin, Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited, changes to the Groups by reference to the Board approved risk appetite.
capital management disclosures which will be required Whilst considering this issue, the Committee received reports following Solvency II implementation on 1 January 2016 and and presentations from the internal and external actuary new accounting standards and interpretations effective Willis Towers Watson, with the results of the external actuary in the year, including the adoption of IFRIC 21. being considered as part of the second line of defence.
The Group has in place arrangements to ensure that the The Committee also meets with the Chief Actuary at least Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and once a year without management present.
Two such understandable and provides shareholders with the information meetings were held in 2015. necessary to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee examined the The Committee challenged and debated the process, key 2015 Annual Report and was specifically tasked by the Board judgements and assumptions supporting the internal actuarys to review the viability statement and to advise on whether best estimate projection, including a range of sensitivities the report is fair, balanced and understandable.
and possible alternative scenarios and explanations for any significant differences compared with the projections The Committee questioned and provided comments to undertaken by the external actuary.
those charged with governance and oversight of the drafting and production of the Annual Report, including the Chief The Committee noted the inherent uncertainties associated Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and Chief Risk Officer.
with reserving for certain types of claim.
Factors such as The Committee focused on the overall tone and messages changes in the legal environment, results of litigation, conveyed by the report and consistency with internal reports propensity of personal injury claims, changes in medical and information presented to the Committee throughout and care costs, and costs of vehicle and home repairs can the year.
all substantially affect overall costs and expenses of claims, and cause a material divergence from the basis and Following full consideration of all available information, including assumptions on which the reserves were calculated.
discussion and debate with both management and the external In addition, the Committee gave specific consideration auditor, the Committee concluded that it could recommend to the Groups approach to reserving for claims subject to the Board that the 2015 Annual Report and Financial to periodic payment orders PPOs and the reserves Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
associated with the adverse weather events in late 2015 2 Internal controls and key risks and are satisfied that the reserves are appropriate.
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee received reports Management confirmed to the Committee that they remain from the Chief Risk Officer and Internal Audit.
The Internal satisfied that claims outstanding included in the financial Audit function is fulfilled by a third-party organisation, statements provide an appropriate margin over projected Mazars LLP, which has fulfilled this function since 2010. ultimate claims costs.
The Committee challenged the executive team on the content and reliability of those reports and the Committee has been The Committee also received and debated reports from satisfied that appropriate arrangements, actions or mitigating both the external and internal auditors including a follow-up controls are in place in response to Internal Audit and on the prior years claims reserves review which provided the Chief Risk Officers findings.
No significant failings additional challenge and assurance around the work or weaknesses were identified.
undertaken by both the internal and external actuary, including an assessment of their competence, capabilities and objectivity and the governance around the end-to-end reserving process.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 38 Corporate Governance continued This year, the Committee reviewed all internal audits: For the purposes of evaluating the independence of the of these, the most significant internal audits addressing external auditor, the Committee classifies the interim review key risk areas during the year were: fee as an external audit fee.
Excluding the interim review fees, non-audit fees paid to KPMG were 28% of external audit fees Fraud, data security and financial crime a review of key in the year.
Non-audit fees were principally related to tax advice controls and governance frameworks in place to prevent and compliance services.
A full breakdown of non-audit fees and detect internal and external fraud and external threats paid during the year is disclosed within the notes to the from cyber crime, benchmarked against industry financial statements on page 83. best practice: The Committee decided that no conflicts of interest were found Risk Management a review of the robustness of the to exist between the work performed for the purpose of an design and effectiveness of the Risk Management function external audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG.
in the second line of defence: Solvency II in addition to external advice received The Committee welcomes KPMGs policy of audit partner during the year, Internal Audit assessed key aspects rotation every five years, which facilitates independence of the Groups readiness ahead of the Solvency II regime and objectivity within the external audit team.
The current from January 2016: external audit engagement partner is Philip Smart, who was appointed to lead the audit in 2015 following the rotation of IT estate refresh ongoing analysis and review of the the previous audit partner after completing five years on the processes, governance and risk management relating engagement.
Philip Smart is supported by Timothy Butchart, to the project, plus a review of current outsourced as Audit Director, who is also new to our audit this year.
overseas operations: and Conduct risk review of the governance of conduct risk The Committee is satisfied with the performance and around claims handling, including the types of management effectiveness of KPMG and has concluded that KPMG continues information received in relation to the customer journey.
to display the necessary attributes of independence and objectivity.
Internal Audit also followed up and reported to the Committee on outstanding actions from previous internal audits.
The Committee considers the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the appropriateness of tendering the 3 Effectiveness of Internal Audit external audit contract as part of normal business practice.
The Audit Committee supports the Board in fulfilling Based on its ongoing assessment, for example through the its responsibilities to review the activities, resources, quality of the external auditors report to the Committee, organisational structure and the operational effectiveness the audit partners interaction with the Committee and the of the internal audit activities.
Following discussion with the rotation of the engagement partner, and the findings of Committee Chairman, Mazars LLP presents its internal audit the AQR review on our 2013 Audit, the Committee remains plans for approval to the Committee at the start of each satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
year and provides an update and further plans mid-year.
The Committee therefore has not considered it necessary to The Committee reviewed the internal audit work plans require the audit to be put out to tender this year.
Although during the year and concluded that it was satisfied with the transitional rules under the EU legislation give the Group the plans and that they were addressing the key risks.
the option to delay the tender process until 2023, it is the As part of the annual review referenced above, and considering Groups intention to put the External Audit Services Contract managements opinion, the Committee was satisfied that the out to tender at the end of the current audit engagement Internal Audit function remains effective and fit for purpose.
The Internal Audit Charter can be viewed on our website The Committee meets at least once a year with the Groups at www.
internal and external auditors without management present 4 Effectiveness and independence and this year held three such meetings.
of the external auditor 5 Audit Committee effectiveness The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship During the year, the Committee undertook an external with the external auditor and formally reviews the evaluation of its effectiveness and the results were discussed relationship, policies and procedures to ensure independence.
at the Board meeting in February 2016, concluding that The Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services the Committee was effective and functioning well.
is reviewed regularly to ensure that the independence and objectivity of our external auditor is maintained.
It sets out Conclusion the categories of non-audit services which the external As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group.
concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms The policy states that our external auditor may only be used of reference.
The Chairman of the Committee will be at the for non-audit work where specific services have been approved Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about by the policy.
However, there may be occasions when the the activities of the Committee from shareholders.
external auditor is best placed to undertake other accounting, On behalf of the Audit Committee advisory and consultancy work on behalf of the Group.
Shirley Garrood The Groups policy on non-audit work was updated on Chairman of the Audit Committee 30 September 2015 and can be found on the Groups website at http: www.
The Committee receives reports twice a year detailing the fees paid to the external auditor for the provision of non-audit services.
Non-audit fees paid to the external auditor in 2015 were 119,000, including 67,000 for advice and tax compliance services and 37,000 relating to the interim review.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 39 Meetings Nomination Committee The Committee meets at least twice a year, or more frequently if required.
Two members, both of whom must be independent Non-Executive Directors, constitute a quorum.
Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include the Chief Executive Officer and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Senior Independent Director, Deputy Chairman and Committee changes The Committee kept the membership of the Board Committees under review.
Following the Committees recommendations to the Board: Shirley Garrood succeeded Dame Helen Alexander as Senior Independent Director on 13 May 2015 and was appointed Deputy Chairman on 25 June 2015.
Peter Wood Shirley stepped down as a member of the Investment Directors attendance Committee on 24 June 2015.
Meetings Possible Anne Richards succeeded Anthony Hobson as Chairman Director attended attendance of the Investment Committee on 1 January 2015.
Peter Wood Chairman 3 3 She subsequently left the Company on 25 February 2016.
1 Dame Helen Alexander 1 1 Mike Evans succeeded Dame Helen Alexander as Chairman Mara Dolores Dancausa 3 3 of the Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2015.
2 Anthony Hobson 1 1 He subsequently left the Company on 12 August 2015.
3 Shirley Garrood 2 2 Dame Helen Alexander left the Company on 13 May 2015.
4 Peter Ward 2 2 Anthony Hobson left the Company on 13 May 2015.
Mara Dolores Dancausa was appointed as a member 1.
Dame Helen Alexander left the Company on 13 May 2015 of the Investment Committee on 24 June 2015.
Anthony Hobson left the Company on 13 May 2015 3.
Shirley Garrood was appointed to the Committee Martin Pike was appointed to the Board and succeeded on 26 February 2015 Mike Evans as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4.
Peter Ward was appointed to the Committee on 12 August 2015.
Martin was appointed as a member on 26 February 2015 of the Risk Committee on 1 October 2015.
Composition Angela Seymour-Jackson was appointed to the Board The Nomination Committee is currently comprised of the and as a member of the Remuneration and Risk Committees Chairman and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Peter Wood, the Chairman of the Board, chairs the Committee, Terms of Reference except when the matters under consideration relate to him The Nomination Committees terms of reference can be viewed or succession to his role.
The members of the Committee on our website at www.
com  and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2015 are set out corporate-governance nomination-committee in the table above.
The Board considers that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant experience see biographies on pages 30 to 31.
Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Committee include reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board and ensuring that the Board comprises the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Committee considers the composition of Non-Executive Directors on Committees.
The Committee oversees the search and selection for new Directors and succession planning for Directors and senior management.
The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
Key activities The activities of the Nomination Committee during 2015 included succession planning for Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Team, composition of the Board Committees, and the search for and selection of two new Non-Executive Directors.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 40 Corporate Governance continued Risk Committee Investment Committee Committee attendance Meetings Possible Member attended attendance 4 Anne Richards 4 4 1 Shirley Garrood 1 1 2 Anthony Hobson 1 1 Peter Ward 3 4 3 Mara Dolores Dancausa 1 3 Darren Ogden 4 4 Stuart Vann 4 4 Nick Wrighton 4 4 1.
Shirley Garrood stepped down as a member of the Committee on 24 June 2015 Peter Ward 2.
Anthony Hobson left the Company on 13 May 2015 Directors attendance 3.
Mara Dolores Dancausa was appointed to the Committee Meetings Possible on 13 May 2015 Director attended attendance 4.
Anne Richards left the Company on 25 February 2016 Peter Ward Chairman 4 4 1 Mike Evans 3 3 The Committee was chaired by Anne Richards until she 2 Anthony Hobson 1 2 stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 25 February 5 2016.
On 1 March 2016, the Board agreed to redesignate Anne Richards 4 4 the Investment Committee as a Management Committee.
3 Martin Pike 1 1 The Executive Directors are currently members of the Committee 4 Angela Seymour-Jackson 1 1 and will remain so on its transition to a Management Committee.
The Committee will report formally to the Board on its 1.
Mike Evans left the Company on 12 August 2015 proceedings twice a year.
Martin Pike was appointed to the Committee on 1 October 2015 Composition 4.
Angela Seymour-Jackson was appointed to the Committee During 2015, the Investment Committee was comprised of on 13 October 2015 three Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors 5.
Anne Richards left the Company on 25 February 2016 and the Deputy Chief Finance Officer.
Anthony Hobson stepped down as Chairman of the Investment Committee Composition and Anne Richards was appointed as the new Chairman with The Risk Committee currently has four members, all independent effect from 1 January 2015.
The members of the Committee Non-Executive Directors, and is chaired by Peter Ward.
and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2015 are set out The Committee members and attendance at scheduled in the table.
meetings in 2015 are set out in the table.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Responsibilities Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance, and General Counsel The Investment Committee was established to oversee & Company Secretary attend each meeting.
The Committee the Boards investment strategy.
The responsibilities of the meets with the Chief Risk Officer without the Executive Committee are to review the performance of the outsourced Directors or other management present, at least once a year.
investment managers and to ensure that there are effective investment policies and strategies in place, that the outsourced Responsibilities investment managers are working within the guidelines of The responsibilities of the Committee are to advise the Board the Group and that they are regularly challenged and that on the Groups risk strategy, risk policies and current risk the guidelines reflect the Boards Risk Appetite.
exposures, including any prudential risks, overseeing the implementation and maintenance of the overall risk management Going forward, the Investment Management Committee framework and management systems, and reviewing the will take on these responsibilities.
Groups risk assessment processes and capability to identify Key activities and manage new risks.
The Committees Chairman reports The activities of the Investment Committee during 2015 formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
included reviewing cash flow forecasts, reviewing investment Key activities performance and allocation, development of risk reporting and The activities of the Risk Committee during 2015 include risk analysis, carrying out peer and strategy reviews, investment disclosure, risk policies, regulatory risk and compliance plan, reporting, and individual capital assessment of market risk.
Solvency II, individual capital assessment update, customer experience developments, risk appetite and development, risk registers, stress and scenario testing, dividend risk, ORSA, and assessing adequacy and effectiveness of risk management systems.
Meetings The Committee meets at least four times a year, or more frequently if required, and any two members constitute a quorum.
Terms of reference The Risk Committees terms of reference can be viewed on our website at www.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 41 Responsibilities Remuneration Committee The responsibilities of the Committee are to determine and agree with the Board the remuneration policy and total individual remuneration packages of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management, including, where relevant, benefit and pension arrangements, determine and agree with the Board any performance-related pay schemes for senior management and oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
The Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of employment for the wider employee population when considering Executive Directors remuneration.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek any information Martin Pike that it requires from any employee.
It has the right to consult Directors attendance professional advisors or, if it is not satisfied with the advice received, seek further independent professional advice Meetings Possible Director attended attendance at the Companys expense.
1 Martin Pike Chairman 2 2 The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board 2 Mike Evans 3 3 on its proceedings after each meeting.
3 Dame Helen Alexander 2 2 The Directors Remuneration Report, which describes the Shirley Garrood 5 5 Committees actions and its remuneration policies in more 4 Anthony Hobson 2 2 detail, is set out on pages 42 to 58.
Peter Ward 5 5 Meetings 5 Angela Seymour-Jackson 1 1 The Committee meets at least four times a year, or more frequently if required, and any two members constitute 1.
Martin Pike was appointed Chairman of the Committee a quorum.
Mike Evans left the Company on 12 August 2015 Terms of reference 3.
Dame Helen Alexander left the Company on 13 May 2015 The Remuneration Committees terms of reference can be 4.
Anthony Hobson left the Company on 13 May 2015 viewed on our website at http: www.
Angela Seymour-Jackson was appointed to the Committee  corporate-governance remunerationon 13 October 2015 committee.
Composition The Remuneration Committee currently has four serving members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
As of 1 January 2015, Dame Helen Alexander stepped down as Chairman and Mike Evans was appointed as Chairman.
Due to a conflict of interest Mike Evans stepped down as a Director of the Company and Martin Pike was subsequently appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 12 August 2015.
The members of the Committee and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2015 are set out in the table.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel & Company Secretary and the HR Director may, by invitation, attend Committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
None of the Committee members have had any personal financial interest, except as shareholders, in the matters decided.
