34 Corporate Governance continued Effectiveness The Board of Directors Executive Directors service contracts and The Board currently comprises eight members: The Chairman, Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and each of the Executive Directors have a service contract with the Group.
The service contracts The Chairman, Peter Wood, has served in this role since of the Chairman and the Executive Directors can be terminated 2000 and, on appointment, was not independent.
Of the five by not less than 12 months notice by the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors: Executive Director as appropriate and 12 months notice Shirley Garrood, Maria Dolores Dancausa, Martin Pike by the Group.
and Angela Seymour-Jackson are considered by the Board As the Chairman is also a controlling shareholder in the Group, to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate a Relationship Agreement between Peter Wood and the Group Governance Code is in place to ensure that the independence provisions as set Peter Ward has served on the Board for more than nine out in the Listing Rules are complied with.
years from the date of his first election, but is considered The Non-Executive Directors have a letter of appointment by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the that sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship, UK Corporate Governance Code, notwithstanding the including the fees payable and the expected time commitment.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit sufficient In reaching this conclusion regarding the independence time, as is reasonably necessary, for the proper performance of Peter Ward, the Board has: of his or her duties.
Additional time commitment is required to fulfil the roles of Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director considered the requirements of the UK Corporate and Committee Chairman or Board Committee member.
Governance Code and the nature of the relationships and circumstances outlined above which are relevant Succession planning and Board appointments to the Boards determination of independence The Nomination Committee has continued to work on evaluated the historic contribution of this Director to the ensuring an appropriate mix among both the Executive Group in scrutinising the performance of management, and Non-Executive Directors.
It also kept under review the monitoring the reporting of performance and constructively succession planning for Executive Directors, Non-Executive challenging and assisting the development of the Groups Directors and other senior executives.
In 2015 Dame Helen Alexander, Anthony Hobson and Mike Evans In addition to the assessment of independence pursuant stepped down as Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board also Committee, having reviewed the skills required, recommended believes that the ongoing involvement of Peter Ward as a to the Board the appointment of Martin Pike and Angela Non-Executive Director is in the best interests of the Group Seymour-Jackson as Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee and shareholders, bearing in mind his extensive experience also recommended to the Board the appointments of and detailed knowledge of the business.
Shirley Garrood as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman, Anne Richards as Chairman of the Investment The Group therefore considers that it complies with the Committee, Martin Pike as Chairman of the Remuneration relevant requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Committee and a member of the Risk Committee, Maria Code in relation to the balance of Executive and independent Dolores Dancausa as a member of the Investment Committee, Non-Executive Directors on the Board and with the Shirley Garrood and Peter Ward as members of the Nomination requirements for composition of the Groups Audit, Committee, and Angela Seymour-Jackson as a member Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Directors election and re-election The Board believes that it will continue to possess the At the Annual General Meeting in 2015, all continuing relevant skills and competencies for the future under its Directors offered themselves for re-election.
was re-elected and no Director received less than 97% in favour of the votes cast.
At the Annual General Meeting Board induction and professional development in 2016, all of the Directors will again retire and all will offer On joining the Board, Directors take part in an induction themselves for re-election, or in the case of the newly programme to increase their knowledge and understanding appointed Directors, for election.
In line with the normal process, Martin Pike and Angela Seymour-Jackson were provided with information Biographical details of each of the Directors, together about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters with details of their skills and experience, may be found on reserved for its decision.
They were also provided with pages 30 to 31.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the Terms of Reference and membership of the main Board the Board has concluded that each Directors performance Committees as well as corporate governance policies and continues to be effective and that the Directors continue to procedures.
Meetings were held with each of the Executive demonstrate commitment to the role and, accordingly, the Directors, members of the Group Executive and Operational Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions Executive Committees and senior managers across the to be proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting relating Group as part of the induction programme.
to the re-election or election of the Directors.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 35 The induction programme also included: The Group has established procedures to ensure the timely release of inside information and the publication of financial Legal and regulatory duties of a UK listed company director results and regulatory financial statements.
The Disclosure Board procedures and corporate governance practices Committee, a committee of senior executives and chaired within the Group by the Company Secretary, also reviews all significant Conflicts of interest announcements for accuracy and compliance requirements.
Procedures for dealing in esure Group plc shares.
Substantial shareholdings The holdings of our major shareholders can be found in Evaluation of Board performance the Directors Report on page 61.
The assessment of the Board was conducted according to the guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code and Shareholder services was facilitated by Jon Edis-Bates of Edis-Bates Associates.
The share register is managed on the Groups behalf by Equiniti.
Neither Jon Edis-Bates nor Edis-Bates Associates have any Shareholders are able to carry out a number of online other connection with the Group.
administrative transactions, such as checking their holdings and dividend accounts, changing address details and arranging The review was comprehensive in nature, with detailed for dividends to be paid directly into a bank account.
interviews conducted with every Board member.
All participants were interviewed according to a clear agenda.
In addition, Website the assessor spoke to the Chief Operating Officer and the The Groups website www.
com provides a source Company Secretary.
of information for shareholders about the Group and contains financial presentations and investor publications, including the Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chairman and a online Annual Report and recent press releases.
Our financial final report on the Board and its Committees was subsequently reporting is presented in such a way as to provide a fair, discussed with the whole Board at its meeting in February, balanced and understandable assessment of our position with Jon Edis-Bates present.
The Chairman also received and prospects for future growth.
separate reports with feedback on individual Directors, the Chairman will discuss with each individual participant his or Further information about our registrars, shareholder services, her own report, including the Committee Chairman in relation investor relations and our principal shareholders can also to the performance of their own Committees.
The Senior be found on the website.
Independent Director also met with the Non-Executive Directors Additional information to review the Chairmans performance.
This review was The following information, which is required to be disclosed then shared with the Chairman.
within the Corporate Governance Report, can be found in Having gone through the effectiveness review, the Directors the Directors Report and is incorporated by reference: are satisfied that the Board and each of its Committees are Substantial shareholdings page 61 operating effectively.
Nonetheless, the review has identified a number of actions that will help maintain and improve Special rights page 62 its effectiveness.
Areas for improvement included a review Appointment, retirement and removal of Directors page 59 of the length and content of Board and Committee papers: Purchase of own shares page 61 and a review of the style and format of presentations by management and advisers to be carried out.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM provides all shareholders Shareholder engagement with the opportunity to develop their understanding of the The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer, as well Groups strategy and operations, and to ask questions of the as other senior executives, held meetings with a number full Board on the matters to be put to the meeting, including of the Groups shareholders and prospective shareholders the Annual Report.
All Board members attend the AGM and, to discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance.
in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and All Non-Executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
Director, have an invitation to attend investor meetings if they wish.
The Directors are provided with regular reports All resolutions proposed at the 2015 AGM, which were on shareholders and analysts views and of changes in the considered on a poll, were passed with votes ranging from holdings of the principal shareholders.
78.84% to 100% of the total votes cast.
In September, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director hosted a dinner for our major shareholders to seek their views and feedback on the Group.
During the year, Martin Pike, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and the Company Secretary had meetings with several of the Groups largest institutional shareholders to discuss our Remuneration Policy.
