Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report 11 Our strategy In insurance, the business has approximately a 5% The esure Group strategy has market share of the motor insurance market in the UK and approximately 2% of the home insurance market.
been designed to deliver increased Market share has been achieved from a relatively narrow shareholder value across three risk selection where historically we have quoted for around 40% of the UK motor and home insurance markets.
pillars with an overarching theme There are growth opportunities within our current risk criteria and, furthermore, we are widening our risk appetite of trying to make things simple to offer competitively priced insurance products to a broader range of customers.
The Group targets growth when the environment allows for profitable growth, balancing this with discipline at other Underwriting focus times within the rating cycle.
esure Group takes a disciplined approach to risk selection based on careful management of underwriting risk exposure.
In price comparison, there are a number of opportunities This is supplemented through data enrichment and anti-fraud to grow Gocompare.
coms market share in motor and home controls.
The business targets a positive underwriting insurance comparison services alongside growth outside these contribution, and our underwriting focus is supplemented markets.
Growth in non-insurance sectors is an important part by an efficient expense base.
of the strategy and medium-term growth ambitions.
Making things simple Revenue diversification We recognise that insurance can sometimes be complicated esure Group derives income from a range of revenue streams and confusing.
Therefore, a key focus for us as our business across its insurance and price comparison businesses.
evolves is to ensure all our products and services are easy This includes the provision of additional insurance products to understand and we are an organisation that is simple and services that complement the core Motor and Home to deal with.
We know we can improve and work is ongoing insurance products, along with income derived from the across many aspects of our business.
A major part of our Gocompare.
com proposition is helping The acquisition of the remaining 50% of Gocompare.
com consumers understand not just insurance but, across a wide in March 2015 provides further opportunities for income range of products, what suits them best.
com was the first comparison site to include Targeted growth product features not just price.
esure Group has a range of opportunities to grow across its But we dont just stop there.
We know that we can do more businesses in insurance and in price comparison services.
and there are a number of strategic initiatives underway that will make dealing with the Group even easier for our customers.
