Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 59 Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited Effective date accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015. of appointment Name Role resignation Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report, Martin Pike Non-Executive Appointed and which is incorporated by reference into this report, Director 12 August 2015 can be located as follow: Angela Non-Executive Appointed Strategic Report pages 1 to 27 Seymour-Jackson Director 13 October 2015 Chairmans statement pages 4 to 5 Dame Helen Non-Executive Resigned Alexander Director 13 May 2015 Chief Executive Officers statement pages 6 to 7 Anthony Hobson Non-Executive Resigned Business and Strategy pages 10 to 11 Director 13 May 2015 Operating and financial review pages 14 to 19 Mike Evans Non-Executive Resigned Risk management pages 22 to 27 Director 12 August 2015 Viability statement page 24 Anne Richards Non-Executive Resigned Director 25 February 2016 Corporate Governance Report pages 28 to 41 Strategic Report Appointment, retirement and removal of Directors The Group is required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by a Strategic Report that includes a fair review of the Groups the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK business, a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act development and the performance of the Companys business 2006, the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman during the year, the position of the Group at 31 December and the Company and related legislation.
The Articles may 2015 and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to Results and dividends fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any such Director The results for the year are shown in the consolidated holds office only until the next AGM and may offer himself statement of comprehensive income on page 67. herself for election.
Dividends Under the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman and Final dividend the Company, as long as the Chairman or any of his associates, per share when taken together, hold at least 15% of the shares or voting proposed Interim dividend Total dividend rights attaching to the shares, the Chairman will be entitled to to be paid on per share paid paid per share appoint, remove and reappoint one person to be a Director, who 20 May 2016 16 October 2015 for 2015 may be either himself or another person nominated by him.
7.3p 4.2p 11.5p The Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies Significant changes and events should be subject to annual re-election, and all Directors will On 8 December 2014, the Group announced that it had stand for election or re-election at the 2016 AGM.
In addition conditionally agreed to acquire the outstanding 50% of to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act, Gocompare.
com for a consideration of 95 million, increasing the Company may, by special resolution, remove any Director its holding to 100%.
In February 2015, the transaction received before the expiration of his or her period of office.
Competition and Markets Authority clearance and the Further details of the re-election and election of the Directors acquisition was completed on 31 March 2015. can be found on page 34 and in the notes to the AGM Notice Post-balance sheet events on our website at www.
com investors There were no post-balance sheet events.
Board of Directors The governance structure of the Board is illustrated on page The names and biographical details of our current Directors are 29 and the activities of the Boards governance committees set out on pages 30 to 31 and are incorporated into this report are summarised on pages 36 to 41. by reference.
The details are also available on our website Directors and Officers insurance and indemnities at www.
The Group maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance, Changes to Directors during the year and up to the date which gives appropriate cover should legal action be brought of signing this report are set out below: against its Directors.
In addition, indemnities are in force under which the Group has agreed to indemnify the Directors against all liabilities and related costs that they may incur in the execution of their duties.
Copies of these indemnities are kept at our registered office and are open for inspection by any member.
These indemnities do not cover the Directors for fraudulent activities.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 60 Directors Report continued Employees Emissions sources: The footprint includes the Scope 1 During 2015, the Group employed an average of 1,734 people.
fossil fuel and refrigerant leakage and Scope 2 electricity The Group is committed to creating an environment in emissions associated with the offices in which the Group is which individual differences and contributions are recognised based.
For the purposes of the report only, Scope 1 direct and valued, and to safeguard a working environment that and Scope 2 indirect emissions sources are required.
promotes dignity and respect for all.
No form of victimisation, Organisational boundary: The footprint includes data for discrimination, bullying or harassment will be tolerated.
the four offices in which the Group employs staff Reigate, We seek to promote equal opportunities for all, through the Manchester, Glasgow and Newport as well as two domestic provision of employment practices and policies that recognise apartments.
Note that this does not include outsourced the diversity of our employees and ensure that neither our activities, for example repair shops and third-party suppliers.
employees nor prospective employees receive less favourable UK GHG mandatory reporting treatment on the basis of their perceived or actual age, GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2015 to disability, race, religion or belief, sex including gender, 31 December 2015. marital status, pregnancy or maternity, or gender reassignment or sexual orientation, working hours part-time, full-time Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e : 2 or fixed-term employees or physical characteristics.
January 2015 January 2014 Emissions from: December 2015 December 2014 The Group is committed to employing people who are disabled Scope 1 Combustion or who become disabled during their career by making of fuel and operation reasonable adjustments as appropriate.
Actively working of facilities 605 545 with the Access to Work government scheme enables the Scope 2 Electricity, Group to support the continued employment of disabled heat, steam and employees and prospective disabled employees.
The training, cooling purchased career development and promotion of disabled people are, for own use 2,557 2,609 as far as possible, identical to those of other employees.
Companys Employees are kept up to date with regular Chief Executive chosen intensity tCO e tCO e 2 2 Officer briefings, business updates, team meetings and other measurement Turnover Turnover internal communications.
Employees views are gathered tCO e Turnover 4.83 5.53 2 through our Employee Consultation Group, department forums and employee surveys.
Data quality: The quality of the data used for the footprint Further information in respect of actions taken with the aim calculations has been rated as good, average, poor or of encouraging employee involvement and achieving employee based on benchmarks.
Around 99.53% of emissions in the awareness in the Company has been disclosed in the footprint were based on good quality data: this is a weighted Strategic Report on pages 20 to 21. percentage according to contribution by the emissions source.
Human rights esure Group plcs 2015 GHG Mandatory Report The Group resides and offers its products only within mainland This report is based on the 12 months between 1 January UK.
We are subject to both the European Convention on Human 2015 and 31 December 2015, reflecting the financial year Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
all human rights and enact these particularly in relation to The total carbon emissions associated with the Groups UK fair treatment, the avoidance of discrimination and privacy operations were 3,161 tCO e. This is made up of 604.9 tCO e for our customers, suppliers and staff.
We aim to ensure 2 2 of Scope 1 direct emissions and 2,556.6 tCO e of Scope 2 that employees comply with all relevant UK legislation and 2 indirect emissions.
regulations, and this is underpinned by the policies in place and managed by our Human Resources function.
Change of control There are no material agreements to which the Group is party Political donations that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Our policy is not to make any donations or contributions of the Group following a takeover bid.
to political parties or organisations and no such payments were made during the year.
The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest Environment upon a change of control.
Global emissions This report presents a narrative report for the 2015 Greenhouse Share capital Gas GHG Mandatory Reporting requirement of esure Our share capital consists of one class of Ordinary Shares Groups UK operations.
Each share ranks equally and carries the same rights to vote and receive dividends and other distributions Methodology: The footprint is calculated in accordance with declared.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or holding the GHG Protocol and Carbon Trust CT guidance on of shares in the Company.
As at 31 December 2015, calculating organisational footprints.
Activity data has been the Company had 416,852,881 Ordinary Shares in issue.
converted into carbon emissions using published emissions The Company does not hold any shares in Treasury.
The data used has been provided by the Group and sense checked but not formally verified by Utilitywise PLC.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 61 The rights attached to shares which are the subject of awards In addition to other undertakings and agreements, the under any of our employee share plans are not available Relationship Agreement contains the following undertakings: until any award or option is exercised and the shares are a that transactions and arrangements between the allotted or transferred to the relevant individual.
The Trustee Group and Peter Wood and or any of his associates of our employee benefit trust is obliged to act in the best will be conducted at arms length and on normal interests of the share plans beneficiaries.
At General Meetings, commercial terms: the Trustee may exercise discretion and vote in respect of Trust shares although it may not always choose to do so.
b that neither Peter Wood nor any of his associates Where shares are beneficially held by an employee within will take any action that would have the effect a share plan he or she may direct the Trustee to vote on his of preventing the Group from complying with its or her behalf.
obligations under the Listing Rules: and Power of Directors to issue shares c that neither Peter Wood nor any of his associates The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder to allot new shares.
A Resolution will be proposed at the resolution is intended or appears to be intended to 2016 AGM to renew the authority to allot shares.
circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
Purchase of own shares The Board confirms that, since the entry into the amended The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders and restated Relationship Agreement on 29 October 2014 to purchase our own shares.
Accordingly, at the 2016 AGM, until 2 March 2016, being the latest practicable date prior the Group proposes to renew the authority granted by to the publication of this Annual Report and Accounts: shareholders at the AGM in 2015 to repurchase up to a i The Group has complied with the independence maximum of 10% of its issued share capital.
At the present provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: time, the Group has no plans to exercise this authority and did not exercise the authority during 2015. ii So far as the Group is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement Further details are provided in the 2016 Notice of the AGM.
have been complied with by Peter Wood and his Substantial shareholdings associates: and As at 31 December 2015, the Group had been notified, iii As far as the Group is aware, the procurement in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, obligation included in the Relationship Agreement of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attached has been complied with by Peter Wood.
to the Companys issued ordinary share capital, as set out in the following table: Restrictions on voting rights All shareholders entitled to attend and vote at a General Number of % of total Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak Shareholder Ordinary Shares voting rights and vote in their place.
A member may appoint more than Peter John Wood 128,609,655 30.85 one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise Standard Life Investments Limited 20,759,424 4.98 the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the Investco Asset Management 20,507,884 4.91 shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
Proxy forms Kames Capital 12,576,042 3.01 must be received by our registrars at least 48 hours before the time appointed for holding a meeting, as set out in any Notice or in any form of proxy circulated by us.
The appointment These figures represent the number of shares and percentage of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending held as at the date of notification to the Group.
and voting in person at a General Meeting.
Further details In accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, may be found in the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders in the period between 1 January 2016 and 2 March 2016, in advance of the 2016 AGM, a copy of which is also available the following notifications were received: on our website at www.
Number of % of total Shareholder Ordinary Shares voting rights Auditor Kames Capital 16,849,591 4.04 Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Group and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
The Audit Committee Peter Wood, the Groups Chairman, is a controlling shareholder considers that the relationship with the auditor is working of the Group with a total holding of approximately 30.85% well and remains satisfied with its effectiveness.
The auditor, of the Companys voting rights.
in consultation with the Audit Committee, rotated the audit The Group entered into a Relationship Agreement with partner responsible for the Group and key subsidiary audits Peter Wood on 8 March 2013, which was amended and in 2015.
There are no contractual obligations restricting our restated on 29 October 2014. choice of auditor.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable at all times of carrying on its business independently of Peter Wood and certain persons deemed to be connected with him.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 62 Directors Report continued Disclosure of information to auditor and internal controls are embedded in the running of the Each Director at the date of the approval of this report business, the Group operates a three lines of defence confirms that: structure which is regularly reported on to the Audit and Risk Committees.
This framework mitigates the risk of failure to so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit achieve business objectives, unforeseen losses and material information of which the Groups auditor is unaware.
he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought There are a number of controls in place within this framework to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself to ensure that the Group has robust procedures for preparing aware of any relevant audit information and to establish consolidated accounts and for financial reporting.
that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee, respectively, Going concern regularly review the effectiveness of the Groups risk These consolidated financial statements have been prepared management and internal control systems.
Their monitoring on a going concern basis.
The financial performance and focuses on material risks and controls and is based principally position of the Group, its cash flows and its approach to on reporting upwards within the framework from business capital management are set out in the financial review on management, risk management and the Internal Audit function pages 14 to 19.
The Group has a strong financial position, so that the Committees may consider whether significant with robust reserves, a conservative investment portfolio weaknesses exist.
During the course of the reviews, the and capital significantly in excess of the minimum regulatory Committees have not identified or been advised of any failings requirement.
In addition, the Board has reviewed the or weaknesses that they have determined to be significant.
Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital To support Group policies and to facilitate the raising of concerns surpluses.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting that the Group has adequate resources to continue or any other matters, the Group provides a confidential in operation for at least the next 12 months.
telephone hotline, so that staff or third parties may report anonymously any perceived inaccurate or unethical The Groups viability statement is on page 24. working practices.
Material contracts The Audit and Risk Committees endeavour to ensure that Save as disclosed below, there are no material contracts the Group has in place appropriate and effective controls, other than contracts entered into in the ordinary course checks, systems, and risk management techniques.
of business to which the Group is a party: Internal Audit An agreement between the Group and CapGemini for the The Groups Internal Audit function is fully outsourced.
The initial term of the agreement was for five years from 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2015.
The activities and effectiveness of Internal Audit are On 16 May 2014, a new seven-year agreement between monitored and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit the Group and CapGemini was signed.
Committee is responsible for ensuring that adequate access to The Relationship Agreement between the Company and information and resource is given to the Lead Internal Auditor Peter Wood remains in force until the Ordinary Shares and for approving the appointment and removal of the Lead cease to be admitted to the Official List of the FCA and Internal Auditor.
The Lead Internal Auditor reports directly to to trading on the London Stock Exchange: or the Potential the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit reports Controlling Shareholder ceases to own, when taken are presented to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness together, 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares or the of the Groups systems of internal controls and the adequacy voting rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares unless, of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard at the time the Potential Controlling Shareholders shall the Groups assets and resources.
Internal Audit uses the cease to own, when taken together, 15% or more of Groups risk registers to plan and inform its annual audit the Ordinary Shares or the voting rights attaching to the programme around the most significant risks to the business Ordinary Shares, Peter Wood remains the Chairman of to ensure that controls are in place and are designed and the Company, in which event the Relationship Agreement operating effectively.
The Audit Committee reviews and shall terminate six months after Peter Wood ceases to be approves the Annual Internal Audit Plan.
the Chairman of the Company.
This section together with the reports set out on pages 28 Research and development to 62 are approved by order of the Board.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new products and services in each of its business divisions.
Special rights There are no persons holding securities that carry special Nick Edwards rights with regard to the control of the Group.
General Counsel & Company Secretary Risk management and internal control 7 March 2016 The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
To ensure that this is achieved and that the risk management esure Group Annual Report 2015
