STRATEGY Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of INVESTMENT POLICY the Company.
It provides a review of the Companys business The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting and describes the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The primarily of securities issued by companies listed in China or report includes an analysis of the performance of the Company Hong Kong and Chinese companies listed on other stock during the financial year and the position at the year end, its exchanges.
The Company may also obtain exposure to other objective, strategy and risks and how these are measured using listed companies which have significant interests in China or Key Performance Indicators.
The Chairmans Statement and Hong Kong.
Portfolio Managers Review form part of the Strategic Report.
The Company may invest through equities, index linked, equity BUSINESS AND STATUS linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market The Company carries on business as an investment company instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions, equity and has been accepted as an approved investment trust by related securities, forward transactions and other interests HMRevenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the including derivative instruments.
Forward transactions and Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to derivatives, including futures, options and contracts for meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that difference, may be used to enhance portfolio performance as the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will well as for efficient portfolio management and hedging.
The satisfy the conditions for continued approval.
Companys interest in any one investment will not, on acquisition, exceed 15% of the portfolio value.
The Company is registered as an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
In addition, the Company may invest in China A Shares both Itis not a close company and has no employees.
directly through the Investment Managers Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor QFII licence and indirectly through third OBJECTIVE parties who have a QFII facility.
The investment objective of the Company is to achieve long-term capital growth from an actively managed portfolio made up During the year the Company invested in equity linked notes, call primarily of securities issued by companies listed in China or and put options, long and short contracts for difference and Hong Kong and Chinese companies listed elsewhere.
The warrants and utilised the QFII licence of the Investment Manager.
Company may also invest in listed companies with significant interests in China and Hong Kong.
Unlisted Investments The Company is permitted to invest up to 5% of Gross Assets in STRATEGY unlisted securities issued in companies which carry on business, In order to achieve this objective, the Company has an actively or which have significant interests, in China or Hong Kong.
managed portfolio of investments and operates as an investment Company.
As such, it is able to gear the portfolio and the Board As at 31 March 2015, the Company held no unlisted investments.
takes the view that long-term returns for shareholders can be enhanced by using gearing in a carefully considered and Use of Derivative Instruments monitored way.
The Company may use derivative instruments for efficient portfolio management, gearing and hedging purposes.
They As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management may also be used to achieve the investment objective i. e. to of the portfolio and certain other services.
The Portfolio Manager enhance portfolio performance.
aims to achieve a total return in NAV in excess of the equivalent return on the MSCI China Index the Companys Benchmark The Board has adopted a policy that the Gross Asset Exposure Index, as expressed in UK sterling.
The stock selection approach of short positions held by the Company will not in aggregate adopted by the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
It is the Boards policy that total suited to achieving this objective.
exposure to any single counterparty from all activities, including, but not limited to, the management of cash and the use of The objective, strategy and principal activity have remained derivatives should not exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
Derivative unchanged throughout the year ended 31 March 2015. exposures are included after the netting of off-setting positions and allowing for any collateral placed by the counterparty with The summary of the years activities and indications of future the Company.
developments and the factors likely to affect this have been reviewed and supported by the Board.
Details can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 5 to 7.
The Board recognises that investing in equities is a long-term process and that the Companys returns will vary from year to year.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 8 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report As at 31 March 2015, the Companys exposure to short derivative FIL has had a presence in Asia since 1969 and now has offices in instruments represented 2.2% of Gross Assets.
The Companys seven countries across the region, including in three cities in exposure to any single counterparty from all derivative activities mainland China and in Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong office is FILs was 11.6%.
second largest in the region, and the analysts in the Hong Kong investment team evaluate companies, meet their managements Investment in other Investment Companies and interpret the effects of international and local events.
The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the Companys Gross Assets that can be invested in the securities of PERFORMANCE other listed investment companies including listed investment In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Companys Net Asset trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
Value total return was 45.3%, outperforming the MSCI China Index which returned 39.3%.
Details on future trends and factors As at 31 March 2015, the Company held no investments in other that may impact the future performance of the Company are investment companies.
included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 5 to 7.
The Forty Largest Borrowing and Gearing policy Holdings are listed on pages 13 and 14, the Distribution of the The Board considers that long-term capital growth can be Portfolio is on page 15 and the Attribution Analysis is set out on enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
A full list of the Companys holdings as at responsible for the Companys gearing strategy with day-to-day 31March 2015 is available on the Companys page of the decisions being made by the Manager within the remit set by the Managers website after the Annual General Meeting of the Board.
The Company may borrow up to 25% of Net Assets and the RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Board has adopted the policy that the Gross Asset Exposure of The Companys results are set out in the Income Statement on the Company, whether from borrowing or the use of derivatives, page 38.
The net profit after taxation for the year ended will not exceed the Net Assets of the Company by more than 31 March 2015 was 294.7 million, of which the revenue return 30%.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for operating within was 8.1 million.
The Directors recommend that a dividend of 1.30 pence During the year, the Gross Asset Exposure of the Company did 2014:1.15 pence per Ordinary Share be paid on 24 July 2015 not exceed the Net Assets of the Company by more than 30%.
toshareholders who appear on the register as at the close of Asat 31 March 2015, Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net business on 19 June 2015 ex-dividend date 18 June 2015.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Foreign exchange hedging policy Given the Companys objective and strategy, the Board has The Companys Financial Statements are denominated in UK identified the following KPIs against which performance can be sterling, while investments are made and realised in currencies measured.
other than UK sterling, including Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong dollars and US dollars.
It is the policy not to hedge the Year ended Year ended underlying currencies of the holdings in the portfolio but rather to 31 March 31 March take the currency risk into consideration when making investment 2015 2014 decisions.
% % Net Asset Value total return 45.3 19.5 DIVIDEND POLICY Share Price total return 39.9 14.1 As the Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital growth, the Board does not expect that dividends will constitute MSCI China Index total return 39.3 -6.9 a material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in order to continue to qualify as an investment company, the Discount to Net Asset Value 13.1 9.6 Company is required by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act Ongoing charges 1.29 1.45 2010 to distribute sufficient net income so that it retains no more than 15% of its income.
Sources: Fidelity and Datastream FILS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND PROCESS FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and FIL Investments International collectively FIL provide management of the investment portfolio and certain other services.
FILs distinctive investment approach is bottom up stock picking investing in companies on the basis of their underlying strengths, facilitated by extensive research capabilities.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 9 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report As well as the KPIs set out on page 9, the Board also regularly The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance monitor other relevant statistics, such as the various factors with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Internal Control: contributing to investment results, as set out in the Attribution Revised Guidance for Directors.
The principal risks and uncertainties stated below and those on page 11 include The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal descriptions of other performance indicators, their monitoring controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An internal controls and management which are important to the business of the report providing an assessment of risks, together with controls to Company.
mitigate these risks, is prepared by the Managers and considered by the Audit Committee at each of its meetings.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks it is The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Board considers the following as the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company: Principal Risks Risk Mitigation Market risk Investing in an emerging market such as the PRC subjects the Company to a higher level of market risk than investment in a more developed market.
This is due, among other things, to the existence of greater market volatility, lower trading volumes, the risk of political and economic instability, legal and regulatory risks, risks relating to accounting practices, disclosure and settlement, a greater risk of market shut down, standards of corporate governance and more governmental limitations on foreign investment than are typically found in developed markets.
The Board reviews material economic, market and legislative changes at each Board meeting.
The Company has exposure to a number of companies with all or part of their business in Variable Interest Entity VIE structures.
These are entities where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights and may result in a risk to investors being unable to enforce their ownership rights in certain circumstances.
Performance risk The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires the taking of risk, such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection, and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
The Company has a clearly defined strategy and investment remit.
There is a clearly defined Management Agreement, and borrowing derivative limits are also set by the Board.
The portfolio is managed by a highly experienced Portfolio Manager.
The Board relies on the Portfolio Managers skills and judgement to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark Index and that of its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long-term investment performance and the Board accepts that by targeting long-term results the Company risks volatility in the shorter-term.
Unlisted investments are managed by FIL Investments International.
Performance improved and was again well ahead of its Benchmark Index in the 2014 15 financial year as outlined in the Portfolio Managers Review on page 5.
The Company has also out-performed its Benchmark Index since launch.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 10 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report Principal Risks Risk Mitigation Discount control risk Due to the nature of investment companies, the Board cannot control the discount at which the Companys share price trades to Net Asset Value.
However, it can influence this through its share repurchase policy and through creating demand for shares through good performance and an active investor relations programme.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Managers and regularly reported to the Board.
Gearing risk The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan facilities and to use Contracts For Difference CFDs to invest in equities.
The principal risk is that while in a rising market the Company should benefit from gearing, in a falling market the impact would be detrimental.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
On 14 February 2014, the Company renewed its US$150,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC for a further three years to 14February 2017, as amended on 17July 2014.
The facility has been fully drawn down.
Additional geared exposure is being achieved through the use of long CFDs.
The Board regularly considers gearing and gearing risk.
Currency risk The functional currency and presentational currency of the Company in which it reports its results, is UK sterling.
Most of its assets and its income are denominated in other currencies, mainly Hong Kong dollars and US dollars.
Consequently, it is subject to currency risk on exchange rate movements between UK sterling and these other currencies.
It is the Companys current policy not to hedge against currency risks.
Borrowings are denominated in US dollars and, therefore, the effect of US dollar exchange rate movements on assets denominated in US dollars will be offset by the effect on these loans.
Further details can be found in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 53 to 60.
Other risks facing the Company include: The security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal Tax and Regulatory risks requirements, among other things, rely on the effective operation A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could of such systems.
lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
A breach of other legal The Managers, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary are subject and regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the to a risk-based programme of internal audits by the Managers.
Stock Exchange or a qualified audit report.
The Board receives In addition, service providers own internal controls reports are regular reports from the Managers confirming regulatory received by the Board and any concerns investigated.
BOARD DIVERSITY The regulation that was of greatest significance in this reporting The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of year was the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the Details can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 4. benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at 31March 2015, there were five male Directors and one female The Board monitors tax and regulatory changes at each Board Director.
meeting and is provided with regular briefings from the Association of Investment Companies AIC as well as details EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS of industry and the Managers lobbying activities.
ISSUES The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are Operational risks Service Providers non-executive.
The Companys day-to-day activities are carried The Company has no employees and relies on a number of third out by third parties.
The Company has not adopted a policy on party service providers, principally the Managers, Registrar, human rights as it has no employees and its operational Custodian and Depositary.
The Company is dependent on the processes are delegated.
Managers control systems and those of its Registrar, Custodian and Depositary, all of which are monitored and managed by the The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which Managers in the context of the Companys assets and interests has won awards for its environmental awareness and further on behalf of the Board.
details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 11 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the Managers view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues which are then referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Managers.
These activities are reviewed annually.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future developments, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 5 to 7.
By order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 11 June 2015 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 12 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
