GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 1,2, 3 John Owen CMG MBE DL The Hon.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 1,2, 3 Chairman date of appointment: DL 4February 2010.
Mr Owen has Chairman of the Investment enjoyed careers in both the Committee date of appointment: diplomatic service and industry.
Mr PleydellHeserved in the diplomatic service Bouverie is an investment for 30 years until his retirement in professional with over 30 years of 1999, serving in Indonesia, Vietnam, investment experience, particularly France, El Salvador, Iran, Brazil, in the Far East and emerging China and London.
His current non-executive British Consul General in Boston, USA from 1992 to 1995, and positions include acting as CIO and trustee on investment Governor of the Cayman Islands from 1995 to 1999.
He also committees for family and charitable trusts.
He is also a Deputy worked in industry for seven years.
Mr Owen is currently Lieutenant of the County of Wiltshire.
Previously, Mr Pleydellchairman of several companies including Iceman Capital Limited, Bouverie spent ten years with FIL where he was investment an investment company specialising ininvestment in the director until 1996, managing Japanese-focused unit trusts, developing markets of Asia.
He has a number of directorships offshore funds, pension funds and the Fidelity Emerging Markets including Queensgate Bank Trust Company Limited.
Prior to this, he was an associate director at Kleinwort also chairman of the Friends of Cayman in London.
He is an Grieveson Investment Management and fund manager at Honorary Fellow ofthe University of Wales and also a Deputy Grieveson, Grant and Co, where he also managed Asia-focused Lieutenant of the County of Isle of Wight.
1,2, 3 1,2, 3 Nicholas Bull FCA Elisabeth Scott Senior Independent Director and Date of appointment: 1 November Chairman of the Nomination and 2011.
Ms Scott worked in the asset Remuneration Committee date of management industry in Hong appointment: 4 February 2010.
Kong from 1992 to 2008, where she MrBull is the senior independent was managing director and country director of Coats Group plc and a head of Schroder Investment Senior Adviser to City stockbroker Management Hong Kong Limited Westhouse Securities.
He is also a and chair of the Hong Kong Member of Council of the University Investment Funds Association.
of Exeter, a trustee of the Design Museum and deputy chairman MsScott is a non-executive director of Pacific Horizon Investment of the trustees of the Conran Foundation.
From 2010 he was an Trust PLC and also Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC independent director, then chairman, of hotels group fide Vere and Allianz Technology Trust PLC.
until the completion of its asset disposal programme in 2015.
2,3 Previously Mr Bull worked for 30 years as a corporate finance Andrew Wells practitioner with Morgan Grenfell subsequently Deutsche Bank, Date of appointment: 21 May Socit Gnrale and ABN AMRO in London, Sydney, Singapore 2012.
Mr Wells is FILs Global Chief and Hong Kong.
He is a qualified chartered accountant.
Investment Officer, Fixed Income, Solutions and Real Estate and has 1,2, 3 David Causer FCA been a member of FILs Global Chairman of the Audit Committee Operating Committee since date of appointment: 4 February November 2010.
Mr Causer is a non-executive 20 years of investment experience, director and audit committee particularly in Asia, having worked chairman of Schroder Income as a portfolio manager in FILs Hong Kong office from 2002 Growth Fund plc, an investment becoming FILs Chief Investment Officer for Asian Fixed Income in company listed on the London 2005.
In 2007, Mr Wells became Global CIO Fixed Income for FIL, Stock Exchange.
He is a qualified responsible for developing the fixed income investment process, chartered accountant and a team and structure.
member of the Securities Institute.
Mr Causer has held a number of senior positions within financial services organisations, All the Directors are non-executive directors and all are including as finance director of Mercury Asset Management independent, with the exception of Andrew Wells.
Group plc and as a managing director of Merrill Lynch 1 Member of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee Investment Managers until 2001.
He was finance director of 2 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee TheBritish Red Cross Society until December 2007.
He is a 3 Member of the Investment Committee trusteeof a number of charities and a public member of Network Rail.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 19 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
