Mar 15 Jan 15 Nov 14 Sep 14 Jul 14 May 14 Mar 14 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review Dale Nicholls has twenty years investment experience.
He joined Fidelity as a research analyst in 1996, covering the Japanese textiles and apparel, banks, chemicals, consumer products, technology, miscellaneous finance and insurance sectors.
During this time it was essential for Dale to visit Chinese companies to get a clear view of the key supply and demand dynamics for these industries.
From 1999, he managed Japanese sector funds for the Fidelity Japanese office and then became portfolio manager of Fidelity Funds Pacific Fund, an Asia Pacific including Japan mandate, in September 2003.
He has also previously managed a number of regional small-cap strategies, including Fidelity Funds Asian Smaller Companies Fund.
His success in managing these mandates, his experience in investing in China and his small mid-cap investment style led to his appointment as Portfolio Manager of this Company on 1 April 2014.
This Annual Report reflects my first year as Portfolio Manager of PERFORMANCE Fidelity China Special Situations PLC and it has been one of the In terms of what has driven performance, preference for new most interesting years of my career.
There have been numerous China investments in areas like e-commerce, non-bank financials reforms, stock picking opportunities and some spectacular stock as well as significant holdings in China mainland stocks stocks moves.
I am pleased to report that the Companys Net Asset listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges commonly Value rose 45.3% and the share price rose 39.9%, while the referred to as A-Shares have boosted returns.
Conversely, some Benchmark Index, the MSCI China Index, recorded a rise of of the Companys holdings in the consumer discretionary sector 39.3%.
Taking a three year view, the numbers are very strong, proved unfavourable, despite the attractive structural with the Companys Net Asset Value up 101.0% and the share opportunities in this area.
price up 83.6% versus the MSCI China Index returns of 45.4%.
Alibaba was the most significant contributor to performance While performance of the Companys Net Asset Value has been overthe year.
It was bought as an unlisted position in 2012, very strong, there is some disappointment that the share price accounting for around 2.5% of the Companys assets, when continues to lag and we have seen the discount widen.
However, Alibaba was valued at US$48 billion.
After much speculation, I believe this reflects the continued uncertainty and negative itfinally undertook an initial public offering in New York in sentiment from overseas investors when it comes to China, and September 2014.
In recognition of the dominant market position Iwill look to address some of these issues in this report.
In my Alibaba has in e-commerce in China, the IPO was the largest in regular marketing visits to investors and investment advisers I history and by November it was valued at around US$290 billion.
always set out my reasons why I believe that investors should This considerably boosted the Net Asset Value of the portfolio have a proportion of their portfolios exposed to China: and why and I took this as an opportunity to crystallise sizeable gains.
this fund could be, in my view, the ideal vehicle for that exposure.
Alibaba remains a significant portfolio holding as I remain a firm believer in the opportunities in e-commerce, but valuation and risk-reward versus other investment ideas means that it is now 150 below 2% of assets.
One result of this IPO is that there are no 45.3% longer any unlisted holdings held by the Company.
I continue 39.9% 140 tosearch for new unlisted ideas and am working to uncover the 39.3% Alibabas of tomorrow.
130 25.2% 19.5% 120 Brokers and insurance stocks were among the best performing areas of Chinas market over the year.
A major pick-up in market 110 volumes and a recovery in the A-Share market have been key factors driving the brokerage stocks.
The markets positive 100 reaction to ongoing reforms, deregulation and the continued 90 development of Chinas capital markets drove performance and highlighted the long-term growth potential for these businesses.
Chinas largest brokerage firm, CITIC Securities, one of the Share Price MSCI China NAV Companys largest holdings, has been a standout performer, MSCI China Mid Cap MSCI China Small Cap returning 224% over the year.
In addition to an overall recovery in market volumes, this stock reacted positively to the lifting of an IPO ban in mainland China and the introduction of Stock Connect.
Stock Connect is a programme that enables overseas investors to buy Shanghai listed A-Shares via the Hong Kong Exchange without the need for a Qualified Financial Institutional Investor QFII quota, while allowing mainland investors to buy Hong Kong shares via the Shanghai Exchange without the need for a Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor quota.
This programme, which is still in pilot phase, helped contribute to a huge rise in A-Share volumes and benefits brokers like CITIC Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 5 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review Securities.
We also saw strong moves in other A-Shares the To answer the question, yes, some of the negativity towards Company holds including SAIC Motor joint venture with Chinas markets is justified China clearly has challenges but if Volkswagen and GM and Gree Electrical Appliances the you scratch below the surface great opportunities still exist for worlds largest air conditioner manufacturer.
individual companies in the right areas.
Insurance was also an area where I felt that valuations did not First, GDP is slowing, but China is now a $10 trillion economy reflect the reform and structural growth opportunities, and I andit is unrealistic to expect consistent high single digit growth significantly added holdings here in the portfolio.
Life insurance rates over the long-term.
It is generally accepted that growth is particularly interesting to me as this is an underpenetrated willslow to around 7% in 2015, but that still represents around market in China, particularly in the more protection-type products US$700bn of growth, or roughly 25% of the entire UK economy.
which tend to be higher margin.
These companies are focused Inconjunction with this, the economy is shifting towards a on expanding and improving their product lines and developing consumption-led model, which lends itself to lower, yet more their sales forces, offering scope for greater revenues and sustainable growth rates.
This is still a ripe environment in which improving margins.
Holdings in Ping An Insurance and China the strongest companies can grow.
Pacific Insurance rallied 109% and 114% respectively.
Second, debt levels have risen significantly, and history teaches A-SHARES us that this should lead to non-performing loan NPL issues The Stock Connect programme has raised the profile of A-Shares, down the road.
However, I do not think this will lead to a but our preference is to own these via a QFII quota.
It is cheaper creditcrisis of the type witnessed in the West in 2008.
A key and reduces counterparty risk and gives direct ownership of characteristic of a credit crisis is the drying up of liquidity, but thestock.
The Company already utilises US$125 million of the strict government imposed rules mean Chinas banks have some Managers quota and at the time of writing, this is set to increase of the lowest loan-to-deposit ratios in the world, while their again following a successful application for more.
This represents largest shareholder is the government, which can direct liquidity a significant percentage of the Companys assets, and the pursuit to where it is needed.
Also, one of the big differences is the level of an additional quota allowance from the regulator reflects my of consumer credit.
Debt has risen in China but mostly at the belief in the abundant opportunities in A-Shares.
corporate level including State Owned Enterprises, not at the consumer level.
Mortgage penetration is very low, and the A major change I made when I took over this portfolio was to deposit requirements for mortgages are relatively high versus increase A-Share exposure from around 13% to around 25%.
However, I do think NPLs will become a Despite being the second largest market in the world, many of greater issue for banks going forward and this is the key the companies are poorly researched and there is a broad reason why the portfolio does not hold Chinese banks.
range of valuations a great environment for stock pickers.
In particular, Ifind most value in larger cap names since these are Third, after years of gains, falling property prices have been ignored by domestic Chinese investors who prefer to speculate perceived by some as the beginnings of the bursting of a in small-cap stocks with little regard to valuations.
To me, a key aspect of a bubble is rapidly declining affordability.
Property prices have moved up strongly in the past There are a number of potential positive catalysts for the decade, but so have incomes.
In fact in many cities we argue prospects of A-Shares.
Chief among these is the extension of that affordability has actually improved in the last decade.
We Stock Connect to include the Shenzhen Exchange and the should also note that the largest gains in property prices have possibility that A-Shares will be included in the MSCI indices.
been in the first tier cities while gains in the lower tier cities have Thelatter could lead to investors with China in their benchmark been much more muted.
Ultimately it will come down to supply having to make significant changes to their portfolios and lead and demand.
Supply has increased significantly, but has to passive funds buying A-Shares.
On the negative side, there alreadybegun to adjust since last year.
I believe there is still a are signs of overheating in parts of this market, especially reasonable case to be made on the demand side.
We must amongst some of the small cap stocks these are areas I keep in mind that the debt increases have been mostly at the continue to avoid.
corporate level and the consumer balance sheet remains in very good shape.
As mentioned at the start of this report, I believe the Companys Finally, many of the structural drivers of demand, such as share price has been held back by general negative urbanisation and general upgrading, remain in place.
Ithink the macroeconomic sentiment towards China.
When looking at pick-up in market volumes that we have seen in recent months China, overseas investors are bombarded by headline grabbing reflects these underlying demand trends.
I am not saying that stories about slowing GDP, rising debt and falling property there are not pockets in China with serious overbuild issues the prices.
Yet in 2014 the Shanghai Exchange was the worlds best country is large and there will always be failed projects but it is performing market.
So is this negative sentiment justified and not as bad as often made out.
For example, so called ghost what have investors been missing?
I have visited many of these, and while there are some areas with serious problems, on the whole I can say that the problem is generally overstated.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 6 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review WHERE ARE THE OPPORTUNITIES?
have not seen tariffs rise in almost 20 years.
Another area I continue to believe the course is set for an unprecedented where I have found value is in airports.
Shanghai International reform programme that will open up the Chinese economy and Airport has become one of the biggest holdings in the its markets, but we must monitor progress in terms of portfolio.
This airport is one of the few with expansion implementation.
There are many ongoing economic and social potential, and the underlying passenger growth outlook is reforms that address issues such as reducing government strong with Chinese overseas travellers continuing to grow intervention, allowing markets to determine prices and improved and Shanghai Disneyland the biggest globally opening welfare.
These changes tend to take baby steps forward, so can in2016.
I also see great scope to grow its retail related often slip under the radar, but in aggregate they are really revenues.
changing the investment landscape in China to one where private entrepreneurs and companies can thrive.
Overall, I acknowledge there are macro challenges, but find these are often overstated for the sake of a headline.
The In addition to A-Shares and non-bank financials mentioned economic model in China is changing and slower growth is the above, the areas in which I am finding opportunities include: new norm, providing a good environment for innovative companies to operate.
Reform is a broad concept, but it is a key E-commerce Chinas shift to online represents one of the driver of progress in China and it will create investment biggest commercial opportunities most investors will see in opportunities across an array of industries.
From a stock picking their lifetimes.
Admittedly this is a global trend, but it is perspective, the opening up of the A-Share market is really occurring even faster in China, partly because traditional exciting and I look forward to continuing the search in this market bricks and mortar retail infrastructure has not been built out to for the many opportunities it offers.
At the heart of it all, I still levels common in the West.
Internet usage in China has only believe stock prices follow earnings and cash flows and I see just surpassed 50% of the population so there is still good strong opportunities for growth inboth.
There are also attractive businesses springing up related to internet security and data A NOTE OF CAUTION storage that investors cannot ignore.
At the time of writing this report it would be remiss of me not to comment on the recent rally we have seen.
In April and May Consumer Chinese wages continue to see solid increases alone the Companys Net Asset Value was up nearly 19%.
and the growing middle class want to spend on goods, Thisrally has been driven by increased liquidity and improved services and travel.
All this is happening against the sentiment after the authorities granted greater access for backdrop of a government looking to shift the economy to a mainland investors to buy Hong Kong listed stocks via Stock consumption-led model, so we can expect further policy Connect.
As a result, Ihave reeled in gearing to around 19% tailwinds to support this consumption trend.
One example is andadded to the short positions these can help generate the governments drive to increase the urbanisation rate, positive returns should these stocks fall.
which will boost consumption ownership levels for rural consumers of everyday goods like white goods and cars tend I still believe that China offers some of the most attractive to be far lower than their urban cousins.
Much has been long-term structural growth opportunities in the Asia region, but made of the recent anti-corruption crackdown, and this has Ican foresee some consolidation and continued volatility given had an impact at the luxury-end, but I believe that this should the speed and size of this rally.
The fact that the portfolio is have little impact on the underlying drivers behind mass leveraged in the mid to high teens reflectsmy long-term view market consumption.
and conviction in the Companys holdings.
Healthcare As people get wealthier they want to get Dale Nicholls healthier.
Chinas per capita expenditure on healthcare is Portfolio Manager wellbelow that of developed nations, but we are seeing 11 June 2015 thispick up.
Chinas low cost advantage also makes it attractive as an R&D outsourcing centre for the large Western pharmaceutical companies.
In addition, the government has pledged to change the social security system called hukou so that more than 100 million people can get better healthcare access by 2020.
Infrastructure Infrastructure assets are sought globally for the stable cash flows they generate.
In China we find that many of these assets tend to be ignored and undervalued as they may not offer the growth potential or thematic appeal of some of the smaller private companies.
In addition, reforms focusing on more market based pricing and incentivising management have the potential to drive returns higher.
One example of this is the railways where some passenger lines Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 7 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
