STRATEGY Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report INVESTMENT POLICY ofthe Company.
It provides a review of the Companys business The Company invests principally in continental European and describes the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
An securities with a view to achieving long term capital growth for analysis of the performance of the Company during the financial shareholders.
The portfolio is selected by the Portfolio Manager year and the position at the year end is included taking into on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available account its objective, strategy and risks and how these are in individual situations.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure measured using key performance indicators.
The Chairmans toindividual countries and industry sectors is monitored, the Statement and Portfolio Managers Review form part of the portfolio is not structured primarily on a country or industrial Strategic Report.
weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions apply in order to diversify risk.
BUSINESS AND STATUS The Company carries on business as an investment trust and has No material change will be made to the investment policy been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue without shareholder approval.
& Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to meet eligibility INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company PROCESS has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the The Portfolio Managers key focus is on identifying attractively conditions for continued approval.
valued companies which exhibit good long term structural growth prospects.
The Portfolio Manager prefers companies that The Company is registered as an investment company under he believes can grow their dividend over the next three to five Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
years, as evidence suggests that such companies outperform Itis not a close company and has no employees.
OBJECTIVE In order to identify these companies, the Portfolio Manager looks The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth for the following main characteristics: principally from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
The Benchmark Index for performance measurement purposes is positive fundamentals structural growth prospects, a proven theFTSE World Europe ex UK Index.
business model : STRATEGY the ability to generate cash: In order to achieve this objective, the Company operates as an investment company which has an actively managed portfolio a strong balance sheet: and ofinvestments, consisting primarily of continental European securities.
As an investment company it is able to gear and the an attractive valuation.
Board takes the view that long term returns for shareholders can be enhanced by the use of gearing in a carefully considered and The Portfolio Manager draws upon the substantial intelligence monitored way.
The level of gearing is reviewed by the Board uncovered by Fidelitys team of pan-European analysts when and the Portfolio Manager at each of its meetings.
A great deal of importance is placed onattending company meetings.
As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management of the portfolio and other services.
The Portfolio Being a bottom-up stock picker, the Portfolio Manager aims to Manager aims to achieve a total return on the Companys total generate outperformance through company selection, on a three assets over the longer term in excess of the Benchmark Index.
to five year investment horizon, rather than through sector or The stock selection approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager country positions.
is considered to be well suited to achieving the objective.
Although income is being received by way of dividend payments INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS the emphasis is placed on capital growth.
The Board takes the A minimum of 80% of gross assets will be invested in view that investing in equities is a long term process, and that companies from countries which are included in the the Companys returns to shareholders will vary from year to Benchmark Index.
A maximum of: The Board has reviewed the summary of the years activities and is in agreement with the indications of likely future developments a 20% of gross assets may be invested in companies and the factors likely to affect these which are given in the ofEuropean countries which are not included in the Chairmans Statement and in the Portfolio Managers Review on Companys Benchmark Index and will include investing pages 3 to 6. inUK companies: and Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 7 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report b 5% of gross assets may be invested in companies of The Board has created strict policies and exposure limits and non-European countries which have some exposure to, or sub-limits to manage derivatives.
These limits and their impacts connection with Europe.
Any investment in this category are monitored by the Manager on a daily basis and reported willcount towards the 20% maximum limit in a above.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be The limits are: invested in the aggregate of: The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange: and including borrowing and the use of derivatives but excluding hedging, will not exceed 130% of total assets at the time b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts to atwhich any derivative contract is entered into or security 20% or more of the equity capital of any listed company.
This equates to a gearing level of 30%.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets The aggregate exposure of the Company under short inany one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
derivatives, excluding hedges and covered call options, willnot exceed 10% of total net assets at the time any A maximum of 5% of the Companys gross assets may be held derivative contract is entered into.
in unquoted securities in aggregate at any one time.
The aggregate exposure of the Company under covered The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held by the calloptions, being the notional exposure of the calls, will Company will be 25% of the Companys total net assets, but notexceed 20% of total net assets at the time any derivative this limit will not include any cash or cash equivalent paid as contract is entered into.
The notional exposure of covered collateral for unrealised losses on derivatives.
In practice the calloptions is the number of contracts written multiplied by cash position will normally be much lower.
the notional contract size multiplied by the underlying share price.
The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of upto 10% of the Companys total net assets.
The majority of the Companys exposure to equities will be through direct investment and not through derivative instruments.
The Board reserves the right to hedge the portfolio by way In addition, the limits on exposure to individual companies will ofcurrency.
be calculated on the basis that the Company has acquired the securities to which the derivative instrument is providing exposure.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be invested in the securities of other investment companies GEARING including listed investment trusts.
The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief that long term investment returns will exceed the costs of gearing.
USE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS This gearing is obtained through the use of borrowing and or The Company may utilise derivative instruments, including through the use of CFDs to obtain exposure to securities selected index-linked notes, futures, Contracts For Difference CFDs, by the Investment Manager.
The effect of gearing is to magnify covered call options, put options and other equity-related the consequence of market movements on the portfolio.
If the derivative instruments as a tool to meet the investment objective portfolio value rises the NAV will be positively impacted, but of the Company.
They are used principally in the following ways: ifitfalls the NAV will be adversely impacted.
The Board is responsible for the order of magnitude of gearing in the As an alternative form of gearing to bank loans.
The Company Company while the Investment Manager decides the day-to-day will enter into long CFDs which achieve an equivalent effect to gearing within a range set by the Board.
The Board and the purchasing an asset bought from bank borrowing but often at Portfolio Manager review the level of gearing at each Board lower financing costs.
The Company can gear up to a maximum of 30% in excess of total net assets.
To hedge equity market risks where the Investment Manager considers that suitable protection can be purchased to limit PERFORMANCE the downside of a falling market at a reasonable cost.
The Companys performance for the year ended 31 December 2015 and details on trends and factors that may impact the To enhance investment returns by taking short exposures future performance of the Company are included in the onstocks that the Investment Manager considers to be Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on over-valued.
The Portfolio Listing, the Distribution of the Portfolio, the Ten Year Record and the Summary of Performance Charts To enhance investment returns through writing covered call are on pages 12 to 18. options and writing put options.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 8 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS In addition to the KPIs set out above, the Board regularly reviews The Companys results for the year ended 31 December 2015 the Companys performance against its peer group of investment areset out in the Income Statement on page 37.
Long term performance is also monitored and the Ten ordinary share was 12.12 pence of which the revenue return was Year Record and the Summary of Performance Charts on pages 3.37pence.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.33 pence per PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES share for the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: final dividend As required by provision C. 2.1 of the 2014 UK Corporate of 3.10 pence: special dividend of 0.54 pence be paid on Governance Code, the Board makes a robust assessment of the 20May 2016 to shareholders who appear on the register as principal risks facing the Company.
atthe close of business on 29 March 2016 ex-dividend date 24March 2016.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS the Company.
The Board, with the assistance of the Manager, The attribution analysis table below shows how the increase in has developed a risk matrix which, as part of the internal NAV has been achieved.
controls process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Risk Management, Analysis of change in NAV during the year % Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Impact of: Risks are identified and graded.
This process, together with the policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated Index 10.9 and reviewed regularly in the form of comprehensive reports considered by the Audit Committee.
The Board also determines Exchange Rate -5.5 the nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to Gearing 0.6 achieve its strategic objectives.
The Boards approach to risks isembedded in the Companys investment objective and Stock Selection 1.9 investment policy on pages 7 and 8.
Expenses -1.0 The Alternative Investment Fund Manager, FIL Investment Total return for the year ended Services UK Limited also has responsibility for risk management 31 December 2015 6.9 for the Company.
It works with the Board to identify and manage theprincipal risks and to ensure that the Board can continue to Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns meet its UK corporate governance obligations.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board considers the following as the principal risks and The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the uncertainties faced by the Company: performance of the Company and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
Market Risk The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and theprincipal risks are therefore market related such as Year ended Year ended marketdownturn, interest rate movements, and exchange rate 31 December 31 December movements.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect 2015 2014 and increase the Companys assets against this background is % % core to the Companys continued success.
1 NAV per share 6.9 5.1 Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form part of 1 Share Price 9.2 8.7 the market risk category are included in Note 17 to the Financial 1 FTSE World Europe ex UK Index 5.3 0.2 Statements on pages 49 to 54 together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price Discount to NAV ex income 2.9 4.6 risk which comprises interest rate risk, foreign currency risk andother price risk : derivative instruments risk: liquidity risk: Discount to NAV cum income 4.7 6.7 counterparty risk and credit risk.
2 Ongoing Charges 0.94 0.97 Brexit 1 Total returns includes reinvested income Risks associated with the UK in-out referendum on EU 2 The Board regularly considers the costs of running the Company to ensure they are reasonable and competitive membership Brexit are outlined in the Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review.
Although direct exposure Sources: Fidelity and Datastream tothe UK economy is relatively small for continental European Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 9 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report companies in aggregate, indirect risks include the fact that by the Managers Compliance team and regular reports are markets could reactadversely to any uncertainties created.
Performance Risk Further details on derivative instruments risk is included in Note 17 The achievement of the Companys performance objective on pages 49 to 54. relative to the market requires the application of risk such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection and may lead to Tax and Regulatory Risks underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
The Board reviews A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could risk at each Board meeting, considers the asset allocation of the lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company portfolio and the risk associated with particular countries and being subject to tax on capital gains.
A breach of other legal industry sectors within the parameters of the investment objective and regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the and strategy.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for actively London Stock Exchange or a qualified audit report.
The Board monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset receives regular reports from the Manager confirming regulatory allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks compliance during the year.
meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
The emphasis is on long term results as the Company risks volatility of performance in the Operational Risks shorter term.
The Company has no employees and relies on a number of third party service providers, principally the Manager, Registrar, Income Dividend Risk Custodian and Depositary.
The Company is dependent on the The Companys revenue may decline which would impact on Managers control systems and those of its Registrar and theCompanys ability to maintain its dividend.
The Companys Custodian both of whom are monitored and managed by the objective is capital growth and, as explained in the Chairmans Manager in the context of the Companys assets and interests Statement on page 4, the Portfolio Manager is not constrained in onbehalf of the Board.
The Depositary, under a tri-partite any way to determine the level of income.
The Board monitors agreement, oversees the custody of investments and cash.
this risk through the receipt of detailed income reports and Thesecurity of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, among other things, rely on the effective operation Discount Control Risk of such systems.
The price of the Companys shares and its discount to NAV are factors which are not within the Companys total control.
Some The Manager, Registrar and Custodian are subject to a short term influence over the discount may be exercised by risk-based programme which is monitored by the Manager.
In theuse of share repurchases at acceptable prices within the addition, service providers own internal controls reports are parameters set by the Board.
The Companys share price, NAV received by the Board and any concerns investigated.
and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
Although the likelihood of poor governance, compliance and operational administration by third party service providers is low, Gearing Risk the financial consequences, for example, of cyber crime, could The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan be serious, including the associated reputational damage to facilities or to use CFDs to invest in equities.
The Board receives regular updates from the isthat while in a rising market the Company will benefit from Manager in relation to cyber crime.
gearing, in a falling market the impact would be detrimental.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that Other Risks the term of the gearing is inappropriate in relation to market A continuation vote takes place every two years.
The Company currently has no bank loans and that shareholders do not vote in favour of the continuation vote geared exposure is through the use of long CFDs.
This has during periods when performance is poor.
The next continuation reduced the cost of gearing and provides greater flexibility.
vote will take place at the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
TheBoard regularly considers gearing and gearing risk and setslimits within which the Manager must operate.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Derivatives Risk Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Derivative instruments are used to enable both the protection September 2014, the Directors have assessed the prospects of and enhancement of investment returns.
There is a risk that the the Company over a longer period than the twelve month period use of derivatives may lead to a higher volatility in the NAV and required by the Going Concern provision.
The Company is an the share price than might otherwise be the case.
The Board has investment trust with the objective of achieving long term capital put in place policies and limits to control the Companys use of growth.
The Directors consider five years is an appropriate derivatives and exposures.
These are monitored on a daily basis investment horizon to assess the viability of the Company, although the life of the Company is not intended to be limited Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 10 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report tothis or any other period.
A risk to the Companys continuation SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT is shareholder dissatisfaction, and therefore in accordance with The Manager believes that high standards of corporate the Companys Articles of Association, a continuation vote is held socialresponsibility CSR make good business sense and every two years, the next one taking place at the 2017 Annual have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have a In making an assessment on the viability of the Company, the material impact on either investment risk or return.
Board has considered the following: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The ongoing relevance of the investment objective in The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas prevailing market conditions: ordiesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
FIL Investments International is registered with The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company as the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme set out above and their potential impact: administered by the Environment Agency.
The demand for the Companys shares: CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, The Companys discount to the NAV: take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which itinvests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: general meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues which are then referred to the Board it delegates the The level of income generated by the Company: and responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Manager.
These activities are reviewed annually.
Future income and expenditure forecasts FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The Companys performance has been strong since launch and Some trends likely to affect the Company in the future are the investment policy is kept under review and the Board considers common to many investment companies together with the it to be appropriate.
Based on the Managers compliance with impactof regulatory change.
The factors likely to affect its the Companys investment objective, its investment strategy and futuredevelopment, performance and position are set out in the asset allocation and the fact that the portfolio mainly comprises Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding onpages 3 to 6. requirements if necessary: the Boards discount management policy: and the ongoing processes for monitoring operating costs By Order of the Board and income forecasts, the Board have concluded that there is FIL Investments International areasonable expectation that the Company will be able to Secretary continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 11 March 2016 overthe next five years.
BOARD DIVERSITY The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for thebenefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at 31December 2015, there were five male Directors and one female Director on the Board.
EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY, HUMAN RIGHTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive and it therefore has no disclosures to make in respect of employees and human rights.
The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which has won awards for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Details about Fidelitys own community involvement may be found on its website at www.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 11 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
