STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review and political uncertainties, that many European countries on theperiphery of Europe still faced.
The third quarter saw markets give up more ground, in particular when China, unexpectedly, allowed a small devaluation of its currency, apparently in response to slowing economic growth.
Many investors saw this as a shot across the bows in terms of future exchange rate policy and this led to widespread risk aversion, especially regarding emerging markets and commodities.
Thiswas compounded by nervousness about global markets possible reaction to a well-flagged rise in US interest rates.
Sam Morse Portfolio Manager from 1 January 2011 Sam is a portfolio manager with FIL Investments International based in The final quarter of 2015 saw a small rebound.
Sam has more than 25 years investment experience.
He also fragmentation was evident, again, in Iberian elections leading manages the Fidelity European Fund.
topolitical uncertainty in both Spain and Portugal.
Elsewhere, in continental Europe, markets picked up along with global stock PERFORMANCE REVIEW markets.
US interest rates were, indeed, raised by a quarter As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the net asset point, as flagged and as expected, but markets seemed value NAV total return, in the year to 31 December 2015, was reassured that this turning point had been safely negotiated 6.9% compared to a total return of 5.3% for the FTSE World without any major adverse reaction so the year ended on a Europe ex UK Index which is the Companys Benchmark Index.
The share price total return was 9.2%, which is ahead of the NAV total return as a consequence of a narrowing in the share price PORTFOLIO REVIEW discount.
The discount narrowed from 4.6% at the beginning of The Companys NAV outperformed the benchmark by 1.6 % in the year to 2.9% at the end of the reporting period, based on the 2015.
Positive stock selection was the main contributor through NAV excluding income.
All figures in UK sterling terms.
This was particularly true in the first half of the year butin the second half of the year stock-picking detracted from MARKET BACKGROUND performance.
Gearing, achieved through the use of contracts 2015 reminded me of the Duke of York nursery rhyme.
Investors fordifference, added just a little to performance during the year marched to the top of the hill in April, led on by optimism about given the modest returns in the market and the relatively low a European economic recovery, thanksto the European Central level of leverage employed through the year.
Banks ECB program of quantitative easing QE, and then marched back down again, as concerns and nervousness The stock market trends established in the first half of 2015 regarding the outlook for global economic growth, and continued for the balance of the year such that most of the companies earnings, took over.
Thankfully, the market did not stronger performers of the first half, mentioned in detail in the quite march back to where it started the year, so the Index Companys Half-Yearly Report for the six months ended 30 June, registered a modest mid-single-digit gain in 2015, in sterling remained key positive contributors for the year.
Novo-Nordisk, the leading diabetes care company, and a number of banks and financial institutions, such as UBS and The ECB announced QE in January: a commitment to buy sixty Intesa Sanpaolo, where results gave more confidence in their billion euros of assets, mainly government bonds, each month, internal turnaround programmes and dividend capacity.
The programme started in March 2015.
Elsewhere, the continued fall in the oil price pressured holdings Continental European markets made huge gains as investors in the energy sector, particularly Royal Dutch Shell, following anticipated that the extra liquidity would feed into asset prices.
I remain confident that this will prove This was compounded by optimism that QE, coupled with lower a sensible deal, given Shells ability to improve returns of the oil prices and a weaker euro, would accelerate domestic combined entity through an increased focus on reducing costs economic growth in continental Europe through stronger and capital spending plans while focusing on the highest return consumption and higher exports.
On the back of this optimism, projects in the combined entity.
Success in disposing of non-core the first quarter of the year saw continental European markets businesses will be crucial in enabling the company to continue to rise 16%, and despite a weakening euro, this still translated into pay high levels of dividend until the oil price recovers.
Holdings a double digit gain in sterling terms.
The market peaked shortly in companies that export toor operate in emerging markets, afterwards, in April, at valuation levels not seen since before the such as Edenred, which has alarge part of its business in Brazil, last global financial crisis.
performed poorly in the second half of the year.
Many of these companies have strong business models and the financial For markets to make progress from thereon, earnings needed capacity to continue to pay healthy dividends, invest organically, tostart to rise to support such elevated levels of valuation.
and acquire businesses, while the external environment is Unfortunately, a litany of events brought down earnings difficult, which will be reflected in superior business and share expectations and, thereby, punctured the bubble of optimism price performance, as and when the environment improves.
that had driven the market to date.
There was a mid-year wobble as Greece reminded investors of the on-going issues, Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 5 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review The main detractor in the second half of the year was interest rate levels, and industrials, especially those that supply Volkswagen, due to the emissions scandal that many of you process industry customers and emerging market customers.
The company fell more than half, from its peak, before recovering somewhat in the fourth quarter when it Sentiment with talk of deflationary pressures and global appeared thatthe cost of fixing the European models which had recession has become quite cautious which is sometimes defeat devices would be less than originally expected and goodnews for investors prepared to take a contrarian when it alsobecame apparent that the negative impact on biasknowing that uncertainty about risks can often create sales, due tobrand damage, was largely focused on the opportunities for reward.
Valuation levels, however, still remain Volkswagen brand, rather than the very important Audi or elevated.
The median twelve month forward price to earnings Porsche brands.
Ibelieve that, although there is obviously a lot ratio for Europe ex-UK is still above long term averages, partly of uncertainty regarding the ultimate penalties the company will because smaller and medium sized companies are, often, highly face, in terms of fines, fix costs and reputational damage, the priced.
Although shares, overall, look pricey, some companies share price still discounts an overly pessimistic scenario, and sectors appearto be attractively valued compared to especially given the strength of the companys balance sheet.
Energy, some industrials, and parts of the Although Volkswagen is unlikely, in the short term, to increase financial sector all appear to be attractively valued unless one itsdividend from the current level, it would not be in the interest believes we are heading for a Japan-style deflationary era with of our shareholders to sell at too low a level.
I maintain a close sustainably low commodity prices.
European consumers seem watching brief and have hada number of contacts with the tobe in better health, for the time being, thanks to low interest company, at different levels, to determine if this crisis encourages rates and low oil prices but the concern is that their confidence the management to turn anew leaf in terms of strategy, with will be eroded if companies start to cut jobs to maintain earnings more focus on governance and shareholder returns than in the and if political uncertainty rises, as seen in Spain following their past.
Hopes for such change were the main reason your recent elections.
Company was invested in Volkswagen in the first place, although this crisis may accelerate that change.
I remain focused on attractively-valued companies, with strong balance sheets and atrack record in cash generation, which BREXIT have the potential to grow dividends consistently on a three to Although direct exposure to the UK economy is relatively small five year view.
I believe that this successful investment approach for continental European companies in aggregate it only will prove particularly effective in what is likely to continue to be represents about 6% of the revenues of the underlying companies a low growth era for continental Europe.
in the portfolio the indirect consequences of Brexit, if it happens, are likely to be more significant.
If the UK electorate Sam Morse votes to leave the European Union in the referendum to be held Portfolio Manager on 23 June 2016, uncertainty will rise and investors may question, 11 March 2016 again, the sustainability ofthe European Union.
Markets do not like uncertainty so share prices may fall, in the event of a leave vote.
Having said that, if the UK were to leave the European Union, it is also likely that UK sterling would depreciate further which would, of course, make overseas earnings and dividends more valuable to UK based investors.
The likely outcome of the vote is, at this stage, unclear so it is hard to say to what extent Brexit is already discounted in currencies and share prices.
OUTLOOK The market has been volatile to date in 2016 with the main trends, established in 2015, of weaker emerging markets and weaker commodities leading to concern about the outlook forthe earnings of many European companies.
Initially, the weakness in commodity prices was considered, on balance, to be positive for the European economy and European companies earnings.
The logic was that although companies directly exposed to commodity prices, such as the energy sector, would suffer in the short term, the majority of other companies would benefit from stronger consumer spending and cheaper input prices.
It seems, however, that the weakness in commodities is now permeating a number of areas leading to lower earnings expectations overall.
Related areas that have been affected include financials, especially banks pressured by continuing low Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 6 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
