237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 12 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 12 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review Media Software Brands Nick Train Elsevier, New Scientist, The Lancet, Lexis-Nexis Lindsell Train Limited Sage Portfolio Manager Longman, Addison-Wesley, Prentice Hall Daily Mail, MailOnline, Euromoney, Metal Bulletin, Bank Credit Analyst, Institutional Investor Fidessa Reuters, Westlaw It was drilled into me many years ago that there should never Celtic FC be any slack or deadwood in an active investment portfolio.
There should be a reason for every holding and a live, current Market Proxy Brands justification for the disposition of every penny of the capital LSE, FTSE, LCH, Russell entrusted to you.
Schroders, Cazenove Your Company has a concentrated portfolio which we believe Rathbones meets that test.
Every holding is a business that meets our Hargreaves Lansdown investment criteria.
This is most simply summarised as the Having said all this of course not every company is equally business owns a brand or franchise that makes it more or less special and we are alert to price value issues in some names, unique.
We want to be convinced that it would be difficult for after strong or weaker investment performance.
Below is a any competitor to replicate the assets of our investee brief account of where we think we are with each holding.
companies: ideally at all, or failing that, not to be able to replicate them for anything like their current enterprise value.
Shares have begun to tread water for the first time In addition, none of our holdings currently trades at a price in years and we are again gently adding for other Lindsell Train which we regard as excessive there is more or less upside to accounts with lower weightings than the Company.
A. G. Barr our valuation targets.
has a 22% share of the Scottish carbonates market and 3% in England.
There is plenty of scope for key brands IRN-BRU and We list here the key brands and franchises that comprise the Rubicon to grow south of the border and the cannily earnings power of your Companys portfolio.
However conservative balance sheet is a comfort.
hackneyed, these are the properties that make me feel comfortable when I add to my own investment in the Burberry Group.
Modest lease-adjusted net debt of only Company.
400m is sensible for Burberry, with its undeniable fashion and geographic risk.
Notwithstanding recent fluctuations, its Asian franchise remains enviable and we expect the Chinese to Consumer Brands cease aspiring to wear Burberry gabardine around the same Dove, Hellmans, Knorr, Magnum, Rexona time as they lose their thirst for premium cognac.
We still see Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, Captain Morgan, Baileys, Tanquerey, Herms as the best quoted comparator for Burberry and note Guinness, Crown Royal the French company is valued far more highly Herms has a Heineken, Amstel, Kingfisher, Sol, Strongbow, Tiger price earnings ratio of 35x against Burberrys 17x and a Burberry price sales ratio of 7x against Burberrys 2.5x.
Quoted Cadbury, Halls, Milka, Nabisco, Oreos, Ritz, Toblerone luxury prestige brands of Burberrys calibre are rare anywhere Dr Pepper, 7UP, Schweppes, Snapple and unique in the UK.
Heinz, Philadelphia Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen Celtic.
The company has reported a c4m annual loss last year IRN-BRU, Rubicon 11m profit but was able to add to its net cash balances, now London Pride at 4.7 million.
This last factor is important.
The company is Youngs committed to living within its means: as it needs to in the Remy Martin, Cointreau current straitened circumstances for Scottish football.
But note that Celtic still generated revenues of 50m last year.
Recent transactions for top tier soccer franchises have taken place at 5.0x revenues or higher.
Notionally Celtic might be worth 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 13 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 13 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review 250m, against its sub 70m market capitalisation.
We derivatives product 35% growth, now 8% of the total has continue to build our holding in this unique global brand.
not been enough to get the top line moving.
We believe its service remains business-critical for customers which comprise Daily Mail & General Trust.
The UK has failed to produce a some 85% of the premier banks brokers worldwide.
Were Facebook, Google or Alibaba.
However it has turned out the great supporters of management, but cant help noting that worlds most visited online English-language newspaper another UK software company, AVEVA, was bid for recently, MailOnline and this is no trivial thing.
There is manifestly a after a period when its end markets were suffering energy.
buoyant market in the US for media assets that attract millions A takeout for Fidessa on the same terms could treble the shares.
of eyeballs as recent deals Verizon AOL and notably NBC Buzzfeed demonstrate.
Daily Mail owns a nice collection Greene King.
Dividends have grown at 8% compound for of B2B digital assets, exhibitions and a dying print newspaper more than a quarter of a century and the company operates a which will generate a lot more cash before ultimate expiry.
business model we like asset-backed pub retail, with own We calculate the current market capitalisation could easily be brand brewing.
However the company has recently closed a accounted for by just these.
MailOnline currently lossmajor acquisition, in the process issuing a lot of new shares making comes for free, but could be worth billions one day.
and we are content just now to watch how the deal beds in.
Even the best companies go through tough periods Hargreaves Lansdown.
From a peak in early 2014, Hargreaves and cost investors unrealised losses even Coke is still below Lansdown has become somewhat cheaper.
We find it hard to swallow that Diageo could share price still 10% down, but also continued, strong asset lose 8% operating profits in one emerging market Venezuela.
The bears would say it needs to get cheaper But here we are earnings and stock in the doldrums.
Note still, because of the high price earnings ratio, but its easy to though, that Diageo recently refinanced its book of debt at a forget almost all Hargreaves Lansdowns business investment new low rate of 3.5%.
That tells us investors regard the cash goes through the P&L, depressing earnings and making it look flows as exceptionally safe.
It strikes us that 3.5% is not far from more expensive than it actually is.
Still a young company, we the current dividend yield on the ordinary shares meaning, think.
effectively, Diageo could swap equity for debt at virtually no Heineken.
The most recent dividend increase was 22%.
The cost, boosting earnings on the remaining if it, or someone Heineken family may be signalling to the other big family else, wanted to do so.
shareholder the Mexicans who sold Sol to Heineken and own Dr. Pepper Snapple.
From $14 in 2009 to $82 today, it has 15% that continuing independence will bring tangible cash been an amazing run, a great advertisement for spin-offs in rewards.
No doubt SABs very public approach to Heineken general and standing rebuke to Cadbury management that it last year was a shock.
Now the bid for SAB confirms another was unable to unlock this value for UK shareholders.
We cant round of industry consolidation and Heineken is a prize brand.
expect a further quintupling over the next 6 years, but The Kraft Heinz Company.
This Warren Buffet-backed merger Dr. Pepper remains an attractive vehicle to play US population has created a formidable combination: with cost savings and growth, particularly Hispanic and a strong US$ it has no possible future deals to look forward to.
We have added to the earnings outside North America.
However, of all our consumer Euromoney Institutional Investor.
Tough times for this owner branded goods companies this is the one with the highest of must-have information services for participants in financial exposure to processed foods a lower growth category.
A and emerging markets and commodity industries.
Quality of possible source of funds.
earnings is improving even before any recovery in these London Stock Exchange.
Shares have quadrupled in 5 years markets, as advertising drops to circa 10% of revenues, creating huge value for the Companys shareholders.
They replaced by subscriptions to digital services.
To be clear, trade on circa 6.0x annual revenues, in line with Deutsche Euromoney is one of the best collections of B2B assets we Bourse.
We remain a committed holder, but would love to be know anywhere in the world.
Daily Mails 66% holding provides offered a period of consolidation before buying more.
an important backstop for the price.
The owner of Cadbury and Krafts Fidessa.
Shares have lost 25% this year as trading confectionary and biscuit brands.
These are good food disappointed.
Capacity is still coming out of European brands affordable treats that have successfully resisted investment banking and Fidessas new and successful own-label copycats.
Mondelez has been dealing with activist FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 14 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 14 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review investors almost as soon as it fide-merged from Kraft, with Trian Schroders.
One analyst we know describes the company as attempting to broker a merger with PepsiCo and now Pershing boring - but in a flattering way.
And we know what he Square taking a 7% stake.
Cadbury really has been the gift that means.
Schroders is well diversified by client type, asset class keeps on giving to Company shareholders.
and geography and with its scale something is always going right somewhere for performance or a particular asset class.
12 months ago we had two concerns about Pearson.
Again, if in doubt look at the dividend history: from 1.8p in First, the challenge of migrating its analogue educational 1988 to 83p in 2015 is 15% compound.
The fact is capital publishing assets to digital in short, turning text books into markets go up over time and savings flows tend to be directed software services.
Next its increasingly creaky balance sheet.
This will drive dividends in decades to Today, after disposing of the Financial Times and The come.
Schroders is big by UK standards, with circa 350bn Economist at, to us, satisfactory prices, the latter worry has assets under management.
But Blackrock at 3.1 trillion or been dealt with.
What can be said now is that Pearson has the Fidelity at 3.4 trillion are reminders theres a lot more to go for.
potential to consolidate its existing position as global leader in not just the creation of educational software, but also its Thomson Reuters.
On balance it might have been better to effective implementation.
We think this is one of the better have sold our Reuters stock in 2007, when it was bid for, rather growth ideas in the UK stock market.
But acknowledge that than retain equity in the merged group.
The shares are only success is not guaranteed.
circa 10% higher than when the deal was done.
However, since 2012 they have doubled, as the merger benefits have come Rathbone Brothers.
One of the best dividend growth histories through and are up 14% in 2015.
The legal franchise, Westlaw, in the portfolio 2.8p to 54p in 25 years is an impressive 14% is global #1 and Compliance and parts of Reuters News and compound.
Well-run private wealth management is clearly an Financial currency trading in particular are also world class.
inherently cash generative and stable model, whatever the ups and downs of markets as long as they are mostly up over Unilever.
Emerging markets have taken a beating in Summer time.
2015, which has been unhelpful for sentiment toward Unilever.
Fortunately the company has been cleverly run in recent years RELX.
Morgan Stanley puts the bull case for RELX formerly and has strengthened its balance sheet through the good Reed Elsevier best: There is a growing appreciation of the times.
Earlier this year the company was able to issue 7 year fusion of Big Data and high speed computing power to inform debt at an interest rate of just 0.5%, testament to its financial and drive decision-making in the professional industries RELX strength.
Its financial and brand strength means Unilever wont serves raising barriers to entry and the value of its services.
just survive, it will thrive for far longer than most UK quoted The company is the worlds 4th largest digital business as companies.
It is no accident that this is our biggest holding.
We expect revenues and the stock market rating to rise materially from here.
Strong share price performance over the holding.
past decade discourages us from adding to these wonderful parcels of assets.
But we would never get the equity back if we Remy Cointreau.
Take a look at the sold and perhaps one day there will be an opportunity to valuation of Brown Forman if you want to understand why a accumulate again.
patient investor might look at Remy.
A big contributor to the Company over the last 12 months still up 12.5% in 2015.
Seen as a dowdy dividend stock by UK investors, Sages recently announced joint Nick Train ventures in cloud computing with Salesforce and Microsoft Director have reminded them that a 6 million customer base, spread Lindsell Train Limited across UK, Europe, USA and South Africa offers a huge Portfolio Manager untapped pool of purchasers of new software services.
Secular technology growth is rare in the UKs resource heavy stock 10 December 2015 market.
Sages shares are still 35% below their 2000 peak we think theres a decent chance they will at last take that old top out in this bull market.
