237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 06 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 06 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Discount Control Mechanism DCM Shareholders in the Company will know that the principal premium to NAV per share.
This ensures that there is no asset difference between investment trusts and the other most dilution to our existing shareholders, but stops the market common collective investment vehicles, unit trusts and open price going to a significant and possibly unsustainable ended investment companies OEICs, is that premium.
We do therefore effectively become a market maker in our own shares and you can see from the chart on page 7 to participate in unit trusts and OEICs, investors apply to how successful that has been.
the fund managers for new units or shares.
These are normally issued and redeemed at or near to net asset These two sides of our DCM are widely to be found elsewhere value NAV per share, whereas in the investment trust sector, but there is a third aspect to ours that is rare.
As explained above, shares held in treasury to participate in an investment trust requires the continue to exist legally and can be re-sold, but in most cases purchase or sale of the shares in that trust through the shareholders will only permit that if they are re-sold at NAV per stock market.
For many years we have sought and obtained The shares in an investment trust usually trade at a price the authority of our shareholders to re-sell shares held in closely linked to its NAV per share, but they seldom if ever treasury at a discount to NAV per share, provided that any sale trade at exactly the NAV per share, or at par as it is known.
is at a narrower discount to NAV per share than that prevailing Historically the great majority of investment trusts have traded when the shares were bought in.
The round trip of buying at a discount to NAV per share, often well into double digits, them in and then selling them out again at a finer discount is although there are a select few, usually specialist, trusts that always asset-accretive to shareholders, but it is the increased trade at a premium.
liquidity that this arrangement permits that is the real benefit.
There are some investors who find the ability to buy stock in We have not had to use this power for many years, but there investment trusts at a discount attractive, although they are was a point some years ago where it was very useful to us in rarely so enthusiastic if they have to sell at a discount.
helping us place a large holding of shares in the Company that However, your Directors believe that it is in the best interests of was too large for the market to digest in one go.
We therefore all our shareholders whether buying, holding or selling that bought part of that holding into treasury and then sold the the Companys shares trade at a price as close to NAV per shares out to the market over the next few months in smaller share as possible.
The whole operation was a great success and we are therefore very keen to keep this power in The level of discount, or premium, at which investment trust our DCM armoury.
shares trade is very substantially affected by the law of supply and demand: put simply a much sought-after share rarely It is Resolutions 10, 11, 12 and 13 in the Notice of Annual trades at a significant discount and may even trade at a General Meeting beginning on page 74 that enable us to premium, whereas out of favour shares often move to material operate what we consider to have been a very effective DCM discounts.
in recent years and we strongly recommend that shareholders therefore vote in favour of those resolutions in order to In an effort to try to eliminate discount volatility, your Directors continue it.
introduced a discount control mechanism DCM in 2004.
Under our DCM, we will normally buy in the Companys shares being offered on the stock market whenever the discount reaches a level of 5% or more and then hold those shares in treasury.
Shares held by a company in treasury are, for accounting purposes, effectively eliminated but, legally and for Stock Exchange purposes, they continue to exist, which means they can later be sold back to the market if conditions permit.
In recent years the Companys successful performance has generated substantial investor interest, which in the absence of the other side of our DCM could have led to our shares moving to a significant premium to NAV per share.
Your Directors consider that limiting the premium is just as important as limiting the discount: no-one likes to pay over the odds for an investment!
The other side of our DCM is therefore that whenever there are unsatisfied buying orders for our shares in the market, we issue new shares at a small 237135 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp23 SR 14 12 2015 10:59 Page 07 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 07 07 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 Strategic Report Discount Control Mechanism DCM The chart below demonstrates the premium discount that the Company shares traded at during the year relative to NAV per share.
Number of Shares in Issue excluding Treasury Shares Million 130.0 120.0 110.0 100.0 90.0 80.0 70.0 60.0 50.0 40.0 30.0 20.0 10.0 0.0 Sep-05 Sep-06 Sep-07 Sep-08 Sep-09 Sep-10 Sep-11 Sep-12 Sep-13 Sep-14 Sep-15 Source: Frostrow Capital LLP Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
