Business model Foreign & Colonials objective is to deliver long-term growth in both capital and income for our shareholders.
In order to meet this objective the Board believes that equity exposure sourced from public and private markets should be the strategic focus.
Our approach The Board Our approach is designed to provide shareholders with the longThe Board is responsible for corporate strategy: corporate term investment performance benefits of concentrated individual governance: risk and control assessment: the overall investment investment portfolio strategies alongside the diversification benefits and dividend policies: setting limits on gearing and asset allocation: of lower risk and volatility that derive from being managed as part of monitoring investment performance and for approving marketing a larger combined portfolio.
These distinct strategies are managed budgets.
An important responsibility is the formal annual evaluation on both a global and regional basis, without constraints to specific and appointment of the Manager, which also acts as the Alternative countries, continents, industries or sectors, to provide a breadth of Investment Fund Manager.
The wholly non-executive Board sources of return.
comprises six male and two female Directors.
We blend the expertise of our appointed Manager, F&C, with The Fund Manager those of external fund managers to create a truly diversified As Fund Manager on behalf of F&C, Paul Niven is responsible for global investment strategy.
F&C has overall responsibility for the developing and implementing the investment strategy with the Board and management of the Companys assets, asset allocation, gearing, for the day-to-day management of the total portfolio covering the entire stock and sector selection and risk within policies set by the Board.
range of individual investment portfolio strategies.
The role covers tactical decisions over the allocation of assets between the different investment Whilst a number of the individual portfolio strategies are managed portfolio strategies as well as decisions over levels and timing of gearing directly by F&C, they have the flexibility to delegate to external third party within the prescribed range.
Paul Niven is responsible for overall portfolio managers.
The North America large and mid-cap equity portfolios and composition but delegates stock selection decisions.
The underlying the Private Equity funds of funds portfolios are managed externally.
The portfolio specialist management teams are responsible and accountable Global Multi-Manager portfolio comprises a wide range of externally to him and ultimately to the Board for their investment performance.
managed funds selected by F&Cs specialist multi-manager team.
Marketing Information on the Companys investment strategy can be found F&C continues to promote investment in the Companys shares, which in the Fund Managers Review.
The top twenty listed holdings and are suitable for retail distribution in the UK as well as professionally funds can be found on pages 20 and 21 and the full list of advised private clients and institutional investors.
Promotion has investments can be viewed on the website.
While we invest mainly traditionally been made through the F&C Savings Plans, which remain in the shares or equities of companies publicly listed on global stock a cost effective and flexible way to invest in the Company.
markets, we retain complete investment flexibility.
We will invest in other types of securities or assets depending on the return prospects The Company continues to see a notable increase in the number of and in consideration of implications for the broader portfolio.
shares held through investment platforms.
The Board hopes to see access to the Companys shares on as many platforms as possible as F&Cs fee is based on the market capitalisation of the Company, thus more and more investors make their own investment decisions in the fully aligning their interests with shareholders through share price wake of the Retail Distribution Review.
The ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, accounting and marketing services are also carried out by F&C.
The Board will continue to work closely with F&C to ensure optimal delivery of the Companys investment proposition through all available channels including the Internet and social media.
10 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
