Directors Report The Directors submit the Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Corporate Governance Statement: the Reports of the Management Engagement, Nomination and Audit Committees: and the Remuneration Policy and Remuneration Report all form part of this Directors Report.
Statement regarding Report and Accounts Investment trust taxation status The Directors consider that, following advice from the Audit The Company is liable to UK corporation tax on its net revenue Committee, the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, profits but is exempt from corporation taxation on capital gains, balanced and understandable and provides the information provided it complies at all times with section 1158 of the Corporation necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and Tax Act 2010.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee and Customs as an investment trust, subject to it continuing to meet had reviewed the draft Report and Accounts for the purpose of this the relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements.
assessment having also put in place an arms length process to provide additional comfort to the Directors in making this statement.
Accounting The outlook for the Company can be found on pages 9, 17, The Financial Statements, starting on page 53, comply with 18 and 19.
Principal Risks can be found on page 22 current UK Financial Reporting Standards, supplemented by the with further information in note 25 to the accounts.
The significant accounting policies of the Company are set instances where the Company is required to make disclosures in out in note 2 on the accounts.
The unqualified auditors opinion on respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
the Financial Statements appears on page 47.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the adoption of the Report and Accounts at the Results and dividends Annual General Meeting Resolution 1.
The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The three interim dividends totalling 6.90 pence per share, together with Statement as to disclosure of information to the auditors the final dividend of 2.70 pence per share, which will be paid on Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge 3 May 2016 to shareholders registered on 1 April 2016 subject to and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of the approval at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 3, will bring the Report and Accounts of which PwC is unaware and he or she has total dividend for the year to 9.60 pence per share.
This represents taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have an increase of 3.2% over the comparable 9.3 pence per share paid taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that in respect of the previous year.
PwC is aware of that information.
Company status For the reasons explained on pages 43, 44 and 85, PwC will not The Company is a public limited company and an investment seek reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
company as defined by Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is registered in England and Wales with Voting policy on portfolio investments company registration number 12901 and is subject to the UK The Manager, in the absence of explicit instructions from the Board, Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, UK and European legislation and is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys regulations including company law, financial reporting standards, voting rights.
All shareholdings are voted at all meetings worldwide taxation law and its own articles of association.
where practicable in accordance with F&Cs own corporate governance policy, which is to seek to maximise shareholder 28 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT value by constructive use of votes at company meetings and by endeavouring to use its influence as an investor with a principled approach to corporate governance.
In 2015, F&C had engaged with 172 companies held by Foreign & Colonial over 31 countries and had voted in respect of Foreign & Colonials holdings at 369 company meetings on a range of issues.
Key themes in 2015 included the risks associated with fossil fuel investment, the alignment of pay with business strategy and risk, and emerging market labour standards in In 2015 our Manager engaged supply chains.
with 172 companies held by F&Cs statement of compliance with The UK Stewardship Code has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which encourages Foreign & Colonial over 31 and supports F&C on its voting policy and its stance towards environmental, social and governance issues.
The statement is countries and had voted in available on F&Cs website at www.
respect of Foreign & Colonials The Board periodically receives a report on instances where F&C has voted against the recommendation of the management on any holdings at 369 company resolution.
It also expects to be informed of any sensitive voting issues involving the Companys investments.
meetings on a range of issues.
Capital structure At the annual general meeting held on 28 April 2015, shareholders authorised the Board to buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares either to be held in treasury or to be cancelled.
A total of 3,318,947 shares were bought back of which 473,000 were cancelled and 2,845,947 were held in treasury.
The shares bought back represented 0.6% of the shares in issue at 31 December 2014.
This enhanced the net asset value per share by 0.1 pence.
The purchases were made at prices ranging between 431.92 pence and 452.87 pence and the aggregate consideration paid for the shares, including stamp duty and commissions, was 14,788,000.
As at 31 December 2015 there were 561,819,016 ordinary shares of 25 of 556,203,022 voting rights.
As at 31 December 2015 and since pence each ordinary shares in issue of which 2,845,947 were that date no notifications of significant voting rights have been held in treasury.
Therefore the total number of voting rights in the received under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Company at that date was 558,973,069.
Between the date of the Transparency Rules.
year end and 3 March 2016 a total of 2,770,047 shares have been bought back leaving the number of shares in issue at 561,819,016 of Approximately 44% of the Companys share capital is held on behalf which the number of shares in treasury is 5,615,994. of non-discretionary clients through the F&C savings plans.
The nominee company holding these shares votes the shares held on All ordinary shares rank equally for dividends and distributions and behalf of planholders who have not returned their voting directions carry one vote each.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer in proportion to the directions of those who have proportional of securities in the Company, no special rights with regard to control voting.
Implementation of this arrangement is subject to a attached to securities, no agreements between holders of securities minimum threshold of 5% of the shares held in the savings plans regarding their transfer known to the Company and no agreement being voted.
A maximum limit of 611,000 shares that any one which the Company is party to that affects its control following a individual investor can vote, being approximately 5% of the minimum takeover bid.
Details of the capital structure can be found in note threshold, also applies.
Any shares voted by an investor in excess 17 on the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company including of the maximum limit remain valid, but do not form part of the accumulated revenue reserves, together with the realised capital proportional voting basis.
Planholders have the right to exclude their profits of the Company, are available for distribution by way of shares from the proportional voting arrangement.
dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would Borrowings be distributed to shareholders pro rata to their holdings of ordinary The Company has the flexibility to borrow over the longer term and shares.
Full details are set out in the Companys articles of association.
to use short-term borrowings by way of loans and overdrafts, subject to the limit set out on page 11 in the Companys investment policy Voting rights and proportional voting statement.
A fixed term seven year 50 million borrowing in the At 3 March 2016 the Companys 561,819,016 ordinary shares in currency equivalent of 72 million was put in place with Royal Bank issue less the 5,615,994 shares held in treasury represented a total of Scotland during the year.
There is a borrowing of 100 million with Report and Accounts 2015 | 29 JPMorgan Chase Bank in the currency equivalents of US$80 million Depositary and 6,600 million for a fixed term of seven years maturing in April JPMorgan Europe Limited acts as the Companys Depositary in 2019.
Two 100 million committed multi-currency facilities are in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive place with Scotia Capital and Royal Bank of Scotland which mature AIFMD.
The Depositarys responsibilities, which are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on the Companys website, include: in December 2016 and 2017.
Both of these facilities provide for the option to request an additional commitment of 100 million.
There is cash monitoring: ensuring the proper segregation and safe keeping of also a multi-currency overdraft facility with JPMorgan Chase.
Further the Companys financial instruments that are held by the Custodian: reference is made on page 17 and in notes 13 and 15 on the and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment and leverage limits requirements.
The Depositary receives for its services accounts.
The Company also has a longstanding 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
a fee of one basis point per annum on the first 1 billion of the Companys net assets and 0.25 basis points per annum on net assets Directors remuneration report in excess of that amount, payable monthly in arrears.
The Directors remuneration policy and annual remuneration report, which can be found on pages 38 to 40, provide detailed Although the Depositary has delegated the safekeeping of all assets information on the remuneration arrangements for Directors of the held within the Companys investment portfolio to the Custodian, in Company.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors Annual the event of loss of those assets that constitute financial instruments Report on Remuneration on page 39 excluding the remuneration under the AIFMD, the Depositary will be obliged to return to the Company financial instruments of an identical type, or the policy which is next due for approval in 2017 Resolution 2. corresponding amount of money, unless it can demonstrate that the Director re-elections loss has arisen as a result of an external event beyond its reasonable The names of the Directors of the Company, along with their control, the consequences of which would have been unavoidable biographical details, are set on pages 26 to 27 and are despite all reasonable efforts to the contrary.
incorporated into this report by reference.
All the Directors held office throughout the year under review and, with the exception of Mr Management fees Keljik, will stand for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Information on the management fees payable by the Company are Meeting in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate set out in the Report of the Management Engagement Committee on page 35.
The Nomination Committee has considered each Director and the Board has concurred with the Nomination Committees assessment that each Director is Greenhouse gas emissions independent, continues to make a valuable and effective contribution All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
As such it does not have any physical assets, property, employees or and remains committed in the role.
Mr Keljik will retire immediately following the meeting having served as a Director for over ten years.
operations of its own and does not generate any greenhouse gas or other emissions.
Directors interests and indemnification There were no contracts of significance to which the Company was Annual General Meeting a party and in which a Director is, or was, materially interested during The Annual General Meeting will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, the year.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2 on Tuesday, 26 April 2016 at Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting appears on pages 81 to 84 and includes a map of the venue.
The Fund Manager will give a presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask The Company has granted a deed of indemnity to the Directors in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in the capacity as questions during the meeting.
Shareholders will be able to meet the Directors of the Company.
This covers any liabilities that may arise Directors informally over refreshments afterwards.
to a third party for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
This Appointment of auditor and auditors remuneration deed of indemnity is a qualifying third-party provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been in force Resolutions 11 and 12 throughout the period under review and remains in place as at the The auditor of a company has to be appointed at each annual date of this report.
It is available for inspection at the Companys general meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders.
registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual By mutual agreement between PwC and the Board, PwC will not seek reappointment when their term of office expires at the end of General Meeting.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
the Annual General Meeting for the reasons set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 43 and 44 and in PwCs Safe custody of assets statement set out on page 85.
Shareholders will be asked to approve resolutions to appoint EY as the Companys independent The Companys listed investments are held in safe custody by the Custodian, JPMorgan Chase.
Operational matters with the Custodian external auditors with effect from the conclusion of the Annual are carried out on the Companys behalf by the Manager via F&C General Meeting and for the Audit Committee to determine their in accordance with the provisions of the investment management remuneration.
The Report of the Audit Committee on page 41 agreement.
The Custodian is paid a variable fee dependent on the provides more background to the recommendation to appoint EY.
number of trades transacted and location of the securities held.
30 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Authority to allot shares and sell shares from treasury see above and provides the Company with additional flexibility in the Resolutions 13 and 15 management of its capital base.
Such shares may be resold for cash By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant but all rights attaching to them, including voting rights and any right rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
to receive dividends are suspended whilst they are in the treasury.
In addition, directors require specific authority from shareholders If the Board exercises the authority conferred by Resolution 14, before allotting new shares or granting rights over shares for cash the Company will have the option of either holding in treasury or or selling shares out of treasury, without first offering them to existing of cancelling any of its shares purchased pursuant to this authority shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
and will decide at the time of purchase which option to pursue.
Purchases of ordinary shares under the authority will be financed Resolution 13 gives the Directors the necessary authority to allot out of realised revenue and or capital reserves and funded from the securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6.95m, 27.8m Companys own cash resources or, if appropriate, from short-term ordinary shares, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the borrowings.
The authority to purchase ordinary shares will continue Companys current issued share capital calculated exclusive of any until the annual general meeting in 2017 or on 30 June 2017, shares being held by the Company in treasury as at 3 March 2016, whichever is the earlier.
The Board intends to seek a renewal of such being the latest practicable date before the publication of the Notice of authority at subsequent annual general meetings.
the Annual General Meeting, with the power to allot such securities for cash otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
The VOTING authority and power expires at the conclusion of the annual general Form of proxy meeting in 2017 or on 30 June 2017, whichever is the earlier.
If you are a registered shareholder you will find enclosed a form of proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting.
You will also have Resolution 15 empowers the Directors to allot such securities for the option of lodging your proxy vote using the Internet.
For shares cash, other than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis and held through CREST, proxy appointments may be submitted via the also to sell treasury shares without first offering them to existing CREST proxy voting system.
Please either complete, sign and return shareholders in proportion to their holdings up to an aggregate the form of proxy in the envelope provided as soon as possible in nominal amount also of 6.95m representing approximately 5% of accordance with the instructions or, alternatively, lodge your proxy the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 3 March 2016. vote via the Internet or the CREST proxy voting system, whether or not you intend to be present at the Annual General Meeting.
This will These authorities and powers provide the Directors with a degree of not preclude you from attending and voting in person if you so wish.
flexibility to increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new shares or the sale of treasury shares, in accordance with the policies All proxy appointments should in any event be returned or lodged so set out on page 11 or should any other favourable opportunities as to be received not later than 48 hours before the time appointed arise to the advantage of shareholders.
for holding the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors anticipate that they will mainly use them to satisfy Form of direction and proportional voting demand from participants in the F&C Savings Plans when they If you are an investor in any of the F&C Savings Plans, you will have believe it is advantageous to such participants and the Companys received a form of direction for use at the Annual General Meeting shareholders to do so.
Under no circumstances would the Directors and you will also have the option of lodging your voting directions use them to issue shares or sell treasury shares at a price which using the Internet.
F&C operates a proportional voting arrangement, would result in a dilution of net asset value per ordinary share.
which is explained on page 29.
Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares All voting directions should be made as soon as possible in accordance Resolution 14 with the instructions on the form of direction and, in any event, not later Resolution 14 authorises the Company to purchase in the market than 12 noon on 19 April 2016, so that the nominee company can up to a maximum of 83,370,000 ordinary shares equivalent to submit a form of proxy before the 48 hour period begins.
approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital exclusive of treasury shares at a minimum price of 25 pence per share and a Recommendation maximum price per share of not more than 5% above the average Your Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five a whole.
The Board therefore recommends that shareholders vote in business days immediately before the date of purchase, reflecting favour of each resolution, as the Directors intend to do in respect of requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules.
The Directors would continue to use this authority in accordance By order of the Board, with the strategy set out on page 11.
Under the Companies Act for and on behalf of 2006, the Company is allowed to hold its own shares in treasury F&C Investment Business Limited following a buyback, instead of having to cancel them.
This gives the Secretary Company the ability to reissue treasury shares quickly and cost- 7 March 2016 effectively including pursuant to the authority under Resolution 13, Report and Accounts 2015 | 31
