OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Policies Responsible ownership Investment policy statement The Board supports F&C in its belief that good governance creates value.
F&C takes a particular interest in corporate governance and sustainable The Company invests globally.
Risk diversification is achieved business practices, and continues to work on systematically incorporating through geographic asset allocation and industry sector and environmental, social and governance factors into its investment stock selection across a wide range of markets.
This is based on the view that companies with strong general policy of maintaining a diversified portfolio, there are no management focus on these areas have the potential to reduce risks specific geographic or industry sector exposure limits for the facing their business and deliver sustainable performance over the longer publicly listed equities.
The Board has placed a limit of 5% of term.
Engagement with companies on significant matters, so as to reduce the value of the total portfolio on unlisted securities, at the time risk, improve performance, encourage best practice and underpin longof acquisition and excluding Private Equity investments, and any term investor value forms an important part of F&Cs approach towards unlisted investment requires specific Board approval.
approval would be sought in the event that the Board considers that the long-term exposure to Private Equity investments should The Board periodically receives a report on instances where the Manager exceed a figure of 20%.
has voted against the recommendation of the management on any resolution.
It also expects to be informed of any sensitive voting issues Under the Companys articles of association, with limited involving the Companys investments.
Information on F&Cs engagement exceptions, no single investment may be made by the Company and voting at company meetings in relation to the Company and where to which exceeds 10% of the value of the total portfolio at the time find their statement of compliance with The UK Stewardship Code can be of acquisition.
Under the Listing Rules, no more than 10% of found on pages 28 and 29. the total assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended investment companies, unless such investment companies have Gearing themselves published investment policies to invest no more Over many years the Company has used borrowings to enhance its than 15% of their total assets in other closed-ended investment returns.
The Board has set a gearing range as explained opposite companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
The Board has placed in the Investment policy statement.
The flexible structure created to a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio on investment manage borrowings is explained by the Fund Manager on page 17. funds managed by F&C at the time of acquisition, and any such investment requires specific Board approval.
Buybacks and share issues Borrowings, which can be taken out either in Sterling or foreign Stability in Foreign & Colonials share price discount to net asset currency, would normally be expected to fall within a range of value has been achieved and maintained over many years through 020% of shareholders funds.
the Boards adherence to its long-held policy of buying back shares for cancellation.
The Boards aspiration, however, is to see Foreign & The Company will typically remain fully invested in equities, Colonials shares trading in the market at or close to its net asset value but is not prohibited from investing in other types of securities per share.
Therefore the Board announced in May 2015 that the ceiling or assets.
Derivatives may be used for the purpose of income within which Foreign & Colonial buys back its shares was being lowered enhancement and portfolio management covering tactical from 10% to a new average level of 7.5%, in normal market conditions, asset allocation and risk mitigation including protection against as part of a progressive discount control strategy.
The policy will be kept currency risks within strict limits.
Buying back shares at a discount to net asset value not only reduces The Companys full list of discount volatility, it can also enhance shareholder returns.
In the investments exceeds 500 and is event that the share price moves to a premium the Board will utilise its shareholder authority to sell shares held in treasury or to issue new published monthly on the website at shares.
This would have the similar effect of moderating any excessive premium whilst making small accretions to the net asset value per www.
Shareholder authority will be sought at the Annual General Meeting for the renewal of powers to buy back shares to be held in, and Copies are also available on request ultimately to be resold from, treasury.
from the Secretary Report and Accounts 2015 | 11
