OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Management Engagement Committee Role of the Committee as part of BMO and their continued support for its investment trust The primary role of the Management Engagement Committee is business.
With regard to performance, the net asset value total to review the investment management agreement and monitor the return had beaten the Companys benchmark over one, three, five performance of the Manager for the investment, secretarial, financial, and ten years and the weighted average of the net asset value total administration, marketing and support services that it provides return of the AIC Global sector over the same period.
The Committee under that agreement, together with its terms including the level met in closed session following the presentations and concluded and structure of fees payable, the length of notice period and best that in their opinion the continuing appointment of FCIB as Manager practice provisions generally.
All of the Management Engagement on the terms agreed was in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Committees responsibilities have been carried out over the course of The Board ratified this recommendation.
The Managers fees Composition of the Committee An important responsibility of the Committee is that relating to All the Directors are members of the Committee.
Its terms of reference management fees.
The Manager receives an annual fee, which for the can be found on the website at www.
com year under review was equal to 0.365% of the market capitalisation of the Company.
The fee is calculated and paid monthly and is Manager evaluation process subject to a deduction for amounts earned from investments in other The Committee met twice during the year and again in January investment vehicles managed by F&C.
The amount received was 9.0 2016 for the purpose of the formal evaluation of the Managers million 2014: 7.9 million.
Note 4 on the accounts provides detailed performance including the contribution from F&C more widely.
Their information in relation to the management fee.
performance is considered by the Board at every meeting, with a formal evaluation by the Committee each year.
For the purposes Whilst the funds held in the Global Multi-Manager portfolio levy of its ongoing monitoring, the Board receives detailed reports and management fees, no fees are paid to the Manager for the selection views from the Fund Manager on investment policy, asset allocation, of the funds.
gearing and risk, together with quarterly presentations on the F&C managed portfolio strategies.
Quarterly updates are received from Review of the Managers fee the US sub-managers.
The Board also receives comprehensive The Committee met in December 2015 to review the fee paid to performance measurement schedules, provided by Morningstar UK the Manager, which had last been set five years ago.
These enable it to assess: the success or failure were given by both F&C and an independent consultant, which of the management of the total portfolio against the performance had provided an in-depth analysis of fees prevailing in the market objectives set by the Board: the sources of positive and negative place and trends both within the investment trust industry and more contribution to the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset allocation and widely.
The findings of the independent consultant were that the stock selection: and the performance of each investment portfolio existing structure and fee level were both sensible and aligned in the strategy against its local index, where applicable, and the risk return key areas.
Although market capitalisation as the basis for the fee characteristics of the portfolio.
Portfolio performance information, calculation was uncommon, this was now appearing more and more which is relevant in monitoring F&C, the sub-managers and the in new issues and the basis had worked well for Foreign & Colonial Private Equity managers, is set out on pages 14 to 19. in terms of its simplicity: clarity: discount tightening: and alignment.
This was consistent with F&Cs own assessment.
In summary, Manager reappointment the Company was meeting the key criteria for an appropriate The annual evaluation that took place in January 2016 included management fee structure, which were regarded as: presentations from F&Cs Chief Executive Officer, the Co-Head of Competitive Investment, the Fund Manager and the Head of Investment Trusts.
Simple and uncomplicated This focused primarily on the objectives set by the Board and F&Cs Sufficiently incentivised contribution towards achieving those objectives particularly in regard to investment strategy and marketing.
As part of the evaluation, the The Committee also took into consideration that the Company had Group Head of BMO Wealth Management and the Co-CEO of BMO broadened its investment capabilities by allocating additional assets Global Asset Management reported to the Board on the strength to F&Cs Multi Manager team at no additional direct management of these businesses and the resources and opportunities for F&C cost as well as services from other areas within the business.
There Report and Accounts 2015 | 35 also remained scope to reduce management costs from externally managed assets by utilising existing resource within F&C under the new structure referred to on page 16.
The Committee concluded that on the basis of the review there was no immediate need for the Company to change the rate of the fee payable to the Manager but to continue to monitor developments and made a recommendation to the Board to that effect.
The Board subsequently endorsed the Committees recommendation and agreed that in future the fee would be reviewed every three years instead of five.
Third Party Managers fees F&C incurs investment management fees from the sub-managers appointed to manage the North America portfolio.
The Company reimburses F&C for these fees, which in 2015 amounted to 2.4 million 2014: 2.0 million see note 4 on the accounts.
The fees paid to Pantheon and HarbourVest in respect of the Private Equity funds of funds amounted to 4.6 million for 2015 2014: 5.4 million of which 0.3 million was paid directly and 4.3 million was incurred indirectly through the funds.
Some of the funds have arrangements whereby these Private Equity managers share in the profits once certain hurdle rates of return to investors have been achieved.
These arrangements are varied and complex, but are on normal commercial terms within the Private Equity funds of funds industry.
Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated by Pantheon and HarbourVest.
The arrangements also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of 2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been achieved, would be normal.
Committee evaluation The activities of the Committee were considered as part of the Board appraisal process.
On behalf of the Board Simon Fraser Chairman 7 March 2016 36 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
