Directors Simon Fraser Sir Roger Bone KCMG Chairman Appointed to the Board in March 2008.
Prior Appointed to the Board in September 2009, to that he served as British Ambassador to appointed Chairman in May 2010 and is Brazil from 1999 to 2004 and to Sweden Chairman of the Nomination Committee and from 1995 to 1999.
He was an Assistant the Management Engagement Committee.
Under-Secretary of State in the Foreign He is also chairman of the Investor Forum, and Commonwealth Office between 1991 an investor led organisation established and 1995, head of the Economic Relations for the purpose of improving long-term Department there from 1989 to 1991 and returns from investment through collective Political Counsellor at the British Embassy shareholder engagement.
Most of his in Washington DC from 1985 to 1989.
He career was at Fidelity International, where was a visiting fellow at Harvard University in he started as an analyst and spent a 1984 85 and served as a private secretary number of years in Japan, latterly as Chief to the Foreign Secretary between 1982 Investment Officer for the Asia Pacific region.
He was president of Boeing UK He returned to the UK in 1999 to take up from 2005 to 2014.
He was also one of the the position of Chief Investment Officer for Prime Ministers honorary ambassadors for Fidelity International, a position he held until British business from 2010 to 2015.
Other positions included President a non-executive director of ITM Power plc, of Fidelity Internationals European and UK a designer and manufacturer of hydrogen Institutional business and latterly President of energy systems for energy storage and the Investment Solutions Group.
He is also clean fuel production and is also chairman of chairman of The Merchants Trust PLC and is Over-c-ltd, a small high tech company in the a non-executive director of Ashmore Group telecoms sector.
PLC and Fidelity European Values PLC.
Sarah Arkle Stephen Burley Appointed to the Board in March 2011.
Joined the Board in January 2008.
He was She was Vice Chairman of Threadneedle Head of Pensions Investments at Rio Tinto where she was Chief Investment Officer from 1982 until his retirement in March for ten years until her retirement at the end 2007.
He is a former investment adviser of December 2010.
She was instrumental to University College London, the Central in establishing Threadneedles investment Board of Finance of the Church of England process and recruiting a number of the and, until 2010, the BAE Systems Pension firms senior fund managers.
He is a trustee of the Imperial War Sarah moved from stockbroker WI Carr to Graves Endowment Fund.
become a Far East Equity Manager and subsequently became a Director at Allied Dunbar Asset Management, which became part of Threadneedle in May 1994.
She is a non-executive director of Henderson Group PLC and JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC.
26 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Francesca Ecsery Christopher Keljik OBE Joined the Board on 1 August 2013.
Senior Independent Director Francesca has extensive expertise in Appointed to the Board in September 2005 marketing, with over 22 years of experience and as Senior Independent Director in in senior director roles, with both blue 2011.
A Chartered Accountant, he was an chip and start-up companies.
She has executive director of Standard Chartered worked across a broad range of consumer plc with responsibilities for Africa, the industries and previously held the role of Middle East, South Asia, North and South Global Business Development Director at America, Europe and the UK.
She also held senior 29 year career with Standard Chartered he executive roles with STA travel, the Thomas held a number of leadership positions in Cook Group and Thorn EMI plc and is general management, corporate finance, currently a non-executive director of Good treasury and risk management working in Energy Group plc, Share Plc, Marshall Motor London, New York, Singapore and Hong Holdings plc and VISTA Ltd. Kong.
He is a senior independent director of The Asian Total Return Investment Company plc, a non-executive director of Sanditon Investment Trust plc and Waverton Investment Management Limited.
Jeffrey Hewitt Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed in September 2010 and as Chairman of the Audit Committee in Nicholas Moakes November 2011.
He was the Group Appointed to the Board In March 2011.
Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc He is Managing Director of the Investment Division at The Wellcome Trust and a from 1996 to 2005 and Deputy Chairman from 2000 to 2005.
Prior to that, he was member of the Investor Forum.
He was the Finance Director of Unitech plc from Head of the Asia Pacific investment team 1991 to 1996.
Between 1981 and 1991 and Co-Head of Emerging Markets at he held directorships successively with BlackRock Investment Management until Carrington Viyella, Vantona Viyella and 2007.
He has over 25 years experience in Coats Viyella where he was Group Strategy Asia and over 20 years experience in global Director.
He started his career with Arthur equity markets.
Prior to joining BlackRock in Andersen where he qualified as a chartered 1997 he lived in Hong Kong for nine years, and is a Chinese speaker.
He started his accountant, following which he spent seven years with The Boston Consulting career in the Diplomatic Service, where he Group.
He is also a non-executive director specialised in Hong Kong and China.
of Cenkos Securities plc and chairman of Electrocomponents Pension Trustees.
Members of the Audit Committee Members of the Nomination Committee All the Directors are members of the Management Engagement Committee Report and Accounts 2015 | 27
