Board of Directors and Secretary Name and title Ian Durant Roger Whiteside Richard Hutton FCA Raymond Reynolds Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Retail Director Biography Ian has a background in Roger began his career at Richard qualified as a Raymond is a career retail international finance and Marks and Spencer where Chartered Accountant with professional.
He joined commercial management, he spent 20 years, ultimately KPMG and gained career Greggs in 1986 in field with experience in the retail, becoming head of its food experience with Procter management and property, hotels and business.
He was then one of & Gamble before joining progressed his career transport sectors.
His career the founding team of Ocado, Greggs in 1998.
Richard through a number of roles includes leadership roles serving as Joint MD from has previously been a in Scotland, ultimately with the retail division of 2000 to 2004.
From 2004 to non-executive director of becoming Managing Hanson and Jardine 2007 Roger led a successful Northern Recruitment Director for that region in Matheson, HongKong Land, turnaround as Chief Group and is a trustee of 2002.
He was appointed to Dairy Farm International, Executive of the Thresher the Greggs Foundation.
the Board in 2006 after four Thistle Hotels and Sea Group off-licence chain successful years growing the Containers and as Finance before joining Punch Scottish arm of the business.
Director of Liberty Taverns, ultimately International.
Roger was appointed as Chief Executive of Greggs on 4 February 2013.
Appointed since 5 October 2011 17 March 2008 Non- 13 March 2006 18 December 2006 Executive Director until 3 February 2013 Independent Yes Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable External Chairman of Capital and No external appointments.
Member of Business in Director of the Sunderland Counties PLC: Nonthe Communitys Finance Business Improvement appointments Executive Director of Greene and Risk Committee.
District and North East King plc and Home Retail Trustee of the Alnwick Chamber of Commerce Group PLC.
Committee Chair of Nominations Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Committee membership 34 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Allison Kirkby Helena Ganczakowski Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner Jonathan Jowett Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Senior Independent Company Secretary Director Director Director Non-Executive and General Counsel Director Allison is currently the Helena worked for Unilever Peter spent most of his Sandra has been involved in Jonathan is a lawyer by President and CEO of Tele 2 for 23 years and held executive career in food the retail sector throughout profession and has held AB, a major European senior positions in brand manufacturing, having held her career and was the position of Company telecoms company.
Prior to management and marketing, a number of executive employed by Tesco PLC from Secretary for a number of Tele 2 AB, where she joined including UK Marketing positions including Divisional 1987 to 2009, latterly as FTSE 250 and FTSE Smallcap as CFO, Allison spent two Director and ultimately Managing Director of Commercial Director for companies.
His previous decades in the FMCG sector Head of Global Agencies.
Hillsdown Holdings, Director Tesco Ireland.
Prior to this employers include Avon at Procter & Gamble in a Helena has a PhD in of Terranova the chilled she worked in sales and Cosmetics Limited, SSL variety of senior financial and Engineering from the foods business demerged marketing roles for Unilever International plc, Wagon plc operational roles before University of Cambridge.
from Hillsdown Holdings and Wilkinson Sword.
moving to the TMT sector, and ultimately as UK first at Virgin Media and then Managing Director of Uniq as Group CFO at Shine, plc.
More recently, Peter was a division of 21st Century European Chairman of Hain Fox.
Allison is a Fellow of Celestial Group.
the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
30 January 2013 2 January 2014 10 March 2014 1 May 2014 12 May 2010 Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable No additional activities.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Member of the British Retail of Croda International Plc of Browns Food Group, of Carpetright plc, McBride Consortium Policy Board: and also owner-manager a privately-owned chilled plc and Huhtmaki OYJ.
Trustee director of the Percy of a consulting business and frozen food producer.
working with companies ranging from start-up businesses to FTSE 100 constituents, helping them to develop and implement strategies.
Chair of Audit Audit, Remuneration Audit, Remuneration Chair of Remuneration Secretary to the Board and Committee: Remuneration and Nominations and Nominations Committee: Audit all its Committees and Nominations Committee member Committee member and Nominations Committee member Committee member Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
