Strategy in action Great tasting fresh food Expert bakers for over 75 years, Greggs prides itself on freshly preparing food in shops every day and delivering both great tasting food and value for money to its customers.
Because we own and run all of our The Global Food and Consumer bakeries, we know, and can control, Goods Experts with a Health and exactly what goes into our food.
In the autumn, we  supply chain, completely overhauled and reunique recipes and bakery expertise presented our hot food menu, all help to set Greggs apart and introducing new products such as the deliver simple, good quality, great Aberdeen Angus spicy meatball melt tasting fresh food at affordable and baguette, the Balanced Choice peri competitive prices.
peri chicken flatbread and improved existing lines, such as pizza slices.
Our Progress made in 2015 core sweet lines were also upgraded.
We continued to see improved sales Our reputation for value for money as a result of the product changes and continues to grow as we further improvements made last year.
Our extend our popular meal deals.
2015 product initiatives across the day, combined with our great value Plans for 2016 deals, continued to drive increased We plan to develop our position customer visits and higher average in the food-on-the-go market by transaction values.
Coffee sales building on the success of the continue to grow, and we invested changes we introduced in 2015 and substantially in additional coffee a healthy pipeline of activity in the machines in early 2015.
Highlights include the our breakfast range to include new introduction of a flat white coffee porridge and breakfast sandwich to our hot drinks menu, a freshly options, including a free-range egg prepared salad range planned for omelette option which attracted the summer, upgrading product recipes, Good Egg Award.
The extension of introducing new products and our Balanced Choice range to include widening our meal deal offers.
salads and sandwiches and improved own-label drinks with no added sugar, all with fewer than 400 calories, has proven popular with sales continuing to grow strongly.
The range was recognised by IGD I r egularly visit Greggs on my lunch break to grab a coffee and a sandwich.
I am a big fan of the Balanced Choice range and enjoy trying the latest additions to the menu.
Jane Lipton, Leeds 08 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09 Strategy in action A great shopping experience Our bakery food-on-the-go format comprises a contemporary interior that draws on Greggs bakery heritage but is designed to meet the demands of the modern retail environment and busy food-on-the-go shoppers.
Important features include the plus 20 conversions of larger bakery provision of seating for customers cafs completed in 2015.
During where appropriate, improved 2015, we returned to net shop customer flow and more efficient growth, opening 122 new shops queue management.
The Greggs including 61 franchise shops and customer experience has been closing 74 shops, giving a total of further enhanced by improved 1,698 shops of which 105 are service levels and more convenient franchise shops trading at 2 January shop locations, with new franchise 2016.
Together with franchise partnerships enabling us to reach partners Moto, Euro Garages, previously inaccessible travel and Applegreen UK and Ireland, other convenience locations.
Wightlink Limited, Blakemore Retail, Compass and the Sandpiper Group, Progress made in 2015 most of our new shops were opened We have continued to benefit from in locations away from high streets.
the changes we made to service We also opened our first shop in levels, including improved Northern Ireland with franchise availability, to drive excellent volume partner Applegreen.
growth, and have extended further the times our shops are available to Plans for 2016 customers.
We continue to build on We remain committed to improving our reputation for fast and friendly the quality of our existing estate and customer service and have our service offering.
In 2016, we will introduced an independent continue to reshape our estate which customer experience programme, will involve closing 50-60 shops, rewarding teams delivering great relocating others and opening up to standards.
Our digital customer 120 new ones away from the high reward programme, Greggs street.
We will continue to improve Rewards, continues to attract new our service levels through a members and provides us with combination of improved availability valuable information to enhance at lunchtime, further roll out of our the customer experience.
extended opening hours programme and the launch of a new, improved Our investment programme to mobile app and more flexible payment options.
improve the quality of our estate is progressing well, with 202 refits, T he staff in Greggs are so helpful and friendly.
Im always greeted with a smile.
Sam Meadows, Sheffield 10 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Strategy in action Simple and efficient operations As a retailer with a  supply chain, from production through distribution to point-of-sale, we have an important advantage over many of our competitors.
To make sure we continue to deliver recognised by the award of British good quality, great tasting fresh food Retail Consortium accreditation to at competitive prices, it is imperative a number of our bakeries and that we continue to focus on realising production facilities during the year.
the significant efficiency and capacity benefits to be gained within our Plans for 2016 supply chain and network of bakeries.
We plan to invest around 100 We will also continue to improve our million in our manufacturing and operational effectiveness in support distribution operations over the next areas in order to maximise our scope five years to reshape our operations.
for investment in front-line This will enable us to increase customer service.
capacity to support shop expansion substantially beyond 2,000 outlets in Progress made in 2015 the UK and compete more effectively We made good progress in our in the food-on-the-go market.
We drive to make supply and support currently operate 12 bakeries, but functions simpler and more efficient.
not all are suitable for long-term Better processes, particularly around investment due to their size or procurement, workforce and product location.
As a result, we are management, have delivered lower proposing to close our Twickenham, costs and reduced waste and we Edinburgh and Sleaford bakeries.
continue to consolidate production We will be treating all those affected activity by focusing on centres of with fairness, consideration excellence, ensuring great product and respect in line quality and consistency.
our actions delivered savings of 12 million in 2015.
We acquired a freehold distribution depot close to our Enfield bakery which will be brought into use in the second half of 2016, providing additional distribution capacity for shop growth expansion.
We were again M y day starts at 4am to help ensure each shop is fully stocked for the day ahead.
My reward is a bacon breakfast roll and coffee at the end of the run!
Andy Coull, Relief Team Leader in Transport 12 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Strategy in action Improvement through change We continue to make significant progress in creating the integrated systems platform needed to compete more effectively as a centralised brand.
We are now halfway through our contact system to improve customer five-year change programme which relationship management.
We are well involves investing in a process and advanced with plans to bring finance systems platform that enables us to into SAP in the first half of 2016. compete more effectively in the fast-moving food-on-the-go market.
Plans for 2016 Plans are well underway for the Progress made in 2015 next major phase of change which We made significant progress in will focus on core elements such the second year of our investment as finance, procurement, product programme to overhaul our processes lifecycle management, centralised and systems and introduce new ranging, forecasting and ways of working.
Results of the infrastructure necessary to run SAP as programme are expected to make our core ERP system and implemented an annual net contribution of the first module of this through the around 6 million, once all key introduction of a new customer functionality is in place.
I w ork for the Greggs in-house customer care team and Im always happy to help our customers find out more about our range of products.
The new system helps me to do my job more effectively and efficiently.
Lauren McGettigan, Customer Care Team Leader 14 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
