Strategy Our approach Keeping our people, Continuing to focus on communities and values at the heart four key areas will deliver of our business.
Progress made in 2015 Great tasting Extension of breakfast range adding new porridge, free-range egg omelette in addition to breakfast baguettes.
fresh food Relaunch of hot food menu with a range of soup, hot sandwiches and pizza.
Extension of Balanced Choice range, to include soup, salads, heat-to-eat sandwiches and no added sugar soft drinks.
We freshly prepare food which is both Core sweet lines upgraded.
Coffee sales grew strongly and we invested substantially great tasting and value for money.
We introduced further great value deals.
More detail: Strategy in action P08-P09 Progress made in 2015 A great shopping 222 shops refitted, most with seating, and 34 re-sites.
Franchise partnerships developed, including expansion into experience Northern Ireland.
We are taking Greggs to where our New systems to manage shop labour allocation have enabled us to improve service standards at busiest times of the day.
customers are, providing them with a great Continued to build on reputation for fast and friendly service shopping environment and fulfilling more of and have invested significantly with independent customer their needs by focusing on food-on-the-go experience visits, rewarding teams who deliver great standards.
Greggs Rewards loyalty programme grows in popularity.
More detail: Strategy in action P10-P11 Progress made in 2015 Simple and efficient New benefits achieved through better procurement, product management, investment in manufacturing projects and adoption operations of more efficient structures.
We continued to consolidate production activity by focusing on centres of excellence in our supply chain.
Acquisition of a freehold distribution depot adjacent to our We are realising the significant efficiency existing bakery in Enfield to support the growth potential of and capacity benefits to be gained within the business.
our existing network in order to develop Combined annual financial benefits of 12 million in 2015. simple and efficient operations.
More detail: Strategy in action P12-P13 Progress made in 2015 Improvement Significant progress in second year of our investment programme to create the integrated systems platform necessary to compete more through change effectively as a centralised brand in the food-on-the-go market.
Workforce and supplier relationship management implemented and delivering benefits in excess of expectations.
Installed the infrastructure necessary to run SAP as our core ERP We are investing in our processes and system and implemented the first module of this, going live with systems platform to enable us to compete our new customer contact system to help improve customer more effectively in the fast-moving relationship management.
More detail: Strategy in action P14-P15 06 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Our vision and strategy Measuring progress Our strategic plan focuses on growing like-for-like sales by Our strategic plan represents a major programme of change over further improving the quality of our food offer and existing a period of up to five years and we have mapped out a number estate and making our operations simpler and more efficient.
of key targets and milestones that we will use to track progress: The plan has four key pillars which are underpinned by our approach to keeping our people, communities and values at Driving like-for-like sales growth.
the heart of our business.
Achieving targeted returns on our transformational investment in shop refurbishment.
Achieving the planned benefits from our investment in processes and systems.
Plans for 2016 Company-managed shop like-for-like sales growth We have another strong pipeline of new product developments and upgrades, with many opportunities to continue to improve our product offer and further develop our position in the food-on-the-go market.
For example, we have just launched a new flat white coffee together with improved recipes for other hot drinks.
Balanced Choice development is a key priority with new soup options recently launched and a freshly 4.7% prepared salad range planned for the summer.
See: Chief Executives report P17 Refit return on Plans for 2016 investment We plan to enhance the customer experience further by continuing to improve our service offering, shop environments and locations, rebalancing our estate towards new convenient catchment areas, with help from our franchise partners in travel and other convenience locations.
We expect to open 100-120 shops, including further development of our franchise partnerships, refit around 200 shops and close 22.9% 50-60 shops.
We will also launch a new improved mobile app and more flexible payment options.
See: Chief Executives report P18 Operational Plans for 2016 efficiencies We plan to invest around 100 million in our manufacturing and distribution operations over the next five years to reshape our operations.
This will enable us to increase capacity to support shop expansion substantially beyond 2,000 outlets in the UK and compete more effectively in the food-on-the-go market.
8.1m See: Chief Executives report P19 Plans for 2016 Savings from processes and systems change We will continue with the implementation of our strategic plan to enable the business to compete more effectively in the food-on-the-go market whilst driving efficiencies and adding capacity for further sustainable growth.
We will continue to build a suite of new capabilities, including centralised supply, procurement, product lifecycle management and centralised ranging, forecasting and replenishment.
Results of the 4.0m programme expected to make an annual net contribution of around 6 million once all key functionality is in place.
See: Chief Executives report P18 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
