OUR SERVICES Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help each client make more of their money throughout their lifetime.
We have established a reputation for providing high quality and value-for-money services to private investors, whether they are making their own investment decisions or seeking advisory or discretionary services.
CORPORATE VANTAGE VANTAGE SERVICE OUR INVESTMENT HL PORTFOLIO SERVICE FOR SELF-DIRECTED INVESTORS In addition to services for private individuals Vantage is a one-stop shop for investments, Portfolio is a new way to invest for those we are a leading provider and broker of designed to make investing easy.
Clients who prefer our experts to manage the corporate pension and wrap solutions.
Our can hold all their funds, shares, ETFs, bonds, composition of their investments.
Clients corporate wrap allows employees to benefit investment trusts, ISAs and self-invested decide whether they are investing for from the Hargreaves Lansdown Vantage personal pensions SIPPs in a single, great income or growth, how much risk they are service via their workplace.
Corporate Vantage value, easy-to-manage service.
comfortable with, and we will do the rest.
includes award-winning SIPP, ISA and Fund & We use the HL Multi-Manager funds as Share accounts.
Our aim is to provide clients with the tools the underlying investments, making any and information they need to make their necessary changes within them, and the Aside from Vantage, Hargreaves Lansdown own investment decisions and save money, portfolio is automatically rebalanced twice a year to ensure it remains on the original track also provides other services to companies whether a first time investor or wanting set by the client.
including a market-leading retirement and to improve the way that their existing annuity broking service allowing employees to investments are managed.
obtain a higher income via our annuity search engine.
Our Corporate annuity and Corporate Our clients can invest new money and Vantage wrap services are provided to many consolidate investments for example, household names.
pensions accumulated in previous employment into the Vantage service.
Clients can manage their investments by telephone, post, online or mobile.
Vantage services include: Vantage ISA a tax efficient home for funds, shares, ETFs, bonds, investment trusts and cash Vantage SIPP a tax efficient pension Vantage SIPP Income Drawdown a flexible retirement solution Vantage Fund & Share account our general investment account Corporate Vantage supporting employee investment through the workplace Stockbroking the largest execution only stockbroker in the UK HL Portfolio a new service explained below Cash ISA 2 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT THIRD PARTY AND OTHER SERVICES OUR WEBSITE AND DIGITAL APPS DISCRETIONARY SERVICES AND MANAGED FUNDS The Discretionary business comprises the The third party and other services division During the financial year our website and apps Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds distributes investment products that are not were visited 87.7 million times, up 20% on the and PMS, the Groups discretionary portfolio invested or administered within the Group.
It previous year, demonstrating that our digital management service.
Discretionary services includes: growth continues apace.
Mobile continues to include: be a dominant trend and our apps have now Annuities been downloaded more than 400,000 times.
The Portfolio Management Service PMS Certificated share dealing In the year to 30 June 2015 7.9% of our online our discretionary managed solution for The ability to invest in Venture Capital share deals were placed via apps.
clients who want to leave the work to us.
Trusts VCTs Our experienced investment managers A foreign currency service to both private Investment and innovation in digital, in work closely with our research analysts clients and companies particular mobile, must continue.
Delivery to continually identify the best fund Contracts For Difference CFDs and of a mobile optimised website along with managers for our portfolios which are Spread Betting redesigned and improved mobile apps by the first quarter of 2016 will ensure we continue to rebalanced to maintain their investment be at the forefront of technology and capturing objectives.
The full range of our services can be viewed peoples appetite to invest and manage their HL Multi-Manager a broad range of on the website at money wherever and whenever they choose.
eight managed portfolios for those who www.
co. uk investment-services wish to leave the choice of underlying Technology and changing consumer habits funds to our experts.
Each of the also continue to present new opportunities eight Multi-Manager funds provide and marketing channels.
Our digital marketing a professionally monitored portfolio, mix continues to broaden and diversify from holding what we believe are some of the core activities such as paid search and search best fund managers in their field.
engine optimisation to content networks and social channels.
Our investment in digital marketing technology and resources has also helped us improve the commercial performance of our digital activities as well as the client experience.
% of online share deals via HL app 87.7m visits to our websites and apps 7.9% 20% Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 3 WHY CLIENTS CHOOSE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN We aim to deliver a lifelong, secure home for peoples savings and investments, that offers great value, incredible service and makes their financial life easy.
Hargreaves Lansdown is a trusted brand that to negotiate lower cost investment funds is committed to delivering these requirements for our clients.
Our business is scalable for investors.
and should enable growth in profits as the business grows.
Making profits means we can Skilled helpdesk staff and advanced regularly invest to improve and broaden our technology ensure that we provide a range of services and or reduce our prices consistently high quality, accessible and over time.
We do not set out to be the cheapest: instead we aim to offer the best Hargreaves Lansdown places the client value.
We offer a range of information, tools at the heart of all that it does and makes and services for clients who prefer to choose a compelling case to become a client, not their own investments as well as financial just in the short-term but to remain with us advice for those who want more help.
As a throughout their life, safe in the knowledge result Hargreaves Lansdown is the UKs most that we continually aim to bring them further Mark Dampier Head of Research left, popular investing service.
benefits helping them to make the most Lee Gardhouse Investment director of their investments and ultimately their During 2015 we have implemented further retirement.
improvements to our services, and continued When choosing an investment service, investors most important considerations are: UNRIVALLED RECENT CLIENT COMMENTS... 1 FINANCIAL SECURITY The user friendly website is excellent, Key for me is having information easily SCOPE AND QUALITY this allows me to keep watch on my available so that I can make informed 2 OF SERVICE investments.
Your website provides trading your staff answer the phone comprehensive information in an easily promptly and deal with my instructions accessible format regarding funds, etc.
You efficiently its a pity more businesses also provide a wealth of other information CONVENIENCE arent run like this.
such as that provided in your Investment 3 AND EASE MR SHAW, CHESTER Times which I read from cover to cover.
MRS MEYRICK, SALISBURY GREAT 4 VALUE Very helpful and knowledgeable staff: real Fast phone access, courteous and expert people take calls - brilliant in this day and age.
verbal responses, excellent website and The best organisation I have ever dealt with research data.
in all my business life spanning 45 years.
MR EDWARDS, LEEDS EXPERTISE AND MR SMITH, EAST SUSSEX 5 INFORMATION 4 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT TRUST AND SECURITY EXCELLENT SERVICE A recognised, trusted and 95.7% of clients rated our financially secure FTSE100 service as excellent, very good business.
Dedicated to keeping or good.
our clients investments safe Based on a survey of 14,334 and secure.
CONVENIENCE AND VALUE FOR MONEY EASE On behalf of our clients we have Our mobile App has been already used and continue to downloaded 400,000 times use our size and influence to and the iPad App 95,000 negotiate some of the best and times.
often exclusive discounts on funds in the market.
HELPFUL AND TRUSTED SOURCE KNOWLEDGEABLE OF USEFUL, STAFF INDEPENDENT INFORMATION Highly trained Bristol based investment and pension The number of visits to our helpdesks with average call website and apps this year was response times of 11 seconds.
CLIENT FOCUSSED CHOICE IMPROVEMENT A wide range of investments We listen to our clients.
Their 2,500 funds, 10,000 feedback is key to how we UK, US and European shares, improve and grow our services.
investment trusts, gilts, ETFs, bonds and cash.
INVESTMENT EXPERTS ADVICE WHEN CLIENTS NEED IT We have a dedicated research team who constantly review We offer financial advice, and comment on investments financial planning and portfolio available through Hargreaves management, or tools and Lansdown.
Our experts also support to do it yourself.
Advice manage eight of our own HL may be ongoing, as a one-off or Multi-Manager Funds.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 5 AWARD-WINNING SERVICES Our experience gained over Recent awards include four decades has allowed us to develop a service tailored precisely to the needs of BEST DIRECT BEST SERVICE PLATFORM 2014 2014 private investors.
95.7% of our clients rate our service THE PLATFORUM THE PLATFORUM good, very good or excellent.
We win numerous prestigious industry awards and our clients continued loyalty has BEST ONLINE JUNIOR BEST DIRECT SIPP STOCKS & SHARES PROVIDER created a successful and ISA PROVIDER 2014 2013 & 2014 financially secure blue chip YOUR MONEY YOUR MONEY company.
Hargreaves Lansdown is consistently recognised at industry awards.
In the last two years we have received over 35 different RETIREMENT BEST FUND awards.
We are proud of such recognition GOLD STANDARD PLATFORM 2015 which also serves to further grow our brand 2014 and the trust which clients place in our CITY OF LONDON services.
Underlying these achievements GOLD STANDARD WEALTH is a commitment to excellence shared by AWARDS MANAGEMENT everybody in the Hargreaves Lansdown team.
AWARDS DIRECT PLATFORM BEST SIPP AWARDS 2015 PROVIDER BEST FOR PENSIONS 2007-2014 2013 & PENSION FREEDOMS WHAT Best SIPP Provider Hargreaves Lansdown INVESTMENT 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 THE LANG CAT READERS AWARD BEST OVERALL BEST SIPP & ISA PLATFORM 2015 PROVIDER 2014 BEST SIPP GOLD STANDARD MONEY WEEK PROVIDER AWARDS All our awards are listed on our website - www.
co. uk investor-relations our-awards BEST ISA 6 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report andPRO Financ VIDER ial Statements 2015
