BUSINESS MODEL As the UKs largest direct to investor investment company Hargreaves Lansdown aims to make profits by providing investors with a competitively priced service for acquiring, managing and disposing of a wide range of authorised investments.
The service incorporates provision of a wealth of information and research into opportunities with potential.
We aim to be the best place in the UK to buy investments directly.
investment can remain on our investment We aim to improve internal efficiencies business model allows us to offer highly platform.
We aim to retain as much AUA as embracing all proven technology.
At the same competitive prices to our clients and achieve possible with a constant focus on excellent time we strive to offer the best research and strong profitability.
We aim to create shareholder service and providing a one stop shop offering information across an increasing spectrum of value by retaining our position as the best place a broad range of investments and services.
AUA investments and markets using Hargreaves in the UK for private investors to buy investments.
may also grow or be reduced due to the effect Lansdowns buying power to secure the best of market movements.
prices and lowest charges from providers.
We earn the majority of our income based on the value of assets under administration AUA.
This income is based on a percentage WHERE WE ARE BASED AND HOW WE WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO of the value of AUA and is expressed as basis OPERATE points bps.
AUA grow through existing and We have been helping clients choose and new clients adding more investments into We have been based in Bristol ever since the manage their own investments since 1981 their accounts, combined with growth in the underlying value of the investments they hold in business was started in 1981.
Our clients are and are now the UKs largest direct to investor their accounts.
Stock markets give an indication located across the UK, with the majority of investment supermarket with an annual of investment growth and the most relevant business taking place through our website.
88% turnover in excess of 395 million.
We proxy measure we have for such growth tends of our clients have access to our website and provide execution only, advisory services and to be the movement in the FTSE All Share Index.
all of our clients have access to our telephone third party investments for individuals and As such, as markets grow this tends to boost helpdesk.
For those clients who require advice, corporates.
We administer 55.2 billion of AUA and therefore income and ultimately profits.
and prefer face to face advice, we have a team of investments in our ISA, SIPP and Investment Income levels vary according to the class of 102 financial advisers located throughout the UK.
accounts for 736,000 clients, and have investment, the type of account and the amount arranged investments for over a million clients.
held some fees are stepped, tiered or capped.
Our people, our culture, our technology and The mix of investments and products has an IT infrastructure are key to our success.
As Our success is built around providing our clients impact on the levels of revenue.
at 30 June 2015 we employ 970 people and a high quality service tailored to their needs, are committed to recruiting and retaining and ensuring that they have access to relevant We aim to grow our business by retaining existing great people who understand our client-led information to support them with making their clients, obtaining continued new investments culture see Our People on page 31.
We have own investment decisions.
We also provide a from our existing clients and by winning new a flat management structure and aim where discretionary service the Portfolio Management clients.
We do this by providing market leading possible to promote from within, building Service if clients prefer not to make their own service, information, and value.
When combined knowledge and loyalty.
Our knowledgeable and with the security we offer and the trust in our helpful staff, technology and experience enable brand it provides a compelling reason for clients us to provide an excellent and convenient to choose Hargreaves Lansdown.
WHO OUR CLIENTS ARE service to our clients.
New business grows our AUA, but there will Our investment supermarket service is provided Read more about our range of services on pages also be a natural loss of business whether from directly to the private investor in the UK.
Our 2 to 3. investors using their savings upon retirement, clients may be investing for their future, saving for death or the effects of competition.
However, retirement, investing for children or grandchildren, investors can readily switch between different making the most of tax allowances by using ISA HOW OUR BUSINESS GENERATES VALUE investments without the need to leave our and pension allowances, or they may be drawing investment platform, which means we do not down on their investments after retirement.
The Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms more see the outflows of AUA that an asset manager majority of our clients select and manage their typically focus on servicing the IFA community.
would experience when an investor decides own investments using our Vantage platform.
Our investment supermarket services the private to sell their investment the cash or the new Alternatively they can use our Multi-Manager investor directly.
The Hargreaves Lansdown 12 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT portal and Peer to Peer lending service which will funds or the Hargreaves Lansdown Portfolio own IT systems.
We have our own proprietary give access to a significant new pool of assets service which provides ready-made portfolios systems that are not sold to others in the that we can look to add to our platform and earn which are managed by our in-house experts.
industry, and we have in-house development recurring revenues.
Through the Vantage service our clients are able knowledge and expertise.
This makes us nimble and quick to respond to opportunities.
Our to access over 13,000 different investments business is not capital intensive, but we employ To ensure that the business continues to thrive, including over 2,500 investment funds, shares 157 IT staff to maintain, develop and operate our we reinvest some of the increased profits back listed on the UK, US, Canadian and European IT infrastructure, website and systems.
The longinto the business to provide improved services, stock exchanges, bonds, ETFs and investment term sustainability of our IT platform continues to better functionality and over time we strive to trusts, and can also hold cash balances.
We have be a key strategic priority for us.
make costs cheaper for our clients.
727,000 active Vantage clients as at 30 June 2015.
We also provide services such as workplace HOW OUR BUSINESS IS SUSTAINABLE pension schemes and annuity purchase services to private investors through corporate clients.
We put the client at the heart of everything we do We have a consistent track record of We work on behalf of 500 corporate clients, of growing AUA, active clients and improving which 256 are Corporate Vantage schemes the our service.
Other than this year, for the 51,400 individual clients within those schemes reasons highlighted in the Chief Executives are included in the number of Vantage clients.
Best service, information, value... statement, we also have a consistent track record of growing profits and EPS.
We believe Some of our clients prefer to have an investment this is because we have the right distribution manager looking after their investments for them, channels, offer the right service and products, and they can use our Portfolio Management... and life-cycle product and operate with the right cost structure.
range Service PMS which is accessed via one of our Going forward we believe that market and many highly qualified financial advisers.
We have demographic trends continue to be favourable 14,845 PMS clients.
Read more on these and the expanding our key markets of pensions and other services we provide on pages 2 to 3.
Drives client recruitment, retention and growth in AUA ISAs.
In addition the growth in the market size addressable by Direct to Client platforms is expected to continue growing significantly.
HOW WE ARE DIFFERENT And sticky assets A large proportion of AUA 71% are sticky, by Everyone these days talks about excellent this we mean that they are held within a tax service.
It is easy to talk about it, but it takes wrapper which makes investors less likely to experience and commitment to actually deliver spend them.
Our excellent service standards it.
Our service is joined up one website, one High levels of asset and and breadth of service means that we have very login, one conversation, one platform offering a client retention high rates of asset and client retention 92.7% huge range of investments a one stop shop.
As a result, we attract There is more we can do to keep improving, but high quality recurring revenue streams.
we are in a strong position when it comes to Economies of scale, delivering great service as evidenced by recent reduction in cost ratio The business operations are very scalable, and as awards from Which?
it continues to grow we benefit from economies of scale and increasing cost efficiency.
We utilise A founding principle of our business is simplicity And quality recurring technology to ensure our service is efficient and the financial services industry is weighed down revenue streams as automated as possible such that adding new with complexity, yet when we deal directly with clients and assets has only a marginal impact.
self-directed investors we make it simple for them.
We continually look at the competitive landscape, Strong operating profit industry developments and what our clients We use our scale and position in the market to margin and strong cash flows want in order to evolve our service with the aim negotiate favourable discounts for our clients, we of growing our market share.
Communication lobby for better savings products, and we put the with clients is conducted through regular client client at the heart of everything that we do.
Maximising Reinvestment back forums and various targeted surveys.
A key shareholder into the service and current project is how we can better service the returns better prices Most changes and opportunities within our asset class of cash on behalf of our clients and to business require an element of systems or web that end we are developing a cash management development.
We own, control and develop our Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 13
