MARKET REVIEW Regulation and markets Hargreaves Lansdown operates in a highly the year to 5 April 2015, HMRC figures show that CTFs to Junior ISAs and following a period of regulated industry, but is well placed to deal 14.1% of all stocks and shares ISA subscriptions consultation the Government made this change with the continued pace of regulatory change.
were made via Hargreaves Lansdown.
Over six million children compares to 10.9% for the year to 5 April 2014. in the UK currently have CTFs with circa 4.8 This year saw the first full year of our post-RDR At 30 June 2015 our share of the execution billion pounds invested.
Between 6 April 2015 pricing structure, the effects of which have been only stockbroking market in the UK had risen and 30 June 2015 we saw over 11,600 transfers highlighted in the Chief Executives Review.
to 24.2%, compared to 22.5% at the end of the from CTFs to Junior ISAs further establishing previous year source: Compeer.
Hargreaves Lansdown as the largest provider The year also included significant work to of Junior Stocks and Shares ISAs in the UK.
respond to the changes in pension legislation, as In addition, transfers of client assets from well as work on the launch of three new funds competitor companies to Hargreaves and adapting to regulatory changes introduced Lansdown increased by 12%.
Hargreaves PENSIONS SIPPs by the Alternative Investment Fund Directive.
Lansdown is a net recipient of assets from the vast majority of other companies in the The SIPP market is estimated to have assets In the wider marketplace, the effects of Basel 3 market every year.
Our own asset retention, under administration of 150 billion across 1.1 continued to impact the cash deposit rates that however, remains extremely strong, at 92.7% million accounts.
As at 30 June 2015 our Vantage we are able to earn for our customers, although of all assets under administration.
This is and PMS SIPP together held 17.0 billion, we have worked hard to offset some of the testament to our excellent service.
representing 11.3% of this current market.
negative effects by amending SIPP cash to a trustee arrangement.
We must not be complacent, as there are many In future the UK population will be less able companies who would like to emulate the success to rely on state assistance or defined benefit We aim to maintain an open and constructive of Hargreaves Lansdown.
However, for now our pension provision.
As a result there is an dialogue with the FCA and we continue to service remains unparalleled and we must work increasing need for people to make their own monitor forthcoming regulatory changes.
hard to maintain our competitive advantage.
Perhaps the most significant of these is expected to be MiFID II which is likely to require Pension auto-enrolment in the UK is currently additional reporting and processing changes ISAs being phased in and by 2017 all employers will for our business from January 2017.
We will have to auto-enrol eligible staff into a suitable continue to engage in active dialogue with the The ISA market continues to grow.
HMRC workplace pension and pay contributions on regulator and industry over implementation.
figures published in August 2015 show that their behalf.
Escalating minimum contributions new subscriptions into Stocks and Shares ISAs have been set.
By 1 October 2018 the minimum The markets in which Hargreaves Lansdown were 17.9 billion and over 245 billion is now contribution will be 9% of which the employer operates are multi-faceted.
Competitors include held within Stocks and Shares ISAs.
In the will have to pay a minimum of 4%.
Our IFAs, execution-only brokers, banks, building tax year ended 5 April 2015 over 2.7 million Corporate Vantage service seeks to service this societies, life assurers, fund supermarkets and adults contributed into a Stocks and Shares ISA market.
Existing schemes we administer will certain wrap platforms.
Given the success of with the average subscription being 6,593. also benefit from auto-enrolment contributions.
our business, direct competition is predicted to Hargreaves Lansdown saw 249,000 adult increase: however, significant barriers to entry clients contributing an average of 10,153.
The gap between current saving and the exist.
We have 34 years experience and have amount needed to adequately fund retirement developed the IT systems and infrastructure inEach year our excellent customer service is being partially addressed through autohouse, both to facilitate efficient administration results in net transfers of client assets from enrolment.
In addition the increased flexibility introduced to pensions as from 6 April 2015 and more specifically to fulfil clients needs, of other ISA providers.
This year a record 52,753 should make them a more popular investment which we have unparalleled knowledge.
Our clients transferred 1.20 billion of investments in the future.
Combined, these two factors direct postal marketing reach is in excess of 2.3 to us.
With continued low interest rates, Stocks should provide the stimulus for long-term million people, a contact list which would be and Shares ISAs remain attractive.
Following growth in the pension market.
difficult to compile today, and we have ensured last years increase in the ISA allowance from that we have grasped the opportunities 11,880 to the new NISA allowance of 15,000, The pension changes or Pension Freedoms offered by digital marketing, creating a this years increase returns to a more normal were introduced from 6 April 2015.
Given our brand increase to 15,240 as from 6 April 2015. new freedoms allow for unlimited pension reputation and scale, if increased competition withdrawals from the age of 55 subject to tax leads to increased awareness and growth in The launch of the Junior ISA in November 2011 laws and the potential to pass your pension on our markets we see this as positive.
widened the ISA market with the ability to to family tax free.
Such changes make pensions currently save up to 4,080 for each child per not only better in terms of a retirement plan Hargreaves Lansdowns market share has annum.
Subsequently Hargreaves Lansdown but also as a long-term savings product.
increased in the majority of relevant markets and others successfully lobbied the Treasury that figures are available for.
For example, for to permit transfers from Child Trust Funds 20 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
