48 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Directors report Management report The Directors present their Annual The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 51 and this Directors Report and the audited Financial Report, with its inclusions as indicated in the table, form the Management Report as required by the Disclosure and Statements for the year ended Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
Directors and Directors interests The names of the Directors of the Company and changes to directorships during the reporting period and biographical details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on StatUtORy InFORMatIOn cOntaIneD elSeWHeRe pages 46 and 47.
Details of Directors interests in the shares In tHIS annUal RePORt of the Company are shown on page 74.
This information is Information required to be part of the Directors Report can incorporated into this Report by reference.
be found elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this Report by reference: Directors indemnities and insurance Section of report Page reference The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which remain in Results and dividend Chairmans statement force at the date of this report.
In certain circumstances, pages 12 and 13 the Company can indemnify Directors, in accordance with Corporate governance and Corporate governance its Articles of Association, against costs incurred in the the Groups financial risk statement defence of legal proceedings brought against them by virtue management objectives pages 53 to 63 of their office.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover and policies remains in place to protect all Directors and senior managers.
Directors responsibility page 51 Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are statements set out in the Remuneration Report on page 65.
Details of the salaries, Directors Remuneration bonuses, benefits and share Report pages 65 to 75 articles of association interests of Directors Any amendment to the Companys Articles of Association may only be made by the passing of a special resolution of the shareholders of the Company.
Substantial shareholdings As at 14 March 2016 the Company was aware of substantial interests in the Companys shares or had been notified of interests in voting rights under Chapter 5 of the DTR, as follows: % of issued Shareholder Shareholding share capital Holding Hastings Investco Limited 380,320,840 57.9 Direct Mr Neil Utley 46,779,238 7.1 Direct Mr David Saville 28,036,739 4.3 Direct Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 49 Share capital structure, issue and buying back and Branches shareholder rights The Company and its subsidiaries do not have any branches in any other country.
The number of Ordinary shares of 2p each issued and fully paid at 31 December 2015 was 657,217,641.
All Ordinary shares have equal rights to dividends and capital and to Greenhouse gas emissions vote at general meetings of the Company, as set out in the The annual level of greenhouse gas emissions, resulting from Companys Articles of Association.
activities for which the Group is responsible for the year ended 2015 was 1,570 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 Resolutions to provide authorities given to Directors to allot 2014: 1,628 tonnes of CO e, equivalent to 0.78 tonnes of 2 shares, to disapply certain pre-emption rights and to make CO e per employee 2014: 0.81 tonnes of CO e per employee.
2 2 market purchases of the Companys own shares, all subject to appropriate limits, will be put to the Annual General All emission sources have reported on as required under the Meeting AGM.
There are no specific restrictions on the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The reporting both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of boundary used for collation of the data is consistent with that Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not used for consolidation purposes in the Financial Statements.
aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Greenhouse gas emissions primarily arise from the Groups securities or on voting rights.
electricity, gas, gasoil and refrigerant gas consumption through the operation of its offices.
Only offices which No person has any special rights of control over the are solely occupied by the Group have been included in the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
reporting scope and therefore excludes the leased offices in London, Leicester and Hyperion House, Newmarket for which Following the IPO in October 2015, shareholders Hastings A, energy data is not available accurate.
L. P. Hastings B, L. P. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and the Founder Shareholders collectively continue to have significant direct The Company does not own any vehicles and business travel and indirect investment in the Company via Hastings Investco through private vehicles is limited the data is not available or Limited.
Pursuant to a Relationship Agreement entered into by accurate.
Transport emissions have therefore been excluded the Company, Hastings A, L. P. Hastings B, L. P. and Goldman, from the reporting scope.
Sachs & Co. and the Founder Shareholders collectively are each able to appoint two of the Directors to the Board Emissions reported: while they or persons connected to them continue to hold Scope 1 Natural Gas consumption a direct or indirect interest in 20% or more of the Companys shares and one Director while they or persons connected to Scope 1 Gasoil consumption them continue to hold a direct or indirect interest in at least Scope 1 F Gas emissions 5% but less than 20%.
The first such appointees are Sumit Rajpal and Michele Titi-Cappelli Scope 2 Grid Electricity consumption for Hastings A, L. P. Hastings B, L. P. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Richard Brewster and Edward Fitzmaurice for the The reporting period is in line with the Companys financial Founder Shareholders.
The appointment and replacement year, which is the same as the calendar year.
of Directors is governed by the Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 Political contributions and related legislation.
7.1, all There were no political contributions during the year 2014: nil.
Directors will be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Directors statements change of control significant contracts As required under the Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate There are several commercial agreements that take effect, Governance Code 2014 and the DTR, various statements alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company: have been made by the Board as set out on page 51 and are none is considered to be significant in terms of its potential incorporated into this Report by reference.
impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or colleague that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
50 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Directors report continued the Group would make every effort to enable the colleague to auditor continue in employment and would make arrangements for KPMG LLP were appointed as the Companys auditor in additional equipment, support and training as appropriate.
December 2015 for the financial year ending 31 December 2015.
KPMG have confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as The Group is also committed to providing a professional auditor for the financial year ending 31December 2016. and safe working environment for all our people, which is achieved through the application of our policies throughout In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, the organisation.
a resolution proposing the appointment of a statutory auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
The Group is comprised of people with a broad range of backgrounds and has not adopted a quota system, preferring Directors statement of responsibility to appoint the best candidate for any position.
Our approach for disclosure of information to auditor to recruitment is to elicit candidates from as many different As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, backgrounds as possible.
each Director serving at the date of approval of the Financial Statements confirms that: As at 31 December 2015, the Companys Board had 11 To the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no Directors, all of whom were male.
Of the Groups 2,322 information relevant to the preparation of their reports employees, 1,187 were male and 1,135 were female.
of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and The Group has a responsibility to conduct business in an Each Director has taken all the steps a director might ethical and transparent way.
Accordingly, we adhere to a set reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of of business principles including a commitment to human relevant audit information and to establish that the rights principles.
The Group has policies in place to support Companys auditor is aware of that information.
these principles which include non-discrimination, health and safety, anti-bribery, human slavery and trafficking and Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be environmental issues.
We maintain a zero tolerance approach interpreted in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies to bribery and corruption and a programme of internal Act 2006. training is in place to ensure that all colleagues are aware of the Groups policies.
Our colleagues We consider our most important asset to be our colleagues contractual arrangements who are the cornerstone of our business.
The ability to deliver The Group considers its co-insurance and reinsurance refreshingly straightforward insurance comes from a high contracts as well as contracts with PCW to be essential to performing, dedicated and customer focused team.
We invest the running of the Groups business.
No other contractual in our colleagues and provide them with an environment arrangements are considered to be essential.
in which they feel included, valued, empowered and able to reach their full potential.
Every colleague is expected to Financial instruments contribute to the success of the business.
Accordingly, we The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to recognise the hard work and dedication of our team by linking financial instruments held by the Group are set out in note remuneration to personal performance in a way which does 24 to the Financial Statements.
not compromise the impact on customer outcomes we do not remunerate colleagues based on sales incentives.
We Going concern actively encourage personal development by offering a range of training options to build the capabilities of our team for the The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future future and encourage the behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy.
and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
In considering the We foster a culture of freedom to contribute and make appropriateness of this assumption, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, things happen, aiming to be a progressive insurance industry innovator.
We promote communication and collaboration including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
to harness the talent of our colleagues: and reward and recognise both individual and team success.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities and ensuring that colleagues are able to work without discrimination.
Full and fair consideration is given to anthony leppard Company Secretary employment applications from all candidates with a disability.
If a colleague were to become disabled whilst in employment, 14 March 2016
