46 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Our Board n R n Mike Fairey Gary Hoffman Richard Hoskins Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer appointed: 3 September 2015 appointed: 15 June 2015 appointed: 3 September 2015 experience: Mike has been the Chairman of experience: Gary has been the Chief experience: Richard has been the Chief the Group since June 2015.
Mike was Deputy Financial Officer of the Group since April 2015 Executive Officer of the Group since Chief Executive of Lloyds Banking Group for and joined the Board in September 2015.
November 2012 and joined the Board in 10 years until 2008 and currently holds a He is a Chartered Accountant with extensive June 2015.
He has extensive experience number of Non-Executive positions, including experience in the insurance industry.
Prior in the banking and insurance industries.
as Non-Executive Chairman of OneSavings to joining the Group, Richard was the Chief Prior to joining the Group, Gary was Chief Bank plc.
He is also the Chairman of the Financial Officer of Global Commercial Executive Officer of NBNK Investments, an Trustees of the Lloyds TSB Pension Funds.
Prior to that he served at investment vehicle formed in August 2010 Aviva as Chief Executive of the groups North to establish personal and business retail American operations and as Chief Financial banking in the UK.
Prior to that, he led the UK Officer of Old Mutuals North American governments turnaround of Northern Rock operations.
From 2006 to 2008, he was Vice-Chairman of Barclays PLC, having previously been Chairman of UK Banking and Barclaycard at Barclays PLC following five years as Chief Executive of Barclaycard.
He is the Non-Executive Chairman of VISA Europe.
n a n Re a n R Richard Brewster thomas colraine Ian cormack Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director appointed: 3 September 2015 appointed: 3 September 2015 appointed: 3 September 2015 experience: Richard was part of the experience: Tom joined the Board in experience: Ian joined the Board in management buyout of Hastings completed September 2015 and brings a wealth September 2015.
He spent 30 years at in February 2009.
Richard became involved of experience from the insurance and Citibank where he was appointed head with the Hastings Group in 2007 and has financial services sector.
He was previously of UK and Co-head of the Global Financial held Non-Executive director positions in Group Chief Financial Officer and Co-Chief Institutions business before becoming Chief Group entities, including Hastings Insurance Operating Officer at Willis Group Holdings, Executive Officer of AIGs European business Services Limited.
He previously held positions and Chief Financial Officer at AIG Europe in 2000.
He currently serves as a Nonat Cox Insurance Holdings plc, and Mercantile Limited.
He is a Chartered Accountant, on the Executive on the boards of Partnership plc, and General Reinsurance Company plc.
Board of Schroder & Co. Limited and is also Xchanging plc, Phoenix Group Holdings plc, Richard is a Chartered Accountant and joined Chairman of Cambridge Topco Limited, the and National Angels Limited, and is Chairman the Board in September 2015. holding company for the Compre Group.
of Temporis Capital LLP and Maven Income & Growth VCT4 plc.
Key Committee Chairman Re Remuneration Committee a Audit Committee R Risk Committee n Nomination Committee Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 47 Re a R a R Re edward Fitzmaurice Pierre lefevre Malcolm le May Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director appointed: 3 September 2015 appointed: 3 September 2015 appointed: 3 September 2015 experience: Edward joined the Group in April experience: Pierre joined the Board in experience: Malcolm joined the Board 2008 as Chief Executive Officer of Hastings September 2015.
He also serves as a in September 2015 and has extensive and Equity Direct and was formerly the Chief Non-Executive Director on the Board of experience within the UK insurance Executive Officer and subsequently Nonthe Groups subsidiary AICL, where he is industry from his previous role as a Executive Chairman of Hastings Insurance also Chairman of the Risk Committee and Non-Executive Director at RSA plc.
He is a Services Limited, and Group Chief Executive a member of the Audit Committee.
He Chartered Accountant and currently Senior Officer prior to the appointment of Gary has extensive international experience in Independent Director on the board of Hoffman.
He was part of the MBO of the the insurance industry and has previously Provident Financial plc and IG Group plc Hastings Direct business which completed held Chairman and Chief Executive roles at and a Partner at Opus Corporate Finance.
in February 2009 and previously worked Groupama and AXA.
He is also a Co-Founder of Juno Capital.
at Homeserve plc, Dixons plc and Anglo America.
Edward joined the Board in September 2015. anthony leppard n Re R Group Company Secretary Sumit Rajpal Michele titi-cappelli Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director appointed: 3 September 2015 appointed: 3 September 2015 Tony is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, having experience: Sumit was appointed as Nonexperience: Michele was appointed as qualified in 1985.
Since that time he has held Non-Executive Director for the Company Executive Director for the Company as part numerous board and senior management as part of the investment made by Goldman of the investment made by Goldman Sachs in positions, including Chief Financial Officer Sachs in the Group in 2014.
Sumit leads the Goldman and Company Secretary of GE Capital IT managing director in MBD in London, where Sachs global financial services investment Solutions UK, a subsidiary of GE Capital.
he is responsible for sourcing, executing practice in the Goldman Sachs Merchant Tony joined the Group in April 2009, and and managing corporate investments in Banking Division MBD in New york.
He leads the Groups legal, compliance, and Southern Europe and in financial institutions.
serves as a member of the Firmwide Finance corporate governance functions.
Tony was a He first joined Goldman Sachs in 1999 as an Committee, the Firmwide Risk Committee Director of Hastings Group Holdings Limited analyst in the Investment Banking Division in from its incorporation on 11 June 2015 until and the Corporate Investment Committee.
London and rejoined the firm in 2004 as an 15June2015.
Sumit joined Goldman Sachs in 2000 as an associate in MBD in London.
Michele became associate in the Financial Institutions Group an executive director in 2007 and worked in FIG in London.
From 2001 to 2004, he the New york office in 2010.
He was named worked in FIG in New york.
He became a vice managing director in 2012.
Michele joined president in 2003, joined MBD in 2005 and the Board in September 2015. was named managing director in 2007 and partner in 2010.
Sumit joined the Board in September 2015.
