64 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Remuneration committee Role and responsibilities of the committee The Committee is a formal sub-committee of the Board with its own defined Terms of Reference.
Its primary role is to review and set the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, within the context of salaries and benefits paid across the Group as a whole.
It also makes discretionary performance-related awards to Executive Directors and senior management.
The remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the full Board on the principle that no individual should be able to determine their own remuneration.
Malcolm le May Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Committee can and did obtain information and advice during the period under review from the Group HR Director, Dear shareholder the Company Secretary and, where appropriate the Executive Directors.
It may also seek advice from any other employees I am pleased to present the first report of the as required.
As permitted by its Terms of Reference, the Remuneration Committee for the financial Committee has engaged the advice and support of Deloitte year ended 31 December 2015.
The current LLP as independent remuneration consultants at the expense of the Company.
Remuneration Committee became effective in August this year, prior to the IPO in October Remuneration Report and Policy 2015.
Prior to this a Group Remuneration and The Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy Nomination Committee was in place.
References follows this Committee report.
to the Remuneration Committee in this report Priorities for 2016 include activities both before and after flotation.
In the coming year the Remuneration Committee will focus on: In relation to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and senior executive management within the Members of the Remuneration committee Groups trading entities: The Remuneration Committee is made up of the following Non-Executive Directors: assessment of Group performance against 2015 budget and approval of bonus awards for 2015: and chairman Members approval of bonus performance measures and targets Malcolm Le May Thomas Colraine for2016.
Mike Fairey Review of any issues raised by shareholders in relation Edward Fitzmaurice to remuneration and the remuneration policy: Sumit Rajpal Assessment of ongoing appropriateness of remuneration arrangements and remuneration trends and market practice: Biographies of the Committee members are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Recommending for approval by the Board awards and Committee.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have performance conditions under the Companys Long-Term been agreed by the Board and are available online at www.
Incentive Plan for 2016 and proposals for 2017: and hastingsplc.
Analysis of performance conditions under the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan at the year end.
The Chief Executive Officer may be invited, from time to time, to attend meetings of the Committee.
No individuals are On behalf of the Remuneration Committee involved in decisions relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee met formally three times during the year under review.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee Malcolm le May can be viewed on the Companys website.
Chairman Following appointment, Deloitte advised the Committee on a 14 March 2016 number of Executive remuneration matters including a review of the Executive remuneration framework, developments in market practice and share incentive plans.
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee during the year under review amounted to 14,000.
