18 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Our business model in action A disciplined approach to underwriting and agile pricing maximise value through a focused brand and product portfolio and multichannel distribution model.
Focus tHe StRenGtH OF tHe HaStInGS BUSIneSS MODel The Group has chosen to specialise in the UK private car insurance market, which currently accounts for 86% of live A focused set of products customer policies LCP.
Within this market our primary focus is on digital Sophisticated approach to data and analytics in pricing distribution through price comparison websites PCW and direct distribution Separation between technical and retail pricing through our retail brands websites.
The Group also provides home, bike Agility in a price comparison way of working and van insurance.
A capital efficient underwriting model Our business The Group operates across the Market-leading innovative risk selection and insurance value chain through the counter-fraud management Groups Retail and Underwriting businesses.
Clear separation is made A simple and straightforward systems landscape between these businesses to ensure the Underwriting entity receives the An effective control framework and culture technical net rate that it quotes and the Retail entity maximises customer capture and income, without negatively impacting Underwriting profitability.
The business is underpinned by sophisticated IT systems to analyse and process applications.
In order to support the Groups business strategy with the delivery of digital customer self-service capabilities, the Groups software systems are being upgraded toGuidewire ClaimCenter and Guidewire PolicyCenter, helping to optimise the claims process, providing greater control to colleagues, reducing the claims lifecycle workflow and activity management and early liability decisions.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 19 Refreshingly straightforward insurance Our customer proposition Sophisticated data capture Our brands The Group has a unique proposition, A digitally orientated distribution Refreshingly straightforward insurance.
approach means the Group generates a significant amount of highly relevant The Groups brand advertising, online data that can be used to refine and and offline direct marketing and optimise the Groups pricing strategies social media activity all promote this and decision making.
At Hastings we make employs a team of highly specialised the whole customer experience people who are empowered to drive straightforward with great value the Groups sophisticated pricing products and great service.
A dedicated team of decision scientists are focused on improving the pricing structures and assessing overall Products and brands customer lifetime value.
The Groups retail brands include Hastings Direct, Hastings Premier, Focused strategy Hastings Essential, Hastings Direct SmartMiles, InsurePink and Peoples The Groups strategy centres on Choice.
The Groups product offerings growth, increasing profitability and include car, home, bike and van insurance.
cash generation, whilst maintaining underwriting discipline.
The Groups strategy is based around six goals: Distribution The Groups distribution model is Profitable growth: optimised for the purchase of general Prudent underwriting: insurance products through PCW and through direct channels, both online Cash generation: and mobile.
PCW have become the Unlocking profitability through dominant feature of private motor efficiency: insurance distribution in the UK, accounting for a growing part Investing in digital and mobile 1 of new business at 66%.
distribution channels: and Expanding our product offering and investing in our competitive proposition.
1 Source: eBenchmarkers, six months to 31 October data
