02 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc about us Hastings Group is a fast growing, agile, digitally focused general insurance provider providing services to the UK car, van, bike and home insurance market.
Big enough to compete but small enough to grow, the Group has strong relationships with all major price comparison websites, a cost effective digital marketing model and a focus on customer retention.
Hastings provides OUR vISIOn refreshingly straightforward products and services to To protect 1 in 10 in the UK by 2020 by offering PROtectInG refreshingly straightforward insurance products at UK car, bike, van and home competitive prices with a customer focused approach.
A multi-award winning business, Hastings has over 2 million customers OUR BRanDS PRODUctS and over 2,300 colleagues.
Around 90% of policies are directly underwritten by Our largest and best-known brand, delivering great its Gibraltar based insurer, Advantage value car, bike, home and van insurance in a refreshingly Insurance Company Limited.
com The Group operates as an integrated Our premium cover, delivering all the benefits of Hastings Direct plus roadside breakdown cover and insurance provider with two businesses.
motor legal expenses included as standard.
The Groups Retail business, Hastings Insurance Services Limited, is responsible Our no-frills car and home insurance, providing just for the end customer pricing, fraud theessentials.
management, product design, distribution and management of the underlying Our telematics brand measures and rewards good customer relationships.
The Groups driving behaviour, helping young and inexperienced Underwriting business, Advantage drivers save money on their car insurance.
Insurance Company Limited, engages www.
com in risk selection, underlying technical InsurePink provides competitive car insurance, pricing, reserving and claims handling.
donating 10 from every policy sold to the Pink Ribbon Foundation.
co. uk Retail is supported by, and benefits from, Underwritings prudent approach Peoples Choice car insurance provides great benefits to risk and reserving and also benefits ata competitive price.
co. uk from the Groups panel of insurance partners who provide additional underwriting capacity.
The Groups integrated model deliberately separates OUR valUeS underlying product manufacturing from its distribution.
It is our attitude and the way we run our business that makes Hastings different.
By that we mean that all of our actions are based on our 4Cs cultural framework: Colleagues, Customers, Company and Community.
Getting it right for our Colleagues is always our first step.
By giving our Colleagues the right culture and right tools to do their job they will do more for our Customers, and the Company, enabling us to grow profitably and sustainably, allowing us to invest in the Communities we serve.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 03 InveStMent caSe A differentiated, highly focused Underwriting built on a bedrock A track record of strong, business, with digital distribution of sophisticated risk selection profitable growth.
built for the way in which and pricing with leading Confidence in trajectory, with customers now buy insurance.
integrated fraud management, continued growth, increasing resulting in a lower risk profile An agile, data-driven retail profitability and strong cash combined with attractive loss business underpinned by generation.
ratios and the optimal use of the ability to react rapidly capital.
to the movements in the market, creating a sustainable competitive advantage.
OUR StRateGy In actIOn GROW DISCIPLINE FOCUS Driving profitable growth Focus on prudent Continued focus on cash by targeting in excess of underwriting generation and deleveraging 2.5million live customer policies by the end of 2017 AGILE INVEST EXPAND Rapid reaction to Invest in digital capability and Expand our product market changes mobile distribution channels offering and invest in our competitive proposition all of our actions and decisions are based on our 4cs cOlleaGUeS cUStOMeRS cOMPany cOMMUnIty For more information on the 4Cs turn to pages 36-39
