04 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc GROW Driving profitable growth by targeting in excess of 2.5 million live customer policies by the end of 2017 Strategic focus KPI Key risks Our simple, straightforward business The UK car, van and bike insurance live customer policies model coupled with our digitally market is highly competitive.
000s as at 31 December each year focused distribution ensures we are well The distribution channels for customers positioned to benefit from increasing 2,042 purchasing insurance could change.
price comparison website PcW 1,711 penetration amongst customers.
1,418 capitalising on this natural momentum will drive sustainable, profitable growth in live customer policies lcP whilst strong customer retention rates allow the business to benefit from a naturally maturing portfolio as it develops 2013 2014 2015 longstanding relationships with its customers.
Source: Company data Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 05 DISCIPLINE Focus on prudent underwriting Strategic focus KPI Key risks We have demonstrated our focus on Underwriting risks have numerous Stable underwriting prudent underwriting while growing the uncertainties and variable factors to Combined operating ratio % number of lcP.
Inherent risk is that technical 91 89 89 footprint selection, extensive use of prices are not set correctly to cover 16 data, advanced pricing process and 17 16 ultimate claims costs for the risks rigorous fraud detection systems will covered.
75 72 73 support our current growth trajectory Fraud is an underlying risk for the whilst maintaining our target through insurance industry, specifically in claims the cycle calendar year net loss ratio of management.
Changes in car technology or peoples behaviour could alter claims outcomes 2013 2014 2015 positively or negatively.
Our ability to Loss ratio Expense ratio predict impact of changes can affect our performance.
Source: Company data 06 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc FOCUS continued focus on cash generation and deleveraging Strategic focus KPI Key risks We are strategically focused on the The Group is required to meet certain net debt and leverage multiple private car market, utilising our own minimum capital and solvency m and times x as at 31 December each year sophisticated risk selection through the requirements and to comply with a large 410 379 PcW digital distribution model.
as the number of regulatory requirements and business maintains its growth trajectory, changes to them.
4.6x 271 our focus remains on continuing to Reinsurance arrangements could not be 3.6x improve the cash efficiency of our model available at an economic cost or provide utilising our highly cash generative adequate protection.
2.1x Retail business with the strategic use of reinsurance in Underwriting to deliver The ability of the Group to achieve its ongoing deleveraging.
deleveraging target and to cover its debt 2013 2014 2015 obligations through cash flow generation.
Group operating 90.1 105.7 126.1 profit m Source: Company data Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 07 AGILE Rapid reaction to market changes Strategic focus KPI Key risks the Groups agile and digital business Without ongoing investment in model means it is well placed to respond technology, people and processes the to changing market conditions driving Group may not maintain its competitive a significant competitive advantage.
the separate structure of the Retail No.
1 and Underwriting businesses coupled with the innovative use of data and car insurance brand continuous market analysis allows the business to benefit from being on price comparison able to rapidly adjust pricing presented websites for 2015 to customers to support market share growth.
Source: eBenchmarkers 08 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc INVEST Invest in digital capability and mobile distribution channels Strategic focus KPI Key risks Hastings continues to invest in An unsuccessful implementation of Hastings online sales sold via complementary digital and mobile new systems, other enhancements mobile devices channels to further support lcP growth.
and upgrades could adversely affect % for the year ended 31 December applications are being developed for the Group.
37.1 phone and tablet devices providing Planned investments do not enhanced policy management 30.0 deliver the expected benefits: functionality in order to improve cost reduction, customer satisfaction the overall customer experience.
Investment continues within our infrastructure through the end to end implementation of Guidewire for both our claims and Broking platforms.
2014 2015 Source: Company data Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 09 EXPAND expand our product offering and invest in our competitive proposition Strategic focus KPI Key risks the Group sees significant opportunities Economic conditions or advances in Hastings home live to increase lcP volumes and overall on-board vehicle technologies restrict customer policy growth profitability by increasing its footprint the growth potential of these products.
000s as at 31 December each year within in its core private car market with 133.5 multi car and telematics two key areas of focus.
In addition Hastings is set to continue its expansion into the home insurance market where its business 71.3 model is well placed to benefit from increased PcW penetration.
