Section 3: Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Investment Adviser, are listed below.
Mr Graham Picken 66 Chairman Mrs Sally-Ann Farnon 55 Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Graham Picken British, resident in Sally-Ann Farnon known as Susie the UK, is an experienced banker and British, resident in Guernsey, is a financial practitioner and has been fellow of the Institute of Chartered Chairman of the Company since its Accountants in England and Wales launch.
He is also chairman of and qualified in 1983.
She was a Hampshire Trust Bank and a nonBanking and Finance Partner with executive director of Skipton Building KPMG Channel Islands from 1990 Society and of Connells Ltd, the until 2001 and Head of Audit KPMG estate agency group.
She has Grahams career spanned over thirty served as President of the Guernsey years with Midland and HSBC Banks Society of Chartered and Certified where, before he retired, he was General Manager of HSBC Bank plc Accountants and as a member of The Guernsey Public Accounts responsible for commercial and corporate banking including Committee and a Commissioner of The Guernsey Financial Services specialised and equity finance.
Before that Graham was Chief Commission.
She is a non-executive director of a number of property Executive of Forward Trust Group, an authorised bank, and Chairman and investment companies.
of First Direct, a division of HSBC Bank plc.
Other public company directorships Graham has no other listed company directorships.
listed in London unless noted otherwise : Breedon Aggregates Limited listed on AIM Dexion Absolute Limited Ravenscroft Ltd formerly Cenkos Channel Islands Ltd, listed on CISE Standard Life Investments Property and Income Trust Limited Threadneedle UK Select Trust Limited Mrs Sarah Evans 59 Mr John Hallam 66 Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board 9 June 2008 Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Sarah Evans British, resident in Guernsey, is a Chartered Accountant John Hallam British, resident in and a non-executive director of several Guernsey, is a Fellow of the Institute other listed investment funds, as well of Chartered Accountants in England as the Guernsey subsidiary of a global and Wales and qualified as an bank.
She spent over six years with accountant in 1971.
He is a former the Barclays Bank plc group from partner of  1994 to 2001.
During that time she having retired in 1999 after 27 years was a treasury director and, from 1996 with the firm both in Guernsey and to 1998, she was Finance Director of in other countries.
He is a director of Barclays Mercantile, where she was a number of other financial services responsible for all aspects of financial control and operational risk companies, some of which are listed management.
Prior to joining Barclays she ran her own consultancy on the London Stock Exchange.
He served for many years as a business advising financial institutions on all aspects of securitisation.
member of The Guernsey Financial Services Commission from From 1982 to 1988 she was with Kleinwort Benson, latterly as head of which he retired in 2006, having been its Chairman for the previous group finance.
She is a member of the Institute of Directors.
Other public company directorships listed in London : Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise : Crystal Amber Fund Limited listed on AIM Harbourvest Senior Loans Europe Limited BH Global Limited listed in London, Bermuda and Dubai JPMorgan Senior Secured Loan Fund Limited NB Distressed Debt Investment Fund Ltd listed on SFM London NB Private Equity Partners Limited listed on SFM London and Amsterdam Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited listed in Ireland H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 53 Section 3: Board of Directors continued Mr Frank Nelson 63 Mr Ian Russell 62 Appointed to the Board 1 June 2014 Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Frank Nelson British, resident in Ian Russell CBE British, is resident the UK, is a qualified accountant.
in the UK and is a qualified He has over 25 year of experience accountant.
He worked for Scottish in the construction, contracting, Power plc between 1994 and 2006, infrastructure and energy sectors, and initially as Finance Director and from was Finance Director of construction 2001 as its CEO.
Prior to this he spent and house-building group Galliford eight years as Finance Director at Try plc from 2000 until October 2012.
HSBC Asset Management in Hong He was previously Finance Director of Kong and London.
Try Group plc from 1987, leading the company through its floatation on the London Stock Exchange in 1989 and the subsequent merger with Other public company directorships Galliford in 2001.
Following his retirement from Galliford Try, he took listed in London unless noted otherwise : on the role of interim CFO of Lamprell plc in the UAE, where he helped to complete a complex refinancing and turnaround, before leaving in Johnston Press plc October 2013.
Following his return from the Middle East, he joined British Polythene Industries plc McCarthy and Stone as a non-executive director and, in 2014 and The Mercantile Investment Trust plc early 2015, he joined the boards of Telford Homes and Eurocell where BlackRock Income Strategies Trust plc he is the Senior Independent Director.
formerly British Assets Trust plc Certain of the Directors maintain additional directorships that are also listed Other public company directorships but not actively traded on various exchanges.
Details may be obtained from listed in London unless noted otherwise : the Company Secretary.
Eurocell plc Telford Homes plc listed on AIM Mr Chris Russell 66 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 Chris Russell British, is a Guernsey resident non-executive director of investment and financial companies in the UK, Hong Kong and Guernsey.
He is Chairman of F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd and a director of the UK Investment Companies trade body, the Association of Investment Companies.
Chris was formerly a director of Gartmore Investment Management plc, where he was Head of Gartmores businesses in the US and Japan.
Before that he was a holding board director of the Jardine Fleming Group in Asia.
He is a Fellow of the UK Society of Investment Professionals and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise : JP Morgan Japan Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Macau Property Opportunities Fund Limited 54 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015
