Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Introduction Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate Code, except as set out below.
governance culture that meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authority as well as other relevant bodies such as the Guernsey The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: Financial Services Commission and the Association of Investment Companies AIC of which the Company is a member.
The Board the role of the chief executive: has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment company.
All Directors executive directors remuneration: and contribute to the Board discussions and debates.
The Board believes the need for an internal audit function.
in providing as much transparency for investors and other stakeholders as is reasonably possible within the boundaries of For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK client and commercial confidentiality.
Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally Guernsey Regulatory Environment managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys On 30 September 2011, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission day-to-day management and administrative functions are the Commission issued the GFSC Finance Sector Code of outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no Corporate Governance Guernsey Code.
The Code comprises executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
corporate practice against which shareholders, boards and the Commission can better assess the governance exercised over The remainder of this Corporate Governance Statement addresses companies in Guernseys finance sector.
each of the 21 principles of the AIC Code in turn under the three main areas of The Board: Board Meetings and the Relationship with the The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale and Manager: and Shareholder Communications.
complexity of specific businesses will lead to differing approaches to meeting the Code.
Companies which report against the UK The Board Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code of Corporate Principle 1.
The chairman should be independent.
Governance are also deemed to meet this code.
The Directors have The Chairman, Mr G Picken, met the independence criteria upon determined that the Company will continue as an Authorised appointment and has continued to meet this condition throughout his Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
term of service although, having now served as Chairman for over nine years, shareholders should note the points raised in Principle 4 The AIC Code of Corporate Governance below.
As per the AICs recommendations the chairman has no As a member of the AIC, the Company has been reporting against the relationships that may create a conflict of interest with shareholders.
principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code and the accompanying AIC Corporate Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
In guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Director these financial statements, the Company is reporting against the SID, Mr J Hallam, who was appointed as SID on 11 February February 2013 AIC Code and AIC Guide which take into account 2010.
In his role as the SID, Mr J Hallam takes the lead in the annual updates made to the UK Corporate Governance Code in September evaluation of the Chairman at which the Chairmans performance and 2012.
The February 2015 AIC Code and AIC Guide take into account continuing independence is discussed.
updates made to the UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014, which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after Principle 2.
A majority of the board should be independent of 1 October 2014 and will therefore be adopted in the Groups March the manager.
Following the appointment of Mr F Nelson as a Director on 1 June 2014, the Board consists of seven non-executive Directors, all of The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of which are independent of the Investment Adviser.
None of the the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as Directors sit on the Boards of other entities managed by the explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Investment Adviser.
UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific The independence of each of the Directors is considered during the relevance to the Company.
annual self-evaluation of the Board.
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of The Board considers that reporting against the principles and interest prior to any Board discussion.
Finally, the tri-annual external recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the revised evaluation of the Boards performance, which was conducted by an AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, independent consultant, Trust Associates, in February 2015 the will provide better information to shareholders.
Trust Associates Board Evaluation Report, confirmed having observed strong challenges and independence on the part of the Board, but also a strong sense of collegiality and mutual trust.
