Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Introduction Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate Code, except as set out below.
governance culture that meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authority as well as other relevant bodies such as the Guernsey The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: Financial Services Commission and the Association of Investment Companies AIC of which the Company is a member.
The Board the role of the chief executive: has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment company.
All Directors executive directors remuneration: and contribute to the Board discussions and debates.
The Board believes the need for an internal audit function.
in providing as much transparency for investors and other stakeholders as is reasonably possible within the boundaries of For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK client and commercial confidentiality.
Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally Guernsey Regulatory Environment managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys On 30 September 2011, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission day-to-day management and administrative functions are the Commission issued the GFSC Finance Sector Code of outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no Corporate Governance Guernsey Code.
The Code comprises executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
corporate practice against which shareholders, boards and the Commission can better assess the governance exercised over The remainder of this Corporate Governance Statement addresses companies in Guernseys finance sector.
each of the 21 principles of the AIC Code in turn under the three main areas of The Board: Board Meetings and the Relationship with the The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale and Manager: and Shareholder Communications.
complexity of specific businesses will lead to differing approaches to meeting the Code.
Companies which report against the UK The Board Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code of Corporate Principle 1.
The chairman should be independent.
Governance are also deemed to meet this code.
The Directors have The Chairman, Mr G Picken, met the independence criteria upon determined that the Company will continue as an Authorised appointment and has continued to meet this condition throughout his Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
term of service although, having now served as Chairman for over nine years, shareholders should note the points raised in Principle 4 The AIC Code of Corporate Governance below.
As per the AICs recommendations the chairman has no As a member of the AIC, the Company has been reporting against the relationships that may create a conflict of interest with shareholders.
principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code and the accompanying AIC Corporate Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
In guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Director these financial statements, the Company is reporting against the SID, Mr J Hallam, who was appointed as SID on 11 February February 2013 AIC Code and AIC Guide which take into account 2010.
In his role as the SID, Mr J Hallam takes the lead in the annual updates made to the UK Corporate Governance Code in September evaluation of the Chairman at which the Chairmans performance and 2012.
The February 2015 AIC Code and AIC Guide take into account continuing independence is discussed.
updates made to the UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014, which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after Principle 2.
A majority of the board should be independent of 1 October 2014 and will therefore be adopted in the Groups March the manager.
Following the appointment of Mr F Nelson as a Director on 1 June 2014, the Board consists of seven non-executive Directors, all of The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of which are independent of the Investment Adviser.
None of the the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as Directors sit on the Boards of other entities managed by the explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Investment Adviser.
UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific The independence of each of the Directors is considered during the relevance to the Company.
annual self-evaluation of the Board.
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of The Board considers that reporting against the principles and interest prior to any Board discussion.
Finally, the tri-annual external recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the revised evaluation of the Boards performance, which was conducted by an AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, independent consultant, Trust Associates, in February 2015 the will provide better information to shareholders.
Trust Associates Board Evaluation Report, confirmed having observed strong challenges and independence on the part of the Board, but also a strong sense of collegiality and mutual trust.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 59 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued Principle 3.
Directors should be submitted for re-election at In the present case, the Board including Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallam regular intervals.
Nomination for re-election should not be has concluded that it has now reached an appropriate size with solid assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued integration and understanding amongst the Directors, and that it is satisfactory performance.
now appropriate for Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallam to retire from the The Articles of Incorporation currently provide that at least one third Company by no later than 30 June 2016.
Accordingly, it is intended of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
If that at the forthcoming AGM on 21 July 2015 all the Directors will their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Mr G Picken and Mr to, but not exceeding, one third, shall retire from office.
J Hallam will not be standing for re-election at the AGM in July 2016.
The Directors will utilise the intervening period to complete an orderly As a general policy, a Director of the Company who retires at an handover of responsibilities.
The Board considered the independence annual general meeting may, if willing to act, be re-appointed.
The of Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallam, as they have served nine years, and Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
concluded that an orderly handover of their roles was important for the success of the Company and that they remained independent.
At the most recent AGM of 22 July 2014, all of the serving Directors retired and offered themselves for re-election.
All six were re-elected Principle 5.
There should be full disclosure of information about with at least 98% of the votes cast in every case approving the rethe board.
In addition, Mr F Nelson received the endorsement of over The biographies of the Directors, including length of service, are set 98% of the votes cast in respect of his initial term as a Director.
out in Sections 3 Board of Directors and Section 5 Report of the Directors, together with a list of other public company directorships As in previous years, all seven Directors intend to retire and offer for each Director.
No Director has a shareholding in any company in themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM on 21 July 2015. which the Company also has an investment.
The Board is supportive of the re-election of each of the Directors for the new financial year, subject to the comments made regarding Mr The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial G Picken and Mr J Hallam under Principle 4 below.
controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company that should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The board should have a policy on tenure, which is The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance disclosed in the annual report.
of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of As the Company was formed in 2006, two Directors, Mr G Picken the Company.
Chairman and Mr J Hallam SID, have now served in office for more than nine years.
Their continued involvement and service as The Board meets at least four times a year and between these formal members of the Board over this time has provided continuity and meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser, the depth of experience, qualities that have been especially beneficial Secretary and the Companys Broker.
The primary focus at Board not just to shareholders, but also to the new members of the Board meetings is a review of investment performance and associated who necessarily required time to develop a full awareness and a matters such as marketing investor relations, risk management, detailed understanding of the business of the Company.
gearing, general administration and compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
The Acquisition Strategy and the The Board believes that long serving Directors should not Investment Policy, which are set out in the Section 2.2 Strategy and automatically be prevented from forming part of an independent Investment Policy, are also reviewed regularly with the Investment majority of the Board upon reaching nine years service.
As a general Adviser giving regard to market conditions and feedback from rule, if a Director has served more than nine years, the Board will shareholders and, additionally, a minimum of a full day is dedicated consider the issue of independence carefully on an annual basis as to this review annually.
part of the Board self-evaluation and will disclose its conclusions in the Directors Report.
As well as regular Board meetings, the following committees also met during the course of the year as set out in the table below : Audit, Management Engagement, Nomination, Remuneration and newly-formed Risk.
Terms of reference for each Committee have been approved by the Board and are on the Companys website.
60 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 March 2015 are as follows: Management Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mr J Hallam Mrs S Evans Mr G Picken Mr C Russell Mr I Russell Members Mrs S Evans Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Farnon Mr J Hallam Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mr F Nelson Mr F Nelson Mr J Hallam Mr J Hallam Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr G Picken Mr F Nelson Mr F Nelson Mr F Nelson Mr I Russell Mr C Russell Mr C Russell Mr G Picken Mr G Picken Mr I Russell Mr I Russell Mr I Russell Mr I Russell Mr F Nelson was appointed to each of the Committees at the Board Meeting held on 23 July 2014.
The attendance record of Directors for the year to 31 March 2015 is set out below: Formal Management Board Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration Risk Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 41223 Meetings Attended: Mr G Picken 6 N A 1223 Mr J Hallam 6 41223 Mrs S Evans 6 41223 Mrs S Farnon 6 41223 Mr F Nelson 42 11 1 2 Mr C Russell 6 41223 Mr I Russell 6 41223 Mr F Nelson was present for one additional meeting of each of these committees, but had not been formally appointed as a member of each of the committees at the relevant time.
The six formal Board meetings held in the year comprised the four quarterly meetings, a special Board meeting in April to discuss and approve matters relating to AIFMD and the formation of the Risk Committee, together with the Board meeting for the Strategy day in September.
A further eight ad hoc Board Committee meetings were held to deal with other matters, principally of an administrative nature, and these were attended by those Directors available.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
Directors may request any agenda items to be added that they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
The respective reports of the Remuneration Committee, the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee are set out in Sections 7, 8 and 9, respectively, of this Annual Report.
The Nomination Committee and the Management Engagement Committee are discussed in Principle 9 and Principle 15, respectively.
The formal terms of reference for each of the committees of the Board are available to view on the Companys website at http: hicl.
com investor-relations publications under the Corporate Documents section.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out in Section 4.
The board should aim to have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the company.
Following the appointment of the two additional Directors in May 2013, and a third in June 2014, the Board believes that the balance of skills, gender, experience and knowledge, coupled with the mixed length of service, provides for a sound base from which the interests of investors will be served to a high standard.
Moreover, the Directors believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption, including the planned retirement of the Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallam, as noted in Principle 4 above.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 61 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued The findings of the Trust Associates Board Evaluation Report It is composed of all seven Board Directors and chaired by Mr G affirmed the Boards belief that it reflected a suitable mix of skills Picken, who is also the Board Chairman.
All seven members are and experience.
In particular, it commented that the good spread of independent.
A summary of the main terms of reference of the skills on the Board had been enhanced with the appointment of new Committee are: Directors with good construction and infrastructure management experience.
Further, the report acknowledged a good level of to regularly review the structure, size and composition required knowledge of Guernsey regulatory requirements and regulations, of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with generally, as well as a number of Directors with accounting regard to any changes including skills, knowledge and qualifications and a good understanding of investment companies.
experience in accordance with Principle 6 of the AIC Code : to give full consideration to succession planning for Directors As a general remark, the Board has chosen not to adopt a definitive taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the policy with quantitative targets for board diversity.
However, gender, Company: and knowledge, skills, experience, residency and governance credentials to be responsible for identifying and nominating for the are all considered by the Nominations Committee when approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and recommending appointments to the Board and in formulating when they arise.
The Nomination Committee had two meetings in the year to Principle 7.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous 31 March 2015.
The first recommended the recruitment of one annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees additional Director Mr F Nelson to the Board.
The second concerned and individual directors.
the initial stages of succession planning in relation to an orderly The Board believes that the composition of the Board and its handover of Mr G Pickens position as Chairman and Mr J Hallams Committees reflects a suitable mix of skills and experience, and that position as SID and chair of the Audit Committee, and as Directors of the Board, as a whole, and its Committees functioned effectively the Company.
Nevertheless, the Board believes a regular evaluation is important.
Directors should be offered relevant training and induction.
While an internal evaluation is conducted most years, in the year to As with the two new Directors appointed to the Board in the financial 31 March 2015, an external review was commissioned as part of the year ended 31 March 2014, Mr F Nelson undertook a formal triannual independent review.
The Trust Associates Board Evaluation induction process upon his appointment in June 2014, including Report remarked that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees are individual meetings with the Investment Adviser at which detailed functioning effectively, that discussions are well informed and give discussions on the Company, its business model, strategy, policies valuable challenge to the Investment Adviser, especially with the and portfolio took place.
strengthened recruitment of Directors with good construction and infrastructure management experience.
The report also remarked Regular anti-bribery and anti-money laundering training is that the fact that each committee is chaired by a different Director undertaken.
The Investment Adviser also arranged for all Directors to was good practice, as it allows each chair to focus on a specific area.
visit at least one of the Companys investments during the year.
These included the Brighton Childrens Hospital, Defence Sixth Form In the period between external performance evaluations, the Board College, Gravesend Police Training Centre, London Underground conducts its own internal evaluation, considering the performance, Connect Project, Northwood MOD Headquarters, Queens Romford tenure and independence of each Director.
The annual selfHospital, Salford Hospital and Tameside General Hospitals.
This evaluation is completed by the Chairman and takes the form of oneprogramme of visits is ongoing.
to-one interviews with each Director holding office in the year.
The Chairman then presents a summary of the conclusions to the Board.
During these site visits with the Investment Advisers asset Comments on the Chairman are collated by the Senior Independent management team, Directors had the opportunity to tour the asset Director who then provides feedback to the Chairman.
and meet various stakeholders including the client, the users, the management team and the various facilities management Principle 8.
Director remuneration should reflect their duties, subcontractors.
Some visits included attending the project company responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
board meeting to observe governance of the investment.
The remuneration of the Directors and the Directors remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in Section 7.
These visits allow Directors to gain a deeper understanding of the actual operation of the investments concerned and the role of the Principle 9.
The independent directors should take the lead in the various parties, including the Investment Advisers asset appointment of new directors and the process should be disclosed in management team who are appointed directors to the investments the annual report.
The Board has a Nomination Committee, the terms of reference of which are available on the Companys website http: hicl.
The chairman and the board should be brought into relations publications under Corporate Documents.
the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
As the Company was listed in March 2006, the Board do not believe it is necessary to comment on this principle.
