The board should monitor and evaluate other During the year, the Chairman held individual meetings with certain service providers.
large shareholders, facilitated by the Companys Broker.
It is the As outlined in Principle 15, the Management Engagement Committee Boards intention to continue to meet with shareholders periodically MEC of the Board is responsible for reviewing all major service so that open two-way communication on the development of the providers to the Group at least once a year.
The MEC meeting for the financial year occurred in February 2015, Shareholders may contact any of the Directors via the Company when a comprehensive review of the Investment Adviser, Secretary including any in his or her capacity as chairman of one of Administrator, PR Agency, Broker, Transfer Agent, Luxembourg the Companys committees, as appropriate whose contact details Administrator, Valuation Expert and Lawyers was undertaken.
are on the Companys website www.
Overall, the feedback on performance throughout the year was that service had been delivered to a very high standard and the Principle 20.
The board should normally take responsibility for, and committee resolved that the continued appointment of all providers have a direct involvement in, the content of communications be recommended to the Board for approval, which was duly granted.
regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
Shareholder Communications In line with its obligations under the Listing Rules, the Company publishes an RNS whenever there is a material development.
The board should regularly monitor the shareholder Directors review and discuss the draft before publication and a profile of the company and put in place a system for canvassing Director approves the final RNS for release by the Secretary.
shareholder views and for communicating the boards views to shareholders.
All Company-related information is only published following The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great consultation with, and approval by, the Board.
As such, the Directors importance on communication with its shareholders.
have full knowledge and ability to draft, comment upon and approve the content of any communication.
Ahead of each quarterly Board meeting, the Board commissions a specialist report which analyses the shareholdings, collating them The Board wishes to provide sufficient disclosure and reporting of into holdings by investment group to determine the largest the Companys performance and strategic intentions to inform shareholders on the register as well as by trading activity to identify shareholders of Company activities.
The Board believe this is the largest buyers or sellers in the previous quarter.
achieved by the detailed information provided as follows: This data is reviewed by the Investment Adviser and the Companys Annual reports Broker in the context of discussions which have taken place with shareholders in the prior quarter.
The conclusions are discussed with Interim statement and accounts the Board and where appropriate, follow up actions are agreed.
The Detailed presentations to accompany the results Companys Financial PR Company provides the Board with a Two Quarterly Update Statements formerly, Interim Management quarterly report on press and media coverage of the Company and Statements a year the sectors in which it invests.
All reports also reference the peer Announcements of all material acquisitions group for comparison purposes.
Meetings and lunches with shareholders, attended by the The Board makes every effort to engage with shareholders and other Directors and the Investment Adviser stakeholders in the Company.
The Company reports formally to Case studies and investor events shareholders twice a year and normally holds an Annual General Meeting in Guernsey in July.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor the The Companys website www.
com has further information on voting of the shareholders and proxy voting is taken into each investment and copies of all publications, together with consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
The disclosure of key sensitivities and risks has been developed by the Board working with the Investment The Investment Adviser produces a regular factsheet which is Adviser and through dialogue with shareholders, the level and type available on the Companys website and senior members of the of disclosure has been expanded and refined in order to assist in a Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable full and fair analysis of the Company and its investments.
times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts to assist them with their understanding of the sector and the Company Principle 21.
The board should ensure that shareholders are provided in particular.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board with sufficient information for them to understand the risk:reward on a regular basis.
balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
The Board, in conjunction with the Investment Adviser, has Two Quarterly Update Statements formerly Interim Management endeavoured to educate shareholders and prospective investors on Statements are published each year and any material new information the Companys business and the risks and rewards associated with is published via a Regulatory News Release RNS announcement.
investing in the Companys shares.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 65 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued This is an ongoing process and the Board seeks to provide as much disclosure and transparency as possible about the activities of the Company and the associated risks and rewards, albeit within the boundaries of commercial sensitivities and client confidentiality.
The Board has hosted site visits and shareholder events to provide a deeper understanding of the Company and its investment portfolio.
Case studies and other materials, along with constitutional documents and committee terms of reference, are all available from the Companys website.
As a regular issuer of further share capital, the Company has published a number of prospectuses with detailed information on the investment portfolio and the potential risks.
The most recent prospectus, the February 2013 New Ordinary Shares Prospectus, is available on the Companys website, http: hicl.
com investorrelations publications under the Prospectuses section.
