In future, the Companys monthly factsheets will provide a commentary from Highbridge on the performance of the Underlying Fund.
The estimated net asset value of the Companys shares is, and will continue to be announced weekly via a Regulatory Information Service.
The daily market closing prices of Shares are available on Reuters, Bloomberg, in the Financial Times and the Daily Telegraph.
A copy of the Registration Document, Summary Note and Securities Note of the Company can be found on the Companys website, https: www.
All Shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
The buying and selling of Shares may be settled through CREST.
The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by Anson Registrars Limited in Guernsey and they can be contacted on 44 0 1481 711301.
NET ASSET VALUE NAV The NAV for accounting purposes of the Companys Shares, including all distributable reserves as at 31 December 2015 was GBP 2.0099 Sterling Shares and USD 1.9133 US Dollar Shares.
The Companys NAV is based on valuations of unquoted investments.
In calculating the NAV and the NAV per Share of the Company, the Administrator relies on the valuations of interests in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged and the Underlying Fund supplied by the administrator of each fund.
Further to the announcement on 1 December that the Company was being redeemed from AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged, with proceeds due to be received in line with the sale of the assets of the funds underlying AllBlue, the Board chose to apply a discount to the valuation of these assets to reflect the estimated time delay to receive redemption proceeds.
The remaining amount owed to former shareholders of the Company who elected to participate in the cash exit offer are recognised in the valuation as creditors.
On 18 February 2016, BlueCrest informed the Company that it anticipated that the BlueCrest Multi Strategy Credit Master Fund and the BlueCrest Capital International Master Fund would benefit from an award from a settlement of a U. S. civil litigation matter regarding the pricing transparency of certain credit default swaps.
These monies are anticipated by BlueCrest to be received in early 2017 however at present the valuations supplied to the Company by the administrator of AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged do not take these anticipated proceeds into account.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The results for the year are set out in the Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 52.
In accordance with the Investment Objective the Directors did not declare any dividends during the year under review and the Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend as at the date of this report.
