executive directors remuneration: the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions not relevant to the position of the Company, being a self-managed investment company prior to the appointment of Highbridge as investment manager to the Company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Company has complied with all Principles of the AIC Code and conforms with all detailed recommendations subject to the following explanations.
THE BOARD The Board comprises four non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent with the Chairman being independent on appointment for the purposes of Principle Two of the AIC Code and Listing Rule 15.2.
As part of their examination of the independence of the Board, the Board have considered the following matters, amongst others: Mr Meader holds a cross directorship with Mr Le Page but the company is not advised by or in any other way related to Highbridge or JPMorgan: Mr Meader sits on the Board of JPMorgan Global Convertibles Income Fund Limited: Miss Keen sits on the Boards of a number of private Pantheon entities with Mr Crowder: and Mr Meader and Mr Crowder have served on the Board since April 2006.
The Board have concluded that Mr Meader, Miss Keen, Mr Crowder and Mr Le Page remain independent under principle two of the AIC Code.
Mr Le Prevost was considered independent throughout the year under review and until his resignation on 27 April 2016.
Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 15 and 16, demonstrating the wide range of skills and experience they bring to the Board and highlights of their specific key skills and experience are included on page 24.
In accordance with Principle Five of the AIC Code, below is a list of all other public company directorships and employments held by each Director and shared directorships of any commercial company held by two or more Directors at the date of this report:- RICHARD CROWDER Baring Vostok Investments PCC Limited Better Capital PCC Limited FF&P Global Property Fund PCC Limited Page 22 v. 2.7
