Directors and Secretary At 31 December 2015 the Company had six Directors, all of whom were non-executive.
All directors, with the exception of Sarita Keen, held office throughout the reporting year.
All Directors, with the exception of John Le Prevost, Andrew Dodd and his alternate, Robert Heaselgrave, held office at the date of this report.
Andrew Dodd resigned as a director of the Company on 3 February 2016 and John Le Prevost resigned as a director on 27 April 2016.
Richard Crowder, Chairman aged 66 holds a range of non-executive directorships and consultancy appointments.
Having worked as an Investment Manager with Ivory & Sime in Edinburgh and as a Head of Investment Research with W. I. Carr in the Far East, he undertook a wide range of responsibilities for Schroders in London and the Far East, culminating in the role of Managing Director for Schroders Singapore associate.
Having then worked as Chairman of Smith New Court International Agency and Director of Smith New Court Plc, Mr Crowder was the founding Managing Director of Schroders Channel Islands subsidiary from 1991 until he became a non-executive Director in 2000.
He was appointed as a director of the Company in April 2006 and is resident in Guernsey.
Andrew Dodd aged 44 is a partner, executive committee member and board member of BlueCrest.
He is also a director of AllBlue Limited, BlueCrest BlueTrend Limited and several of the funds underlying AllBlue and a member of the AllBlue Committee which is responsible for portfolio allocations within AllBlue Limited.
He joined BlueCrest in 2006 after a 13 year career at Goldman Sachs where he specialised in advising insurance, banking and asset management clients with respect to mergers and acquisitions, capital markets, structured finance and asset liability management.
He holds a BA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Oxford University.
He was appointed as a director of the Company in May 2008 and is resident in Jersey.
Mr Dodd resigned as a director on 3 February 2016.
Paul Meader, Senior Independent Director aged 50 is an independent director of a number of investment management companies, insurers and investment funds.
Until 2013, he was Head of Portfolio Management for Canaccord Genuity based in Guernsey, having previously held the role of Chief Executive of Corazon Capital Group which was acquired by Collins Stewart in 2010.
Prior to joining Corazon he was Managing Director of Rothschilds Swiss private-banking subsidiary in Guernsey.
Mr. Meader has 30 years experience in financial markets with particular expertise in fixed income investments.
He is a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Securities & Investments and is past Chairman of the Guernsey International Business Association.
John Le Prevost aged 64 is the Chief Executive Officer of Anson Group Limited and Chairman of Anson Registrars Limited the Companys Registrar.
He has spent over forty years working in offshore fund, trust and investment businesses during which time he has been a managing director of subsidiaries in Guernsey for County NatWest Investment Management, The Royal Bank of Canada and for Republic National Bank of Page 15 v. 2.7 New York.
He is a Full Member of the Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners and in 1991-2 read for a law degree via distance learning and in 2009-11 read for an MBA from Southampton University via the Guernsey Training Agency.
He is a non-executive director of a number of London listed investment companies and is a trustee of the Guernsey Sailing Trust.
Mr Le Prevost resigned as a director on 27 April 2016.
Steve Le Page, Chairman of Audit Committee aged 59, retired from partnership with PwC in the Channel Islands in September 2013 and joined the board in June 2014 to succeed Jonathan Hooley who resigned on 25 April 2014.
His career at PwC spanned 33 years, during which time he was partner in charge of their Assurance and Advisory businesses for ten years and Senior Partner for five years.
In these executive positions he led considerable change and growth in that firm and also helped fund boards deal with regulatory and reporting issues.
His experience spans initial listings, ongoing governance and reporting, continuation and going concern and even winding up of Listed and unlisted entities.
He is a Chartered Accountant and a Chartered Tax Advisor and he has a number of non-executive roles.
He is resident in Guernsey.
Sarita Keen aged 48 brings significant experience of fund administration of Guernsey companies.
She was employed by Kleinwort Benson Channel Islands Fund Services formerly Close Fund Services Limited, for over 25 years and prior to that she worked for Hambros in Guernsey.
She is an Approved Person with the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and a Member of the Institute of Directors.
Sarita holds a number of non-executive positions for various companies and, as part of this, chairs or is a member of those companies audit, risk and nominations committees.
Miss Keen was appointed as a director on 3 June 2015 and is resident in Guernsey.
COMPANY SECRETARY AND ADMINISTRATOR JTC is a Guernsey incorporated company and provides administration and secretarial services to the Company pursuant to an Administration and Secretarial Agreement.
In such capacity, JTC is responsible for the general secretarial functions required by the Law and ensures that the Company complies with its continuing obligations as well as advising on the corporate governance requirements and recommendations applicable to a company listed on the premium segment of the Official List and admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Administrator is also responsible for the Companys general administrative functions such as the calculation of the NAV of Shares and the maintenance of accounting and statutory records.
