During the year under review the Board met fifteen times.
Of those meetings, three were quarterly Board meetings and the remainder were ad hoc meetings held at short notice to deal with specific matters including the Companys buy-back programme, developments relating to the underlying investments and the selection of an investment manager.
Required director attendance which includes attendance by alternates is summarised below:- Management and Quarterly Ad-Hoc Audit Nomination Risk Remuneration Director Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Richard Crowder 3 of 3 11 of 12 N A 1 of 1 9 of 9 4 of 5 1 of 3 2 of 12 1 of 5 0 of 1 3 of 9 0 of 5 Andrew Dodd 3 of 3 11 of 12 5 of 5 1 of 1 9 of 9 5 of 5 Paul Meader 3 of 3 8 of 12 3 of 5 1 of 1 8 of 9 5 of 5 John Le Prevost 2 of 3 9 of 12 5 of 5 1 of 1 8 of 9 N A Steve Le Page Sarita Keen 1 of 1 4 of 6 2 of 2 1 of 1 2 of 3 0 of 1 Sarita Keen was appointed a director on 3 June 2015.
Accordingly, her attendance at meetings is shown against the meetings held during her appointment during the year.
Letters of appointment for non-executive Directors do not set out a fixed time commitment for Board duties as the Board considers that the time required by Directors may fluctuate depending on the demands of the Company and other events.
Therefore it is required that each Director will allocate sufficient time to the Company to perform their duties effectively and it is also expected that each Director will attend all quarterly Board meetings and meetings of committees of which they are a member.
The Chairman has confirmed that he considers the performance of each director to be effective and that each director demonstrates continued commitment to their role.
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE A review of the skills and experience of the existing Board members is outlined below.
All Board members in the below table held office throughout the Financial Year, except for Sarita Keen, who was appointed on 3 June 2015.
Director Key Skills and Experience Richard Crowder Wide knowledge of investment management as well Chairman as broad experience of non-executive directorship, chairmanship and executive directorship in quoted and unquoted companies.
Paul Meader An experienced portfolio manager with in-depth Senior Independent Director Page 24 v. 2.7 knowledge of private wealth management and institutional asset management.
Long term experience of asset allocation, fixed income and hedge funds.
Significant financial services, fund management, regulatory and non-executive director experience.
Steve Le Page Wide-ranging knowledge of audit, financial Chairman of the Audit Committee reporting, corporate governance and internal controls in the context of listed investment companies.
Sarita Keen Extensive experience of Guernsey investment company administration and regulation.
The Board approves the nomination for re-election of all directors on an annual basis.
The above table summarises the rationale for re-election of directors.
All Directors seeking to continue on the Board after the AGM will put themselves forward for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
On 30 July 2015, the most recent AGM, shareholders re-elected Richard Crowder, Andrew Dodd, John Le Prevost, Steve Le Page and Paul Meader.
Due to the timing of the appointment there was no opportunity to elect Sarita Keen at the July 2015 General Meeting.
Miss Keen will put herself forward for election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The Board believes that changes to its composition, including succession planning for the Chairman or other directors, can be managed without undue disruption to the Companys operations.
Directors are able and encouraged to provide statements to the Board of their concerns and ensure that any items of concern are recorded in the Board minutes and the Chairman encourages all Directors to present their views on matters in an open forum.
The Board is also scheduled to consider the tenure of Directors once any Director has been appointed to the Board for a continuous period of nine years.
This occurred in 2015 for Messrs Crowder, Meader and Le Prevost.
Whilst the Board is of the view that directors can continue in certain circumstances beyond a tenure of nine years, thereafter such Directors will be subject to increasing scrutiny as to their effectiveness and independence.
In order to achieve orderly succession and to retain corporate memory, it was the intention of the Board that one of each of the above three directors should step aside in each calendar year starting with Mr Le Prevost.
As part of this succession plan, Sarita Keen was appointed to the Board in June 2015.
As a result of the changes to the underlying investment, the resignation of Mr Le Prevost and the search for a new chairman were deferred until after the appointment of a new investment manager of the Company on 29 February 2016.
Subsequent to the appointment of the new investment manager, Mr Le Prevost resigned on 27 April Page 25 v. 2.7
