Company & Investment Overview The Company is a Guernsey closed-ended investment company listed and traded on the Premium Segment of the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and traded on the Main Market of the London 1 Stock Exchange with assets of approximately 263m.
Following the notification received from BlueCrest Capital Management Limited that all third party investors in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged would be redeemed effective 4 January 2016, an Extraordinary General Meeting was held on 24 February 2016, at which the investment objective of the Company was changed to seek to provide consistent returns with low volatility through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in the Highbridge multi strategy fund the Underlying Fund or any successor vehicle of the Underlying Fund.
Prior to the Extraordinary General Meeting held 24 February 2016, the investment objective of the Company was to seek to provide consistent long-term capital growth through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in AllBlue or any successor vehicle of AllBlue.
THE COMPANY The Company has one share class, Sterling the Dollar class was closed in February 2016, and seeks to provide shareholders with the following key benefits: Attractive returns which are not beholden to the direction of asset markets, created by skilled portfolio management and a non-correlated, multi-strategy approach.
Strong capital preservation characteristics reflecting robust risk management and expert blending of various assets across discretionary and systematic funds.
Good liquidity occasioned by active trading in the Companys shares as the turnover on the London 2 Stock Exchange typically exceeds 0.5% of the total shares each week.
ABOUT HIGHBRIDGE MULTI-STRATEGY FUND The Company invests into the Underlying Fund through HCC, a limited liability company incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
The Underlying Fund is a global multi-strategy hedge fund focused on relative value strategies with idiosyncratic sources of return.
The Underlying Fund allocates to a number of distinct strategies pursuing equity, credit, convertible bond, volatility, capital structure arbitrage and macro opportunities across the globe, as further described below.
Page 8 v. 2.7 Since its inception on 1 January 1993, the Underlying Fund has achieved 10.67 per cent.
annualised net 3 returns, 6.89 per cent.
annualised volatility and low beta relative to equity and credit indices.
Key Features of the Underlying Fund Consistent Returns: The Underlying Fund targets attractive risk-adjusted returns with low volatility and low beta to broad markets.
It has a track record of delivering consistent risk-adjusted returns over market cycles for more than 20 years.
Diversified Global Exposure: Underlying investment strategies are diversified across asset classes, investment styles and geographies.
Highbridge employs dedicated teams on the ground in London, New York and Hong Kong that seek to capture global investment opportunities.
Relative Value Focus: The Underlying Fund focuses on relative value strategies with idiosyncratic sources of return.
Dynamic Capital Allocation: Within the Underlying Fund there is flexibility to allocate capital dynamically across various asset classes and geographies.
Capital Preservation: The investment process is focussed on robust risk management and drawdown protection.
Institutional Quality Infrastructure: Highbridge's world-class trading and investment platforms are supported by infrastructure capabilities across risk management, compliance, client service, operations, technology and finance.
About Highbridge Highbridge was founded in 1992 as one of the industrys first multi-strategy hedge fund managers.
As of 1 January 2016, Highbridge had approximately US$29 billion in assets under management and a staff of over 390 employees, including approximately 150 investment professionals and has offices in London, New York 4 and Hong Kong.
Highbridge established a strategic partnership with J. P. Morgan Asset Management JPMAM in 2004.
"Highbridge is a subsidiary of JPMAM, which is itself a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co together with its affiliates, ""JPM."
JPMAM is a leading investment and wealth management firm, operating across the Americas, EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Asia in more than 30 countries, 5 with assets under management of $1.7 trillion.
All investment, capital allocation and risk management decisions for the Underlying Fund are independent of 3 As of 31 December 2015 net of all applicable fees and expenses.
Returns are estimated and unaudited for 2015.
Shareholders should note that past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results and that there can be no assurance that the Company's and or the Underlying Funds return objectives will be realised or that the Company and or the Underlying Fund will not experience losses.
Highbridge is registered as an investment adviser under the U. S. Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended.
In addition to managing the Underlying Fund, Highbridge has also been appointed as the investment manager of the Company.
As part of the new investment management arrangements, JPMAM provides certain support services to the Company as delegate of Highbridge, including the provision of investor relations, public relations and Board support.
Investment Objective and Strategy of the Underlying Fund The Underlying Fund seeks to achieve annualised net returns of 7 to 12 per cent.
with annualised volatility 6 of 3 to 6 per cent.
and a beta to the S&P 500 below 25 per cent.
The Underlying Fund utilises a diversified, multi-strategy approach to investing across the following seven strategy groups and unique sub-strategies within those groups: 6 The annual target net return and other fund objectives have been established by Highbridge based on its assumptions and calculations using data available to it and in light of current market conditions and available investment opportunities and is subject to various risks including, without limitations, those set out in the circular published by the Company on 8 February 2016.
These fund objectives are for illustrative purposes only and are subject to significant limitations.
An investor should not expect to achieve actual returns similar to the annual target return shown above.
Because of the inherent limitations of the target returns, investors should not rely on them when making any investment decision.
These objectives cannot account for the impact that economic, market and other factors may have on the implementation of an actual investment program.
Unlike actual performance, the target return and other fund objectives do not reflect actual trading, liquidity constraints and other factors that could impact the future returns of the portfolio.
The Underlying Funds ability to achieve the target net return and fund objectives is subject to risk factors over which Highbridge may have no or limited control.
There can be no assurance that the Underlying Fund will achieve its investment objective, the annual target net return or any other fund objectives.
The actual returns achieved may be more or less than the annual target net return shown.
Page 10 v. 2.7 Investment Objective and Strategy of the Underlying Fund continued Allocation Description Geographic Focus Asia Long Short Bottom-up long short equity strategy focused on relative value and Asia Equity thematic opportunities Sector-Focused Long Bottom-up, long short equity strategies focused on specific sectors North America Short Equity currently includes Consumer and Industrials sectors Strategies Real Estate Bottom-up, long short equity strategy focused on identifying Global Long Short Equity relative value opportunities within the real estate sector Strategy employing qualitative and quantitative analysis to capture Merger Arbitrage unique sources of spread generated from entities involved in M&A North America Europe activity Event-Focused Event-driven long short equity strategy focused on opportunities European Long Short resulting from industry changing events and corporate catalysts Europe Equity such as M&A, restructurings and management changes Event-Focused North Event-driven long short equity strategy focused on opportunities American Long Short resulting from industry changing events and corporate catalysts North America Equity such as M&A, restructurings and management changes Systematic strategy focused on managing equities, futures and Statistical Arbitrage Global options investments Convertible Credit & Fundamental, credit relative value strategy focused on Capital Structure North America Europe underfollowed public middle market issuers Arbitrage Asia Capital Fundamental, relative value strategy focused on exploiting capital Asia Structure Arbitrage structure dislocations Relative value strategy employing quantitative techniques to Convertible & capitalise on mispriced optionality embedded in convertible North America Europe Volatility Arbitrage securities European Relative Fundamental, relative value credit strategy making both long short Europe Value Credit credit investments and capital structure arbitrage trades Short-term, systematic commodity strategy focused on quantitative Tactical Commodities Global analysis of technical and fundamental factors Fundamental analysis of monetary, fiscal and political themes in Fundamental Macro search of opportunities for potential changes in valuation and Global relative prices across asset classes and economies Page 11 v. 2.7 Convertible Capital Structure Quant.
Macro Credit & Volatility Event Driven Equity Fundamental Equity Arbitrage Equity Arbitrage ALLBLUE As described in the Chairmans statement on page 4, the Company was informed on 1 December 2015 that, effective 4 January 2016, AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged were being redeemed from the seven underlying funds and were compulsorily redeeming the holdings of all investors, including the Company, on 4 January 2016.
The Company retains a creditor interest equivalent to the value of its holding in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
This is measured by reference to the valuation statements received monthly from the administrator of AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
Further information about the proceeds returned to the Company is available in Note 16 to the Financial Statements.
Prior to this announcement, AllBlue was a multi-strategy fund of hedge funds investing in BlueCrest and Systematica funds across AllBlues two core specialisations: discretionary and systematic trading.
These two complementary strategies were blended using seven underlying BlueCrest and Systematica funds.
Using robust risk management, AllBlue blended these seven non-correlated funds to produce attractive returns with low volatility.
AllBlue had full transparency into the seven funds aiding the sterling share class 7 return of 8.0% per annum since inception in 2006, combined with low volatility.
A summary on each underlying fund is provided at the end of the AllBlue Investment Manager report on page 79.
AllBlue and six of the underlying funds are managed by BlueCrest Capital Management Limited.
BlueTrend is managed by Systematica, an independent firm launched in January 2015 comprising the systematic investment management business previously managed as part of BlueCrest Capital Management Limited.
Systematica is led by Leda Braga, formerly head of systematic trading at BlueCrest and manages 8 approximately $10.2bn across a number of futures and equity based strategies.
7 Net performance of AllBlue Limited Class A GBP to 31 December 2015.
