Under the supervision of the Nomination Committee, the Company continues to work with Thomas & Dessain International Search and Selection to manage a structured and thorough search process.
AUDIT COMMITTEE In accordance with the AIC Code, an Audit Committee has been established and its membership and Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website.
In the opinion of the Board, the constitution, terms of reference and activities of the Audit Committee fulfil all the requirements of the AIC Code, save that the Company does not maintain an internal audit function.
The report of the chairman of the Risk Committee can be found on page 37.
The Board continue to seek to ensure that all areas of risk and control were addressed by either that committee or the Audit Committee.
Consequently the terms of reference of each committee make the division of responsibilities between them clear.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the controls and systems in place to address, inter alia, the risks of loss or misappropriation of assets, mis-statement of liabilities or failure of financial reporting systems or processes, including valuation reporting and processes.
The Audit Committee also examines the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP or EY, remuneration and engagement, as well as their independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee monitors the performance of the auditor and may, if deemed appropriate, consider arranging for the external audit contract to be tendered in 2016 being ten years from the initial appointment with the aim of ensuring a high quality and effective audit.
Each year the Board examines the Audit Committees performance and effectiveness, and ensures that its tasks and processes remain appropriate.
Key areas covered included the clarity of the Audit Committees role and responsibilities, the balance of skills among its members and the effectiveness of reporting of its work to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee have relevant financial experience and knowledge and ensure that such knowledge remains up to date.
Overall the Board considered the Audit Committee had the right composition in terms of expertise and has effectively undertaken its activities and reported them to the Board during the year.
MANAGEMENT AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In accordance with the AIC Code, a Management and Remuneration Committee has been established and its membership and Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website.
The function of the Management and Remuneration Committee is: a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator, the Investment Manager and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: Page 26 v. 2.7 b to monitor and assess the appropriate levels of remuneration for all Directors: and c to ensure that the Company complies to the best of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet of generally accepted codes of conduct.
During the year under review the Management and Remuneration Committee met once.
The chairmanship of the Audit and the Management and Remuneration committees is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
In addition, each Directors performance is assessed annually by the Chairman and the performance of the Chairman is assessed by the Senior Independent Director together with the remaining Directors.
The remuneration of the Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and compared with the level of remuneration for directorships of other similar investment companies.
All Directors receive an annual fee apart from Mr Dodd who waived all fees in connection with his appointment to the Company and there are no share options or other performance related benefits available to them.
The Board is committed to an evaluation of its performance being carried out every year.
In accordance with Principle Seven of the AIC Code the Board has undertaken its second, externally facilitated evaluation by Optimus Group Limited in 2014, Optimus having previously appraised the Board in 2011.
The 2014 external evaluation confirmed that the Company observes high standards of corporate governance and the Board confirms that there are no outstanding recommendations from this evaluation.
Subsequent to the Board evaluation conducted by Optimus Group Limited, the Management and Remuneration Committee identified that the fees received by the directors of the Company were no longer in line with its peer group and had not risen for a number of years and recommended that these be increased.
The Board subsequently resolved on 18 August 2014, to increase the directors fees, effective 1 January 2014, and these remain as disclosed below: Directors fee 42,000 Additional fee payable to chairman 18,000 Additional fee payable to 8,000 Audit Committee chairman Additional fee payable to 6,000 senior independent director Page 27 v. 2.7
