Highbridge 2016 Market Outlook On the invitation of the Directors of the Company, this commentary has been provided by Highbridge as investment manager of both the Company and of Highbridge Multi-Strategy Fund and is provided without any warranty as to its accuracy and without any liability incurred on the part of the Company.
The commentary is not intended to constitute, and should not be construed as, investment advice.
Potential investors in the Company should seek their own independent financial advice and may not rely on this communication in evaluating the merits of investing in the Company.
The commentary is provided as a source of information for shareholders of the Company but is not attributable to the Company.
OUTLOOK FOR 2016 2016 has started with extreme volatility across asset classes around the globe.
The first six weeks of the year saw one of the most severe sell-offs in recent history with the unwind of the popular themes of 2015 such as long US dollar, long momentum and higher rates sending assets plummeting.
Following this vicious sell-off, the remainder of the quarter saw one of the sharpest bounce-backs on record, which caused its own challenges for newly positioned, fragile markets but also has presented Highbridge with opportunities it believes it can capitalise on during the rest of the year.
In equities, although the S&P 500 ended the first quarter up 0.8%, it was the first instance in over 80 years that the S&P was down 10% during the quarter, yet finished in positive territory.
Furthermore, the S&P finished the quarter just 3% shy of its all-time highs.
According to Morgan Stanley, Q1 was the worst quarter of hedge fund alpha in seven years with style factors momentum, growth, value, small vs. large cap, etc.
accounting for most of the negative alpha.
In an environment like this, Highbridge believes that its quantitative equity strategies with mean-reverting qualities and tightly managed fundamental strategies focused on short and medium term catalysts will be best positioned to perform in 2016.
In credit, the high yield market lost 5% amidst $4.5 billion of year to date outflows through February 11th, netting the worst start to a year on record, but then staged the sharpest rebound from peak to trough in over 5 years.
In the month and a half following February 11th, the high yield market returned a massive 9.1% more than the past three years combined and tightened 220 bps amidst an unprecedented $12 billion in retail flows over just 5 weeks.
In the wake of this rollercoaster start to the year, Highbridge is seeing a number of dislocations that are creating interesting investment opportunities including: the significant bifurcation between where the widest 50% of the high yield market is trading versus the tightest 50%: the $62 billion of fallen angels which have been downgraded from investment grade to high yield this year: close to record-setting cheapness of non-investment grade versus investment grade convertible credit and off-the-run versus on-the-run credit.
Highbridge is therefore increasing the Underlying Funds allocations to credit-oriented strategies that can seek to capitalise on the many opportunities Highbridge is seeing in the space.
Page 13 v. 2.7 While markets have become increasingly unpredictable, Highbridge expects that elevated volatility is here to stay and will continue carefully managing exposures.
Throughout the challenging first quarter, the Underlying Fund produced relatively steady performance with positive returns in two of the three months and avoided the steep drawdowns experienced by many of Highbridges hedge fund peers.
Highbridges ability to preserve investor capital through this kind of volatility highlights not only the value of a multi-strategy fund, but also the value of our investment philosophy of isolating idiosyncratic risk, focusing on relative value opportunities and tightly managing exposures.
Highbridge expects that strategies focused on opportunities with asymmetric risk reward and short to medium term catalysts will continue to offer the most compelling opportunities in 2016.
Looking ahead, Highbridge believes that it is in a strong position to capitalise on the opportunities that are arising from recent market stress and is busy putting fresh capital to work.
Highbridge Capital Management, LLC Page 14 v. 2.7
