Strategic Report Progress on selected strategic actions Reduce risk-weighted assets US and Mexico We have mobilised We made significant progress in meeting We are strengthening our businesses in resources throughout our risk-weighted asset RWA Mexico and the US to rebuild profitability.
our organisation to reduction targets in 2015.
We did this We seek to grow revenue from crossprimarily by: exiting or disposing of low border banking opportunities across the deliver the results returning portfolios: better managing North American Free Trade Agreement we have committed processes, calculations and positions: NAFTA area.
to achieving by 2017. and being more selective in the business we undertake.
US growth We aim to capture value from our network by adapting to structural We grew revenue from transaction Exit disposal of low changes in our operating environment banking products, including a 9% increase returning portfolios and pursuing growth opportunities.
in Global Trade and Receivables Finance, In 2015, we took our first steps and increased collaboration between Nearly $42bn of our total RWA towards achieving the targets we our GB&M and CMB businesses.
We reduction came from the partial sale set out in June.
These pages contain improved cost efficiency by consolidating of our investment in Chinas Industrial additional information on five selected data centres and moving to lower-cost Bank, and the accelerated sell-down actions.
For further details on revenue office locations.
of our consumer mortgage portfolio growth from our international network, in the US and our GB&M legacy see page 46. credit portfolio.
Mexico growth We grew RBWMs adjusted revenue in Management of positions, Mexico by 7%, growing faster than the processes and calculations market in cards, mortgages and personal loans.
We increased revenue from We have refined our RWA calculations, business synergies in 2015, including and implemented process improvements an 18% increase in revenue from Global and exposure reductions in GB&M Trade and Receivables Finance products and CMB.
This reduced RWAs by a provided to GB&M clients.
further $82bn, two-thirds of which was in GB&M.
nAFTA area initiatives We increased the number of clients we serve who conduct business across the NAFTA area.
We are developing our products to better serve customers and connect supply chains.
Our cross-border revenue between the US and Mexico grew by more than 10% in 2015.
Group RWA reduction nAFTA area revenue Change from 2014 % of Group revenue -10% 14% GB&M risk-weighted assets NAFTA area revenue $bn $bn: includes intercompany revenue 2015 440.6 2015 8.3 2014 516.1 2014 8.2 HSBC HOldInGS plC 20 Progress on selected strategic actions Cost savings Investment in Asia Global Standards safeguarding against We continue to take action to manage We are in a leading position to capture our costs better.
We are growing our growth in Asia.
Our priorities include financial crime digital capabilities and realising efficiency accelerating our business growth in We are committed to implementing gains through automating and reChinas Pearl River Delta PRD, and the most effective global standards engineering processes.
We are developing our Asset Management to combat financial crime.
We are also simplifying our technology and and Insurance businesses to benefit therefore putting in place robust controls reshaping our global functions.
from Asias growing middle class.
We aimed at enabling us to understand also aim to grow our business in the Our cost saving plans and tighter cost more about our customers, what they Association of Southeast Asian Nations controls have slowed cost growth in do, and where and why they do it.
This ASEAN region as trade and investment 2015.
Costs in the second half of the comprehensive approach is designed flows increase in key markets such as year were in line with the first half.
to help us detect, deter, and prevent Singapore and Malaysia, and we are financial crime.
Increased efficiency Enhancing infrastructure We removed the requirement for nearly pearl River delta and systems 3,000 roles by automating and eliminating We are developing our business in the processes in 2015.
We completed over We are rolling out improved systems PRD, in Guangdong, the Chinese province 13% of our target to remove 750 software and infrastructure to manage financial bordering Hong Kong.
The provinces applications by the end of 2017.
We are crime risk, and improved transaction increasingly sophisticated economy and optimising our branch network, and we monitoring and sanctions screening links with Hong Kong provide us with a closed more than 130 branches in 2015 capabilities.
unique opportunity to create a full-scale in six of our largest retail banking markets.
We also introduced a new IT operating Expanding capabilities model that achieved a 4% cost reduction In 2015, we appointed a CEO for We are strengthening our financial in the IT run rate compared with 2014.
Guangdong and continued to build crime detection and investigation infrastructure and recruit staff.
We grew capabilities within our business teams, our RBWM mortgage business and Using technology to including delivering enhanced training established a branch of HSBC Life enhance productivity to appropriate staff.
We also agreed We increased productivity in our UK to establish a majority-owned jointWhile significant work remains to be branches through online customer venture securities company in Qianhai, done, we continue to make progress support and appointment booking.
In Shenzhen, which, if approved by towards putting in place a robust and CMB, we simplified our processes and regulators, will potentially allow us sustainable anti-money laundering are using technology better to open to engage in the full spectrum of the and sanctions compliance programme.
We significantly securities business in mainland China.
reduced the time taken to approve personal loans from an average of 20 days to two days, and in some cases instantly, in four of our priority markets.
Reduction in manual payments HSBC branches in Guangdong Global Standards employee training % reduced through automation 25% 64 Over 2.1m hours Adjusted costs Guangdong loans Investment in Global Standards $bn $bn $bn 2015 36.2 2015 4.3 2015 1.5 2014 34.6 2014 4.1 2014 0.9 HSBC HOldInGS plC 21 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
