Value of the international network Our international network is a distinctive advantage and underpins our strategy.
It enables us to serve clients in a large number of countries.
By serving a wide range of customers, Payments and Cash Our global footprint we also create business synergies.
Management gives us a strong position Cross-business synergies come from We increased average deposits by 8% providing products from one of our in transaction banking in 2015, aided by: investment in sales global businesses to customers of and client management: new and products, which support another.
In-business synergies come enhanced products: and access from owning our Securities Services global trade and capital through digital channels including business, and our Asset Management HSBCnet mobile, which is now flows.
The scale of our and Insurance businesses that available in 34 markets.
manufacture their own products, network means we can and support our global businesses.
offer these products Business synergies We are building on these strengths, to a larger number of We grew business synergy revenue by and saw their effects during 2015.
In-business customers, including synergies grew 8%, including 7% growth from transaction companies that operate growth in Securities Services revenue.
banking products Growth in cross-business synergies in many countries.
We grew revenue from our transaction revenue was led by a 7% increase banking products by 4% in 2015 to in revenue from PCM products sold Details can be found on pages 14 to 17.
$15.7bn, driven in particular by Foreign to GB&M customers.
Exchange, and Payments and Cash Business synergies revenue growth Management PCM.
In Global % change 2014 to 2015 Trade and Receivables Finance, we maintained revenue despite a decline 6% of approximately 40% in commodity prices and stagnant world trade.
We Transaction banking product revenue $bn continue to benefit from our presence along strategic trade corridors and 2015 15.7 synergies across global businesses.
