Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Corporate governance codes Board of Directors Corporate governance Board of Directors codes The Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings the Board aims to promote the long-term success of the Company and HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate deliver sustainable value to its shareholders.
Led by the Group Chairman, the Board sets the strategy During 2015, HSBC complied with the applicable code and risk appetite for the Group and approves capital and provisions of: i the UK Corporate Governance Code issued operating plans presented by management for the by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014: and achievement of the strategic objectives.
Implementation ii the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code set out in of the strategy is delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
The UK Directors Corporate Governance Code is available at www.
uk The names and brief biographical details of the Directors and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code is available are included on pages 249 to 254.
The Board has adopted a dealing code for transactions Executive Directors in HSBC Group securities by Directors Code for Dealing in The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group HSBC Group Securities.
This code of conduct meets the Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC requirements of the FCA Listing Rules and the Rules employees.
Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that The Stock Exchange of Hong Non-executive Directors Kong Limited has granted waivers from strict compliance Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees and with the Rules which take into account accepted practices in do not participate in the daily management of HSBC: they the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
bring an independent perspective, constructively challenge Following specific enquiry, each Director has confirmed and help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the that he or she has complied with the code of conduct performance of management in meeting agreed goals and throughout the year.
All Directors are routinely reminded of objectives and monitor the Groups risk profile and the their obligations under the Code for Dealing in HSBC Group reporting of performance.
bring a wide variety of experience from the public and private sectors, including the leadership of large complex multinational enterprises.
Non-executive Directors terms of appointment The Board has determined the minimum time commitment expected of non-executive Directors to be about 30 days per annum.
Time devoted to the Company could be considerably more, particularly if serving on Board committees.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial threeyear term and, subject to re-election by shareholders at annual general meetings, are typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
The Board may invite a director to serve additional periods.
All Directors are subject to annual election by shareholders.
Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each of the non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in London.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for running HSBCs business.
Descriptions of the roles 1 The Group Risk Committee is responsible for the oversight of internal and responsibilities of the Group Chairman and the Group control other than internal control over financial reporting and risk management systems Hong Kong Corporate Governance Chief Executive are available at www.
com aboutCode provision C. 3.3 paragraphs f, g and h. If there were no hsbc corporate-governance board-committees.
Their key Group Risk Committee, these matters would be the responsibility of responsibilities are set out below.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 256 Key responsibilities During the year Irene Lee and Pauline van der Meer Mohr were appointed to the Board.
Additionally, Paul Walsh and Group Chairman Douglas Flint Henri fide Castries have been appointed to the Board with Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness effect from 1 January 2016 and 1 March 2016 respectively.
Develops relationships with governments, regulators and Further details on Paul Walsh and Henri fide Castries skills investors and experience can be found in the biographies on pages Leads the Groups interactions on matters of public policy and 250 and 253. regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial services industry Powers of the Board Maintains corporate reputation and character The Board is responsible for overseeing the management Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief of HSBC globally and, in so doing, may exercise its powers, Executive subject to any relevant laws and regulations and to the Group Chief Executive Stuart Gulliver Articles.
The Board has adopted terms of reference which Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans are available at www.
The Board reviews its terms of reference annually.
Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group Chairman, for recommendation to the Board In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Drives performance within strategic goals and commercial Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all objectives agreed by the Board with support from the Group or any part of the undertaking, property or assets present Management Board or future of HSBC Holdings and exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the Companies Act 2006 and or by Senior independent non-executive Director and shareholders.
The Board is able to delegate and confer on Deputy Chairman any executive Director any of its powers, authorities and discretions for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit.
Descriptions of the roles and responsibilities of the senior In addition, the Board may establish any local or divisional independent non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman boards or agencies for managing the business of HSBC are available at www.
com about-hsbc corporateHoldings in any specified locality and delegate and confer governance board-committees.
Their key responsibilities on any local or divisional board, manager or agent so are set out below.
appointed any of its powers, authorities and discretions Key responsibilities for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit.
The Board may also appoint any person or persons to be an agent of Senior Independent non-executive Director Rachel Lomax HSBC Holdings and may delegate to any such person or Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors when persons any of its powers, authorities and discretions on necessary.
such terms as it thinks fit.
Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group The Board delegates the day-to-day management of HSBC Chairman.
Holdings to the Chief Executive Officer but reserves to itself Deputy Chairman Sir Simon Robertson approval of certain matters including operating plans, risk Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board appetite and performance targets, procedures for or shareholders and supports the Group Chairman in his role.
monitoring and controlling operations, credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors expenditure or realisation or creation of a new venture, The Board may at any time appoint any person who is specified senior appointments and any substantial change willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an in balance sheet management policy.
addition to the existing Board.
The total number of Board meetings Directors shall not be less than five nor should it exceed 25.
Newly-appointed Directors retire at the Annual General Seven Board meetings and four strategy meetings were Meeting AGM following appointment and shall be eligible held in 2015.
At least one Board meeting each year is held for election.
The Board may appoint any Director to hold in a key strategic location outside the UK.
During 2015, any employment or executive office and may revoke or Board meetings were held in Hong Kong and mainland terminate any such appointment.
ordinary resolution, appoint a person as a Director or The table below shows each Directors attendance at remove any Director before the expiration of his or her meetings of all Board and Committee meetings during period of office.
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2015. all of the Directors are subject to annual re-election During 2015, the non-executive Directors and the senior by shareholders.
independent Director met regularly without the executive Directors, including to appraise the Group Chairmans performance.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 257 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors 2015 Board and committee attendance Philanthropic Financial & Community Group System Conduct & Investment Group Audit Group Risk Remuneration Nomination Vulnerabilities Values Oversight AGM Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 1 7 7 10 10 5 7 5 3 Group Chairman Douglas Flint 1 7 Executive Directors Stuart Gulliver 1 7 Iain Mackay 1 7 Marc Moses 1 7 Non-executive Directors Phillip Ameen 1 7 7 Kathleen Casey 1 7 7 7 1 Safra Catz 1 7 Laura Cha 1 7 4 5 4 5 3 Lord Evans of Weardale 1 7 7 5 3 Joachim Faber 1 7 10 Rona Fairhead 1 7 4 5 7 Sam Laidlaw 1 7 10 5 2 Irene Lee 3 3 John Lipsky 1 7 10 10 5 3 Rachel Lomax 1 7 7 10 2 2 5 Heidi Miller 1 7 10 3 5 5 Sir Simon Robertson 1 7 10 3 3 2 2 Jonathan Symonds 1 7 7 5 4 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 2 2 1 Resigned from the Board 31 December 2015.
2 Appointed to the Board 1 July 2015.
3 Appointed to the Nomination Committee 24 April 2015.
4 Appointed to the Board 1 September 2015.
5 Resigned from the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and the Nomination Committee 24 April 2015.
Board balance and independence of Directors The Board considers all of the non-executive Directors to be independent.
When determining independence the Board The Board comprises a majority of independent nonconsiders that calculation of the length of service of a nonexecutive Directors.
At the conclusion of the 2016 AGM, the executive Director begins on the date of his or her election Board is expected to comprise 18 Directors the Group by shareholders following appointment as a Director of Chairman, the executive Directors and 14 independent HSBC Holdings.
Sam Laidlaw, has served on the Board for non-executive Directors.
The size of the Board is more than seven years and Rona Fairhead and Sir Simon considered to be appropriate given the complexity and Robertson have served on the Board for more than nine geographical spread of the business and the significant years and, in that respect only, do not meet the usual time demands placed on the Directors arising from the criteria for independence set out in the UK Corporate various Board committees that exist to underpin the Governance Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Groups corporate governance framework.
The Board has determined Sam Laidlaw, The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, Rona Fairhead and Simon Robertson to be independent in size and composition of the Board including skills, character and judgement, notwithstanding their length of knowledge, experience, independence and diversity and service, taking into account their continuing level of makes recommendations to the Board with regard to constructive challenge of management and strong any changes.
Rona Fairhead and Sir Simon Robertson will retire from the Board at the 2016 The Board has adopted a policy on Board diversity which Annual General Meeting.
is consistent with the Groups strategic focus on ethnicity, age and gender diversity for the employee base.
Further The Board has concluded that there are no relationships or information on the Board diversity policy can be found on circumstances which are likely to affect a non-executive page 271.
Directors judgement and any relationships or circumstances which could appear to do so are not considered to be material.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 258 In accordance with the Rules Governing the Listing of The agenda and supporting papers are distributed in Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, advance of all Board and Board committee meetings to each non-executive Director determined by the Board to allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full be independent has provided an annual confirmation of his discussion at the meetings.
All Directors have full and or her independence.
timely access to all relevant information and may take independent professional advice if necessary at HSBC Information and support Holdings expense.
The Board regularly reviews reports on performance Induction against financial and other strategic objectives, business developments and investor and external relations.
The Formal, tailored induction programmes are arranged for chairmen of Board committees report to each meeting of newly appointed Directors.
The programmes are based on the Board on the activities of the committees since the an individual Directors needs and vary according to the previous Board meeting.
The Board receives regular reports skills and experience of each Director.
Typical induction and presentations on strategy and developments in the programmes consist of a series of meetings with other global businesses and principal geographical areas.
Regular Directors and senior executives to enable new Directors to reports are also provided on the Groups risk appetite, top familiarise themselves with the business.
Directors also and emerging risks, risk management, credit exposures and receive comprehensive guidance from the Group Company the Groups loan portfolio, asset and liability management, Secretary on Directors duties and liabilities.
liquidity, litigation, financial and regulatory compliance and Training and development reputational issues.
Training and development is provided for Directors.
The Directors have free and open contact with management Executive Directors develop and refresh their skills and at all levels.
When attending Board offsite meetings and knowledge through day-to-day interactions and briefings when travelling for other reasons, non-executive Directors with senior management of the Groups businesses and are encouraged to take opportunities to visit local business functions.
Non-executive Directors have access to internal operations at first hand and to meet local management.
training and development resources and personalised Role of the Group Company Secretary training is provided, where necessary.
The Chairman, with support from the Group Company Secretary, regularly All Directors have access to the advice and services of reviews the training and development of each Director.
the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures and all During the year, Directors received training on the following applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
topics: Under the direction of the Group Chairman, the Group The Volcker Rule covering the investment activities of Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good certain US banks: information flows within the Board and its committees and UK Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2014 between senior management and non-executive Directors, including the Senior Managers Regime: and as well as facilitating induction and assisting with the changing financial and regulatory reporting professional development as required.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising The table below shows a summary of training and the Board on corporate governance matters.
development undertaken by each Director during 2015.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 259 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Training and development Training areas Financial Briefings on Regulatory Corporate industry Board committee updates Governance developments related topics Executive Directors Douglas Flint Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses Non-executive Directors Phillip Ameen Kathleen Casey Safra Catz Laura Cha Lord Evans of Weardale Joachim Faber Rona Fairhead Sam Laidlaw Irene Lee John Lipsky Rachel Lomax Heidi Miller Sir Simon Robertson Jonathan Symonds Pauline van der Meer Mohr The findings of the 2014 review were presented to the Board performance evaluation Board, an action plan developed and progress against these The Board is committed to regular evaluation of its own actions reported to the Board during 2015.
The themes effectiveness and that of its committees.
In 2014, the emerging from the 2014 review and the actions taken review of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees included: 1 was undertaken by Bvalco Ltd, an independent third-party firm.
2014 Review of Board effectiveness Theme Action taken Harmonising interactions between Group and subsidiaries The governance arrangements for the regional risk committees and the audit committees for principal subsidiaries and certain global businesses have been enhanced to provide better transparency in the reporting of significant issues to the GAC and GRC and to provide better communication between the committees.
Increasing diversity on the Board of Directors, consider recruitment of a Irene Lee was appointed to the Board in July 2015. director with an Asian Chinese business background Continuing efforts to balance the agenda at Board meetings, focusing on Additional time has continued to be provided for the debate of these priority strategic issues and in particular technology issues at meetings.
The Group Chief Operating Officer delivered updates on the Groups global change programme priorities, and the Chief Technology Officer also presented a new technology strategy in 2015.
Allocating time in Board meetings to address the transition processes Preparations for the Senior Managers Regime have become a relating to the Senior Managers Regime regular Board agenda item.
Senior Independent Director to build on relationships with regulators Meetings held with regulators, Board members and shareholders and with all members of the Board during the period.
1 A legal firm which is engaged from time to time by the Company to provide legal services holds a 20% shareholding in Bvalco Ltd. Bvalco Ltd has confirmed that it does not have any other connection with the Company.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 260 All executive Directors and certain other senior executives Director performance evaluation hold regular meetings with institutional investors.
The Evaluation of the individual performance of each nonBoard receives a regular investor relations activity report executive Director is undertaken annually by the Group which provides feedback from meetings with institutional Chairman.
During this evaluation, the Group Chairman shareholders and brokers, analysts forecasts, information discusses the individual contribution of the Director, from research reports and share price performance data.
explores training and development needs, seeks input The Board also receives regular reports from its corporate on areas where the Director feels he or she could make brokers.
a greater contribution and discusses whether the time The Groups shareholder communication policy is available commitment required of the Director can continue to on www.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance be delivered.
Based upon their individual evaluation, the Group Chairman has confirmed that all of the .
executive Directors continue to perform effectively, On several occasions during 2015, non-executive Directors, contribute positively to the governance of HSBC and including the senior independent non-executive Director, demonstrate full commitment to their roles.
chair of the Nomination Committee and chair of the Evaluation of the individual performance of each executive Remuneration Committee, met or corresponded with Director is undertaken as part of the performance institutional investors and their representatives to discuss management process for all employees, the results of which corporate governance topics and executive remuneration.
are considered by the Group Remuneration Committee when As senior independent non-executive Director, Rachel determining variable pay awards each year.
Lomax is available to shareholders should they have The non-executive Directors, led by the senior independent concerns which cannot be resolved or for which such non-executive Director, were responsible for the evaluation contact would be inappropriate through the normal of the performance of the Group Chairman.
channels of Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, or other The Board monitors the implementation of actions arising executives.
Ms Lomax may be contacted through the Group from each performance evaluation.
Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to undertake an evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and Conflicts of interest, indemnification of individual Directors annually, with independent external Directors and contracts of significance input to the process, as appropriate, at least every third year.
The Board has adopted a policy and procedures relating The 2015 performance evaluation review process is being to Directors conflicts of interest and can determine the undertaken currently by the JCA Group, an independent terms of authorisation for such situations.
arise, the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operating effectively and the procedures are being Relations with shareholders followed.
A review of situational conflicts which have been All Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding authorised from time-to-time and the terms of those of the views of major shareholders.
Non-executive authorisations are undertaken by the Board annually.
Directors are invited to attend analyst presentations and The Articles of Association provide that Directors are other meetings with institutional investors and their entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC representative bodies.
During the year, a corporate Holdings against claims from third parties in respect of governance seminar, hosted by the Group Chairman and certain liabilities.
All Directors have the benefit of directors the principal committee chairs, was held in London to and officers liability insurance.
which a number of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies were invited.
None of the Directors had, during the year or at the end of the year, a material interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 261 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
