Strategic Report Delivering our network to customers Services around the world Business synergies Engaging in the global economy delivering the whole of HSBC Business synergies equivalent % of total reported revenue 2015 The value of our international network By providing a wide range of product comes from our connections to the capabilities and resources, we bring people and companies that drive additional benefits to customers and 19% economic activity.
We provide products efficiencies to the Group.
Our global and services to meet diverse financial businesses work together to offer tailored Business synergies revenue needs from purchasing a music solutions to the various client segments $bn download to financing the construction of we serve across the Group with a higher 11.6 2015 an international airport.
Our relationships level of performance and greater ease 2014 11.0 reflect the geographic reach of our of use.
network and the range of customers For example, we can provide Markets we support.
For further details on our products to small businesses as well as global businesses, see pages 28 to 31. large multinational companies.
We insure Our network of clients enables us to risks for individuals and corporations alike.
have greater insight into trade and capital We aim to develop long-term relationships flows across supply chains.
When that lead to us supplying products we bank clients on both sides of a and services from across our global transaction, we can help them overcome businesses.
Many of our private banking obstacles and manage risk and liquidity clients, for example, own companies costs more effectively.
We are uniquely that are Commercial Banking or Global positioned to be the bridge between Banking and Markets GB&M clients.
customers, both large and small, By sharing knowledge and expertise, around the world.
our businesses continuously enhance We develop our products and services our capabilities and operations.
to be globally consistent and to represent In 2015, business synergy revenue the highest standards across all of our were equivalent to 19% of total revenue markets.
This allows us to serve our for the Group.
We grew revenue across clients efficiently and in a consistent the majority of the cross-business way wherever we serve them.
synergies we track, including a 7% increase in revenue from Payments and Cash Management PCM products sold to GB&M customers.
Our relationships reflect the geographic reach of our network HSBC HOldInGS plC 16 Delivering our network to customers Hong Kong: diversified multinational Hongkong lands Central portfolio: A major listed company of the Jardine Matheson Group with a portfolio of prime office and luxury retail property in key Asian cities.
Case study: Jardine Matheson For more than 100 years, In 2015, we became the sole Comprehensive solutions number of markets served we have been a trusted provider of cash management We serve Jardine Matheson banking partner of the for Jardine Mathesons retail globally with a wide range of Jardine Matheson Group, subsidiary, Dairy Farm, across products including debt and providing a full spectrum 10 markets in the ASEAN region equity capital financing, trade 17 of banking services and and Greater China.
We also help and receivables financing, foreign capital to support it in Jardine Matheson manage part exchange, cash management number of products provided achieving its strategic goals.
of its group pension portfolio with and asset management.
Our our asset management products.
financing and foreign exchange services have supported Jardine Matheson in making strategic 12 acquisitions across Asia.
HSBC HOldInGS plC 17 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
