Strategic Report How we do business Building long-term relationships We conduct our business intent on supporting the sustained success of our customers, people and communities.
We see investment in our capabilities, employees and processes as a source of long-term competitive advantage.
How we do business strengthens the durability of our earnings and our ability to return value to shareholders.
Led by our values Our values underpin how we do Building lasting business relationships business.
We are open to differences and believe diversity makes us stronger.
We are connected, and our personal relationships are essential to our business.
We aim to be always dependable in fulfilling our responsibilities in society and delivering on commitments.
Empowering people Ensuring sustainable outcomes HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 34 How we do business Ensuring fair outcomes Increasing quality of service developing long-term opportunities Equipping our employees Valuing diversity Encouraging ownership Rewarding positive behaviours Managing environmental and social impacts Respecting human rights Investing in our communities HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 35 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | How we do business Building lasting business relationships Ensuring fair outcomes developing long-term Complaint types RBWM opportunities We recognise that delivering fair outcomes for customers and upholding Technology and climate change are two financial market integrity is critical areas that present both challenges and 29% 28% to a sustainable business model.
opportunities to us and our customers.
We continue to enhance our product Investing in technology governance processes to further We are investing in innovation and digital ensure products are designed to capabilities to serve customers better, meet customers needs and are sold and enhancing security around financial appropriately.
In the UK, for example, transactions and customer data.
12% we have started to alert customers by In 2015, we enabled the Apple Pay text message when they are about to 31% mobile payment service for customers go into overdraft.
As a result, customer in the UK and the US, and launched complaints in this area have declined Key live-chat online customer service in six Product features and policy by 67% and customers have saved markets including the UK, Hong Kong Product fees and charges more than $129.9m in fees.
Other product-related complaints and France.
We made digital secure Service complaints For further details on the steps we keys available in the UK to simplify the have taken to strengthen conduct across customer login experience.
In Argentina HSBC global Research the Group, see page 40.
For further and the Philippines, we launched our new details on compliance risk and for further online banking platform, which will be details on conduct-related costs included deployed in additional countries in 2016.
1st in significant items, see pages 178 and Facilitating a low-carbon economy 97, respectively.
for integrated climate Reducing global carbon dioxide emissions change research, ranked is a critical challenge for society.
Increasing quality of service see the potential for financial services We seek feedback from customers in to facilitate investment that can help the order to assess how well we are doing world transition to a low-carbon economy.
In 2015, we In 2015, our Global Research team improved our processes for responding was ranked number one for Integrated to customer complaints and tools for Climate Change for the second year understanding their causes.
For example, running in the Extel Survey.
Furthermore, in India our analysis of customer our Asset Management business joined complaints led us to improve customer the Montreal Pledge to disclose the communication regarding minimum carbon intensity of its portfolio.
balances and change our fee structure.
Complaints in this area subsequently For more information about our climate reduced by 62%.
Through our commercial banking research programmes, we have spoken to more than 50,000 businesses to gather feedback on our products and services from existing and potential customers.
We use competitor benchmarking, brand tracking and customer surveys to evaluate our performance.
In RBWM, we conducted more than 350,000 individual customer surveys.
HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 36 How we do business geothermal plant, Nevada, US The Enel Group pioneered the use of geothermal electricity generation more than 100 years ago in Italy and remains a global leader in the sector.
Case study: Enel Enel green Power HSBC also acted as lead Italy, Energy Number of markets arranger in securing export where served multinational Enel Green Power EGP is financing for EGPs delivery a publicly traded Enel Group One of the leading integrated of four solar power projects company dedicated to the global operators in the gas in South Africa.
The financing production of energy from and electricity sectors with of 145m was fully covered 9 renewable sources.
In 2015, operations in more than by SACE, the Italian export HSBC assisted EGP as financial 30 countries across four credit agency, and underlines adviser on its acquisition of a Number of products continents.
Enel is one of the our capabilities in export majority stake in the Indian provided worlds major producers of finance and the renewable wind and solar company BLP clean energy.
The transaction marks EGPs entry into the Indian 8 renewable energy market and its first move into the AsiaPacific region.
sustainable land use, climate the first international green bond buses and equipment such Climate business change adaptation, and clean from a Chinese bank.
as workshops and ticketing HSBC helps facilitate buildings and transportation.
We are also a investment in areas including Another example of our work member of the United Nations infrastructure and renewable HSBC also pledged to invest facilitating a low-carbon economy Partnership on Sustainable, energy that help lower carbon $1bn in a portfolio of green, social involves our team dedicated to Low Carbon Transport.
These use prioritised bus lanes in urban In 2015, we also helped finance In 2015, the Group issued a We also helped CLP Windfarms areas to cut journey times, reduce three renewable energy deals in green bond for the first time become the first Indian corporate pollution and increase road safety.
the US, and an energy efficiency when HSBC France raised to issue a public green bond, programme in the UK to install 500m $554m to fund and Vestas Wind Systems, based We helped finance 466 efficient around seven million electricity customers and projects in the in Denmark, issue the first buses in 2015, in countries and gas smart meters in homes following sectors: renewables, green bond by a wind turbine including Ghana and South Africa.
We also helped Since the team was created in waste and water management, Agricultural Bank of China issue 2005, it has helped finance 4,500 HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 37 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | How we do business Diversity Top Team of Global the Year Employer European Stonewall Diversity Awards Empowering people Valuing diversity Encouraging ownership Employees FTE by region We are proud to provide an open, We promote individual ownership and 15.6% supportive and inclusive workplace responsibility, and have created forums where people can grow and achieve their to encourage dialogue.
Our commitment to diversity continued to facilitate agenda-free 7.7% and inclusion helps us attract, develop exchange meetings across the Group 3.2% and retain employees.
We are also for employees to collaborate on ideas 47.1% committed to reflecting the communities and initiatives to improve our work.
We also held 14 webcasts with senior executives to promote understanding Our employees lead and organise seven 26.5% of our strategic actions and allow global employee networks to promote employees to ask questions.
They focus on gender, age, Key ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion, Equipping employees Asia working parents and disability.
Europe Our training programmes reinforce Middle East and North Africa To help managers address bias in hiring, North America a culture grounded in our values.
In promotion and talent identification, we Latin America 2015, we completed a three-year use education programmes and have programme of values-led leadership Exchange meeting participation expanded mentoring initiatives for training for all employees.
% of employees that attended a 2015 meeting under-represented groups.
We are building employee training In 2015, we won Diversity Team of centres in Birmingham, Dubai and the Year at the European Diversity 53% mainland China.
We were also one of 10 alongside HSBC University, our online companies recognised as a Top Global Employee retention training service.
Employer in Stonewalls Global Workplace Equality Index.
In 2015, we also launched HSBC Confidential, which brought together We continue to address gender 84.1% all our existing whistleblowing representation, particularly at senior channels on to a global platform that Gender diversity statistics levels, with additional focus on allows employees to raise concerns Male Female promotions and hiring.
We also continue confidentially without fear of personal to expand support and flexible working Holdings Board 11 58% repercussions.
The global channel 8 42% programmes for parents returning can be accessed by telephone, email, Group Management 13 93% to work.
For further details, 6,937 76% Senior Our award-winning Balance employee see Whistleblowing on page 179. employees 2,235 24% network aims to address gender 127,586 48% All employees diversity across HSBC, encouraging Rewarding positive behaviours 139,357 52% dialogue and a better understanding We have embedded behaviour ratings of the challenges and opportunities in in our performance review processes, promoting a gender-balanced workforce which are factored into variable throughout the Group.
It is available pay considerations.
to staff of all genders, and had active groups in more than 30 offices around In 2015, we introduced an At Our Best the world in 2015. online recognition tool for all employees.
It allows them to recognise colleagues actions by awarding points that are redeemed for gifts and benefits.
HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 38 How we do business 22% $205m reduction in our carbon donated to dioxide emissions charity in 2015 since 2011 Ensuring sustainable outcomes Tax Managing environmental Respecting human rights Taxes paid by region $bn and social impacts 1.2 We apply human rights considerations directly as they affect our employees We continue to reduce the environmental 0.4 2.5 and indirectly through our suppliers and impact of our operations and have 0.4 customers, and through our action to robust policies and processes to prevent bribery and corruption.
For manage sustainability risks in our $8.4bn example, our code of conduct for suppliers business activities.
includes elements related to human rights, We are reducing the amount of energy as do our project finance lending and we consume, and increasing the 1.1 2.8 sustainability risk policies.
Our Statement proportion from renewable sources.
Key on Human Rights, issued in 2015, explains UK We have signed agreements to increase how we do this and is available on our Rest of Europe the percentage of our electricity from Asia website.
We will integrate the provisions new wind and solar sources to 9%, Middle East and North Africa of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 into our North America and have a target of 25% by 2020.
We business and supply chain, and will report Latin America report on our carbon dioxide emissions in line with the guidelines published by the for the year in the Report of the Directors UK government.
Our approach to tax We are guided by the International Bill We apply the spirit as well as the letter Our sustainability risk policies cover of Human Rights, and support the UN a number of sensitive industries and of the law in all territories where we Declaration of Human Rights and the operate, and have adopted the UK Code themes.
After we issued new standards principles concerning fundamental rights in our forestry and agricultural commodities of Practice for the Taxation of Banks.
As set out in the International Labour a consequence, we pay our fair share of policies in 2014, we took the decision to Organisations Declaration on Fundamental stop banking more than 160 customers tax in the countries in which we operate.
Principles and Rights at Work.
We continue to strengthen our processes as soon as possible because they did not comply.
In 2015, HSBC was to help ensure our banking services are Investing in our communities not associated with any arrangements recognised as a leader in the Forest 500 ranking of 150 investors policies on We believe that education and the known or suspected to be designed to the sustainability of forest commodity environment are essential to resilient facilitate tax evasion.
HSBC continued to support global For more than 10 years, we focused We also support a transition to certified, initiatives to improve tax transparency our community investment activities such as: sustainable palm oil.
Our standards require on these two areas.
In 2015, following our palm oil customers to have all their survey responses from employees, we the US Foreign Account Tax operations certified as sustainable by the decided to add medical charities to the Compliance Act FATCA : end of 2018, and we continue to support causes we support.
the OECD Standard for Automatic them in meeting this goal.
In 2015, we contributed a total of $205m Exchange of Financial Account In 2015, there were more than 2,300 to charitable programmes and our Information also known as the attendances by relationship and risk employees volunteered 304,555 hours Common Reporting Standard : managers of training on our sustainability in community activities during the risk policies to help ensure their the Capital Requirements Directive IV working day.
CRD IV Country by Country We marked our 150th year by setting Reporting: and Details on our sustainability risk up an additional fund of $150m to support framework and policies are available the OECD Base Erosion and Profit causes selected by our employees.
com citizenship Shifting BEPS initiative.
support 140 charities across the world sustainability finance.
We also made a one-off We do not expect the BEPS initiative $62m donation to charities in Hong Kong or similar initiatives adopted by national from the sale of commemorative HK$150 governments to adversely impact bank notes.
HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 39 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
