Strategic Report Global businesses We manage our products and services globally through four global businesses.
For further details on the financial performance of our global businesses, see pages 68 to 73.
Commercial Banking CMB Continued revenue growth in Hong Kong In 2015, the quality of our service was and the UK recognised by several leading awards.
For the fourth consecutive year, we Adjusted profit before tax of $8.2bn were recognised as the Best Global was $0.4bn or 5% lower than in 2014, Cash Manager for Non-Financial as revenue growth was more than offset Institutions in the Euromoney Cash by a rise in LICs and higher costs.
We were also We grew revenue by $0.4bn or 3%, in recognised as the Best Overall Global particular in Credit and Lending, and PCM.
Trade Finance Bank, among other This was mainly in Hong Kong and the awards, in the Trade Finance Awards UK, reflecting average balance sheet growth, although demand for credit in for Excellence.
Hong Kong was subdued in the second half of 2015, with balances remaining Customers Business synergies broadly unchanged.
CMB serves more than two million CMB is at the centre of business LICs were $0.5bn or 36% higher, reflecting customers in 55 countries and synergies within the Group, enabling enhanced credit risk in the oil and gas territories.
Our customers range from sector, notably in North America, Asia, nearly $6bn of business synergy small enterprises focused primarily and Middle East and North Africa.
For example, it addition, we raised LICs against a small on their domestic markets through provides trade finance, working capital number of specific clients in Indonesia, to corporates operating globally.
and liquidity management solutions to the UAE and the UK.
It also provides Capital We have been simplifying our product Costs increased by $0.4bn or 6%, notably Finance expertise, and Insurance and range and services to meet clients in Asia and the US, due to wage inflation Asset Management capabilities from needs better.
Since 2013, we have and investment in growth initiatives, across the Group to benefit customers.
reduced the number of products we regulatory programmes and compliance.
offer around the world from 975 to fewer Management initiatives set out in our than 410.
We have also completed Areas of focus Investor Update in June 2015 contributed role-specific conduct training for more a reduction in risk-weighted assets We are focused on creating value than 20,000 employees to help ensure RWAs of $23.0bn or more than 75% from our network, which covers 90% of our 20152017 target.
that products are sold appropriately.
of global trade and capital flows.
We are therefore investing in digital and profit before tax $bn Products and services 2015 2014 technology aspects of our core Payments and Cash Management Reported We support our customers with tailored 8.0 8.8 PCM, and Global Trade and financial products and services to allow Adjusted 8.2 Receivables Finance propositions, them to operate efficiently and to grow.
8.6 as well as in the Pearl River Delta, This includes providing them with ASEAN and NAFTA growth areas.
working capital, term loans, payment Adjusted profit before tax services and international trade We achieved significant risk-weighted facilitation, among other services.
asset efficiencies through management We offer expertise in mergers and initiatives in 2015 and continue to ensure -5% acquisitions, and provide access to our capital is deployed effectively.
HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 28 Global businesses Best Most Overall Global Innovative Trade Finance Investment Bank Bank Trade Finance The Banker global Banking and Markets gB&M Adjusted profit growth of 14% compared accolades, including Most Innovative with 2014 Investment Bank and Best Bank for Securities Services in The Banker Adjusted profit before tax was higher by awards.
We were ranked number one $1.1bn due to higher revenue and lower Bank for Corporates Global Market LICs, partly offset by increased costs.
Share in the Euromoney FX Survey, Our revenue increased by $1.2bn or 7%, and for the third consecutive year we with higher revenue in all businesses except were voted Best Bond House in Asia Principal Investments.
In client-facing GB&M, by FinanceAsia.
revenue rose due to increased client flows and volatility in Equities up by $0.5bn and in In addition, we provide award-winning transaction banking products up by $0.4bn.
research to investors with an emphasis Revenue was also higher in Balance Sheet Customers on emerging markets.
This reflected GB&M supports major government, Business synergies minimal impairments in 2015 compared with corporate and institutional clients a net charge in 2014 in client-facing GB&M.
worldwide in achieving their long-term In 2015, GB&M enabled business However, in 2015 we had lower net releases strategic goals through tailored and synergies of $8.4bn, supporting growth of credit risk provisions, primarily on innovative solutions.
Our deep sector in a number of areas.
For example, we available-for-sale asset-backed securities in legacy credit.
expertise extends across transaction provide Markets products to CMB and banking, financing, advisory, capital RBWM customers, Capital Financing Our operating expenses increased by markets and risk management.
We products to CMB customers, and also $0.4bn or 5%, mainly from higher serve nearly 4,000 clients in more than use CMB and Asset Management performance-related costs and higher staff costs reflecting wage inflation.
In addition, 50 countries and territories, helping products to serve GB&M clients.
we continued to invest in our PCM and them to realise opportunities in the Foreign Exchange businesses, as well as markets that matter to them.
Areas of focus in regulatory programmes and compliance.
We continue to strengthen the services Deepening relationships with clients Management initiatives identified in our we provide and our relationships with in both event and transaction banking Investor Update in June 2015 contributed clients.
We regularly assess these to an overall reduction in RWAs of $72bn products remains a priority.
This is 54% of our target of $134bn relationships, using benchmarking focus on regions where we see the stated at December 2015 exchange rates.
As a result, greatest growth opportunities such in 2015 we improved the on-boarding The graph below shows reported and as NAFTA, ASEAN and the Pearl River adjusted profit before tax.
The difference experience for clients and enabled Delta.
We also plan to grow our between these figures primarily reflects relationship bankers to spend more business from the internationalisation fines, penalties and charges in relation time understanding clients needs.
of Chinas renminbi currency and by to legal matters, which totalled $1.9bn Customer feedback allows us investing in digital capabilities.
to identify opportunities to further Significant items are detailed on page 66.
We made significant progress towards improve our business and the wider reducing RWAs in 2015.
This will profit before tax $bn client experience.
remain a focus as we continue to exit 2015 2014 legacy credit, manage our Markets Reported 7.9 Products and services and Capital Financing businesses and 5.9 Our product specialists continue to employ a disciplined approach to Adjusted 8.7 7.7 deliver a comprehensive range of new client business.
transaction banking, financing, advisory, Our continued focus on cost discipline Adjusted profit before tax capital markets and risk management will result in further simplification services.
In 2015, our product strengths of the business from streamlining were recognised by numerous of our business lines, operations 14% and technology.
HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 29 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | Global businesses $419bn 45m assets under customers served management Retail Banking and Wealth Management RBWM despite a challenging second half of Asset Management and Insurance 2015, Wealth Management revenue We operate our own Asset grew by 8% Management and Insurance businesses.
By owning these businesses directly, Total RBWM Total RBWM adjusted profit we can tailor their products to the needs before tax fell by $0.7bn or 10%, with a of customers and maintain end-to-end decrease in profit before tax in both Principal RBWM and from the continued reduction control over their quality.
We are in our US run-off portfolio.
investing for growth in these businesses, leveraging our network The graph below shows reported and adjusted and strong client relationships.
The difference between them primarily reflects fines, penalties and charges in relation to legal matters, which Business synergies totalled $1.6bn and $1.3bn in 2014 and 2015, Customers respectively.
Significant items are detailed RBWM makes a significant contribution RBWM serves close to 45 million on page 66. to the overall success of the Group.
customers worldwide through four In 2015, Insurance Manufacturing Principal RBWM In our Principal RBWM main business areas: Retail Banking, business, profit before tax was down by within Wealth Management and Wealth Management, Asset $0.5bn or 7%, reflecting higher costs Asset Management generated revenue and LICs.
of $1.7bn and $1.1bn, respectively, Revenue rose $0.4bn in Wealth from the provision of services to clients Since 2012, we have taken numerous Management in Asia in the first half of across all of our global businesses.
actions to improve the way we conduct the year from investment distribution, In addition, the foreign exchange and our business.
We have removed the offsetting weaker investor sentiment in the wealth management needs of our formulaic link between product sales second half of 2015.
Wealth Management RBWM clients create opportunities and remuneration, paying all staff on income in Europe also grew as insurance for GB&M.
Deposit and a discretionary basis, which includes savings income grew in Asia and the UK as assessment of their behaviour and the RBWMs strong deposit franchise deposits increased by $32bn.
This was partly satisfaction of our customers.
We have supports a stable and diversified offset by lower overdraft fees in the UK.
simplified our product range, reviewed core funding base for the Group, LICs increased by $0.3bn or 20%, mainly the fairness of our product features and the branch network supports in Brazil from increased impairment charges and pricing, and enhanced the way the needs of other global business following the economic slowdown, and the we monitor the quality of our sales.
clients while enhancing the visibility UAE following a review of collateral in the mortgage book.
Products and services Costs rose by $0.5bn or 4%, driven by Areas of focus inflation in Asia and Latin America.
Our RBWM provides services to individuals marketing costs also increased as we under the HSBC Premier and Advance RBWMs focus is on growing the relaunched our Global Advance account propositions aimed at mass affluent and business through relationship-led personal proposition with notable investment in the emerging affluent customers who value UK, and we continued to invest in regulatory lending and wealth management, while international connectivity and benefit programmes and compliance.
transforming our customer experience from our global reach and scale.
For and cost base through investment in profit before tax total RBWM $bn customers who have simpler everyday digital infrastructure.
2015 2014 banking needs, RBWM offers a full range Reported 5.0 of banking products and services 5.6 reflecting local requirements.
6.8 Adjusted 7.6 Adjusted profit before tax total RBWM -10% HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 30 Global businesses $349bn $14bn client assets net new money areas targeted for growth global Private Banking gPB Continued repositioning of our Products and services gPB business We work closely with our clients to Adjusted profit before tax fell by 26% provide solutions to grow, manage to $0.5bn, mainly because revenue fell and preserve wealth.
Our products by 6% as we continued to reposition the and services include: Investment GPB business.
Management, incorporating advisory, However, revenue increased in Asia, discretionary and brokerage services: notably in the first half of 2015, due to Private Wealth Solutions, comprising higher client activity as a result of a strong trusts and estate planning, designed stock market performance, which more to protect wealth and preserve it for than offset the weaker investor sentiment future generations: and a full range in the second half of the year.
Customers We attracted positive net new money of $14bn in 2015 in the parts of the GPB serves high net worth individuals Business synergies business that fit our target model, and families, including those with mainly in Hong Kong, the UK, Singapore GPB aims to bring the best of the international banking needs, through and the US.
Groups research, product and service 18 booking centres covering our capabilities to GPB clients.
profit before tax $bn priority markets.
2015 2014 Since 2011, GPB has taken significant To achieve this, we have three client Reported 0.3 service groups: the Corporate Client steps to simplify and improve the way 0.6 it conducts its business.
We have Group, enhancing connectivity with 0.5 Adjusted CMB and GB&M: the Wealth Client reduced the number of booking centres 0.7 to refocus resources on a smaller Group, delivering a seamless transition across the RBWM and GPB wealth number of locations where we have Adjusted profit before tax the scale to support our new client franchises: and the Global Solutions Group, delivering non-traditional service model and enhanced sales quality standards.
-26% We have also reduced the number of Wherever possible, GPB uses product capabilities within GB&M, CMB and offshore markets we cover to ensure appropriate focus is given to key RBWM, including asset management, research, insurance, trade finance growth areas.
and capital financing, to offer a unique GPB remains committed to implementing proposition to our clients.
the most effective global standards, including customer due diligence, a tax Areas of focus transparency framework and financial crime compliance measures.
GPB aspires to build on HSBCs commercial banking heritage and be the leading private bank for high net worth business owners and principals.
We work closely and systematically with CMB and GB&M to deliver a coordinated private and corporate coverage model for our clients.
HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 31 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
