Strategic Report Who we are 150 years of helping customers We seek to build trusting and lasting relationships with our many stakeholders Our values Our role in society We are more than 250,000 employees Our values define who we are as an How we do business is as important as organisation and make us distinctive.
We seek to build trusting working around the and lasting relationships with our many Open world to provide over stakeholders to generate value in society We are open to different ideas and and deliver long-term shareholder returns.
47 million customers cultures, and value diverse perspectives.
The scale of our operations makes this with a broad range of Connected all the more important.
We serve more We are connected to our customers, banking products and than 47 million customers around the communities, regulators and each world, ranging from individuals to the services to meet their other, caring about individuals and largest of companies.
We are committed their progress.
to conducting our business in a way dependable that delivers fair value to customers, We are dependable, standing firm strengthens our communities and for what is right and delivering helps ensure a properly functioning on commitments.
We employ more than a quarter of a 150-year heritage million people, and provide opportunities These values reflect the best aspects of for professional development and our 150-year heritage.
They are critical to personal growth.
Our people represent fulfilling our purpose to help businesses more than 150 nationalities and reflect to thrive, economies to prosper and our diversity and reach.
We value diversity people to realise their ambitions.
as essential to who we are and our ability to fulfil our purpose.
We also recognise the significant role that the financial system plays in tackling challenges such as financial crime and climate change.
We are strengthening our ability to safeguard customers and ourselves against financial crime, and believe this will be a source of long-term advantage for our business.
We are also committed to helping enable a transition to a low-carbon economy through our business activities and our own operations.
For further details, see How we do business on page 34.
HSBC HOldInGS plC 4 Who we are Our heritage, Our network of and we are mindful diversity and scale businesses connects of our responsibilities make us unique customers to to multiple stakeholders opportunities Established Facilitate more than Employees new mortgage lending, $500bn 255 000 1865 in trade and full-time $49bn receivables equivalent finance FTE present in More than More than, , 4700 55 000 71 branches internal employee countries movements and territories More than More than More than More than, , 205m 40000 300000 145 digital retail supplier hours languages payments relationships volunteering spoken Serving More than more than 550 100 47m regulatory payments processed customers relationships each second HSBC HOldInGS plC 5 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
