Directors Corporate Governance 1 Page App Douglas Flint, CBE, 60 Group Chairman Corporate Governance Report 249 Appointed to the Board: December 1995.
Group Chairman since December Directors 249 2010.
Secretary 254 Group Managing Directors 254 Corporate governance codes 256 Skills and experience: Douglas has extensive board-level Board of Directors 256 experience and knowledge of governance primarily gained Board committees 262 through membership of the boards of HSBC and BP plc Group Audit Committee 262 and his time as a partner of KPMG.
He has considerable Group Risk Committee 266 knowledge of finance and risk management in banking, Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 268 multinational financial reporting, treasury and securities Group Remuneration Committee 270 trading operations and has chaired and been a member of Nomination Committee 270 highly influential bodies which set standards for taxation, governance, accounting and risk management.
He joined Conduct & Values Committee 272 HSBC as Group Finance Director in 1995, which broadened Philanthropic and Community Investment to that of Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director Risk and Oversight Committee 274 Regulation.
Chairmans Committee 274 He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Internal control 275 of Scotland and the Association of Corporate Treasurers Going concern and viability 277 and also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Employees 278 Accountants.
In 2006, he was honoured with a CBE in Employee relations 278 recognition of his services to the finance industry.
Former appointments include non-executive director and chairman Diversity and inclusion 278 of the Audit Committee of BP plc and an independent Employee development 278 external member of the UK Governments Financial Employment of disabled persons 278 Services Trade and Investment Board.
Health and safety 278 Current appointments include: Douglas is Chairman of Remuneration policy 279 the Institute of International Finance and serves on the Employee share plans 279 International Business Leaders Advisory Councils of the Other disclosures 280 mayors of both Beijing and Shanghai.
At the invitation of Share capital 281 the Prime Minister he serves as a UK Business Ambassador.
Directors interests 282 Dividends and shareholders 283 Stuart Gulliver, 56 Group Chief Executive 2015 Annual General Meeting 280 Appointed to the Board: May 2008.
Group Chief Executive since January 1 Appendix to Report of the Directors.
Corporate Governance Report Skills and experience: Stuart joined HSBC in 1980.
He is a career banker with over 35 years international experience.
The statement of corporate governance practices set He has held a number of key roles in the Groups operations out on pages 249 to 335 and information incorporated by worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kuala reference constitutes the Corporate Governance Report Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates.
Stuart played a of HSBC Holdings.
The reports of Board Committees are leading role in developing and expanding Global Banking contained within the Corporate Governance Report.
Other former appointments include serving as Chairman of Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses and of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA and HSBC France and Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and a member of its supervisory board.
He was Head of Global Banking and Markets: Co-Head of Global Banking and Markets: Head of Global Markets: and Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in Asia-Pacific.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 249 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Biographies Current appointments include: Stuart is Chairman of The Laura Cha, GBS, 66 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Independent non-executive Director of the Group Management Board.
Appointed to the Board: March 2011 Phillip Ameen, 67 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: January 2015 Chairman of the Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Committee, member of the Conduct & Values Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Skills and experience: Laura has extensive regulatory and Member of the Group Audit Committee.
policy making experience in the finance and securities Skills and experience: As a Certified Public Accountant with sector in Hong Kong and mainland China.
She is the extensive financial and accounting experience, Phil served former Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory as Vice President, Comptroller, and Principal Accounting Commission.
Other former appointments include serving as Officer of General Electric Company GE.
Prior to joining a non-executive director of Bank of Communications Co. GE, he was a partner in KPMG.
He also has a depth of Ltd. Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and Tata technical knowledge from his participation in accounting Consultancy Services Limited.
She also served as chair of standards setting.
Other former appointments include the University Grants Committee in Hong Kong and was serving on the International Financial Reporting deputy chair of the Securities and Futures Commission in Interpretations Committee of the International Accounting Hong Kong.
Standards Board, the Accounting Standards Executive Current appointments include: Laura is non-executive Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Accountants and the Financial Accounting Standards Board Corporation Limited.
She is Chairman of the Financial Emerging Issues Task Force, and he was Chair of the Services Development Council, Hong Kong and a nonCommittee on Corporate Reporting of Financial Executives executive director of China Telecom Corporation Limited, International and a Trustee of the Financial Accounting Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. Foundation.
Current appointments include: Phillip is a non-executive Henri fide Castries, 61 director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HSBC Bank Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board with effect USA N. A. HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC USA Inc.
He from 1 March 2016 is also Chairman of Skyonic Corporation.
Kathleen Casey, 49 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: March 2014 Skills and experience: Henri has more than 25 years of international experience in the finance industry.
He joined AXA in 1989 where his roles included responsibility for the groups asset management, financial and real-estate businesses, the oversight of North American and UK Member of the Group Audit Committee and the Financial System operations, as well as the preparation and the execution of Vulnerabilities Committee.
all the major mergers and acquisitions undertaken by the insurance group during the 1990s.
Skills and experience: Kathleen has extensive financial regulatory policy experience.
She is a former Commissioner Current appointments include: Henri is Chairman and of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, acting as Chief Executive Officer of AXA.
He is also Chairman of the the regulators principal representative in multilateral and French leading think-tank Institut Montaigne and of AXA bilateral regulatory dialogues, the G-20 Financial Stability Hearts in Action, AXAs volunteer community outreach Board and the International Organisation of Securities programme.
He also serves as a non-executive director of Commissions.
Other former appointments include serving Nestl S. A. and of the French National Foundation for as a Staff Director and Counsel of the United States Senate Political Science FNSP.
He is a member of the Advisory Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and Board of Tsinghua University School of Economics and Legislative Director and Chief of Staff for a US Senator.
Current appointments include: Kathleen is chair of the Alternative Investment Management Association and a senior adviser to Patomak Global Partners and to a number of public bodies in the US.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 250 Lord Evans of Weardale, 58 Rona Fairhead, CBE, 54 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: August 2013 Appointed to the Board: March 2004.
She will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the HSBC Holdings AGM on 22 April 2016.
Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and a Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and the member of the Conduct & Values Committee and the Philanthropic Nomination Committee.
Skills and experience: Rona has a background in Skills and experience: Jonathan has extensive experience international industry, publishing, finance and general in national security policy and operations.
She was a former chair and Chief Executive Director General of MI5 with responsibility for the Officer of the Financial Times Group Limited responsible leadership, policy and strategy of the Security Service, for its strategy, management and operations and was including international and domestic counter-terrorism, Finance Director of Pearson plc with responsibility for the counter-espionage and  activities and finance function, global financial reporting and control, cyber security.
Jonathan has held various positions in the tax and treasury.
Other former appointments include UK Security Service over a 30-year career with responsibility serving as an Executive Vice President, Strategy and Group for the oversight of the Joint Terrorist Analysis Centre and Control of Imperial Chemical Industries plc and Chairman the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure and and director of Interactive Data Corporation.
She was a attended the National Security Council.
member of the board of the UK Governments Cabinet Office and a non-executive director of The Economist Current appointments include: Jonathan is a director of Newspaper Limited.
Ark Data Centres and serves in an advisory capacity to various cybersecurity and technology companies.
Current appointments include: Rona is a non-executive director of PepsiCo Inc. and chair of the BBC Trust.
She Joachim Faber, 65 handed over her responsibility as chair of HSBC North Independent non-executive Director American Holdings Inc. to Heidi Miller on 1 January 2016 Appointed to the Board: March 2012 and will remain on its board as a non-executive director until she retires from the HSBC Holdings Board on 22 April 2016.
Sam Laidlaw, 60 Independent non-executive Director Chairman of the Group Risk Committee.
Appointed to the Board: January 2008 Skills and experience: Joachim has experience in banking and asset management with significant international experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New York and London.
He is a former Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors AG and is a member of the management Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee and the board of Allianz SE.
He spent 14 years with Citigroup Inc.
holding positions in Trading and Project Finance and as Skills and experience: Sam has international experience, Head of Capital Markets for Europe, North America and particularly in the energy sector, having had responsibility Japan.
Other former appointments include serving as for businesses in four continents.
He is a qualified solicitor chairman of various Allianz subsidiaries.
He was previously with a Masters in Business Administration.
Former a member of the supervisory board and chairman of the appointments include serving as Chief Executive Officer audit and risk committee of OSRAM Licht AG.
He was of Centrica plc and the lead non-executive board member also a member of the German Council for Sustainable of the UK Department for Transport.
Sam was also an Development and a member of the advisory board of the Executive Vice President of Chevron Corporation and a Siemens Group Pension Board.
member of the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory Current appointments include: Joachim is Chairman of Group.
the supervisory board of Deutsche Brse AG and of the Current appointments include: Sam is the chair of National Shareholder Committee of Joh A. Benckiser SARL.
He is an Centre for Universities and Business and Executive independent director of Coty Inc. and a director of Allianz Chairman of Neptune Oil & Gas Limited.
France S. A. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 251 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Biographies appointments include serving as Deputy Governor of the Irene Lee, 62 Bank of England and Permanent Secretary at the UK Independent non-executive Director Government Departments for Transport and Work and Appointed to the Board: July 2015 Pensions and the Welsh Office.
She was a non-executive director of Reinsurance Group of America Inc. and The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
Current appointments include: Rachel is a non-executive director of Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP, Skills and experience: Irene has over 30 years of finance and Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited.
She is also a industry experience.
She has held senior positions in non-executive director and chairman of the corporate investment banking and fund management in the UK, USA responsibility committee of Serco Group plc.
and Australia including Citibank and the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
Other former appointments include Iain Mackay, 54 serving as a member of the Advisory Council of JP Morgan Group Finance Director Australia and the Australian Takeovers Panel.
Appointed to the Board: December Current appointments include: Irene is Executive Chairman 2010 of Hysan Development Company Limited.
She is also a non-executive director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Hang Seng Bank Limited.
She is a non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Skills and experience: Iain joined HSBC in 2007 as Chief Limited, China Light & Power Holdings Limited and Noble Financial Officer of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Group Limited.
He has extensive financial and international experience, having worked in London, Paris, the US, Africa and Asia.
Iain John Lipsky, 69 is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Independent non-executive Director Scotland.
Other former appointments include serving as a Appointed to the Board: March 2012 director of Hang Seng Bank Limited, Chief Financial Officer, Asia-Pacific, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Global Consumer Finance and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Healthcare Global Diagnostic Imaging.
Member of the Group Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee Current appointments include: Iain is Chairman of the and the Group Remuneration Committee.
audit and risk committee of the British Heart Foundation.
Skills and experience: John has international experience having worked for JPMorgan in Chile, New York, Washington Heidi Miller, 62 and London and interacted with financial institutions, Independent non-executive Director central banks and governments in many countries.
He Appointed to the Board: September served at the International Monetary Fund as First Deputy 2014 Managing Director, Acting Managing Director and as Special Adviser.
Other former appointments include serving as a trustee of the Economic Club of New York, and a Global Policy Adviser for Anderson Global Macro, LLC and as Member of the Group Risk Committee.
Chairman of the World Economic Forums Global Agenda Council on the International Monetary System.
Skills and experience: Heidi has extensive international banking and finance experience.
She is a former President Current appointments include: John holds a number of of International at JPMorgan Chase, and was responsible senior appointments and advisory positions in international for leading the global expansion and the international economic research organisations.
business strategy across the investment bank, asset management, and treasury and securities services divisions.
Rachel Lomax, 70 Independent non-executive Director Former appointments include serving as non-executive Appointed to the Board: December director of Merck & Co. Inc. and Progressive Corp. : Executive 2008.
Senior Independent nonVice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bank One executive Director since April 2015 Corporation: Senior Executive Vice President of Priceline.
com Inc. : and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Citigroup Inc. Current appointments include: Heidi was appointed chair Chairman of the Conduct & Values Committee and a member of of HSBC North American Holdings Inc. on 1 January 2016. the Group Audit Committee, Group Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee.
She is a non-executive director of First Data Corporation, General Mills Inc. and advisory director of SRS Skills and experience: Rachel has experience in both the Acquiom LLC.
public and private sectors and knowledge of the operation of the UK government and financial system.
Her former HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 252 Current appointments include: Jonathan is Chairman of Marc Moses, 58 HSBC Bank plc, Innocoll AG and Proteus Digital Health Inc. Group Chief Risk Officer and is a non-executive director of Genomics England Limited.
Appointed to the Board: January 2014 Pauline van der Meer Mohr, 56 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: September Skills and experience: Marc joined HSBC in 2005 as Chief 2015 Financial and Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets and in December 2010 became Group Chief Risk Officer.
He has extensive risk management and financial experience.
Marc With effect from 1 January 2016: Member of the Group is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Remuneration Committee and the Conduct & Values Committee England and Wales.
He was a European chief financial Skills and experience: Pauline has extensive legal and officer at JP Morgan and an audit partner at human resources experience across a number of different .
sectors, and contributed to the Dutch Banking Code Monitoring Commission.
Other former appointments Sir Simon Robertson, 74 include serving as President of Erasmus University Deputy Chairman Appointed to the Board: January 2006.
Rotterdam, Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Deputy Chairman since December Group Human Resources at ABN AMRO Bank NV, Group 2010.
He will retire from the Board at Human Resources Director at TNT NV, HR Director, the conclusion of the HSBC Holdings Information Technology, Royal Dutch Shell Group and AGM on 22 April 2016.
Senior Legal Counsel, Shell International.
Current appointments include: Pauline is Chairman of the Member of the Group Remuneration Committee.
supervisory board of EY Netherlands.
She is also a member Skills and experience: Simon has a background in of the supervisory boards of ASML Holding NV and Royal international corporate advisory work with a wealth of DSM NV.
experience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant banking, investment banking and financial markets.
Other former Paul Walsh, 60 appointments include serving as non-executive chair Independent non-executive Director of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc, non-executive director of the Appointed to the Board: 1 January Royal Opera House Covent Garden Limited and NewShore 2016 Partners Limited and trustee of the Eden Project Trust.
Current appointments include: Simon is the founding member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP.
He is a non-executive director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, Member of the Group Remuneration Committee.
The Economist Newspaper Limited, Troy Asset Skills and experience: Paul has extensive international Management and is a director of Immodulon Therapeutics business experience gained as Group Chief Executive of Limited.
Diageo plc for 12 years, having originally joined the Board of its predecessor, Grand Metropolitan plc, in 1995.
He was Jonathan Symonds, CBE, 56 Independent non-executive Director also a non-executive director of Unilever PLC, United Spirits Appointed to the Board: April 2014 Limited and Centrica plc.
Paul is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Current appointments include: Paul is Chairman of Compass Group PLC, Avanti Communications Group Plc and Chime Communications Limited and a non-executive Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and a member of the director of FedEx Corporation, RM2 International S. A.
Skills and experience: Jonathan has extensive international financial experience, having worked in the UK, US and Switzerland.
He served as Chief Financial Officer of Novartis AG and AstraZeneca plc.
Jonathan is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Other former appointments include serving as partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs, and a partner of KPMG.
He was a non-executive director and chair of the Audit Committee of Diageo plc.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 253 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
