Report of the Directors: Risk continued Areas of special interest practices and planned capital actions, including the payment Areas of special interest of dividends, going forward.
During 2015, we considered a number of particular We are subject to regulatory stress testing in many areas because of the effect they may have on the jurisdictions.
These have increased both in frequency and in Group.
Whilst these areas may already have been the granularity of information required by supervisors.
They identified in top and emerging risks, further details of include the programmes of the Bank of England BoE, the the actions taken during the year are provided below.
FRB, the OCC, the EBA and the Hong Kong Monetary Financial crime compliance and regulatory Authority and other regulators.
Assessment by regulators compliance is on both quantitative and qualitative bases, the latter focusing on portfolio quality, data provision, stress testing We continued to experience increased levels of compliance capability, forward-looking capital management processes risk as regulators and other agencies pursued investigations and internal management processes.
Examples include continued engagement with respect to compliance with AML and In 2015, the Group took part in the BoEs concurrent stress sanctions law historical investigations gave rise to the US test exercise involving major UK banks.
The 2015 stress DPA and related FCA Direction, on-going interaction with scenario incorporates a global recession in which regulators relating to mis-selling of the PPI policies and disinflationary pressures and weakening expectations of allegations of pressure selling in the UK, investigations in growth lead to diminished risk appetite, falling commodity relation to conduct in the foreign exchange market, and prices and lower market liquidity.
Several emerging benchmark interest rate and commodity price setting.
economies are adversely affected, as is the eurozone, Details of these investigations and legal proceedings may where the rate of deflation increases.
The UK experiences be found in Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
The a downturn as the global recession affects exports and as work of the Monitor, who was appointed to assess financial linkages and weaker confidence affects other parts the effectiveness of our AML and sanctions compliance of the economy.
Selected key economic variables for the BoE 2015 concurrent The level of inherent compliance risk remained high in 2015 stress test, as specified by the BoE as the industry continued to experience greater regulatory GDP UnemployHouse Equity scrutiny and heightened levels of regulatory oversight and 1 2 3 growth ment Price Index prices supervision.
% % % % For further information about the Groups compliance risk Hong Kong 5.6 5.8 40 65 management, see page 178.
China 1.7 35 UK 3.1 9.2 20 36 The Monitor 1 Worst quarter percentage quarter on quarter year earlier.
Under the agreements entered into with the DoJ and the 3 Price fall percentage start to trough.
FCA in 2012, including the five-year US DPA, the Monitor was appointed to produce annual assessments of the The results were published by the BoE alongside the effectiveness of the Groups AML and sanctions compliance Financial Stability Report on 1 December 2015.
CET1 capital ratio of HSBC was deemed by the BoE to fall In January 2016, the Monitor delivered his second annual to a minimum of 7.7%, taking into account management follow-up review report based on various thematic and mitigating actions accepted by the BoE for this exercise.
This country reviews he had conducted over the course of 2015. was above the hurdle ratio of 4.5% set for this exercise.
The In his report, the Monitor concluded that, in 2015, HSBC leverage ratio fell to a minimum of 3.7% after management made progress in developing an effective and sustainable actions, also above the minimum hurdle ratio of 3%.
However, he HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH participated expressed significant concerns about the pace of that in the 2015 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review progress, instances of potential financial crime and systems CCAR and the annual Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test DFAST and controls deficiencies, whether HSBC is on track to meet programmes as required by the FRB.
In addition, HSBC Bank its goal to the Monitors satisfaction within the five-year USA N. A. HSBC Bank USA participated in the OCCs 2015 period of the US DPA and, pending further review and DFAST programme.
The CCAR and DFAST submissions were discussion with HSBC, did not certify as to HSBCs made on 5 January 2015 and their results publically disclosed implementation of and adherence to remedial measures on 5 March 2015.
On 11 March 2015, HNAH received notice specified in the US DPA.
The US deferred prosecution that the FRB did not object to its 2015 Capital Plan a key agreement and related agreements and consent orders component of the CCAR submission.
Under DFAST, HNAH is are discussed in top and emerging risks on page 113. also required to conduct a company-run mid-cycle stress test, the results of which were disclosed on 16 July 2015.
Regulatory stress tests Under this test HNAH maintained capital levels in excess of Stress testing is an important tool for regulators to assess regulatory minimums: specifically, the stressed common vulnerabilities in the banking sector and in individual banks, equity tier 1 ratio fell to a minimum of 7.5% compared with the results of which could have a significant effect on a required level of 4.5%.
minimum capital requirements, risk and capital management HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 116 Other entities in the Group, including The Hongkong Metals and mining and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and HSBC Bank Metals prices declined during 2015 although the pace and plc, continue to participate in regulatory stress tests extent of the price decline was more gradual than for oil conducted at a subsidiary level by local regulators.
In October 2015, the BoE published details of its mediumPrecious metals, copper, nickel and zinc prices are generally term approach to stress testing the UK banking system.
Key forecast to improve slightly in 2016.
The outlook for steel, features of the approach include an annual cyclical stress aluminium and bulk metals is more negative due to a test and a biennial exploratory stress test, starting in 2017. combination of oversupply and reduction in demand.
The The EBA plan to conduct stress tests in 2016.
Details of their low oil and gas prices benefit most metals and mining proposed approach were published by them in November customers given that they are large consumers of energy.
Our total drawn risk exposure to metals and mining was $18bn steel and aluminium $9bn, copper, nickel and zinc Oil and gas prices $4bn, iron ore and metallurgical coal $3bn, precious metals Oil and commodity prices have remained low since the $2bn.
Individually assessed loan impairments were $0.1bn.
middle of 2014 as a result of existing global supply and Given the pressures in metals prices the metals and mining demand imbalances, with significant price declines in late sector is under heightened management review.
Continued lower oil prices cause increased credit risks within oil-related industries together Mainland China exposures with fiscal and financing challenges for energy exporters.
Mainland Chinas economic growth rate slowed in 2014 and The overall portfolio of exposures directly exposed to oil and 2015 with a gross domestic product of 6.9% in 2015 gas companies had drawn risk exposures amounting to compared with 7.3% in 2014 2013: 7.7%.
Chinas economic about $29bn 2014: $34bn with sub-sectoral distributions as growth rate remains very strong when compared with follows: integrated producers 48%, service companies 28%, developed western economies.
Although the largest foreign pure producers 17% and infrastructure companies 7%.
bank in China, HSBCs overall lending market share is very The credit quality distribution of the oil and gas portfolio was small at about 0.2%.
This allows us to be selective in our as follows: strong and good categories made up 56% of lending to mainland China-related exposures, targeting high the portfolio, satisfactory 35%, sub-standard 7% and quality lending centred around specific priority sectors.
The majority of the exposures were located in The portfolio has continued to perform well with loan North America, Asia and Europe.
impairment charges remaining at their existing low levels.
Oil and gas related counterparties have responded rapidly to The total mainland China portfolio had drawn risk exposures the changing economic outlook, cutting back on capital of $143bn, of which $77bn was booked onshore, with the expenditure as well as reducing operating expenses in order remainder mainly booked in Hong Kong.
Retail lending to manage cash flows and sustain profitability.
amounted to $8bn, focused primarily on residential mortgages in selected geographical areas.
Wholesale lending Large integrated producers remained resilient.
51% of the wholesale portfolio was pure producers sector, the higher cost entities such as shale corporate lending with 26% to banks and the remainder to and oil sands producers showed more evidence of stress, China sovereign.
The lending to banks was 99% investment resulting in credit grade deterioration.
The corporate portfolio was also of high quality with companies continued to be more vulnerable as producers 62% of the portfolio of investment grade.
Only 2% of the curtailed capital expenditures.
corporate portfolio was rated substandard which compares Individually assessed loan impairment charges in 2015 favourably with the Group as a whole.
The corporate remained contained at approximately $0.3bn.
Oil prices are portfolio was well diversified with less than 40% of lending to now predicted to remain lower for longer and the oil price state owned enterprises.
The corporate real estate portfolio recovery is dependent on the removal of the excess supply amounted to about $15bn.
This portfolio which is primarily that currently exists in the market.
In view of these factors focused on tier 1 and tier 2 cities and the Pearl River Delta, collective allowances for exposures related to oil and gas was managed carefully under a series of caps ensuring that were increased by $0.2bn at the end of the year.
Total the lending to this sector remained within our risk appetite.
allowances in respect of the oil and gas portfolio were Our resultant ability to be selective in our lending and apply $0.6bn.
our traditionally strong underwriting standards means we The sector remains under enhanced monitoring with risk have a high quality portfolio which we would expect to be appetite and new lending has been significantly curtailed.
resilient even in a situation where mainland Chinas growth rate slows further.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 117 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
