Leverage ratio Leverage ratio EU Delegated Act basis at 31 December 2015 2014 $bn $bn Total assets per accounting balance sheet 2,410 2,634 Deconsolidation of insurance other entities 95 102 Consolidation of banking associates 213 194 Total assets per regulatory accounting balance sheet 2,528 2,726 Adjustments to reverse netting of loans and deposits allowable under IFRS 32 38 Reversal of accounting values including assets classified as held for sale: 456 525 derivatives 290 345 repurchase agreement and securities finance 166 180 Replaced with the regulatory rules: Derivatives including assets classified as held for sale: 149 166 mark-to-market 69 81 deductions of receivables assets for cash variation margin 65 82 add-on amounts for potential future exposure 125 148 exposure amount resulting from the additional treatment for written credit derivatives 20 19 Repurchase agreement and securities finance including assets classified as held for sale: 173 188 gross securities financing transactions assets 243 269 netted amounts of cash payables and cash receivables of gross securities financing transactions assets 78 89 measurement of counterparty risk 8 8 Addition of off-balance sheet commitments and guarantees 401 396 guarantees and contingent liabilities 67 67 commitments 326 321 others 8 8 Exclusion of items already deducted from the capital measure 33 36 Exposure measure after regulatory adjustments 2,794 2,953 Tier 1 capital under CRD IV end point 140 142 Leverage ratio 5.0% 4.8% The numerator of the leverage ratio is calculated using banks.
This set out the FPCs final expectations in relation the final CRD IV end point tier 1 capital definition while to the levels of capital across the industry, while specific the exposure measure is now calculated based on the requirements for individual banks will vary at the PRAs Commission Delegated Regulation EU 2015 62, published determination.
These expectations do not include timein January 2015. varying additional requirements such as the countercyclical capital buffer CCyB and are based on the assumption that existing deficiencies in the definition and measurement Regulatory developments of RWAs under Pillar 1 requirements will be addressed over Regulatory capital requirements time.
These deficiencies in Pillar 1 are currently compensated The regulatory capital requirements comprise a Pillar 1 through additional Pillar 2 requirements.
The FPC stated its minimum, individual capital guidance ICG set by the expectation that by 2019, once such deficiencies were PRA in the form of Pillar 2A, a number of capital buffers corrected, Pillar 2A requirements would reduce.
established by CRD IV and any PRA buffer that the PRA In addition to the above, consideration of the finalised may set in addition to ICG.
Financial Stability Board FSB proposals in relation to The Pillar 1 minimum ratio and the capital conservation total loss absorbing capacity TLAC requirements, and the buffer CCB rates are certain.
The macro-prudential tools, UK implementation of the EU minimum requirement for Pillar 2A, the PRA buffer and the systemic buffers are timeown funds and eligible liabilities MREL will also be varying elements.
This uncertainty is reflected in the required.
regulatory and management buffer we have included in the Based on the known and quantifiable requirements to 12% to 13% CET1 range that is used to model our mediumdate, including the announced CCyB rates and current ICG, term target for return on equity of more than 10% by 2017. the overall capital requirements applicable to the Group on This buffer is currently in the range of 1% to 2%.
an end-point basis at 1 January 2019 are presented in the In December 2015, the FPC published its end point view of table below.
the calibration of the capital framework as applicable to UK HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 239 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report CET1 CET1 CET1 CET1 CET1, CET1, AT1 AT1 and T2 and T2 Report of the Directors: Capital continued Regulatory developments Capital requirements framework end point nor elevated.
The CCyB rate will be informed by the annual UK concurrent stress test of major UK banks.
If a rate PRA buffer illustrative change is introduced it is expected to come into effect 12 months later.
Capital In December 2015, the PRA confirmed our applicable G-SII conservation 2.5% buffer as 2.5%.
The G-SII buffer together with the CCB of buffer 2.5%, came into effect on 1 January 2016.
These are being phased in until 2019 in increments of 25% of the end point Systemic buffer requirement.
Therefore, as of 1 January 2016, the buffers 2.5% SRB G-SII requirement for each buffer is 0.625% of RWAs.
Alongside CRD IV requirements, since 2014, the PRA has Macro-prudential tools expected major UK banks and building societies to meet a CCyB sectoral capital 0.2% requirements 7% CET1 ratio using the CRD IV end point definition.
At 1 January 2016, with the introduction of the G-SII buffer 2.3% Pillar 2A ICG and the CCB, our minimum CET1 capital requirements and of which 1.3% CET1 combined buffer requirement taken together amount to 7.1% based on RWAs at 31 December 2015, effectively superseding the previous PRA guidance on the CET1 ratio.
8% Pillar 1 of which 4.5% CET1 In January 2016, the FPC published a consultation on its proposed framework for the SRB.
It is proposed that it will apply to ring-fenced banks and large building societies and will be implemented from 1 January 2019.
The buffer to be CRD IV capital buffers applied to HSBC's ring-fenced bank has yet to be determined.
CRD IV established a number of capital buffers, to be met with CET1 capital, broadly aligned with the Basel III Further details of the aforementioned CRD IV buffers are framework.
In the UK, with the exception of the CCyB set out in the Appendix to Capital on page 246. which applied with immediate effect, CRD IV capital buffers are being phased in from 1 January 2016.
Pillar 2 and the PRA buffer The Pillar 2 framework requires banks to hold capital in Automatic restrictions on capital distributions apply if respect of risks not captured in the Pillar 1 framework and a banks CET1 capital falls below the level of its CRD IV to assess risks which banks may become exposed to over a combined buffer.
The CRD IV combined buffer is defined forward-looking planning horizon.
The PRAs assessment as the total of the CCB, the CCyB, the global systemically results in the determination of ICG Pillar 2A and Pillar 2B, important institutions G-SIIs buffer and the systemic risk respectively.
buffer SRB, as these become applicable.
Pillar 2A was previously required to be met by total capital At 31 December 2015, the applicable CCyB rates in force but, since 1 January 2015, must be met with at least 56% were 1% set by Norway and Sweden.
Furthermore, the PRA expects firms not to meet the exposures located in Norway and Sweden were $2.4bn and CRD IV buffers with any CET1 required to meet its ICG.
At 31 December 2015, this resulted in an immaterial Group institution-specific CCyB requirement.
The Pillar 2A requirement is a point in time assessment of the amount of capital the PRA considers that a bank The Hong Kong Monetary Authority HKMA CCyB rate of should hold to meet the overall financial adequacy rule.
0.625% was implemented on 27 January 2016 in respect of It is therefore subject to change as part of the PRAs Hong Kong exposures, following communication from the supervisory review process.
The impact of the HKMA CCyB rate on our Group Pillar 2A requirement was set at 2.3% of RWAs, of which institution-specific CCyB rate is expected to be 7bps based on RWAs at 31 December 2015.
In July 2015, the PRA published a final policy statement The CCyB rates introduced by Norway and Sweden will increase to 1.5% from June 2016.
In January 2016, the PS17 15, setting out amendments to the PRA Rulebook HKMA also announced that the CCyB rate applied to and Supervisory Statements in relation to the Pillar 2 exposures in Hong Kong will be increased to 1.25% from framework.
The revised framework became effective on 1 January 2017.
The PRAs Statement of Policy sets out the methodologies that it will use to inform its setting of firms In December 2015, the FPC maintained a 0% CCyB rate for Pillar 2 capital requirements, including new approaches UK exposures.
At the same time, the FPC published the for determining Pillar 2 requirements for credit risk, final calibration of the capital framework for UK banks.
operational risk, credit concentration risk and pension Within this, the FPC indicated that going forward it would obligation risk.
apply a more active use of the CCyB and stated that it intends to publish a revised policy statement on the use of In parallel, in July 2015, the PRA also issued its supervisory the CCyB in March 2016.
The FPC also noted that it expects statement SS31 15 in which it introduced a PRA buffer to to set a countercyclical buffer rate for UK exposures, in the replace the capital planning buffer determined under region of 1% when risks are judged to be neither subdued HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 240 Pillar 2B, from 1 January 2016.
This is to be met in the form calculating capital requirements.
Details of the most of CET1 capital.
significant consultations are set out below.
The statement sets out that the PRA buffer is intended to In December 2015 the Basel Committee published its avoid duplication with CRD IV buffers and will be set for a second consultation paper on a revised standardised particular firm depending on its vulnerability in a stress approach for credit risk.
This included proposals to scenario.
In order to address significant weaknesses in risk reintroduce external credit ratings, moderated by internal management and governance, a scalar may be applied to due diligence, as the basis for calculating risk weights for firms CET1 Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A capital requirements.
The risk weights for other assets are will also form part of the PRA Buffer.
to be determined by a variety of treatments tailored for each exposure class, which are designed to increase risk Where the PRA considers there is overlap between the CRD sensitivity and comparability.
IV buffers and the PRA buffer assessment, the PRA buffer will be set as the excess capital required over and above In January 2016, the Basel Committee published the final the CRD IV combined buffer.
From 1 January 2016, the CCB rules arising from the Fundamental Review of the Trading and the systemic buffers are permitted to offset against the Book, with implementation planned for 2019.
The new PRA buffer with the exception of any risk management and regime includes amendments to the trading book boundary governance scalar where applicable.
The use of the PRA and new market risk capital calculations for both the buffer will not result in automatic restrictions modelled and standardised approaches.
Committee acknowledges that there is considerable ongoing work which could require further revisions to the Regulatory stress testing framework.
The Group is subject to supervisory stress testing in The final changes to the CVA capital charge are expected many jurisdictions.
These requirements are increasing to be published in 2016.
Following the finalisation of in frequency and granularity.
As such, stress testing the CVA capital regime, the EU is expected to review represents a key focus for the Group.
the exemptions to the CVA charge currently applied to corporates, sovereigns and intragroup exposures.
In the The Bank of England published the results of the 2015 UK interim, the EU has consulted upon a methodology for stress test in December 2015 confirming that these tests calculating a Pillar 2 charge for excessive CVA risk resulting did not reveal any capital inadequacies for HSBC.
At the from exempted transactions.
European level, the EBA did not undertake a stress testing exercise in 2015 but instead carried out a transparency The revised consultations for standardised operational risk exercise, the results of which were published in November and the design and calibration of a capital floor based on 2015. the standardised approaches, are expected by the end of 2016.
In July 2015, the EBA also disclosed a timeline for the 2016 EU wide stress test exercise.
The EBA expects to publish the All of the Basel Committees consultations will need to be 2016 stress test scenario and methodology in the first transposed into EU law before coming into effect.
This quarter of 2016, with results published in the third quarter includes the finalised changes that relate to the of 2016. counterparty risk and securitisation regimes.
In October 2015, the Bank of England published its UK leverage ratio framework approach to stress testing in the UK.
This set out that the outcome of the UK stress testing exercise will be considered Following consultations in 2014, secondary legislation by the FPC when determining the UK CCyB rate, and will came into force in April 2015 to provide the FPC with also inform the PRA buffer.
Furthermore, from 2016, the direction powers in relation to the UK leverage ratio applicable hurdle rate which is the amount of capital that framework.
In July 2015, the FPC published its final policy banks are expected to maintain under a stress, is to include statement setting out its intention to use its new powers of Pillar 1, Pillar 2A and G-SII buffer requirements.
As a result the PRA issued a consultation paper to introduce requirements for the UK leverage ratio In 2015, Group entities also participated in regional stress framework.
This established a minimum tier 1 leverage testing exercises.
For further details on stress testing ratio of 3%, an additional leverage ratio buffer ALRB for exercises, see page 116.
G-SIIs and a countercyclical leverage ratio buffer CCLB, and was implemented on 1 January 2016.
The ALRB and RWA developments CCLB are to be met entirely with CET1 capital and will be Throughout 2015, UK, EU and international regulators set at 35% of the relevant buffers in the risk-weighted issued a series of consultations designed to revise the capital framework.
At 1 January 2016, our minimum various components of the RWA regime and increase leverage ratio requirement of 3% was supplemented with related reporting and disclosures.
In particular, the Basel an ALRB of 0.2% and a CCLB which rounds to 0%.
We Committee on Banking Supervision the Basel Committee comfortably exceed these leverage requirements.
published proposals relating to certain Pillar 1 risk types to update standardised, non-modelled approaches for HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 241 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Capital continued Regulatory developments Appendix to Capital It is anticipated that a minimum leverage ratio requirements.
This proposed that banks should not be able requirement, including potential buffers for G-SIBs, will to meet MREL requirements with CET1 used to meet be consulted upon by the Basel Committee in 2016 and a existing capital and leverage ratio buffers.
formal Pillar 1 measure finalised by 1 January 2018.
Structural reform and recovery and Total loss absorbing capacity proposals resolution planning As part of Recovery and Resolution frameworks both in Globally there have been a number of developments relating the EU and internationally, there have been various to banking structural reform and the introduction of developments in relation to TLAC.
In the EU, the Bank recovery and resolution regimes.
As part of recovery and Recovery and Resolution Directive introduces an MREL.
resolution planning, some regulators and national authorities have also required changes to the corporate structures of In July 2015, the EBA published a final draft Regulatory banks.
These include requiring the local incorporation of Technical Standard RTS for MREL which seeks to provide banks or ring-fencing of certain businesses.
additional clarity on the criteria that resolution authorities should take into account when setting a firm specific MREL In 2013 and 2014, UK legislation was enacted requiring large requirement.
The EBA notes that it aims to implement the banking groups to ring-fence UK retail and SME banking MREL in a way which is consistent with the finalised activity in a separately incorporated banking subsidiary international standard on TLAC.
a ring-fenced bank that is prohibited from engaging in significant trading activity.
Ring-fencing is to be completed by In November 2015, the FSB published finalised proposals 1 January 2019.
The legislation also detailed the applicable on TLAC for G-SIBs to be applied in accordance with individual customers to be transferred to the ring-fenced individual bank resolution strategies.
In addition, the legislation places restrictions on the requirement of 16% of RWAs and a TLAC leverage ratio activities and geographical scope of ring-fenced banks.
of 6% to be met from 1 January 2019, increasing to 18% Throughout 2015 the PRA published a number of and 6.75% respectively, from 1 January 2022.
Existing consultations on the implementation of ring-fencing regulatory capital buffers will need to be met in addition to requirements and the finalisation of rules is expected to the minimum TLAC requirement.
A breach of TLAC will be continue in 2016. treated as severely as a breach of minimum capital requirements.
The key proposals included near final rules published in May 2015 on legal structure, corporate governance, and In November 2015, the Basel Committee also published a continuity of services and facilities.
consultation on the treatment of banks holdings of TLAC instruments issued by a G-SIB, which proposed new Additionally, in October 2015, the PRA issued a consultation deductions from regulatory capital.
Once finalised, any on the application of capital and liquidity rules for ringadditional requirements in relation to TLAC are expected to fenced banks, management of intra-group exposures, and be reflected in MREL and to be implemented in the UK.
use of financial market infrastructures.
The PRA intends to undertake a further consultation in 2016 in respect of In December 2015, the Bank of England published a reporting and disclosure, and publish finalised rules and consultation paper on the UKs implementation of MREL.
supervisory statements thereafter, with implementation by The Bank of England stated that it intends to set MREL 1 January 2019. consistent with both TLAC and the final EBA RTS expected to be published later this year.
The MREL is expected to We are working with our primary regulators to develop and comprise a loss absorption amount which reflects existing agree a resolution strategy for HSBC.
It is our view that a regulatory capital requirements and a recapitalisation strategy by which the Group breaks up at a subsidiary bank amount which reflects the capital that a firm is likely to level at the point of resolution referred to as a Multiple need post resolution.
The latter can be met with both Point of Entry is the optimal approach, as it is aligned to regulatory capital and eligible liabilities.
our existing legal and business structure.
Similarly to all G-SIBs, we are working with our regulators to mitigate While MREL is to be set on an individual basis, the Bank or remove critical inter-dependencies between our of England generally expects MREL for banks whose subsidiaries to further facilitate the resolution of the appropriate resolution strategy is bail-in, to be equivalent Group.
In particular, in order to remove operational to twice the current minimum capital requirements.
A dependencies where one subsidiary bank provides critical finalised Statement of Policy is expected by mid-2016.
The services to another, we are in the process of transferring Bank of England is also expected to provide firms with an critical services from our subsidiary banks to a separate indication of their prospective 2020 MREL during 2016, and internal group of service companies ServCo group.
will set MREL on a transitional basis until then.
For G-SIBs, MREL is proposed to apply from 2019, consistent with FSB During 2015, more than 18,000 employees performing timelines.
shared services in the UK were transferred to the ServCo group.
Further transfers of employees, critical shared In parallel to the above, the PRA separately published a services and assets in the UK, Hong Kong and other consultation paper on the interaction between MREL and jurisdictions will occur in due course.
capital buffers and how it would treat a breach of MREL HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 242
