Strategic Report Regions Europe Asia We coordinate activities across global businesses Strong revenue growth in gB&M Revenue growth across all global businesses and supporting functions We serve European clients with a broad range of services and facilitate Our history as a bank is founded on through a regional international trade and investment.
financing trade with Asia, and the structure.
London is the strategic hub for our continent remains central to our strategy.
We are creating a In 2015, our businesses in Asia accounted ring-fenced bank based in Birmingham for 70% of adjusted profit before tax.
to serve UK retail and business clients.
We aim to grow our business in Chinas For further details on our financial performance by region, see pages Pearl River Delta and the ASEAN region, Europe generated $2.4bn of adjusted 79 to 95. as well as strengthen our leadership profit before tax position in the internationalisation of Adjusted profit before tax fell $1.1bn Chinas renminbi currency.
or 32%, as revenue growth of $0.1bn or 1% was more than offset by an increase gB&M and Wealth Management in costs up by $1.2bn or 8%, of which revenue growth despite a challenging $0.4bn related to an increase in the bank second half levy.
Excluding the bank levy, costs rose by Adjusted profit before tax was $0.2bn or $0.9bn or 6% as regulatory programmes, 1% higher as we grew revenue in all of our compliance and staff costs increased.
businesses by $0.9bn, partly offset by an We increased revenue in GB&M by increase in costs of $0.7bn.
$0.7bn or 11%, mainly in client-facing Our revenue increased by $0.9bn or 4%.
businesses, such as Equities and Foreign In GB&M, this was notably in Foreign Exchange, and in Balance Sheet Exchange, Equities, Capital Financing and Management.
In CMB, revenue grew Securities Services.
Revenue in RBWM also marginally by $0.1bn or 1%, in part due to rose, mainly in Hong Kong from investment balance sheet growth in term lending and distribution income notably in the first half PCM, although fees from overdrafts fell.
of 2015, which more than offset weaker Revenue in RBWM was broadly unchanged.
market sentiment in the second half of the However, revenue fell in GPB by $0.2bn year, and a rise in interest income from or 12%, reflecting the ongoing repositioning average lending and deposit balance growth.
Other, which includes We also increased revenue in CMB up by revenue relating to central financing $0.2bn or 4% mainly from average balance activities, reported a fall in revenue sheet growth, although balances remained of $0.4bn.
broadly unchanged in the second half of the The graph below shows reported and year, reflecting subdued demand for credit.
The difference Our costs grew across all businesses, between them primarily reflects fines, notably from higher staff costs due to wage penalties, redress and charges in relation inflation.
We increased staff numbers in to legal matters, which totalled $3.1bn RBWM to support business growth, and in and $1.7bn in 2014 and 2015, respectively.
The graph below shows reported and adjusted profit before tax.
The difference between them was primarily due to the gain of $1.4bn on the partial disposal of our shareholding in Industrial Bank in 2015. profit before tax $bn profit before tax $bn 2015 2014 2015 2014 Reported 0.6 Reported 15.8 0.6 14.6 Adjusted 2.4 14.5 Adjusted 3.5 14.3 HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 32 Regions Middle East and North Africa North America Latin America Revenue growth across all growing revenue from crossRevenue growth driven businesses despite geopolitical border banking in the NAFTA area by RBWM and CMB uncertainties and falling oil prices The US is a key partner in global trade We are focusing on growing our and the US dollar remains the primary business in Mexico, where we are HSBC is the longest serving international currency for global trade and payments.
among the top five banks by assets bank with one of the largest networks We support our North American and provide connectivity for businesses in the region, offering a universal customers within the NAFTA area and around the world, including ones in banking model and playing a vital role around the world, helping them grow the US.
In 2015, we announced the in facilitating international trade.
sale of our operations in Brazil.
We aim priority markets in the region are to continue to provide access to the Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the United gB&M revenue rose 9% and run-off of the region for large multinational companies.
US CML portfolio continued Revenue growth and lower LICs despite revenue growth, profit before tax Adjusted profit before tax fell $0.4bn or fell due to higher LICs and costs 22% as the decrease in profit before tax Adjusted profit before tax rose by $0.1bn from the continued reduction in our US due to higher revenue and lower LICs, Adjusted profit before tax fell by $0.3bn, CML portfolio more than offset growth offset by higher costs.
or 15%, mainly due to an increase in LICs in our principal business.
of $0.3bn reflecting net charges in 2015 Our revenue was $0.2bn higher up by compared with net releases in 2014.
LICs Total revenue was $0.3bn lower.
We increased revenue in CMB by in 2015 included higher charges in CMB revenue in GB&M by 9%, notably from $97m, as lending and deposit balances on individually assessed UAE-related increased income in Markets and Balance grew in Argentina, and in RBWM we exposures, and in RBWM on mortgages Sheet Management.
However, this was grew lending across all core products in the UAE, reflecting the impact of more than offset by a decrease in revenue in Mexico and grew deposit balances a review of portfolio collateral.
in the US CML run-off portfolio, reflecting in Argentina.
In RBWM in Brazil, revenue lower lending balances from the continued fell down by $21m reflecting the We increased our revenue by $0.1bn, run-off and loan sales.
economic slowdown and our decision or 2%, across all businesses, mainly in to sell the business there.
GB&M in Egypt from growth in lending LICs increased by $0.2bn in CMB from and investments, and in RBWM in the the oil and gas sector, and in RBWM LICs fell by $0.1bn due to lower specific UAE from higher fee income on cards from lower favourable market value LICs as the prior year included a significant and wealth products.
adjustments in the US CML run-off GB&M charge, while LICs also fell in portfolio as improvements in housing CMB.
This was partly offset by higher Our costs were $0.1bn or 5% higher, market conditions were less pronounced.
LICs in RBWM in Brazil reflecting a rise mainly in the UAE and Egypt due to higher in delinquency rates.
staff costs, in part reflecting continued We kept costs broadly unchanged, as investment in Global Standards and higher staff costs in CMB and GB&M Costs increased in all of our businesses wage inflation.
were offset in RBWM, notably in the up by $0.2bn or 4% at below the US CML run-off portfolio.
average rate of inflation in the region.
This was despite continued investment The graph below shows reported and in Global Standards.
The difference between them in part reflects the effect of fines, penalties and charges in relation to legal matters, which totalled $0.6bn and $0.7bn in 2014 and 2015, respectively.
profit before tax $bn profit before tax $bn profit before tax $bn 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Reported 1.5 Reported 0.6 Reported 0.3 1.8 1.4 0.2 Adjusted 1.5 Adjusted 1.6 Adjusted 0.5 1.8 2.0 0.4 HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 33 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
