Strategic Report Value of the network Unrivalled global presence Our network of businesses covers the worlds largest and fastest-growing trade corridors and economic zones.
More than 40% of our client revenue derives from businesses and individuals with an international presence.
Mexico: Agriculture Financing growth AlSA Tomato producer with 80% of product exported to the US and Canada.
Our financing products helped ALSA grow production capacity by 50% and incorporate eco-friendly technology.
ALSA manages foreign exchange through our digital platform, HSBCnet.
Access to opportunities Our market presence Transaction banking products Countries accounting for more than Transaction banking product revenue and territories 90% $15.7bn of global Gdp, trade 71 and capital flows Our transaction banking products help clients participate in global trade and capital flows.
Sources: Global Insight 2015 We are an industry leader in: global trade and United Nations Conference and receivables finance, payments and cash on Trade and Development 2014 management, and foreign exchange.
We also provide securities services to help financial institutions access international markets.
HSBC HOldInGS plC 14 Value of the network Simplified international banking Somfy World leader in door and window automation, operating in 60 countries.
For more than 10 years, we have simplified Somfys banking arrangements across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
We provide Somfy with cash and liquidity management in 23 countries, including renminbi cash flows into and out of China.
France: Motors and automatic controls Hong Kong: design and manufacturing Tailored financing Cosmosupplylab Producer of smart accessories for global computer and electronics brands.
Our relationships across Cosmosupplylabs supply chain in Asia and the US allowed us to provide tailored financing to help increase production to meet fast-growing demand.
largest trade corridors and market presence 2020 forecast, $ trillion Our priority markets cover both 726 HSBC priority market on 697 both sides of corridor sides of nine of the worlds 15 611 largest bilateral trade corridors, 586 HSBC priority market on and represent at least one side one side of corridor of the other six corridors.
These corridors represent nearly 50% of global trade.
Five of the 15 275 273 corridors are within Asia and six 215 193 167 155 155 connect countries between two 127 124 118 106 geographic regions.
 USA USA USA JPN KOR GER USA GER USA UK CHN USA POL VNM Source: Oxford Economics HSBC HOldInGS plC 15 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
