Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Board committees HSBC Holdings plc Board of Directors Group Risk Group Audit Group Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Non-executive responsibility for Non-executive responsibility for Non-executive responsibility for Responsibility for identifying high level risk-related matters matters relating to financial setting the overarching principles, and nominating candidates for and risk governance.
reporting and internal controls parameters and governance appointment by the Board.
framework of the Groups remuneration policy and the remuneration of senior executives.
Philanthropic & Financial System Conduct & Values Community Investment Chairmans Vulnerabilities Committee Committee Oversight Committee Committee Non-executive responsibility for Non-executive responsibility for Non-executive responsibility for Acts on behalf of the Board i controls and procedures to HSBCs policies, procedures and HSBCs philanthropic and between scheduled Board identify areas where HSBC and the standards to ensure that the community investment activities in meetings to facilitate ad hoc financial system more broadly may Group conducts business support of the Groups corporate business requiring Board approval.
become exposed to financial crime responsibly and consistently sustainability objectives.
or system abuse, and ii HSBCs adheres to HSBC Values.
policies and procedures to ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met.
The Board has established a number of committees Group Audit Committee consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors and, in I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Group Audit Committee the case of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee GAC.
and the Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight The GAC has been very active during 2015, successfully completing the Committee, co-opted non-director members.
The key transition of the external auditor to PwC, who formally took office roles of the Board committees are described above.
The GAC has instituted a process across the Group Chairman of each non-executive Board committee gives an Committees to ensure clarity of accountability and an enhanced oral report at each meeting of the Board on the activities reporting protocol with the audit committees of the Groups major of the committee since the previous Board meeting.
This ensures clear lines of accountability at a Group, regional, country and business line level.
In addition to financial The Group Management Board GMB, chaired by the Group reporting the GAC has taken accountability for recovery and resolution CEO, is a management forum providing recommendations planning.
and advice requested by the Group CEO, to assist him in his During the year the GAC has closely monitored the transition to the management of the day-to-day operations of HSBC Holdings Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission plc and its subsidiaries pursuant to the authority delegated 2013 COSO internal control framework as detailed in this report.
The to him by the Board of Directors.
completion of this transition, which has occupied a considerable amount of time, and the remediation of entity level controls has The Group Chief Risk Officer, operating under the delegated supported the Boards ability to assess the effectiveness of the system authority of the Group CEO, chairs regular Risk Management of internal controls over financial reporting as detailed more fully on Meetings of the GMB RMM.
The RMMs provide strategic page 277.
The GAC also considered the enhanced governance direction and oversight of enterprise-wide management of requirements associated with a new regulatory requirement for a all risks and establish, maintain and periodically review the viability statement, as now set out on page 277 of this Report.
policy and guidelines for the management of risk within the In 2016, the GACs work will include overseeing improvements to the Group.
internal control framework and environment over financial reporting, the controls around the Groups resolution and recovery plans, as well as the ring fencing of the retail banking operations in the UK.
We will continue working closely with the Group Risk Committee including where necessary, joint meetings, to ensure continued alignment of our respective accountabilities.
I should like to thank members of the Committee, Internal Audit and PwC, as well as management, for their assistance and expertise during the year.
Jonathan Symonds Chairman Group Audit Committee 22 February 2016 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 262 Members The GAC worked closely with the Group Risk Committee GRC and met jointly during 2015 to define and draw out Jonathan Symonds Chairman areas of commonality between the GAC and the GRC and Phillip Ameen thereby avoid duplication between the two committees.
Kathleen Casey From this work, it was concluded that the GAC would have Rachel Lomax accountability for recovery and resolution planning.
The Based upon a review that has been undertaken, the Board GRC has accountability for data integrity and quality, stress has confirmed that it is satisfied that each member of the testing and the operational risk framework, which is a GAC is independent according to SEC criteria, may be critical part of the internal control framework.
regarded as audit committee financial experts for the The annual forum for the chairs of the major subsidiary purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and has audit and risk committees was held in June 2015 which recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes resulted in an enhanced reporting protocol, providing of the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
clearer understanding of the roles and lines of accountability The Committee has complied with the relevant parts of the at Group, regional, country and business line levels.
The Competition and Markets Authority Final Order on the operation of this enhanced engagement protocol will be statutory audit market for the year ended 31 December closely monitored during 2016 and reviewed at the next 2015. annual forum.
Role and responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities The role and responsibilities of the GAC are set out in its Financial reporting terms of reference which can be found on our website at The table on page 265 shows the key areas considered www.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance boardduring the year and the action taken.
The GAC reviewed HSBCs financial and accounting The key areas of responsibility for the GAC include: judgements and their application to the quarterly and monitoring the integrity of financial statements: annual reporting of the Groups activities and financial overseeing the internal controls systems relating to performance.
In addition, the GAC reviewed the external financial reporting: analysts presentations and the key financial metrics included in the 10 strategic actions, particularly the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the planning of risk-weighted assets.
Global Internal Audit function: The legal and regulatory environment was monitored reviewing the Companys financial and accounting and consideration given to changes in law, regulation, policies and practices: accounting policies and practices including developments oversight and remuneration of the external auditor in programmes to implement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and making recommendations to the Board on the and Basel III CRD IV.
appointment of the external auditor: and Internal control and risk management reviewing with management steps for recovery and Pursuant to the requirement of section 404 of the Sarbanesresolution planning.
Oxley Act, the Group undertook an annual assessment of the Governance effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
During 2015, the GAC held seven meetings, including a The GAC reviewed the Groups system of internal control joint meeting with GRC.
Attendance of the current GAC over financial reporting and the developments affecting it members is set out in the table on page 258.
The Group over the course of 2015.
The GAC considered the process Finance Director, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group used to evaluate the effectiveness of the system, Head of Internal Audit and other members of senior overseeing the transition by management to the COSO management attended meetings of the GAC, by invitation, framework.
The transition included a comprehensive to contribute to the discussions relating to their respective programme of upgrades across all entity level controls.
The external auditor, PwC, also attended work focused on those entity level controls that did not all meetings and in camera sessions with internal and meet the required standards and the GAC received external audit were held at every meeting.
The Chairman progress updates from management at each meeting.
In of the GAC had regular meetings with a number of the addition, particular emphasis was given to the remediation attendees separately to discuss agenda planning and of controls over access management in IT and the financial specific issues as they arose during the year.
The GAC controls necessary to mitigate the impact on financial Chairman reported matters of significance to the Board reporting.
Applying this new framework, the GAC assessed after each meeting and the minutes of the GAC meetings the effectiveness of the internal control system over were made available to all Board members.
financial reporting as part of the Boards overall assessment of internal controls.
The Boards assessment During 2015, an accounting and control maturity map was can be found on page 275 under the heading Internal developed as a means of focusing accountabilities across Control.
the various Board Committees and to allow the escalation of issues relating to financial reporting or internal controls.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 263 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Internal Audit The fees paid to PwC for the year ended 31 December 2015 amounted to $98.4m of which $35m was payable in respect The GAC approved Internal Audits annual plan, resource of non-audit services.
Non-audit services accounted for and budget, and considered the performance of the Group 35.6% of the total fees payable.
All non-audit services Head of Internal Audit.
As this role reports to the Chairman provided by PwC during 2015 were pre-approved by the of GAC, frequent meetings were held during the year.
The GAC in accordance with the audit independence policy.
The GAC regularly met with the Group Head of Internal Audit policy provides a framework for confirming that services do without the presence of management.
not create a mutual or conflicting interest and to not place The GAC annually assesses the performance and PwC in the position of auditing their own work.
effectiveness of the Global Internal Audit function.
The A further breakdown of the fees paid to the auditors for GACs effectiveness review encompassed the scope of the each of the last three financial years can be found in Note 7 functions work and the adequacy of the skills of its team.
The GAC considered that the Global Internal Audit function remained effective.
The Global Internal Audit Charter is The GAC considered PwC to be independent and PwC, available on the HSBC website at www.
com investorin accordance with professional ethical standards, has relations governance internal-control.
provided the GAC with written confirmation of its independence for the duration of the financial year During the year, work was undertaken to streamline Global ended 31 December 2015.
Internal Audit reporting across committees and to ensure key thematic issues were appropriately highlighted.
The GAC has therefore recommended to the Board that These items included, for example, entity level controls PwC be re-appointed as the auditors.
Resolutions concerning remediation, financial crime compliance project execution the re-appointment of PwC and their audit fee for 2016 will and systems and data security.
Enhancement was also be proposed to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
made to the management information in relation to audit Whistleblowing conclusions and the  of outstanding audit recommendations.
This enhancement better aligned The GAC and the Conduct & Values Committee are audit recommendations to the individual accountabilities of responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleblowing senior managers.
The GAC received regular updates on concerns raised under these procedures which related to accounting, Additional resources were granted to internal audit during internal accounting controls or auditing matters, as well as the year to increase assurance to all the Board committees management actions taken in response.
on the execution of critical projects.
Ongoing development External audit Throughout the year, the GAC received presentations Following a competitive tender process undertaken in on a range of topics including IFRSs financial accounting 2013,  LLP PwC was formally developments, new reporting requirements and briefings appointed as the Groups external auditors at the 2015 on developments in the regulatory environment.
The GAC met privately with the external auditor whilst the GAC Chairman maintained regular contact with Committee effectiveness the audit partner throughout the year.
The effectiveness of the GAC was evaluated as part of The GAC reviewed PwCs audit approach and strategy for the overall performance evaluation of the Board.
Governance structure for the oversight of financial reporting Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Directors Financial reporting Appointing senior financial officers Disclosure Committee The Groups Finance Director, Chief Risk Reviewing the Groups material communications with Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Accounting investors Officer, Company Secretary, Chief Operating Assisting the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Officer, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Director to discharge their obligations relating to financial Communications and Head of Strategy and reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Planning Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of controls and procedures established to ensure that information is disclosed appropriately and on a timely basis Reporting findings and making recommendations to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the GAC Major operating Independent non-executive directors and or Providing twice yearly assurance to the GAC on financial subsidiaries audit HSBC Group employees with no line of statements and internal controls over financial reporting of committees or functional responsibility for the activities of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as requested equivalent relevant subsidiary or global business, as Regular reporting to the GAC in connection with any material appropriate issues regarding controls over financial reporting HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 264 Principal activities undertaken during 2015 include: Key area Action taken External auditor Overseeing and assessing the effectiveness of  LLP during its first year as the Groups external auditor.
In assessing the effectiveness of the external auditor an audit assessment questionnaire is used to obtain feedback on the audit process.
In addition, an assessment against best practice is undertaken.
The assessment focuses on the overall audit process, its effectiveness and the quality of output.
Implementation of COSO GAC closely monitored the transition to the COSO Internal control framework.
The transition involved a Framework comprehensive programme of upgrading entity level controls.
Controls over IT access A significant issue for the GAC in 2015 was the tracking of progress over access rights to operating systems, management applications and data used in the financial reporting process.
This was an area identified by Internal Audit as requiring improvement and a substantial programme of work has been under way involving HSBC Operations, Services and Technology and Finance functions.
Hedge accounting review GAC has overseen remediation work to address issues identified in relation to certain hedge accounting activities in a number of countries.
Significant accounting judgements considered during 2015 included: Key area Action taken Appropriateness of The GAC received reports from management on the recognition and amounts of provisions, the existence of provisioning for legal contingent liabilities, and the disclosures relating to provisions and contingent liabilities for legal proceedings proceedings and and regulatory matters.
Specific areas addressed included provisioning arising from investigations by US regulatory matters regulators and law enforcement agencies relating to trading activities in the foreign exchange market and competition law investigations relating to foreign exchange trading activities in a number of jurisdictions.
The GAC also considered managements judgements regarding provisions and contingent liabilities in connection with investigations of HSBCs Swiss Private Bank by a number of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities, and the measurement of the provision in relation to US Securities litigation Jaffe.
Quarterly and annual The GAC reviewed key judgements in relation to the quarterly and annual reporting.
In addition, the GAC reporting considered external analysts presentations and other key financial metrics included in the 10 strategic actions.
Loan impairment, The GAC reviewed loan impairment allowances for personal and wholesale lending.
Significant judgements and allowances and charges estimates for personal lending included a review of loss emergence periods across the retail loan portfolios.
For wholesale lending, the effects on potential wholesale loan impairments of lower oil and gas prices, the VW vehicle emissions scandal, and trends in economic factors affecting credit quality in mainland China were considered, along with judgemental allowance adjustments for economic factors and notable individual cases of impairment.
In particular, the GAC considered managements judgements and assumptions informing the recognition of a judgemental collective impairment allowance for oil and gas exposures, additional to impairment allowances recognised for individual identified cases, as at 31 December 2015.
Valuation of financial The GAC reviewed the key valuation metrics and judgements involved in the determination of fair value of instruments financial instruments.
The GAC considered the valuation control framework, valuation metrics, significant year-end judgements and emerging valuation topics.
Viability statement The Directors now have an obligation under the UK Corporate Governance Code to state whether they believe the Group and parent company will be able to continue in operation and meet liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
During the year, the GAC considered the enhanced governance requirements surrounding the publication of the Viability Statement.
UK customer remediation The GAC considered the provisions for redress for mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI policies, in the UK, including managements judgements regarding the effect of the proposed time-bar for claims, on which the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA is to consult.
The GAC also considered the implications of the 2014 UK court case Plevin for the non-disclosure of levels of commission in relation to the historical sales of PPI products, and liabilities in respect of breaches of the UK Consumer Credit Act.
Bank of Communications During the year the GAC considered the regular impairment reviews of HSBCs investment in BoCom and Co. Limited BoCom managements conclusions that the investment is not impaired.
When testing investments in associates for impairment testing impairment, IFRS require the carrying amount to be compared with the higher of fair value and value in use.
The GAC reviewed a number of aspects of managements work in this area including the sensitivity of the result of the impairment review to estimates and assumptions of projected future cash flows and the discount rate.
Goodwill impairment The GAC noted that no impairment was identified as a result of the annual goodwill impairment test as at 1 July testing 2015.
However, the review for indicators of impairment as at 31 December 2015 identified indicators of impairment which resulted in a formal re-test of GPB Europe and GB&M North America.
The results for these CGUs are sensitive to key assumptions and are subject to enhanced disclosure.
Recognition of deferred In considering the recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets, the GAC reviewed the recognition of tax assets deferred tax assets in the US and Brazil and the associated projections of future taxable income.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 265 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees All of HSBCs activities involve the measurement, Group Risk Committee evaluation, acceptance and management of risk or I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Group Risk combinations of risks.
The Board, advised by the GRC, Committee GRC.
2015 was a particularly busy year for the requires and promotes a strong risk governance culture GRC.
In addition to its regular reviews of the Groups risk map, which shapes the Groups attitude to risk.
The Board risk appetite and top and emerging risks, the GRC focused on the and the GRC oversee the maintenance and development management of current and forward-looking risks, programmes of a strong risk management framework by continually to implement comprehensive reforms to the ways financial crime compliance is managed and the execution of Global Standards.
monitoring the risk environment, top and emerging risks The GRC has closely monitored the strengthening of the risk facing the Group and mitigating actions planned and taken.
framework for managing and mitigating operational risk, as this Oversight of specific areas of risk is undertaken by the now represents a greater proportion of the Groups capital Conduct & Values Committee page 272 to ensure that demands.
HSBC conducts business responsibly and consistently The GRC held three additional meetings during the year adheres to HSBC Values and by the Financial System dedicated to reviewing the results of BoEs stress tests, reviewing Vulnerabilities Committee page 268 for matters relating the lessons learned from the BoE and internal stress testing to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and exercises and proposals for enhancing the Groups stress testing capability.
Both committees regularly update During the year, the GRC also reviewed managements the GRC on their responsibilities.
assessment of information security, cyber-crime and data The GRC, together with the GAC, has set core terms of management risks and managements mitigating actions.
reference for subsidiary company non-executive risk and Like the Group Audit Committee, the GRC has taken steps to audit committees.
enhance its governance arrangements with the regional and business risk committees to ensure closer interaction and During 2015, the GRC held 10 meetings and attendance of dialogue across the Group.
the current GRC members is set out in the table on page I should like to thank my colleagues on the Committee and senior 258.
The Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Finance Director, management for their contribution to the Committees activities.
Chief Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Global Joachim Faber Chairman Head of Regulatory Compliance, Global Head of Financial Group Risk Committee Crime Compliance and other members of senior 22 February 2016 management attended meetings of the GRC by invitation to contribute to discussions relating to their respective Members areas of expertise.
The Chairman of the GRC had meetings with a number of these attendees separately to discuss Joachim Faber Chairman specific issues.
John Lipsky Rachel Lomax The GRC has worked closely with the GAC to ensure that Heidi Miller any areas of significant overlap are appropriately addressed.
The GRC and the GAC met jointly during 2015 to address Role and responsibilities areas of commonality between the committees and to The role and responsibilities of the GRC are set out in its avoid unnecessary duplication.
The committees also terms of reference.
Its terms of reference can be found on discussed the importance of building strong alignment our website at http: www.
com aboutwith the major regional and global business risk and audit hsbc corporate-governance board-committees.
committees and implemented proposals to improve intercommittee communication.
The key areas of responsibility for the GRC include: A forum for the chairs of the major regional and global advising the Board on high-level risk-related matters businesses audit and risk committees was held in June and risk governance, including current and forward 2015 which resulted in an enhanced reporting protocol, looking risk exposures, future risk strategy and providing clearer lines of accountability at Group, regional, management of risk within the Group: country and business line levels.
The operation of this advising the Board on risk appetite and risk tolerance: enhanced protocol will be closely monitored during the year and reviewed at the next annual forum.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems framework and internal control The GRC met with the Group Chief Risk Officer and Group systems other than internal financial control systems Head of Internal Audit without the presence of management.
which is the responsibility of the GAC : The GRC Chairman reported matters of significance to the Board after each meeting and the minutes of the meetings monitoring executive control and management of risk were made available to all Board members.
including top and emerging risks: and advising the Group Remuneration Committee on the How the Committee discharged its responsibilities alignment of remuneration with risk appetite.
The GRC reviewed the Group Risk Appetite Statement, the risk map which describes the Groups risk profile by risk Governance type across the global businesses and monitored the top The GRC has overall non-executive responsibility for the and emerging risks together with mitigating actions for oversight of risk across the Group.
identified risks with management at each of its meetings.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 266 Page 102 provides further information on the top and internal financial control systems, which covered by the emerging risks, the risk map and the risk appetite for the GAC and the developments affecting them over the course Group.
In carrying out its review, the GRC received regular business and operational risk assessments, regular reports The GRC requested reports and updates from management from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Head of on risk-related issues identified for in-depth consideration Internal Audit, reports on the annual reviews of the risk and received regular reports on matters discussed at the control framework of the global businesses which cover all RMM.
In addition, during 2015 the GRC invited senior internal controls, half yearly confirmations to the GRC from management from the global businesses to present their risk committees of principal subsidiary companies and respective risk control frameworks.
The GRC welcomed, as reports confirming if there have been any material losses, a result, the enhanced discussions on the risk environment contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses in and will continue this cycle of presentations throughout internal controls.
In light of these findings, the GRC 2016. assessed the statement of internal controls systems prior A particular focus for the GRC during 2015 was the Groups to its endorsement by the Board.
The Boards assessment exposure to execution risk.
Regular reports were received as to the effectiveness of the system can be found on from the Group Chief Operating Officer, who attended page 275 under the heading Internal Control.
the GRC meetings, updating the GRC on the status of the Groups highest priority programmes and mitigating Ongoing development measures being put in place to manage the identified risks Throughout the year, the GRC received presentations on appropriately.
a range of topics, including Volcker Rule governance and In addition to addressing the matters noted above, the GRC briefings on developments in the regulatory environment.
focused on a number of key areas including those set out in Committee effectiveness the table below.
The effectiveness of the GRC was evaluated as part of the Internal control and risk management overall performance evaluation of the Board.
The GRC reviewed the Groups risk management framework and system of internal control other than Principal activities and significant issues considered include: Key area Action taken The Group Risk Appetite The GRC reviewed management proposals for revisions to the Group RAS metrics for 2015.
Following review, Statement RAS and the Committee recommended the Group RAS, which contained a number of refinements including the cost monitoring of the Group efficiency, common equity tier 1 capital and sovereign exposure ratio, to the Board.
risk profile against the The GRC regularly reviews the Groups risk profile against the key performance metrics set out in the RAS.
It RAS reviewed managements assessment of risk and provided scrutiny of managements proposed mitigating actions.
BoE stress test The GRC monitored the BoE stress testing exercise and reviewed the results of stress testing prior to submission to the regulator.
It received reports over the course of the BoE stress testing exercise and met three times during the year solely to consider stress testing related matters.
Top and emerging risks were reviewed at every GRC meeting and areas identified where management needed to assess vulnerabilities via stress testing.
The GRC oversaw a review of the lessons learned from this stress testing exercise and proposals for enhancing the Groups stress testing capability.
Internal Audit assessed progress on the regulatory stress tests programmes and reported its conclusions and recommendations to the GRC.
Execution risk Execution risk is the risk relating to the delivery of the Group strategy and the progress and status of high priority programmes is a standing agenda item for the GRC.
Monitoring of this risk and challenging managements assessment of execution risk and corresponding mitigating actions remain a priority for the GRC.
In addition to the regular reports received and deep-dive reviews conducted on specific issues identified, the GRC requested reports from Internal Audit on the themes identified during the course of its work.
Legal and regulatory The GRC received regular reports on legal and regulatory risks, reviewed management actions to mitigate these risks risks and considered the potential impact of future developments in this area on the Group.
In 2015, these included reports concerning risks related to investigations of HSBCs Swiss Private Bank by a number of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities.
IT and data-related risks During the year, the GRC considered a number of IT and data-related risks including internet crime and fraud, data management and aggregation, and information security.
The GRC reviewed managements assessment of these risks and management actions to mitigate them.
IT and data-related risks are expected to remain an area of focus for the GRC during the course of 2016.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 267 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Geopolitical risk The GRC received regular reports on geopolitical risks including the crises in the Middle East, slowdown in mainland China and redenomination risk of Greece exiting the eurozone.
Management provided regular updates on the implementation of mitigating actions in response to these matters which included the augmentation of anti-money laundering, sanctions and financial crime compliance controls.
The GRC also held a joint meeting with the GAC which focused on areas of mutual interests including entity level controls, operational risk and subsidiary governance.
Further information on the identification, management and mitigation of our material risks types, and on our top and emerging risk is provided on pages 105 and 110, respectively.
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Members I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Financial System Lord Evans of Weardale Chairman Vulnerabilities Committee FSVC.
The FSVC oversees the Kathleen Casey implementation by management of policies aimed at mitigating Rona Fairhead financial crime and system abuse risks which HSBC faces in the 1 Nick Fishwick, CMG execution of its strategy.
In doing so, it provides thought 1 leadership, governance, oversight and policy guidance over the Dave Hartnett, CB 1 framework of controls and procedures which has been designed William Hughes, CBE QPM 1 to address these risks to which HSBC and the financial system Nehchal Sandhu more broadly, may be exposed.
1 Leonard Schrank In 2015, the FSVC continued to focus on the controls and 1 The Honourable Juan Zarate procedures which underpin Global Standards and mitigate our 1 financial crime risks.
The interactions with the Monitor have 1 Adviser members been a key part of the FSVCs agenda as the Committee continues to oversee the compliance-related initiatives being Six adviser members have been appointed to the implemented by the Group to address its obligations under its Committee to support its work and between them have Deferred Prosecution Agreement US DPA, and the Monitor extensive experience in geopolitical risk, financial crime and his team have attended a number of FSVC meetings during risk, international security, cyber security and law the course of the year.
These meetings have also included enforcement matters.
private meetings with the non-executive members of the FSVC.
Other areas of focus have included oversight of HSBCs cyber Role and responsibilities security framework and monitoring significant developments in The role and responsibilities of the FSVC are set out in its the information security environment and the sanctions control framework in the light of heightened geopolitical risk.
The terms of reference can be found 2015, the FSVC has taken a more holistic approach to identifying on our website at www.
com about-hsbc corporatepotential financial crime compliance FCC issues.
The heads of governance board-committees.
business units and country heads have routinely been invited to The key areas of responsibility for the FSVC include: meetings to provide insights on the implementation of Global Standards and key FCC issues for their areas.
governance, oversight and policy guidance over the In 2016, the FSVC will continue to focus on Global Standards framework of controls and procedures designed to and Financial Crime Compliance FCC through the monitoring identify areas where HSBC and the financial system and tracking of the FCC plan and engaging with the Monitor more broadly may become exposed to financial crime to ensure his recommendations are acted on.
The Committee or system abuse: will continue its programme of reporting by country heads on FCC.
The FSVC will also retain its focus on FCC controls in the oversight of matters relating to anti-money laundering, Private Bank.
sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing, Cyber security will remain a key area of focus for the Committee.
including the establishment, implementation, During the course of the year we welcomed Nehchal Sandhu as maintenance and review of adequate policies and an additional adviser member to the Committee.
Nehchal brings procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing extensive experience in leading the national cyber security obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies strategy and architecture in India and advising senior are met and oversight of implementation of the actions government officials on national security matters.
I should like to necessary to build assurance in these areas: thank Sir Simon Robertson, who resigned from the Committee at the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting, and Rona provision of advice as applicable on the implementation Fairhead, who steps down as a member of the Committee at the of the Global Standards programme: conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting, for their contributions to the work of the Committee.
oversight of matters relating to HSBCs information security environment and cyber security framework: Lord Evans of Weardale Chairman and Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 22 February 2016 providing a forward-looking perspective to the Board on financial crime risk.
1 See page 116 for further details on the Monitor.
In 2016, the FSVC will assume responsibility for oversight of controls relating to anti-bribery and corruption.
During 2015, the FSVC held seven meetings.
Attendance is set out in the table on page 258.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 268 How the FSVC discharged its responsibilities Committee effectiveness The FSVC has focused its activity on areas where HSBC and The effectiveness of the FSVC was evaluated as part of the financial system more broadly may become exposed to the overall performance evaluation of the Board.
financial crime or system abuse, working closely with the GRC which has broader responsibility for risk governance.
The principal activities and significant issues considered by the FSVC are provided in the table below.
Principal activities and significant issues considered include: Key area Action taken Oversight of obligations The FSVC has monitored developments between HSBC and the US regulators.
Interactions with the Monitor under the US and UK have been a key part of the Committees agenda, including oversight of HSBCs response to the Monitors agreements and updates work programme and managements action to embed Global Standards.
The FSVC received regular reports on HSBCs interactions from the Monitor and his team on reviews undertaken and the results of the Monitors First Annual Follow-up with the Monitor Review Report, agreeing recommendations and actions in response to this report.
Financial crime compliance The FSVC oversaw the anti-money laundering and compliance-related initiatives being implemented by the and related issues Group to address obligations under the US DPA and related agreements, including forward-looking risks to HSBC and the financial system more widely, fide-risking activities in relation to correspondent banking, and anti-money laundering risks associated with affiliates.
Compliance resourcing The FSVC reviewed and discussed reports from Compliance in relation to resourcing.
A particular area of focus was on recruitment activities, resourcing levels and people development.
The ability of the Compliance function to attract and retain talent has and will continue to be a key area of focus for the Committee.
Sanctions The Group has in place a Global Sanctions Policy.
The FSVC receives updates on both sanctions-related matters and compliance with the Groups sanctions programme.
Technology and data The FSVC received reports on implementation of the FCC IT strategy.
A progress tracker providing an update systems on the information security risk framework was routinely monitored by the FSVC throughout the year, with particular focus on cyber security and the Groups information security risk framework.
Reporting The FSVC provides a quarterly report to the Board on its activities and updates the Group Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee on specified matters for its consideration as appropriate and reports to the Core and Global College of Regulators on key activities undertaken.
Global Standards The FSVC received reports from management including heads of business units and from Internal Audit concerning implementation of the Global Standards programme.
Cyber Information The FSVC continued its focus on cyber and information security matters.
It received reports from security representatives in the first and second lines of defence on developments in HSBCs information security environment and monitored the proactive steps to address emerging risks.
The Committee also oversaw the progress of the projects to improve HSBCs cyber security framework and cyber incident response preparedness.
Reports from adviser The Committee received updates from the Committees adviser members on the activities they have each members undertaken in their role as advisers to HSBC Holdings plc with specific focus on geopolitical risk, emerging financial crime and information security issues.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 269 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 1 I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Nomination Members Committee.
During 2015, HSBC appointed two new independent Sam Laidlaw Chairman non-executive Directors, Irene Lee and Pauline van der Meer John Lipsky Mohr.
The appointments of Paul Walsh and Henri fide Castries as Pauline van der Meer Mohr from 1 January 2016 two further independent non-executive Directors were 1 Sir Simon Robertson announced in 2015.
Paul Walsh joined the Board on 1 January 2016 and we look forward to welcoming Henri fide Castries on Paul Walsh from 1 January 2016 1 March 2016.
As I outline overleaf, these appointments bring substantial additional strength to the Board and have further 1 Sir Simon Robertson will be retiring from the Board at the April 2016 broadened its existing expertise and experience.
The Committee continually seeks to ensure that the Boards composition is aligned to the Groups strategic priorities.
A Role and responsibilities matrix of Directors skills and experience, also reflecting the The role and responsibilities of the Group Remuneration diversity of the Boards composition, including gender, is Committee are set out in its terms of reference.
The regularly reviewed by the Committee and is central to the terms of reference can be found on our website at succession planning process for non-executive Director www.
HSBC has been active in promoting gender diversity, such that women currently make up 33% of the Board committees.
although the Committee will continue to focus on initiatives The Committee is responsible for setting the over-arching towards achieving a greater gender balance, both at Board level principles, parameters and governance framework of the and below.
Groups remuneration policy and the remuneration of The Committee has also conducted an annual review of the executive Directors and other senior Group employees.
This aspect of the The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Committees succession planning responsibilities has become an increasingly important area for both management and the remuneration policy of the Company and its subsidiaries in Committee, reflecting the people risk to which a group of HSBCs the context of consistent and effective risk management.
size and scale is exposed.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own During the year, membership of the Boards committees has remuneration.
been refreshed to ensure that there are clear linkages between Further details on the remuneration arrangements for them.
The work of each committee is reported to the Board by Directors may be found in the Directors Remuneration the respective committee chair and cross-committee Report on pages 285 to 321. membership of non-executive directors helps to ensure a more cohesive governance structure.
During 2015, the Group Remuneration Committee held During the course of the year we welcomed Rachel Lomax onto 10 meetings.
Attendance is set out in the table on the Committee.
I should like to thank Sir Simon Robertson, who page 258. stepped down as its Chairman at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM for his contribution to the Committee and who, together Committee effectiveness with Rona Fairhead, leaves the Board at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Their wisdom and counsel will be much missed.
The effectiveness of the Group Remuneration Committee was evaluated as part of the overall performance evaluation Sam Laidlaw Chairman of the Board.
More information can be found under the Nomination Committee Performance Evaluation section on page 260.
22 February 2016 Members Sam Laidlaw Chairman Laura Cha Rona Fairhead John Lipsky Rachel Lomax Role and responsibilities The role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are set out in its terms of reference, which can be found on our website at www.
The Nomination Committee has non-executive responsibility for leading the process for Board appointments and for identifying and nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Committee is responsible for succession planning for both executive and non-executive directors and membership of Board HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 270 committees.
The Committee regularly reviews the The Chairman reports matters of significance to the Board structure, size and composition of the Board including the after each meeting.
balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
Committee effectiveness Governance The effectiveness of the Nomination Committee was During 2015, the Nomination Committee held five evaluated as part of the overall performance evaluation of meetings.
Attendance is set out in the table on page 258. the Board.
Principal activities and Action taken significant issues considered Appointments of new Following an external and rigorous selection process, the Committee recommended to the Board the Directors appointment of four non-executive Directors during 2015: Irene Lee and Pauline van der Meer Mohr, who joined the Board on 1 July and 1 September, respectively, Paul Walsh, who joined the Board on 1 January 2016, and Henri fide Castries, who joins the Board on 1 March 2016.
An external search consultancy, MWM Consulting, is used in relation to the appointment of nonexecutive Directors.
MWM Consulting has no additional connection with HSBC other than as search consultant for certain senior executive hires.
The Committee recommended Irene Lee for appointment to the Board because of her extensive experience in financial services, and her leadership roles in a number of Asian businesses.
Pauline van der Meer Mohr was recommended by the Committee due to her leadership experience in human resources and legal affairs, together with her regulatory experience.
Paul Walsh brings to the Board strategic and commercial insight and experience from running multiple global consumer businesses.
Henri fide Castries brings broad international experience, running one of the worlds largest insurance companies and a deep understanding of the financial services industry and regulation.
Forward planning The Nomination Committee takes into account the needs and development of the Groups businesses and the expected retirement dates of current Directors when considering candidates to join the Board, ensuring that skills, experience and diversity requirements are satisfied as far as possible.
Board and Committee The Nomination Committee routinely monitors the size, structure and composition of the Board composition including the skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and independence of its non-executive Directors.
The Committee recommended to the Board that all Directors should stand for election or re-election at the 2016 AGM, with the exception of Rona Fairhead and Simon Robertson whose retirement was announced during the year.
Safra Catz, after eight years of dedicated service as a non-executive Director, elected to retire at the end of 2015.
A number of changes were made to the composition of Committees during the year to reflect tenure of service and the appointment of new non-executive Directors to the Board.
Regulatory and policy The Nomination Committee monitors HSBCs policies and regulatory developments in relation to Board developments composition.
Additionally, during 2015 the Committee considered the corporate governance arrangements for the UK Ring-Fenced Bank, reviewed the Boards diversity policy and the outcomes of the Board effectiveness review of its principal subsidiaries.
Diversity The Nomination Committee believes that one of its important duties is to ensure that there is a proper balance on the Board to reflect diversity and the geographical nature of its business.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit and candidates are considered against objective criteria, having due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Board diversity policy is available at www.
The Nomination Committee regularly monitors the implementation of the Boards diversity policy using the following measurable objectives: only external search consultants who are signatories to the Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct should be engaged by the Nomination Committee: and at least 30% of candidates, proposed by search firms for consideration as non-executive Directors, should be women.
We comply with these requirements and, as at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM, 33% of the Board will be female.
Director training and The Nomination Committee reviews and monitors the training and continuous professional development development of Directors and senior management.
Time commitment and The Nomination Committee assessed the independence of, and time required from, non-executive independence of nonDirectors, and is satisfied that all non-executive Directors have the time to fulfil their fiduciary executive Directors responsibilities to provide oversight of the business of the Group and serve on the relevant committees of the Board.
All Directors are asked to identify any other significant commitments they may have and confirm they have sufficient time to discharge what is expected of them as members of the Board.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 271 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Members Conduct & Values Committee Rachel Lomax Chairman I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Conduct & Values Laura Cha Committee CVC.
The CVC has non-executive responsibility for Lord Evans of Weardale overseeing the Groups continuing efforts to raise standards in the way it conducts business, consistent with HSBCs values.
Heidi Miller until 31 December 2015 Jonathan Symonds In this, the second year of its operation, the Committee has focused particularly on the implementation of the Groups global Pauline van der Meer Mohr from 1 January 2016 programme for ensuring that it delivers fair outcomes for customers and upholds market integrity, as the basis for the Role and responsibilities long-term success of its business.
The role and responsibilities of the CVC are set out in its This has involved a thorough review of Group policies, processes terms of reference which can be found on our website at and procedures to assess how far they meet the required www.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance boardstandards and, where necessary, to implement remedial action.
A key challenge has been to develop measures that will enable management to identify and resolve emerging conduct issues in The CVC is responsible for: a timely way.
The CVC is monitoring progress in developing policies, procedures and standards to ensure that the useful management information in each of the global businesses Group conducts business responsibly and consistently and across the different geographies.
It aims to align its work to The Committee recognises that the success of any programme of HSBCs purpose of connecting customers cultural change depends critically on how people are recruited, trained, incentivised and led.
It is taking a close interest in the to opportunities, enabling businesses to thrive and many initiatives that are being developed to ensure that the economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people Group sends consistent messages to employees about what is to fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions: and expected of them, equips them to do their jobs in the right way, ensuring that in the conduct of its business, the Group and rewards and penalises them appropriately.
treats customers fairly and openly, does business with It is particularly important to foster a culture in which people are empowered to speak up if they become aware of problems.
the right clients and in the right way, is a responsible employer, acts responsibly towards the communities During 2015 the CVC has overseen a significant improvement in in which it operates and treats other stakeholders fairly.
HSBC Confidential, launched in August, provides simplified access to whistleblowing The CVC oversees the promotion and embedding by channels which will enable more timely and consistent reporting management of HSBC Values and its required global of cases.
The CVC also provides inputs, as Looking ahead, the CVC will remain focused on how the Groups appropriate, to the Group Remuneration Committee on the conduct approach is being implemented.
It will pay particular alignment of remuneration with conduct.
attention to how effectively global programmes are being cascaded through the organisation, especially in the Groups key In 2016, the CVC will relinquish, and the Financial System locations, using staff surveys, site visits and internal audits as Vulnerabilities Committee will assume, responsibility for appropriate.
oversight of controls relating to anti-bribery and As part of its remit to ensure that the Group acts responsibly corruption.
towards the communities within which it operates, the Committee intends to review how effectively the Group seeks to Governance satisfy itself that it is meeting its sustainability commitments.
During 2015, the CVC held five meetings.
Attendance is set I should like to take this opportunity to thank all Committee out in the table on page 258. members and management for their contributions during the year.
Heidi Miller stepped down from the Committee on The Chairman reports matters of significance to the Board 31 December and Pauline van der Meer Mohr joined with after each meeting and the minutes of the meetings are effect from 1 January: my warm thanks to Heidi for her lively made available to all Board members.
participation in the Committees work, and a hearty welcome to Pauline.
How the CVC discharged its responsibilities Rachel Lomax During the course of 2015 the CVC received regular reports Chairman, Conduct & Values Committee and presentations from global business and functional 22 February 2016 heads.
The chief executives of the global businesses provide regular reports to the CVC, including an analysis of customer complaint trends, at each meeting.
The CVC also receives reports on whistleblowing cases, the outcomes of internal audits and initiatives to embed values-based leadership as part of the Groups ongoing cultural transformation.
Committee effectiveness The effectiveness of the CVC was evaluated as part of the overall performance evaluation of the Board.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 272 Principal activities and Action taken significant issues considered Global approach to conduct The CVC received reports from the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance on how the Group approach to conduct is being managed to deliver the required conduct outcomes.
Each global business is requested to present plans to close out any gaps identified against the required outcomes and progress on implementation of key conduct-related programmes.
These plans provide improved training and development of staff.
Each Global Business produced conduct-related management information during 2015.
It is now used at management level by each business to track any conduct-related issues.
Values The CVC oversees the promotion and embedding of HSBC Values.
The CVC reviewed with management various values and culture initiatives and contributed to action plans.
It focused on the embedding of conduct-related training and the development of a new Group-wide code of conduct, and reviewed options to create an HSBC University.
It is also working closely with management to define a comprehensive but pragmatic framework that lays out in practical, concrete language the dos and donts of desirable behaviour at HSBC.
Sustainability The CVC led a project to put in place a simple, considered statement on the Groups policy with respect to human rights.
This was approved in July 2015.
The CVC has also held discussions with management regarding the developments, potential changes and future agenda of sustainability as an area of focus for HSBC.
The CVC has responsibility for the governance of the Groups whistleblowing policies and procedures, Whistleblowing including the protection of whistleblowers.
The CVC oversaw the successful launch of a new global channel to enable employees to raise concerns when they are not comfortable with their normal routes of escalation.
This workstream also produced centralised reporting of whistleblowing cases and standardisation of reporting and tracking of investigation and consequences.
Employee engagement The CVC monitored employee engagement across the Group and received the results of the Group People Survey conducted during 2015.
Areas requiring attention were highlighted and the Committee requested that management provide regular updates on plans to address these.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 273 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Philanthropic & Community Investment Principal activities Action taken Oversight Committee and significant issues I am pleased to present the first report of the Philanthropic & considered Community Investment Oversight Committee PCIOC which Governance of Given that the PCIOC was newly was established in December 2014.
The PCIOC is expected to community established in 2015, it has been keen oversee the Groups philanthropic and community investment investment to fully understand the Groups activities on behalf of the Board and to provide greater visibility community investment policy and how and oversight of the Groups corporate sustainability objectives.
decisions are made, how charities are As highlighted in the table of principal activities below, the vetted, the avoidance of conflicts of PCIOC has mainly focused on ensuring that the procedures interest, the recording and reporting and processes around the approval of charitable donations are of donations made by the Group and appropriate and has endorsed the community investment the assurance process following up on budget for 2016. these decisions.
I have chaired the PCIOC since its establishment, with Lord Evans of Weardale as the other non-executive Director member.
In Community The PCIOC received reports from addition, the committee has non-Director members, each of investment budget the Global Sustainability function whom brings valuable and relevant philanthropic and and themes regarding the annual community community-focused experience to the committee: Sir Malcolm investment budget and how it is Grant, who is the Chairman of NHS England and former President decided, and endorsed the 2016 and Provost of University College London, and Stephen Moss, budget put forward by management.
who is Group Head of Strategy & Planning.
As a result of the 150th Anniversary In 2016, the Committee will additionally benefit from the Fund, the Groups community membership of Lord Robin Janvrin, former Private Secretary Investment budget has been increased to Queen Elizabeth II and chairman of trustees of The Royal by $50m a year from 2015-2017.
Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry.
Governance Laura Cha Chairman The PCIOC was established at the end of 2014 and held Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Committee three meetings during the year.
Attendance is set out in 22 February 2016 the table on page 258.
Members The Chairman reports on matters of significance to the Board after each meeting and the minutes of the meetings Laura Cha Chairman are made available to all Board members.
Lord Evans of Weardale Sir Malcolm Grant non-Director member Chairmans Committee Stephen Moss non-Director member The Chairmans Committee has the power to act on behalf Lord Janvrin non-Director member of the Board between scheduled Board meetings to Role and responsibilities facilitate ad hoc business requiring Board approval.
The Committee meets with such frequency and at such times as The role and responsibilities of the PCIOC are set out in its it may determine, the quorum for meetings is dependent terms of reference.
The terms of reference can be found upon the nature of the business to be transacted, as set on our website at www.
com about-hsbc corporateout in its terms of reference.
The PCIOC oversees philanthropic and community investment initiatives, including both monetary donations and employee volunteering activities and reports thereon to the Board semi-annually.
How the PCIOC discharged its responsibilities During the course of 2015, the PCIOC received regular reports and presentations from the Global Head of Marketing and the Head of Group Corporate Sustainability.
