Report of the Directors: Other information continued Carbon dioxide emissions Property Footnotes considers conduct and compliance-related matters relevant To incorporate all of the operations over which we have to remuneration.
The reports of these committees may be financial management control, the calculated carbon found on pages 270 to 273. dioxide emissions are scaled up on the basis of the FTE coverage rate to account for any missing data typically An overview of our conduct framework is set out in page 41. less than 10% of FTEs.
In addition, emission uplift rates The management of conduct of business and the steps taken are applied to allow for uncertainty on the quality and to raise standards and deal with historical incidents are coverage of emission measurement and estimation.
The described on page 178. rates are 4% for electricity, 10% for other energy and 6% for Regulatory focus on conduct of business and financial crime business travel, based on the Intergovernmental Panel on is one of the Groups top and emerging risks which is Climate Change Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty discussed on page 112.
Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, and our internal analysis of data coverage and quality.
Total conduct-related costs within significant items were $2.4bn, a decrease of $1.3bn compared with 2014.
Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes Provisions raised in 2015 resulted from the on-going 50 2015 2014 consequences of a small number of significant historical Total 771,000 795,000 events.
From energy 662,000 676,000 Operating expenses included significant items related to From travel 109,000 119,000 conduct matters of $2.4bn, including $1.8bn in respect of legal proceedings and regulatory matters, of which $0.2bn Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes per FTE related to regulatory matters in our private banking 50 2015 2014 operations and $1.6bn was in respect of settlements and Total 2.97 3.08 provisions in connection with legal matters.
These are From energy 2.54 2.62 discussed in Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
From travel 0.42 0.46 Customer remediation costs charged to operating expenses For footnote, see page 99. included $0.5bn in respect of the mis-selling of payment Our greenhouse gas reporting year runs from October protection insurance PPI.
Cumulative PPI provisions made to September.
For the year from 1 October 2014 to since the Judicial Review ruling in the first half of 2011 30 September 2015, carbon dioxide emissions from our totalled $4.7bn, of which $3.6bn had been paid as at global operations were 771,000 tonnes.
31 December 2015 see Note 29 on the Financial Statements.
Independent assurance of our carbon dioxide emissions will be available in the first half of 2016 on our website.
Carbon dioxide emissions Property HSBCs carbon dioxide emissions are calculated on the basis of the energy used in our buildings and At 31 December 2015, we operated from some 6,860 employee business travel from over 28 countries operational properties worldwide.
covering about 91% of our operations by FTE.
Approximately 1,840 were located in Europe, 1,760 in Asia, The data, gathered on energy consumption and distance 430 in North America, 2,590 in Latin America and 240 in travelled, are converted to carbon dioxide emissions using Middle East and North Africa.
These properties had an area conversion factors from the following sources, if available, in of approximately 51.9m square feet 2014: 54.3m square order of preference: feet.
1. electricity attribute certificates or equivalent instruments: Our freehold and long leasehold properties, together with 2. contracts for electricity, such as Power Purchase all our leasehold land in Hong Kong, were valued in 2015.
Agreements: The value of these properties was $11.3bn 2014: $10.8bn 3. supplier utility emission rates: in excess of their carrying amount in the consolidated 4. residual mix sub-national or national : balance sheet on an historical cost based measure.
5. other grid-average emission factors sub-national or In addition, properties with a net book value of $1.4bn national : and 2014: $1.6bn were held for investment purposes.
6. for other types of energy than electricity and travel, if no Our operational properties are stated at cost, being specific factors can be obtained, we use the latest historical cost or fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs available factors provided by the UK Department for their deemed cost less any impairment losses, and are Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and or the depreciated on a basis calculated to write off the assets Department of Energy and Climate Change in the UK.
over their estimated useful lives.
Properties owned as a This is the market-based methodology recommended by the consequence of an acquisition are recognised initially at revised guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for 2015 fair value.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 98 Footnotes to pages 48 to 98 Use of non-GAAP financial measures 1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.
2 Own credit spread includes the fair value movements on our long-term debt attributable to credit spread where the net result of such movements will be zero upon maturity of the debt.
This does not include fair value changes due to own credit risk in respect of trading liabilities or derivative liabilities.
Consolidated income statement Group performance by income and expense item 3 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, that year.
4 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of basic earnings per share.
5 Net interest income includes the cost of internally funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in Trading income.
In our global business results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with Global Banking and Markets net trading income as interest expense.
6 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
7 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
8 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
9 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
10 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
11 Including interest-bearing bank deposits only.
12 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in Interest expense.
13 Including interest-bearing customer accounts only.
14 Trading income also includes movements on non-qualifying hedges.
These hedges are derivatives entered into as part of a documented interest rate management strategy for which hedge accounting was not, nor could be, applied.
They are principally cross-currency and interest rate swaps used to economically hedge fixed rate debt issued by HSBC Holdings and floating rate debt issued by HSBC Finance.
The size and direction of the changes in the fair value of non-qualifying hedges that are recognised in the income statement can be volatile from year-to-year, but do not alter the cash flows expected as part of the documented interest rate management strategy for both the instruments and the underlying economically hedged assets and liabilities if the derivative is held to maturity.
15 Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business.
For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of incurred claims.
For life business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies.
Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth.
16 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
Consolidated balance sheet 17 Net of impairment allowances.
18 On 1 January 2014, CRD IV came into force and the calculation of capital resources and risk-weighted assets for 2014 and 2015 are calculated and presented on this basis.
2011 to 2013 comparatives are on a Basel 2.5 basis.
19 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 234.
20 Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 30 on the Financial Statements.
21 The definition of net asset value per ordinary share is total shareholders equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares the company has purchased and are held in treasury.
22 In the first half of 2015 our operations in Brazil were classified as held for sale.
As a result, balance sheet accounts have been classified to Assets held for sale and Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale.
There is no separate income statement classification.
23 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC Finance, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc.
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 24 Pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets RoRWA is calculated using pre-tax return and reported average RWAs.
Adjusted RoRWA is calculated using adjusted pre-tax return and adjusted average RWAs.
25 Reported average risk-weighted assets average RWAs are calculated using an average of RWAs at quarter-ends on a Basel 2.5 basis for 31 December 2013 and a CRD IV end point basis from all periods from 1 January 2014.
Adjusted average RWAs are calculated using reported average RWAs adjusted for the effects of currency translation differences and significant items.
26 Other includes treasury services related to the US Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off.
US CML includes loan portfolios within the run-off business that are designated held for sale.
27 Currency translation adjustment is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end.
Global businesses and geographical regions 28 In the first half of 2015, a portfolio of customers was transferred from CMB to RBWM in Latin America in order to better align the combined banking needs of the customers with our established global businesses.
Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly.
29 The main items reported under Other are the results of HSBCs holding company and financing operations, which includes net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, along with the costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
The results also include fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws, the UK bank levy together with unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures and certain property transactions.
In addition, Other also includes part of the movement in the fair value of long-term debt designated at fair value the remainder of the Groups movement on own debt is included in GB&M.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 99 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Other information Risk Footnotes Managing risk 30 Assets by geographical region and global businesses include intra-HSBC items.
These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the heading Intra-HSBC items or Inter-segment elimination, as appropriate.
31 Amounts are non-additive across geographical regions and global businesses due to inter-company transactions within the Group.
32 Excludes items where there are substantial offsets in the income statement for the same year.
33 Other income in this context comprises where applicable net trading income, net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, dividend income, net insurance premium income and other operating income less net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
34 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
35 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures.
36 Investment distribution includes Investments, which comprises mutual funds HSBC manufactured and third party, structured products and securities trading, and Wealth Insurance distribution, consisting of HSBC manufactured and third-party life, pension and investment insurance products.
37 Other personal lending includes personal non-residential closed-end loans and personal overdrafts.
38 Other mainly includes the distribution and manufacturing where applicable of retail and credit protection insurance.
39 Markets products, Insurance and Investments and Other includes revenue from Foreign Exchange, insurance manufacturing and distribution, interest rate management and GCF products.
40 Net interest income includes the cost of internally funding trading assets, while the related revenues are reported in net trading income.
In our global business results, the total cost of funding trading assets is included within GB&Ms net trading income as an interest expense.
In the statutory presentation, internal interest income and expense are eliminated.
41 In 2015, Markets included a favourable fair value movement of $202m on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities 2014: adverse fair value movement of $15m: 2013: adverse fair value movement of $66m.
42 Other in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products, allocated funding costs and gains resulting from business disposals.
Within the management view of total operating income, notional tax credits are allocated to the businesses to reflect the economic benefit generated by certain activities which is not reflected within operating income, for example notional credits on income earned from tax-exempt investments where the economic benefit of the activity is reflected in tax expense.
In order to reflect the total operating income on an IFRSs basis, the offset to these tax credits are included within Other.
43 Client assets are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their respective period-ends, with the effects of currency translation reported separately.
The main components of client assets were funds under management $261bn at 31 December 2015 which were not reported on the Groups balance sheet, and customer deposits $88bn at 31 December 2015, of which $80bn was reported on the Groups balance sheet and $8bn were off-balance sheet deposits.
44 Inter-segment elimination comprises i the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within Other which are recovered from global businesses, and ii the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M.
HSBCs Balance Sheet Management business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses.
To report GB&Ms Net trading income on a fully funded basis, Net interest income and Net interest income expense on trading activities are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the inter-segment column.
45 Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
46 Employee expenses comprises costs directly incurred by each global business.
The reallocation and recharging of employee and other expenses directly incurred in the Other category is shown in Other operating expenses.
47 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
48 Funds under management and assets held in custody are not reported on the Groups balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as investment manager, and these assets are consolidated as Structured entities see Note 39 on the Financial Statements.
49 Taxes paid by HSBC relate to HSBCs own tax liabilities including tax on profits earned, employer taxes, bank levy and other duties levies such as stamp duty.
Numbers are reported on a cash flow basis.
50 Following the release of the new GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, we decided to use the state-specific eGRID emission factors for our US operations until such time as we obtain supplier-specific emission factors.
For 2014, therefore, our reported total carbon dioxide emissions have increased by 43,000 tonnes and our carbon dioxide emissions per FTE have increased by 0.16 tonnes.
