Governance and directors report Global Executive Management Group Seth Johnson, Head of Strategy, Global Broking Global Executive Management Group GEMG Seth Johnson is responsible for developing Global Brokings The board has delegated the executive management of the strategy, focussing on growing revenue, improving the application Group to the Group Chief Executive Officer and his executive of technology to its business model and expanding customer management team, where the primary body is the GEMG.
Prior to this, Seth led the expansion of ICAPs Electronic of the GEMG is to propose commercial strategy to the board, to Markets product portfolio in his role as Chief Executive Officer of oversee the performance of Group business and to set the both BrokerTec and ISDX.
He joined ICAP as a graduate trainee and commercial direction of these businesses.
The GEMG operates has worked in the Company for more than 20 years.
For ten years, under terms of reference delegated to it by the board.
The Seth was the Managing Director of the interest rates options and committee is responsible for ensuring there is clear executive inflation swaps desks.
He oversaw the introduction of new and management accountability for all parts of ICAPs businesses, innovative trading solutions, including the volume match system.
joint ventures and key investments and for generating an annual strategic plan and preparing a Group budget and forecast for Gil Mandelzis, Chief Executive Officer, EBS-BrokerTec recommendation to the board.
Since December 2014, Gil Mandelzis has been responsible for the combined EBS-BrokerTec business.
Prior to this, he led the Groups During the year, members of the committee were the Group Chief Executive Officer Chairman, the Group Executive Director, electronic FX business, EBS.
Gil co-founded Traiana in April 2000.
Gil led Traianas growth from a small start-up to a recognised global Americas, the Group Finance Director or the Interim Group Finance Director and the following members of senior management.
leader in post trade services resulting in Traianas acquisition by ICAP in 2007.
Gil was appointed to the New York Federal Reserves David Casterton, Chief Executive Officer, Global Broking Foreign Exchange Committee in 2012.
Since September 2012, David Casterton has been responsible Laurent Paulhac, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, for the Global Broking division with regional management teams reporting to him.
David had previously been responsible for all ICAP SEF voice broking and related support functions in London and EMEA.
Laurent Paulhac joined ICAP in April 2014.
He is responsible for Between 1995 and 2008, David worked in a number of senior leading ICAPs global SEF initiative as well as the SEFs strategic broking roles and had responsibility for interest rate derivatives, direction with regard to new regulatory reforms and the money markets, repos, government bonds and financial futures.
Companys alliances and partnerships with exchanges and CCPs.
Prior to joining ICAP in 1995 he was with MW Marshalls and Laurent is also involved in managing i-Swap in the US.
joined ICAP from the CME Group where he was a member of the management team and Senior Managing Director for Interest Rate Hugh Gallagher, Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific, and OTC Products and Services with responsibility for CME Groups Global Broking global listed interest rate franchise and all OTC businesses, including Since September 2010, Hugh Gallagher has been responsible for OTC clearing.
Prior to CME, Laurent served as Chief Executive voice broking, technology and support functions throughout Asia Officer of CMA, a provider of credit derivatives market data, Pacific.
Hugh was appointed to the GEMG in January 2012.
He analytics and trading support services, which was purchased by has held several senior positions within ICAP since joining in 1988, CME in 2008. including Chief Executive Officer ICAP Australia.
Prior to joining Ken Pigaga, Global Chief Operating Officer ICAP, Hugh worked for Citibank and Lloyds in FX and money markets.
Hugh has more than 25 years experience working Ken Pigaga was appointed Global Chief Operating Officer in November 2013 and was appointed a member of the GEMG.
He in OTC markets in the Asia Pacific region.
joined ICAP in 2006 as Chief Operating Officer for ICAP Americas David Ireland, Interim Group Finance Director and led the programme on the use of technology to implement David Ireland was appointed the Interim Group Finance Director in efficiency and control.
He also led a multi-disciplined team December 2014 following Iain Torrenss resignation.
David joined responsible for the development of ICAPs SEF.
Prior to joining ICAP, ICAP in June 2011 as Group Head of Tax, and later that year, he Ken was a managing director at JPMorgan in the Investment Bank assumed responsibility for the Group treasury function as Group focused on e-commerce activities.
From 1991 to 2001 he was at Head of Tax and Treasury.
In October 2012, he was appointed Goldman Sachs where he held several roles in emerging markets Chief Finance Officer, Group Finance, where he had responsibility trading, portfolio structuring and e-commerce.
Ken chairs the GOC for consolidated financial reporting and Group regulatory capital in and is a member of the GFC.
addition to responsibility for tax and treasury.
Prior to joining ICAP, David had been Head of Tax, UK and EMEA for Barclays Capital.
Duncan Wales, Group General Counsel Duncan Wales oversees the legal and government affairs functions.
From 1995 to 2007, he was at Deloitte LLP were he held several roles including Director, Banking and Capital Markets Tax.
David He has occupied a number of senior roles within ICAP, including director of government affairs, General Counsel EMEA and Asia chairs the GFC and is a member of the GOC.
Pacific and senior counsel to the electronic broking division.
Prior to its acquisition by ICAP in 2003, Duncan was director of legal affairs at BrokerTec.
He spent five years at Clifford Chance as a derivatives and markets specialist.
Duncan is a member of the GOC.
He is a member of the GC 100 Group, the Council of the Wholesale Markets Brokers Association and the City of Londons International Regulatory Strategy Group.
