Strategic report Strategy in action Expanding our addressable market Large investment banks and universal banks remain our core Expanding into new FX pairs: EBS has traditionally been the customer base in most asset classes but we are evolving our central marketplace for a specific group of FX pairs euro dollar, product offerings in line with the business models of these major dollar yen, euro Swiss franc with Reuters the central marketplace customers.
Moreover in areas such as Asia Pacific we continue for Commonwealth currencies.
By expanding into the disclosed to build on our strong relationships with large regional banks.
liquidity space EBS has expanded its penetration in a wider number of leading currencies.
For instance in 2014 15 50% of As our major bank customers are increasingly focused on trading EBS Directs volume was generated from Commonwealth and with their customers including both buy side and regional banks emerging markets currencies.
rather than with each other we are building out our infrastructure to connect with these customers.
Primarily this takes the form Expanding the EBS Direct product offering: EBS is of disclosed liquidity electronic platforms.
EBS Direct is the most currently in beta testing on EBS Select which leverages the EBS established example of this with an offering currently in spot FX Direct infrastructure and customer base but also offers expanding to FX swaps forwards in the coming months as well anonymous segregated liquidity which is essentially a hybrid of as corporates through our MyTreasury platform.
Other examples EBSs existing two main offerings.
In the coming months EBS include i-Swap euro which has expanded recently from a central Direct will also go into beta testing followed by commercial limit order book market to disclosed streaming.
We also plan to launch in FX forwards swaps.
This is a substantial market, as large expand our Direct offering to BrokerTec fixed income markets as spot FX, contributing the vast bulk of trading volumes on the by the end of 2015 16. platforms of EBS Directs competitors.
Non-bank participants have become increasingly important in Expanding the customer base: EBS Direct currently has 20 recent years.
In Global Broking this is largely in the form of end non-bank liquidity consumers which are largely hedge funds users and physical trading houses in energy markets.
In Electronic and proprietary trading firms.
In the coming financial year EBS Markets this is in the form of proprietary trading firms.
In Post Direct will be expanded to corporates, leveraging the customer Trade Risk and Information this is in the form of a wide array relationships and connectivity of ICAPs leading money market of buy side participants.
fund platform, MyTreasury, has with the treasury departments of a wide range of corporates.
EBS Direct continues to expand its geographical footprint with regulatory approvals from around 20 new countries in 2014 15.
EBS Direct EBS Direct monthly average daily volume Business model: EBS Direct is a disclosed liquidity offering $billion day where liquidity providers can stream tailored prices to 20 liquidity consumers.
Existing customer base: there has been significant 15 fragmentation in FX markets in recent years with single bank and multi-bank disclosed liquidity platforms connecting leading 10 banks with their customers, including a significant proportion of regional banks that may have traditionally been the customers of 5 the EBS anonymous central limit order book.
One of EBS Directs key competitive advantages is the existing connectivity of EBS to these regional banks, most of which are connected to EBS 0 through Bloomberg-like desktop workstations.
Consequently, Nov Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar so far, the vast majority of EBS Directs liquidity consumers have 2013 2014 2015 been these regional banks.
In total EBS currently has 20 liquidity providers and 350 liquidity consumers.
16 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Dec Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Seizing opportunities created by regulatory change The pace of regulatory change has been unprecedented in recent years.
This includes the direct impact of regulatory changes with the Dodd-Frank Act driven requirements for SEF trading in the US and EMIR driven requirements for regular portfolio reconciliation in Europe.
Even more profound has been the indirect impact of new capital leverage ratio requirements for our bank customers.
We believe our post trade services play well into the trend of banks looking to reduce balance sheet and operational risk as well as to improve efficiency and returns.
These include our industry standard offerings in portfolio reconciliation triResolve, portfolio compression triReduce, basis risk mitigation Reset, pre trade SEF credit checks CreditLink and Traiana trading reporting.
triResolve Business model: triResolve provides proactive counterparty exposure management which reduces operational and credit risk for its customers.
Operational risk is reduced by providing a central hub where market participants can reconcile their portfolios and resolve trade disputes and valuation discrepancies between counterparties as well as CCPs, trade repositories and or fund administrators.
Counterparty credit risk is reduced by preventing margin call disputes and further allowing for efficient and transparent tracking of collateral posted by counterparties through the central platform.
Regulatory tailwind: with the adoption of the Dodd-Frank Act in the US and EMIR in Europe, the majority of OTC derivatives market participants have to reconcile their portfolios proactively and resolve disputes within established timeframes.
This resulted in triResolve seeing a steep surge in customer numbers in the latter part of calendar year 2013 and more frequent reconciling of positions by existing customers.
Growing customer base: the number of customers using triResolve has increased from 987 in 2013 14 to 1,380 in 2014 15.
This includes a broad range of institutions including banks, the buyside, energy companies, end user corporates and insurance companies.
These are in turn roughly evenly split across three different types of customer offering: direct customers, indirect customers through aggregators such as custody banks, and customers that are on a basic free service.
Products covered: triResolve covers all asset classes, product structures and types of derivatives including collateralised, uncollateralised and exchange-traded.
The main asset classes reconciled are OTC Interest rate and FX derivatives.
triResolve reconciles more than 75% of all bilateral OTC derivatives trades globally.
Functionality: new services and value added functionality are constantly being added to the triResolve platform.
This includes triResolve trade repository reconciliations which align parties portfolios to data recorded in the various trade repositories.
More than 70 subscribers are already using the repository reconciliation service.. ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 17 Strategic report Strategy in action continued Leveraging into growth markets Emerging markets and Asian capital markets continue to grow at Shift from voice to electronic: there has been a significant a faster pace than the more developed European and US capital shift of trading activity in Asian emerging markets from voice markets especially in the FICC space.
Moreover emerging markets broking to pure electronic trading in 2014 15.
ICAP estimates and local Asian banks have not been impacted as much by bank 40% of Asian NDF and 95% of CNH volumes are traded on fide-leveraging as some global players.
EBS has seen significant electronic interbank platforms rather than voice brokered which growth in volumes in Asian currencies in recent years which is compares with around 20% and 80% respectively a year ago.
discussed in the case study below.
The businesses which form This has also resulted in a diversification of EBS Asian NDF part of our post trade services continue to expand in emerging volumes from largely Indian rupee to a broad range of currencies markets products with triReduce successfully adding several new including Korean won, Malaysian ringgitt, Philippine peso and IRS markets such as Mexico and Turkey and triResolve expanding Taiwan dollar.
its customer base in Asia Pacific.
Growing market share: EBS has gained market share across ICAPs Global Broking business in Asia Pacific continues to show most Asian emerging markets pairs and also very noticeably in better trends than the overall Global Broking business with CNH.
ICAP estimates EBSs market share in Asian NDFs at over significant year-on-year growth in RMB products both onshore 40% in 2014 15 which compares with 20-25% in 2013 14. in our associate CFETS-ICAP and in offshore markets.
In addition NDF average daily volume ICAPs dry bulk commodities with an emphasis on iron ore $billion day continue to improve with volumes up significantly year-on-year.
4.5 Australasia remains a key component of Global Brokings strategy 4.0 and a number of the smaller regional emerging market centres 3.5 have outperformed the prior year.
The Global Broking emerging 3.0 markets offshore business in New York and London continues to 2.5 grow.
Moreover ICAP has stakes in several leading local interdealer 2.0 brokers in Japan Totan, China CFETS, Mexico and other 1.5 emerging markets.
1.0 0.5 0 Asian NDFs and Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar 2014 2015 CNH on EBS CNH average daily volume Rising market volumes: faster economic growth than $billion day Western economies, coupled with growing capital markets 7.0 penetration and financial market liberalisation has resulted in the 6.0 rapid growth of FX trading volumes in emerging Asia.
Geopolitical 5.0 changes as well as interest rate movements have driven a surge in offshore activity in Indian rupee, the most liquid Asian NDF 4.0 currency.
The widening of the trading band by the Peoples Bank 3.0 of China for onshore renminbi also underpinned the structural 2.0 growth in offshore CNH traded largely in Hong Kong.
1.0 0 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar 2014 2015 18 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Focusing on market leading franchises ICAP has several market leading franchises within Global Broking Leveraging technology: Global Broking is increasingly growing as well as our Electronic Markets and Post Trade and Risk its electronic product offerings.
The i-Swap central order book Information divisions.
In recent years, however, Global Broking has has been well established in Europe for several years and in continued to expand its geographic and product footprint to a 2014 15 started to see traction in the US dollar medium-term diverse range of markets.
Many of the individual businesses lacked interest rate swap market contributing an increasing proportion scale or overlap with other parts of Global Broking and a shrinking of ICAPs SEF US dollar IRS volumes.
There has also been FICC and interdealer broker market put significant pressure on significant growth in revenue generated by Global Brokings their profitability.
electronic matching platforms and further expansion here is a key strategy priority as customers become increasingly comfortable with such offerings.
As well as Global Brokings electronic offerings its pre trade screens, transaction data and Reshaping Global Broking related reference pages provide invaluable price discovery tools for market participants.
In 2014 15, in response to the structural changes to the marketplace and our customers, Global Broking was reshaped to Benefiting from rising volatility: As macro factors resulted focus on its leading franchises with many businesses exited or in heightened volatility and market activity levels in the second reduced to minority holdings.
The cost base of Global Broking was half of the financial year Global Broking also saw better activity also fundamentally re-engineered with the focus going forward on levels.
This was most pronounced in markets where Global a more technology driven growth strategy.
Broking continues to have market leading franchises and hence market participants rely on it as an intermediary to facilitate risk Cost savings plan: ICAP delivered incremental cost savings transfer.
The best example is Global Brokings leading European across the Group of 70 million during 2014 15 with a 41 million OTC Interest Rate Derivatives franchise where increased demand positive impact on 2014 15 profit and a further 29 million for hedging of bond issuance drove a significant increase in annualised effect to hit 2015 16 results.
This was achieved by activity levels in the final quarter of the financial year outpacing streamlining infrastructure across the Group as well as reducing activity levels in exchange-traded futures markets.
Moreover it broker headcount and broker compensation payout ratios in Global is worth noting that in such OTC markets the major underlying Broking.
As a result Global Brokings operating profit margins rose driver of this change in activity levels was natural interest from from 4% in the first half of 2014 15 to 12% in the second half of end users which was offset by banks in the interbank market in 2014 15 with a further uplift expected in 2015 16 as the full contrast to a higher proportion of speculators which characterise impact of cost savings flow through.
Moreover the broker other markets including many exchange-traded ones.
compensation to revenue ratio declined from 57% in 2013 14 to 53% in 2014 15 with the second half levels below this.
Geographic product footprint: In terms of product and geographic focus Global Broking remains committed to a wide footprint centred around its market leading OTC interest rate derivatives franchises with strong market positions in many other asset classes as well.
That said, the refocusing of the business during 2014 15 resulted in several areas being either largely exited for example financial futures, merged with competitors to drive scale for example shipbroking or sold down to minority stake for example First Brokers in US corporate bonds.
Global Broking also has a wide range ownership stakes in associate companies with exposure to Asia Pacific emerging markets.
These include the CFETS-ICAP joint venture in China and the Totan joint venture in Japan.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic report Strategy in action continued Evolving culture ICAPs culture has been key to our success and must continue to evolve as our business changes.
Culture is a differentiating factor between success and failure when it comes to commercial performance, employee engagement and good conduct.
We have defined culture in a broad sense as what we value as an organisation, how we get things done and how we behave.
Our ability to adapt to new markets and opportunities is a direct result of each employees ability and willingness to contribute and influence how we conduct our business.
The board and our senior leadership play a critical role in setting the tone from the top.
Leadership development In an effort to strengthen the skills, commitment and alignment of our organisations leaders, more than 60 of our senior managers were selected to attend a two-day leadership development programme that ran between November 2014 and April 2015.
The programme was designed with input from the board and the GEMG.
It focused on equipping our senior managers to lead a culture that places the right emphasis on controls and values, drives performance and great execution, is externally orientated and innovative, and develops talent at all levels.
As well as having the chance to learn and build skills, the programme gave our top leaders an opportunity to reflect on the implications of ICAPs current and future context for their leadership responsibilities.
By discussing everything from culture, values and ethics to business strategy, performance and reputation, in mixed groups, the programme also had the very positive effect of encouraging greater cross-functional and crossbusiness collaboration.
This two-day programme forms part of our continued investment into ongoing leadership development and, in addition to providing continued development support to those who attended the programme, the learnings and insights from this initiative are being used to shape our activities on culture and to define further work on talent development throughout the organisation.
ICAPs leadership programme forms part of ICAPs continued investment in leadership development and cultural evolution.
From left to right: Garry Stewart - Executive Managing Director and Deputy Chief Executive Officer, EMEA Broking, Vanessa Cruwys - Group Head of HR, Mireille Dryberg - Chief Operating Officer, TriOptima, Rupak Ghose - Group Strategy Director.
