Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Governance and directors report Other statutory information Set out below is additional statutory information that ICAP is Articles of association required to disclose in its directors report.
The Companys articles of association may be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Some of the matters normally included in the directors report have No changes to the articles of association are proposed this instead been included in the strategic report on pages 2 to 47 as year.
The articles of association are available on the Companys the board considers these to be of strategic importance.
Going concern Share capital The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 affect its future development, performance and position are set Issued share capital 664,537,006 664,537,006 out in the strategic report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position, facilities and borrowing position are Treasury Shares 15,314,513 16,707,521 described in the financial review.
Notes 10 and 12 to the financial Treasury Shares as a % of issued statements provide further detail on the Groups borrowings and share capital 2.30% 2.51% management of financial risks.
The strategic report includes an analysis of the key risks facing the Group and the Groups approach Subject to the Companys articles of association and prevailing to risk management.
After reviewing the Groups annual budget, legislation, each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including liquidity requirements, plans and financing arrangements, the one vote per share on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company have Treasury Shares carry neither voting rights nor an entitlement to adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable a dividend while held as Treasury Shares.
There are no other future and confirm that the Group and the Company are going restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the basis in preparing these financial statements.
As at 31 March 2015, and at 12 May 2015, Disclosure of information to auditor the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase shares So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving up to a maximum of 64,831,120 ordinary shares of 10p each.
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being All changes in share capital are detailed in note 26 to the information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with financial statements.
preparing its report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Dividends Each director has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per share to as a director in order to make him aware of any relevant audit be paid on 24 July 2015 to shareholders on the register on 3 July information and to establish that the Companys auditor is 2015.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 2 July 2015. aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Dividend history Companies Act 2006.
Year end Amount Payment date Related party transactions Interim 31 March 2015 6.6p 6 February 2015 Details of related party transactions are set out in note 29 to the Final 31 March 2014 15.4p 25 July 2014 financial statements.
Interim 31 March 2014 6.6p 7 February 2014 Political donations Final 31 March 2013 15.4p 19 July 2013 No political donations were made during the year 2013 14 nil.
Interim 31 March 2013 6.6p 8 February 2013 Environment Details of the Groups environmental policy are given on page 34.
Employees Details of the Companys policies in respect of employee involvement, diversity and human rights are given on page 32 of the strategic report.
Directors indemnity arrangements Throughout the financial year the Company has maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and officers, when acting in their capacity as a director of the Company or associated companies.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 69 Governance and directors report Other statutory information continued Substantial shareholders As at 31 March 2015, the Company has been notified of the following voting rights in its issued share capital disclosable under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Percentage of voting rights Indirect Direct Total Michael Spencer together with IPGL, IPGL Limited, 16.29 0.59 16.88 INFBV and INCAP Overseas BV Schroders plc 13.31 13.31 Silchester International Investors LLP 10.98 10.98 FIL Ltd 4.95 4.95 Newton Investment Management Ltd 4.91 4.91 AXA S. A.
3.78 0.80 4.58 Michael Spencer owns a majority shareholding in IPGL, of which INFBV is a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Michael Spencer is deemed to be interested in all the shares in ICAP plc held by INFBV and its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, INCAP Overseas BV, totalling 105,819,560 shares.
This includes IPGL Limiteds 250,000 shares acquired via a contract for difference.
A further 3,516,558 shares are held by Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited as trustee of the ICAP Trust.
The shares held in the ICAP Trust include basic awards to Michael Spencer under the BSMP and matching awards under the BSMP in respect of which there are no unsatisfied performance or continuity of employment conditions.
Michael Spencer has a direct interest in 283,426 shares.
As of 12 May 2015, the Company was notified that Schroders plc Awards under employee share schemes held 14.97% and Silchester International Investors LLP held 10.94% As at 31 March 2015, share awards and options existed over of the voting rights in its issued share capital.
17,536,903 of the Companys ordinary shares in relation to employee share awards and option schemes.
Of this figure, Employee share trusts 5,573,089 are awards and options over existing shares which are The ICAP Trust holds ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy held in the ICAP Trust.
Awards granted under the Companys share options and awards granted under the Companys share plans.
plans are expected to be satisfied by either new issues of shares, The voting rights of ordinary shares held in the ICAP Trust are the use of Treasury Shares or by shares held in the ICAP Trust.
exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary The rules of the Companys share plans contain provisions which duties.
The right to receive dividends has been waived in respect may cause options and awards granted to employees under the of the shares held in the ICAP Trust.
schemes to vest on a change of control.
UK Listing Authority Rules compliance with rule 9.8.
4C Event after the balance sheet date The majority of the disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 are On 1 April 2015, ICAP completed the disposal of the shipbroking not applicable to ICAP.
The table below sets out the location of the businesses to Howe Robinson Group Pte Limited for a 35% equity disclosures for those requirements that are applicable: stake in the resulting combined group business.
Applicable sub-paragraph within Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Disclosure provided 5 details of any arrangements under which a director of the Company has waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from the Company or any subsidiary undertaking p88 6 where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review p88 12 details of any arrangements under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends p70 13 where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those relating to all dividends which are payable during the period under review p70 70 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Governance and directors report Statement of directors responsibilities for the Annual Report The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors statement pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure the strategic report, the remuneration report and the financial and Transparency Rules statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to include a management report containing Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements a fair review of the business and a description of the principal for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the Company.
The to prepare the Group and Company financial statements in directors of the Company who were in office during the year, and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS up to the date of signing the Annual Report, were Charles Gregson, as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not Michael Spencer, Ivan Ritossa, Diane Schueneman, John Sievwright approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they and Robert Standing.
Each of these directors, whose function is give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the listed in the directors biographies, confirms that, to the best of Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
their knowledge and belief: In preparing these financial statements, the directors are the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS required to: as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a consistently: whole: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable the management report disclosures which are contained in the and prudent: strategic report include a fair review of the development and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been performance of the business and the position of the Company followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a explained in the financial statements: and whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company By order of the board will continue in business.
Deborah Abrehart The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Group Company Secretary records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and ICAP plc the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 2 Broadgate at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company London EC2M 7UR and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Company number 3611426 remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 19 May 2015 as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the information on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
