Strategic report What we do A vital facilitator for the flow of capital through the financial system Trade life cycle Post trade Pre trade Execution Support to other infrastructure portfolio risk Transparency and market information Venues and opportunities for trade execution reduction and messaging Pre trade transparency is essential in helping market participants make more ICAP provides customers with a choice of trading venues and ICAPs collective post trade businesses help customers reduce both risk informed trading decisions and assess market levels and activity prior to the services to allow them to select the execution method appropriate and market exposure by identifying and removing trade mismatches, execution of a trade.
for the liquidity of the product and their specific needs.
Market unwanted exposures and transactions that no longer have a commercial participants can trade products via an executing broker or through purpose.
TriOptima and Reset provide a host of different services to Managing risk through the life cycle of a trade is crucial.
EBS Liquidity direct access to ICAPs portfolio of electronic platforms.
market infrastructures enabling users of derivatives and bonds to Optimization addresses the entire FX workflow, providing customers with mitigate unwanted risks in their trading portfolios.
In addition, TriOptima the tools needed to price end-client business more effectively and maximise Global Broking provides customers with the ability to speak with and allows trading counterparties and trade repositories to reconcile trade the value they retain for more consistent profitability.
execute trades with an ICAP broker, a particularly valuable service in details ensuring accurate calculation of risk.
less liquid or commoditised markets.
Traiana CreditLink provides our customers with full credit life cycle Traiana increases the efficiency of trading, clearing and settlement and management, from the legal framework underpinning relationships, directly BrokerTec and EBS Market are the worlds leading global electronic reduces costs by automating links from high speed execution systems to into active trade and position monitoring for pre and post trade certainty platforms for the trading of fixed income and FX products.
These assist in the reconciliation of transactions, thus also allowing for accurate of clearing.
central limit order books provide efficient and effective exchangereporting to regulators and clearing houses.
like trading solutions to more than 2,800 customers in over 50 ICAP Information Services leverages the Companys unique position in the countries.
EBS Direct offers a relationship-based streaming service wholesale financial markets to provide access to an unrivalled array of OTC to a broader customer base.
These electronic platforms are built market information including high-quality benchmark pricing, live and historic on ICAPs bespoke networks connecting participants in financial trading and a variety of compliance, risk and research solutions.
These platforms facilitate efficient price discovery for both manual traders and users who access via automated interfaces.
ICAPs SEF provides customers with the ability to trade OTC derivatives, across the five main asset classes rates, credit, FX, commodities and equities in line with the CFTC regulatory framework under the Dodd-Frank Act.
ISDX is a listing and trading venue for equities and debt instruments, facilitating access to capital and providing a liquid secondary market service.
Price to Register the Credit Information Submission Venue clients client checks services of trade data SEF EBS Market EBS Direct BrokerTec EBS i-Swap ICAP Traiana Liquidity Information CreditLink Optimization Services Services Global Broking New trade 4 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015
