Strategic report Strategy and performance A clear strategy for growth Strategic priorities Our performance during the year Future outlook Strategic risks EBS Direct spot FX continues to grow having been launched in November 2013.
EBS Direct to be expanded to FX swaps forwards and Increased competition from existing single bank and multi-bank Expanding our Average daily volume reached a monthly record of $19 billion by September 2014 corporates in coming financial year.
addressable market with $17 billion in March 2015.
BrokerTec Direct to be in beta testing by the end of the Time to market of technology functionality to support new i-Swap continues to expand its offering including first non-bank participants in US$ coming financial year.
order book and disclosed streaming offering in euro.
Expansion of i-Swap to wider group of customers including A lack of post trade anonymity in US swaps markets.
more non-bank participants in the US and more regional Read more p16 banks in Europe.
TriOptima delivered constant FX 34% revenue growth with significant growth in Banks looking to reduce balance sheet and operational risk A shift to futures shrinking swaps inventory significantly.
Seizing opportunities both triReduce compression and triResolve reconciliation.
triReduce compressed are likely to continue to show strong demand for portfolio Competition from clearing house coupon blending created by regulatory change $150.0 trillion in 2014 15 compared to $112.1 trillion in the prior year.
compression and portfolio reconciliation tools.
triResolves number of customers has increased from 987 during 2013 14 to more triReduce is being expanded to new clearing houses Ability to compete with banks own in-house valuation tools than 1,380 in 2014 15. for example CME, Japan Securities Clearing Corporation or other third party vendors.
and new asset classes for example CLS FX forwards.
Read more p17 triCalculate counterparty credit valuation product to move from beta testing to commercial launch.
EBS NDF and CNH reported average daily volume of $2.9 billion 102% and Expecting continued growth in EBS emerging markets Competitive pressure and macro volatility outlook.
Pace of Leveraging into $3.8 billion 528% over 12-month period, both ending the year strongly: currencies in coming financial year.
financial liberalisation also key to structural growth of markets.
growth markets March average daily volume was $4.2 billion for NDFs and $6.4 billion for CNH.
SGX joint venture EBS plans to offer customers access Read more p18 Global Broking continues to see better revenue trends in Asia Pacific relative to to SGX listed FX futures in block sizes via the EBS platforms.
Key drivers include significant year-on-year growth in renminbi products both onshore and offshore.
Global Broking reshaped to focus on market leading franchises with several business Global Broking operating profit margins continue to improve Further bank deleveraging results in declining interdealer broker Focusing on market leading lines exited as well as desk closures.
Cost savings achieved of 70 million during in line with the levels in the second half of 2014 15 driven industry revenues.
franchises 2014 15 with 41 million positive impact to 2014 15 and a further 29 million by lower broker compensation ratio and cost savings in Competitive threats from other interdealer brokers, electronic annualised effect in 2015 16.
Global Broking reported operating profit margin rose infrastructure costs.
from 4% in the first half to 12% in the second half.
Full annualised effect of the 2014 15 70 million cost savings Read more p19 Continued to protect grow market share in core products such as EBS Market G7 pairs, will come through in 2015 16.
Costs will continue to be an BrokerTec UST repos and Global Broking G7 IRS.
Emphasis on managing people as a key asset, including significant change Culture to be reviewed to ensure it aligns with and reinforces Continuing competition for specialist skills may result in higher Evolving culture in the way we communicate with all employees.
our brand and inspires and aligns our people to achieve turnover and additional challenges in integrating new staff into outstanding performance.
Group-wide leadership programmes were attended by more than 60 senior managers and over 200 desk heads, increasing cross-divisional relationships Renewed emphasis on performance feedback and Increased remuneration regulation originally designed for and strengthening alignment and collaboration.
financial services firms with much higher risk profiles may impact on ICAPs ability to attract and retain staff in a global market.
Rogue behaviour from employees despite zero tolerance policy.
Read more p20 14 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Strategic priorities Our performance during the year Future outlook Strategic risks EBS Direct spot FX continues to grow having been launched in November 2013.
Read more p20 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 15
