Strategic report Our divisions Connecting the worlds financial markets Our geographic reach We operate in all the worlds major financial centres with offices in 32 countries and more than 60 locations 60 locations 32 countries 2 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP facilitates the efficient flow of capital, investment Efficient financial markets are vital to global and national and risk safely through the financial system and supports economies.
As a leading markets operator ICAP provides government and corporate borrowing.
We play an important a wide variety of electronic execution, risk mitigation, role in contributing to the stability of the financial markets.
messaging, broking and information services for wholesale market participants throughout the trade life cycle.
Electronic Markets Post Trade Risk and Information Markets that are more liquid and have a high Our PTRI services help wholesale financial degree of consistent buying and selling interest participants to reduce operational and systemare most efficiently traded on electronic wide risks.
This increases the efficiency of platforms.
Automated platforms allow users to trading, clearing and settlement and lowers costs.
execute large volumes of deals quickly, easily Our information business empowers customers and with greater certainty.
We operate a to make trading decisions with market number of electronic platforms in a range of information across key asset classes.
The Post asset classes and instruments.
The largest of Trade Risk and information division comprises: these are EBS Market and EBS Direct for spot the portfolio risk services businesses, FX currencies, NDFs and precious metals, and Reset and TriOptima, which identify, the BrokerTec platform for US and European neutralise, remove and reconcile risk within government debt and US and EU repo.
In trading portfolios: addition, we also operate a number of other the transaction processing, reporting and risk platforms including MyTreasury, a leading monitoring business, Traiana: and money markets platform for corporates, and the information and data sales business, i-Swap, our global electronic trading platform ICAP Information Services.
More than 1,000 institutions use our post trade risk services.
Read more p36 Read more p38 Revenue by division Global Broking Market participants can use ICAPs voice m and hybrid broking services to assess trading Electronic Markets 259 availability and successfully execute trades.
Post Trade Risk and Information 228 Our brokers draw on market expertise and our Global Broking 789 suite of pre trade price discovery screens to Group 1,276 identify potential trading interest, and in so doing create transparency, liquidity and facilitate the price discovery process.
This is Trading operating profit particularly important in markets where there by division is a wide range of potential transaction types and the number of parties willing to enter into m certain transactions at any moment may be Electronic Markets 93 limited.
We offer broking services for a wide Post Trade Risk and Information 97 range of asset classes including rates, FX, Global Broking 62 commodities, emerging markets, credit Group 252 and equities.
For each of these asset classes, ICAP has electronic capability which gives customers the choice to enter prices and before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items execute trades electronically, directly via one of ICAPs electronic trading systems, and or to engage with a broker to identify and help negotiate trades.
Customers range from banks in our fixed income products to end-user corporates.
Read more p41 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 3
