Governance and directors report Directors biographies Charles Gregson Michael Spencer Ivan Ritossa Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, Independent non-executive director, appointed in 2001.
Age 53 Chairman of the Governance and Nomination Member of the Governance and Nomination Member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees Committees Committees Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Ivan has worked in investment banking for more than Charles has served as a director on a number of boards Michael has worked in the financial services industry 30 years, based in the UK, Asia and Australia.
Ivan was in the financial services sector, including St Jamess for more than 30 years.
He founded Intercapital in the Head of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Place plc, where he was non-executive chairman, 1986 and became its Chairman and Chief Executive the Middle East and Africa across all products for Provident Financial plc, where he was deputy in October 1998, following the Exco Intercapital Barclays Investment Bank.
He served on the Executive chairman, MAI plc and International Personal Finance merger.
He chairs the GEMG, the executive committee Committee for Barclays Investment Bank and was a plc, and in the media services sector, including United responsible for strategy and its implementation.
non-executive director of ABSA Group and an executive Business Media plc and PR Newswire Europe Limited.
director of Barclays Saudi Arabia board.
Ivan was also Michael brings entrepreneurial and substantial senior He was also non-executive chairman on the board a non-executive director of EBS Group Limited.
management expertise to the board as well as vast of CPP Group plc.
Charles brings considerable senior experience of the markets in which ICAP operates.
Ivan has been a member of numerous industry board level experience as well as experience of committees including the New York Federal Reserve managing relationships with the media, the regulator Michael, together with IPGL and its subsidiary Foreign Exchange Committee, the Bank of England and the institutional investor community.
companies, is a substantial shareholder in the Company.
Foreign Exchange Joint Standing Committee and the Charles holds a degree in Law from the University Singapore Foreign Exchange Markets Committee.
Michael holds a degree in Physics from the University of Cambridge and qualified as a solicitor.
He brings extensive experience of the markets in of Oxford.
which ICAP operates, particularly in electronic trading.
Other appointments Other appointments Charles is a non-executive director of Caledonia Ivan is a non-executive director of ICAP Global Michael is chairman of IPGL and is on the boards Investments plc and Non-Standard Finance plc.
Derivatives Limited and ICAP SEF US LLC.
of many of IPGLs investments.
He is the chairman of The Conservative Party Foundation Limited.
Ivan holds an honours degree in Finance from the University of New South Wales, Australia.
Other appointments Ivan is a director of IPGL Fund Investments Limited and chairman of Exotix Partners.
From left to right: Ivan Ritossa, Robert Standing, Charles Gregson, Michael Spencer, John Nixon, Diane Schueneman, John Sievwright 50 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Diane Schueneman John Sievwright Robert Standing Independent non-executive director, Senior independent director, Independent non-executive director, appointed in 2010.
Age 55 Member of the Nomination, Audit, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committees Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Risk and Remuneration Committees and a member of the Governance and and a member of the Nomination, Audit and Nomination Committees Risk Committees Skills and experience Diane was an independent consultant to the US Skills and experience Skills and experience Internal Revenue Service Commissioner for McKinsey John has extensive experience in investment banking Robert is a principal of LDF Advisers LLP which was & Company.
She started her career at Bank of America including a 20-year career with Bank of America founded within the JPMorgan group in 1995 and spun Merrill Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch in 1971 where Merrill Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch where he held out in 2002.
Robert joined Chemical Bank in 1982, she held a number of roles and, until 2008, was Senior a number of senior management positions including spending two years developing new products before Vice President, Head of Global Infrastructure Solutions that of Chief Operating Officer, International, based joining the Capital Markets division in 1985.
Following and a member of the Executive Operating Committee.
in New York, Tokyo and London.
He was previously acquisitions by JPMorgan, he worked in a range of Diane was responsible for all technology, infrastructure, senior independent director of FirstGroup plc and roles before becoming Head of Fixed Income and client services and operations worldwide for capital was chairman of their audit committee.
John brings Foreign Exchange for EMEA in 1998. markets, private wealth and asset management.
extensive financial and operational experience of the Robert is one of the founders of the Hedge Fund She brings extensive experience of technology, financial services sector to the board.
He has extensive product change management, risk management and John holds an MA degree in Accounting and Economics knowledge and senior management experience.
from the University of Aberdeen and is a member of Robert holds a degree in Engineering from the Diane is a non-executive director of ICAP Global the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland.
Other appointments Diane previously served on two not-for-profit boards, Robert is a director of London Diversified Fund Year Up and National Cooperative Cancer Network Management UK Limited.
Foundation, and was on the advisory board of United Bank of Africa Group New York Branch.
Other directors during the year John Nixon Group Executive Director, Americas, appointed in 2008.
Iain Torrens not pictured Group Finance Director, appointed in 2010.
Age 46 Resigned from the board on 12 December 2014.
Board experience and diversity All ICAP directors have a good understanding of the markets, regions and regulatory frameworks within which the Group operates as well as the technology it uses.
The non-executive directors all have experience of ICAPs business divisions gained internationally.
The above biographies of the directors highlight the skills and experience each director brings to the board.
Balance of the board Chairman and non-executive directors tenure Chairman 1 1 3 years 1 Independent non-executive directors 4 3 6 years 3 Executive directors 3 6 years 1 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 51
