Strategic report Market landscape Regulatory change driving market structure The market landscape for ICAP, its competitors and customers as well as repo books.
Areas such as equities and FX especially in continues to be impacted by significant structural and cyclical cash products have been relatively smaller users of balance sheet changes.
In recent years the former has been driven by regulation and capital and hence less impacted by the regulatory changes.
and technology while the latter largely takes the form of macro Reduced principal risk taking has been a headwind for all of ICAPs drivers such as volatility across different asset classes.
The three execution platforms albeit with a greater impact on Global Broking biggest structural changes to impact ICAP and its customers are: than on EBS and BrokerTec.
TriOptimas triReduce OTC derivatives portfolio compression service has been the main beneficiary within reduction of banks balance sheet risk: ICAP of the requirement to shrink balance sheet size.
This is a requirements for improved risk management and market leader in this particular area with a differentiated product transparency in OTC markets: and offering and a wide footprint across both bilateral and centrally cleared OTC derivatives markets.
FICC trading becoming increasingly electronic.
Regulatory changes in recent years continue to be the key driver of TriOptima: triReduce portfolio compression volumes market structure for ICAPs businesses as well as ICAPs customer in US dollars trillions base.
The business models and strategic focus of ICAPs bank customers are increasingly focused on reducing balance sheets, 160 risks and costs to improve their return on equity.
Consequently 140 they are evolving their trading franchises to focus on customer flows rather than principal risk taking.
120 ICAP is well positioned to benefit from these changes having 100 invested in technological solutions across the whole trade life cycle in pre trade, execution and post trade.
Many of these innovative 80 technology-based offerings have become industry standard 60 market infrastructures in helping banks reduce balance sheet risk and simplify operational workflow.
Moreover, 2014 15 was also 40 characterised by the continued shift of ICAPs profit towards 20 electronic platforms, post trade services and data.
0 A variety of cyclical macro factors also had a significant impact on ICAPs revenue during 2014 15 as well as over previous years.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Record low interest rates and flat yield curves continued to be Credit default swaps Interest rate swaps non-CCP headwinds.
Increasing divergence between the monetary policy Interest rate Cross currency swaps stances of major central banks resulted in increased FX volatility swaps CCP in the latter part of 2014 15.
Low medium-term interest rates also underpinned heightened levels of corporate bond issuance.
Requirements for improved risk management and Reduction of banks balance sheet risk transparency in OTC markets Basel III requirements around capital, balance sheet size leverage In 2013 14 the Dodd-Frank Act in the US and EMIR rules in Europe and liquidity have driven ICAPs traditional customer banks to resulted in new transparency requirements for OTC derivatives.
shrink their balance sheets over recent years.
The initial focus These created significant new opportunities for ICAPs businesses.
was on reducing risky assets that underpin risk-weighted asset The adoption of SEF in the US resulted in an increased use of calculations with a more recent focus on lower return businesses technology and electronic trading in ICAPs US dollar interest rate that negatively impact gross leverage ratios.
Regulators have swaps business with its first non-bank customers.
The requirement also introduced higher gross leverage ratio requirements for of pre trade credit checking and execution certainty under SEF systemically important financial institutions which have impacted rules created an opportunity for Traiana to expand into this space.
many of the banks which own leading FICC trading franchises.
Traianas CreditLink service has established a leading position in this.
These changes, as well as the Volcker Rule included in the DoddIn Europe, EMIR requirements from September 2013 prescribed Frank Act, have resulted in a significant reduction of principal more strict processing standards of OTC derivatives, including regular risk-taking by ICAPs bank customers and an increased focus on the portfolio reconciliation.
This has been a key driver of growth for strength and efficiency of their client franchises.
In previous years TriOptimas market leading portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve, Basel III led to a significant shrinkage in the inventory of corporate which saw a surge in customer growth in 2013 14 which has bonds held by banks at the same time that asset manager inflows continued into 2014 15.
Increased focus on operational and credit into bond funds surged.
This resulted in a significant shrinkage of risk by all banks globally has also underpinned triResolves expansion.
the interbank markets in credit securities and an increase in flow New EMIR requirements also created opportunities for Traiana to from banks to the buy side in that asset class.
More recently, as provide a new regulatory reporting service which means that the focus has moved to gross leverage ratios, banks have begun customers do not have to be connected to multiple repositories to shrink their rates businesses which were typically the largest across different jurisdictions and asset classes.
part of their balance sheets.
This included OTC interest rate derivatives which have also been impacted by higher margining The post financial crisis world is also characterised by increased requirements in the US relative to interest rates futures contracts focus on all areas of risk management.
ICAPs Reset business is 6 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions a market leader in the reduction of basis risk in OTC derivatives a greater emphasis on both pre and post trade transparency.
portfolios resulting from mismatches of exposures.
We have witnessed how volumes have already started to migrate from our OTC infrastructure to our established venues where FICC trading becoming increasingly electronic product standardisation and liquidity allow.
Irrespective of the A post Basel III world of higher capital requirements as well as venue, a key role for ICAP continues to be the fostering of increased transparency requirements and compliance costs has transparency by continually providing pre trade information to resulted in an increased focus by banks on the strength and the market, whether through pre trade price screens or order efficiency of their customer flow businesses.
Banks are increasing book type structures.
The demand for such solutions, against their proportion of electronic trading in both interbank and bank the background of the regulatory standards, stands to increase to customer markets.
In addition to the benefits that anonymous significantly over the coming year as the industry gears up to central order books have traditionally provided in terms of risk MiFID II implementation.
transfer, electronic trading is becoming increasingly attractive because of the cost benefits in the form of reduced sales forces A key challenge for ICAP, as for the rest of the industry, is the scale of change required by new regulation.
The organisational as well as the clearly auditable trail which is beneficial from a compliance perspective.
Many leading banks are also using structures, alongside the implementation of some of the transparency and microstructural requirements, will impact all electronic distribution and automated algorithmic trading to differentiate themselves.
It will be interesting to see how the UK governments initiative around fair and effective markets will complement the Electronic trading is more established in the equities and spot FX MiFID II rules in these areas.
markets but is now gathering in pace across liquid FICC markets.
In the interbank markets this typically takes the form of anonymous Cyclical macro trends central order books albeit there is an increasing penetration of Given that the vast majority of ICAPs revenue is derived from matching sessions and request-for-quote RFQ technology in transaction fees from trading entities such as banks, cyclical some less liquid markets.
In the bank to customer markets where drivers such as macro-economic events that drive volatility and the customer side can range from traditional asset managers to directional moves in asset classes can have a huge impact on hedge funds, regional banks and corporates banks are increasingly ICAPs performance.
Higher levels of market volatility, especially connecting with their customers through electronic disclosed when driven by macro-economic developments, are typically liquidity models including RFQ and streaming technology.
These positive for ICAPs revenue, not only because overall industry can take the form of the banks own single dealer platform or a volume increases but also as banks look to offset risk in the third party multi-dealer platform through which customers are interbank market rather than warehouse it and match against able to access many bank liquidity providers.
other customer flows i. e. internalise flows.
ICAPs electronic trading franchises are increasingly expanding The greatest drivers of macro volatility are government intervention from the central order book interbank market to the bank to or changes in direction of economic data.
The former has taken customer market.
The most notable example is EBS Direct which the shape of central bank action influencing interest rates, both has leveraged the desktop real estate and connectivity of EBS to overnight rates by direct policy changes and medium-term interest regional and smaller banks and offered an executable streaming rates through the aggressive use of quantitative easing i. e. central price service initially connecting bank liquidity providers to bank bank purchases of their own sovereign debt.
In the post financial liquidity consumers but also to an increasing number of non-bank crisis world of relatively conservative government policy, central liquidity consumers such as hedge funds.
Volume growth over banks have been increasingly focused on using interest rates to the financial year 2014 15 has been extremely strong and ICAP drive growth as well as control inflation.
The US Federal Reserve, plans to expand EBS Direct to FX swaps forwards, corporates ECB and Bank of Japan have all been aggressive in this space in leveraging MyTreasury and fixed income leveraging BrokerTec recent years.
These clearly impact local fixed income markets but in 2015 16.
Moreover i-Swap, ICAPs interest rate swap joint where there is a divergence in the extent of interest rate changes venture with leading banks, has expanded recently from a central monetary easing this of course also results in increased FX volatility order book only to a streaming offering in euro interest rate swaps.
and directional moves in FX rates.
ICAPs Global Broking business has also continued to expand its use The structural reduction in bank balance sheets outlined earlier has of technology.
As well as the buildout of the i-Swap offerings, the two additional consequences which are relevant when discussing Fusion front-end is being used to distribute an increasing number cyclical drivers.
Firstly, in times of higher macro driven volatility this of broker-assisted matching sessions in products with more will underpin less internalisation with customer flow being offset in episodic liquidity.
Secondly, the structural changes have also New regulatory landscape resulted in higher volatility which is not always accompanied by MiFID II, which is likely to come into force in early 2016, aims to higher trading volumes.
Volatility is typically only positive when it normalise competition between trading venues exchanges, MTFs is driven by macro-economic developments and in this case is the and the newly created OTF category in the EU and to increase consequence of the reduced market making capacity of banks and price transparency in financial markets for both market users and the resulting lower liquidity and wider spreads.
There is potential in due course for direct competition with the derivatives exchanges in listed futures.
MiFID II is likely to have a meaningful impact on the ICAP Group.
Our business objectives are aligned with those of MiFID II as we support the move of liquid instruments to electronic venues and ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 7
