ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Our strategy depends on the effective These are risks over which we have minimal control.
management of our business risks.
By Theyinclude but are not limited to : identifying the nature and potential Natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes and impact of these risks, we can design and disease epidemics operate processes that ensure that they Strikes and civil unrest are effectively controlled and mitigated.
The RAS contains a set of statements and Key Risk Indicators Over time, we have developed a robust KRIs.
These balance quantitative and qualitative measures to and consistent Risk Management provide an indication of increasing or declining risk levels over Framework that we continually seek an appropriate timescale.
They are designed to alert our Board and management that a risk is approaching, or has exceeded, an acceptable level, and we monitor them on an ongoing basis.
The Board receives regular reports on our performance against the KRIs, and the Board reviews the KRIs in conjunction with the RAS annually.
In this section we explain how we manage risk in accordance with our Risk Appetite Statement RAS and Risk Management OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Framework.
We also explain in detail the key risks we face, our In order to establish effective governance over risk according to governance structure for risk, and the reporting cycle that we our RAS, we have developed a Risk Management Framework use to monitor and report on risk.
to identify, measure, manage and monitor the risks faced by the business.
Our Risk Management Framework provides the Board RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RAS with assurance that we have understood and managed our risks The RAS is at the heart of our risk management framework.
as far as possible, within appropriate boundaries.
It comprises It defines the amount of risk that the Board is prepared to our Risk Governance Framework and Risk Reporting Cycle.
accept, both on an individual risk and aggregate basis, in OUR RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK pursuit of its business objectives and strategic goals.
The RAS The diagram opposite sets out the framework for the Board provides parameters within which the business can operate, and executive committees, independent control functions and is reviewed by the Board.
We have identified three main and ongoing business operations that exercise governance types of risk affecting our business, and we explain these in over risk.
more detail later in this section.
Responsibilities of the Board 1. BUSINESS MODEL RISKS The responsibilities of the Board in relation to risk These are risks we actively manage and are able to measure, management are to: control and assign limits and parameters to: Set and review the RAS and the KRIs Credit risk see page 51 Review and challenge updates from the Board Market risk see page 51 Risk Committee Liquidity risk see page 51 Review and challenge the system of internal control and 2.
INDUSTRY RISKS risk management These are risks we accept as arising from operating in Review and challenge capital and liquidity stress-testing the financial services sector.
For these risks we set a risk Approve the Corporate Governance Report in the tolerance rather than a risk appetite.
They include but are not Annual Report limitedto : Board committees Financial institution credit risk see page 51 The Board is supported in its monitoring of the Risk Operational risk see page 52 Management Framework by the Board Risk, Audit and Regulatory risk see page 52 Remuneration Committees.
Conduct risk see page 53 Last year, we formed the Board Risk Committee in recognition Technology IT risk see Operational Risk, page 52 of the Boards continued development of the Groups focus on risk management.
The committee provides the Board with a more in-depth level of understanding of, and governance over, the Groups risk framework.
This is becoming increasingly important as we expand our reach and extend our product range, at the same time as global regulators continue to strengthen their regimes.
| 48 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 THE BOARD BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES Senior Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Risk Executive Risk ICAAP & ILAA Client Money Accounting Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Officer Review by Committee internal audit of risk management CONTROL FUNCTIONS and internal controls Finance Risk Compliance Legal BUSINESS OPERATIONS Internal controls implemented by management The Board Risk Committees responsibilities in relation to risk with issues as they arise, reflecting the senior managements management are to: commitment to playing an active role in risk management decision-making.
It also sets the tone across the Group that Consider, and recommend for approval by the Board, the risk management is central to corporate culture.
The Board RAS and KRIs for the current and future strategy receives copies of the Executive Risk Committee minutes.
Monitor, review and challenge the Internal Capital Client Money Committee Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Internal The Client Money Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA Officer, who is responsible for overseeing our processes Ensure rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of and controls over segregating client funds and the Financial the Groups business and receive reports that explain the Conduct Authority FCA s client assets CASS operational impact of identified risks and threats oversight function.
The committee meets monthly and Ensure that risk mitigation consistent with our risk appetite receives reports from a number of control functions, enabling is in place it to monitor the effectiveness of our global processes and Review the Groups major risk exposures controls for segregating client money.
Consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the technology ICAAP and ILAA Committee infrastructure and supporting documentation in the Risk In addition to managing individual risks, we stress-test Management Framework and scenario-test as part of the Internal Capital Adequacy Provide input to the Remuneration Committee on the risk Assessment Process ICAAP and the Individual Liquidity implications of the remuneration policy Adequacy Assessment ILAA.
These assessments test the potential impact on capital and liquidity of a series The Audit Committees responsibilities in relation to of combined risk events.
The committee meets monthly riskmanagement are to: and oversees the results of the ongoing stress-testing and Receive an annual report from the Board Risk scenario-testing process, ensuring that risks are continuously Committee on the Companys internal controls and Risk identified and assessed.
Management Framework Senior Accounting Officer Committee Review an assessment of the control environment, via The Senior Accounting Officer SAO Committee is internal audit reports, and progress on implementing both responsible for reviewing and challenging the processes internal and external audit recommendations and controls put in place to ensure we comply with HMRC Monitor and review the internal audit functions requirements to certify that each of our UK subsidiaries had effectiveness in the overall context of the Groups internal appropriate tax arrangements throughout the financial year.
controls and risk management systems The committee reports to the Chief Financial Officer, who is the designated SAO.
The Remuneration Committees responsibility in relation to risk management is to review the structure and level of Control functions remuneration throughout the business and assess the impact Additional levels of assurance are provided by control of remuneration on risk.
functions, which are independent of the business operations namely finance, risk, compliance, legal and internal audit.
The An overview of all the Board Committees main duties and control functions provide periodic reporting to the Board and activity during the financial year is set out in the Corporate executive committees as appropriate.
Governance Report, and the Chairman of each committee has provided a review of its activity for the year in the Corporate Business operations Governance Report.
In addition to the control functions, we have embedded risk management into our underlying business operations.
Heads of EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES departments are responsible for maintaining risk registers and, Executive Risk Committee where necessary, taking action to mitigate risks and enhance The Executive Risk Committee is an executive committee the control environment.
The risk and compliance control chaired by the Chief Risk Officer.
Its role is to oversee dayfunctions use these registers in coordinating the identification, to-day risk management activity across the Group.
The measurement and monitoring of risk across the business.
committee generally meets weekly to ensure that it deals | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 49 MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK CONTINUED OUR RISK REPORTING CYCLE The diagram below represents the flow of information and feedback that supports the Risk Governance Framework.
OUR KEY RISKS BOARD REVIEW BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES CREDIT Remuneration | Risk | Client Money | ICAAP and ILAA | Senior Accounting Officer MARKET REPORTS ACTIONS $ Periodic reporting Control AUDIT LIQUIDITY Monthly risk reporting including Key actions COMMITTEE Risk Indicators Internal audit Risk registers Most significant risks Monitored by OPERATIONAL internal audit External audit control report ICAAP and ILAA REGULATORY CONTROL FUNCTIONS Finance | Risk | Compliance | Legal IT BUSINESS OPERATIONS CONDUCT | 50 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 OUR KEY RISKS In addition, we manage our overall credit risk exposure The following section describes the key risks that we face and through real-time monitoring of client positions via our closethe steps that we take in order to manage these risks.
out monitor COM and through the use of tiered margining.
The COM is an automated process whereby accounts which Credit risk have fallen below the liquidation threshold are automatically Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to perform identified and closed.
its obligations, resulting in financial loss.
Our credit risk is managed on a Group-wide basis.
The principal sources of For a small number of generally long-standing clients, we credit risk to our business are from financial institutions and grant credit against unrealised losses, with credit terms such individual clients.
that any losses arising are payable immediately on the closure of transactions.
Financial institution credit risk All financial institutions with which the Group has a Both the close-out monitor and client-initiated stops result relationship are subject to a credit review.
Exposure limits are in the transfer of market risk to the Group.
Market risk arises set and approved by the Executive Risk Committee.
following the closure of the underlying client position as the Group subject to the market risk limits, discussed in We monitor a number of key metrics on a daily basis in the following section, may hold a corresponding hedging respect of financial institution credit risk.
These include position that will, assuming sufficient market liquidity, balances held, change in short-term and long-term credit be unwound.
rating and any change in credit default swap CDS price.
For more information refer to note 36 to the The Group is responsible, under various regulatory regimes, Financial Statements.
for the stewardship of client monies.
These responsibilities include appointing and periodically reviewing institutions Market risk where we deposit client money.
Our aim is that all financial Market risk is the risk that the fair value of financial assets institutions holding client money and assets should have a and financial liabilities will change due to movements in minimum Standard & Poors short-term and long-term rating market prices.
Where this is not possible, we We manage market risk on a real-time basis, monitoring all set low exposure limits and seek to use the best available client positions against market risk limits set by the Executive counterparty preferably one that is considered locally Risk Committee for operational efficiency.
The Group systemic and therefore most likely to receive support.
We also operates within these limits by hedging our residual market maintain multiple brokers for each asset class.
We do not take proprietary positions based We monitor our exposure to financial institutions with whom on an expectation of market movements.
As a result, not all the Group holds money through a daily review against net client exposures are hedged and the Group may have a financial limits and diversification criteria.
residual net position in any of the financial markets in which it offers products up to the market risk limit.
Client credit risk Client credit risk principally arises when a clients total Our technology enables us to monitor our market exposure deposited funds are insufficient to cover any trading losses constantly and in real time.
If exposures exceed our preincurred.
In particular, client credit risk can arise where there agreed limits, our risk-management policy requires that we are significant, sudden movements in the market, due to high hedge the positions to bring the exposure back into line with general market volatility or specific volatility relating to an these limits.
instrument in which the client has an open position.
For more information, including our risk limits and We mitigate, but do not eliminate, client credit risk in a residual exposures at 31 May 2015, refer to note 36 to the number of ways.
We only accept clients that pass certain Financial Statements.
suitability criteria, and our training programme aims to Liquidity risk educate clients in aspects of trading and risk management, as Liquidity risk is the risk that we will be unable to meet well as encouraging them to collateralise their accounts to an payment obligations as they fall due.
We also conduct a pre-deal credit check on every client order.
We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our broker margin requirements and other We offer a number of risk management tools that enable financial liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed clients to manage their exposures, including: conditions.
We carried out an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Guaranteed and non-guaranteed stops Assessment during the year and, while this applies specifically to the Groups FCA-regulated entities, it provides the context Limit orders within which we manage liquidity throughout the business.
Extended trading hours Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets and Trading via mobile platforms liabilities, we do not have any material mismatches in our liquidity maturity profiles.
Short-term liquidity gaps can arise, | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 51 locations and fully independent power supplies.
We support these systems with ongoing business-continuity planning and MANAGING regular testing.
OUR BUSINESS All our IT and data security systems conform to the ISO 27001:2005 Information Security Management System standards.
RISK CONTINUED Cyber risk is a constant threat in the modern online environment.
We have a dedicated team which has implemented a robust, multi-layered system, providing round-the-clock monitoring and intruder-prevention controls.
Regulatory risk We regard regulatory risk as one of our most significant risks.
In short, we define regulatory risk as: Change risk: the risk that one of our regulators introduces new regulations or the regulatory environment itself changes, either making our business less profitable or our products due to our commitment to segregate all individual client more difficult or impossible to offer funds.
If a significant market fall occurs, and assuming our client base holds a net long position which we have hedged, Expansion risk: the risk that policy and regulation in we are required to fund margin payments to brokers before jurisdictions where we do not currently operate remain releasing funds from segregation.
During periods of very high onerous and closed to our business model, limiting our client activity, or of significant directional movements in global geographic expansion opportunities markets, we may need to fund higher margin requirements with Breach risk: the risk that we breach a regulation that applies to our brokers to hedge increased underlying client positions.
We our business, leading to client or market detriment, sanctions, do this from our own available liquidity.
fines, reputational damage and, in extreme situations, loss of licence At 31 May 2015 we had total available liquidity, including committed unsecured facilities and after accounting for broker We invest significant time and resources to manage and margin, of 724.0 million 2014: 708.3 million.
This includes control our regulatory risk in parallel with the development of the liquid assets buffer, which consists of 83.1million of UK business strategy.
We hold this, as required by the FCA, to Change risk provide a safeguard in times of stress.
The regulatory environment continues to evolve, and there We monitor total available liquidity on a daily basis, including are a number of events, policy initiatives and proposals in our committed unsecured facilities.
We perform daily stress development that may impact or have already impacted our tests and regularly stress-test our three-year liquidity forecast to sector, as follows: validate the level of committed unsecured bank facilities that we Change to UK membership in the European Union: the Group hold.
At the year-end, these amounted to 200.0 million 2014: business in continental Europe is offered pursuant to the 200.0 million, with 120.0 million available for one year and EU passporting regime for financial services.
Any change to 80.0 million available for three years.
Our Japanese business, the UKs membership status of the European Union could IG Markets Securities, has a 300.0 million liquidity facility as at have an impact on how the Group is able to operate in the 31May 2015 2014: 300.0 million.
European Union For more information on how we calculate our total available French marketing restrictions: there are indications that French liquidity, see note 19 to the Financial Statements.
regulators may implement measures that would restrict the ability for firms like ourselves to advertise complex financial Operational risk products to retail clients.
The impact of these measures will Operational risk is the risk of financial loss due to inadequate depend on whether the measures are introduced and, if so, or failed internal processes and systems.
It can also arise from the form in which they are introduced.
We have also seen human error or external events that we cannot influence.
other European regulators in markets where we operate Our approach to managing operational risk is governed by the introduce guidelines on the selling of complex products Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Framework.
We this year have designed and implemented a system of internal controls to Swiss franc market dislocation: extreme market events such as manage, rather than eliminate, operational risk.
was seen earlier in the year regarding the Swiss franc can result The reliability of our client trading platforms is key to delivering in increased regulatory scrutiny across our industry our strategy, and we invest significantly in the technology Financial Transactions Tax FTT in the European Union: the infrastructure to ensure that these platforms are operationally Enhanced Cooperation FTT effort, involving 11 of the 28 stable, with system access being centrally controlled.
Our member states, has continued this year.
We have expended investment supports the resilience and reliability of the platform, significant efforts throughout the year to maintain an accurate ensuring low levels of latency, maintaining and testing system knowledge of the status of this tax initiative, to understand capability under significant load and conducting penetration the many stakeholders interests and views and to ensure testing.
The Executive Risk Committee reviews our Key Risk IGs voice is heard in the debate.
It remains unclear what the Indicators on a monthly basis, a process which includes ultimate outcome of the Enhanced Cooperation FTT will monitoring levels of core system uptime and deal latency.
be, and although progress is extremely slow recent rhetoric suggests increased political will for the introduction of an In order to ensure that we provide our clients with a consistent Enhanced Cooperation FTT.
The lack of detail makes the and uninterrupted level of service, we run a complete disasterpotential impact on our revenue from Europe very difficult to recovery solution.
This involves a fully functional secondary assess.
We continue to monitor developments carefully site with real-time replication of all systems across the two | 52 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR : the The main areas of relevance include: main impact of this legislation on our business is increased changes to capital requirements reporting requirements to trade repositories.
Potentially, new capital buffers in the capital conservation and we will also be impacted in the medium-to-longer term by countercyclical buffers phased in approach to 2019 the International Organization of Securities Commissions introduction of the leverage ratio measure of IOSCO, European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA exposures without risk weighting and European Banking Authority EBA s work on margin for removal of Tier 3 capital and re-use of deferred over-the-counter trading, but the rules on this have not yet tax assets been settled changes to liquidity requirements Markets in Financial Instruments MiFID II: the MiFID II introduction of liquidity coverage ratio LCR dossier has continued to develop this year.
The MiFID II and introduction of net stable funding ratio NSFR Markets in Financial Investments Regulation MiFIR Level One other changes, including texts were adopted last year and there has been significant new corporate governance and work on the preparation of the detailed Level Two texts.
We remuneration standards remain of the view that MiFID II is unlikely to pose a threat to additional capital and liquidity reporting COREP our UK and European businesses.
We continue to monitor We have modelled the impact of the regulations as they MiFID II carefully and to take part in industry consultation currently are scheduled to be implemented and expect where appropriate no significant changes to our corporate governance or Packaged Retail Investments Products Regulation PRIPS : this remuneration structures, as well as no significant impact will impose an obligation on us from May 2016 to provide our on our capital or liquidity position.
UK and European clients with information about our products We seek to mitigate change risk by engaging with our in a standardised form.
We do not anticipate this having a regulators and policymakers as much as possible, as part of negative impact on our business policy consultations and more generally, and also by investing Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS regulatory framework in public relations programmes and ensuring we have access for margined derivatives.
As previously reported, in 2013 the to up-to-date information on regulatory change.
MAS confirmed that it would push forward with its proposal to increase margin requirements for non-accredited investors on Expansion risk a forex trade from 2% to 5%, thereby reducing leverage from Like change risk, we seek to mitigate expansion risk by 50 times to 20 times.
Although these rules have not yet been engaging with regulators and policymakers in countries where introduced, we consider that there is a good possibility that we do not yet operate, but which are desirable targets for they will be introduced in the future.
If they are introduced, it our future expansion.
Of course, regulatory change can also is intended that the rules will not apply to accredited investors, represent an opportunity for our business, and we are in talks defined by virtue of their wealth or income level.
We believe with certain regulators who are considering changing their that the majority of IGs revenue currently comes from clients regulations in order to allow retail derivatives trading.
These who would qualify for accredited investor status.
In addition, discussions are still at an early stage.
the use of guaranteed stops enables clients to further manage Breach risk leverage levels Our compliance, legal and risk teams provide a robust Common Reporting Standard CRS : this is being line of defence to ensure that our processes and controls implemented in just under 100 countries including the UK are effective in ensuring we comply with our regulatory and all countries where IG has offices to facilitate a global obligations.
During the year, the Group has successfully exchange of information on income and wealth of individuals undergone a number of external reviews into key areas such and organisations as a measure to counter tax evasion.
Onas client money and information security, giving us assurance boarding processes will need to be updated to identify and that we are managing and controlling breach risk well.
As report information on clients resident in countries who have our business becomes more complex, this risk also grows, already signed up or will sign up to CRS.
and we remain committed to increasing our investment in our framework to manage risk controls.
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS : The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development OECD has In summary, we work closely with our regulators to ensure developed a series of action plans to address perceived that we operate to the highest regulatory standards and can international tax avoidance by high-profile multinationals.
adapt quickly to regulatory change.
We are committed to None of the action plans are expected to significantly impact engaging proactively with regulators and industry bodies, the Groups tax profile and will continue to support changes which promote protection for clients and greater clarity of the risks they Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA : reporting of face.
However, we cannot provide certainty that future accounts held outside the US by US persons, or in the Crown regulatory changes will not have an adverse impact on Dependencies and Overseas Territories by UK residents.
Onboarding processes have been updated to identify clients where we have a reporting obligation and the first round of Conduct risk reporting is in progress This is the risk that the Groups conduct poses to the achievement of fair outcomes for consumers or to the Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV and Capital sound, stable, resilient and transparent operation of the Requirements Regulation CRR financial markets.
Put another way, conduct risk is the risk The European Union EU began implementation of Basel that the manner in which we carry out our business causes III in the European Union EU via the Capital Requirements poor outcomes for our clients or the markets.
Directive IV CRD IV and the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR on 1 January 2014.
The Regulation applies directly to all The Board has developed a conduct risk strategy that member states, while the directive required implementation applies across the organisation putting consumer outcomes by the national regulator, the FCA in our case at the heart of the business.
We have undertaken and continue to undertake training to fully embed this strategy These measures have introduced many different requirements into the current business practices and culture of the Group.
for us, both since implementation and over the coming years | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 53
