KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs We use nine key financial and operational performance metrics to measure our performance and our progress against the short-term and long-term goals of the business.
1 REVENUE 4.9% Revenue performance demonstrates business growth in terms of global reach, range of products offered to clients, active clients and revenue per 388.4m client, and is also a driver of the staff bonus pool.
Statutory revenue grew 400.2m FY15 by 4.9% in the year, impacted by the extreme event involving the Swiss franc.
Excluding this, underlying revenue was up by 8.0%, driven by strong 370.4m FY14 performance in UK and Australia, which resulted in another record year for the Group.
1 REVENUE PER CLIENT 2.8% Revenue per client is calculated as total revenue divided by the number of active clients in the period, and is a measure of client activity and quality.
2,854 TheSwiss franc event resulted in a drop of 2.8% in the headlined revenue 2,941 FY15 per client, however underlying revenue per client marginally increased by 0.1%.
2,937 FY14 ACTIVE CLIENTS 7.9% Active clients are those clients who have opened at least one trade in the period.
Active clients increased by 7.9% in the year, as a result of strategic initiatives, the launch of our stockbroking offering and strong customer 136,100 FY15 acquisition performance by Nadex.
126,100 FY14 1 PROFIT BEFORE TAX PBT 13.0% Statutory PBT was down by 13.0% as a result of the Swiss franc event, with underlying PBT marginally decreasing by 0.9%.
A detailed commentary on 169.5m our PBT performance is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
193.2m FY15 194.9m FY14 1 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DEPS 10.5% DEPS includes all components of the Groups performance based on profitability and capital structure.
DEPS is a key measure in the award or 35.99p vesting of our Executive Director and senior staff share plans is partially with 41.07p FY15 reference to DEPS.
Statutory DEPS decreased by 10.5%, while underlying DEPS increased by 2.1% over the prior year, reflecting growth in underlying 40.22p FY14 after-tax profitability.
| 28 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 1 OWN FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 14.8% High profit-to-cash conversion gives us strong liquidity and supports our robust risk-management strategy and our dividend payment.
Maintaining 136.8m a high level of cash generation, after the required investment, is key to 159.2m FY15 delivering strong shareholder returns.
A detailed commentary is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
160.6m FY14 DIVIDEND PER SHARE 0.0% Shareholder returns are central to our strategy and reflect the strength of our business, our capital position and our expectations of future performance.
28.15p FY15 Therefore and despite the unexpected Swiss franc event and its impact in statutory results, we have maintained our total dividend at the same level 28.15p FY14 as in the prior year.
This reflects a dividend payout policy of 78%, with our intention always remaining to grow the dividend in absolute terms in years when earnings are ahead.
PLATFORM UPTIME 0.02% The availability of the dealing platform is key to our clients confidence in trading with IG.
Reliability has remained strong in the current year, however 99.95% FY15 we narrowly missed our internal availability targets following an outage in April.
This measure is one of a suite of non-financial indicators used to 99.97% FY14 determine share-plan and bonus awards an assessment is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
2 NET PROMOTER SCORE NPS To better understand how well we deliver quality service to our clients, we use NPS, as well as other measures of satisfaction, to assess the extent of client recommendations.
Over the last year we have seen improvements in Germany and France and, while our absolute score has fallen across other markets, we have maintained our ranking and compare very favourably against the industry average.
This measure is one of a suite of non-financial indicators used to determine share-plan and bonus awards anassessment is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
UK SPREADBETTING UK CFDs SINGAPORE IGs IGs IGs most most most recent recent recent 17% -7% -13% NPS NPS NPS Industry Industry Industry -5% -9% average -19% average average AUSTRALIA GERMANY FRANCE IGs IGs IGs most most most recent recent recent 16% 27% 31% NPS NPS NPS Industry Industry Industry average average average -3% 4% 1% 1 For FY15 two metrics are disclosed.
The unadjusted statutory and also the higher underlying performance that is stated excluding the losses associated with the Swiss franc event.
2 All NPS data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited please refer to the Investor Resources section on page 190 for further details.
NPS is calculated by asking respondents: How likely are you to recommend this company to a friend or colleague?
Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as the percentage of promoters those answering 9 or 10 minus the percentage of detractors those answering 0-6.
The shaded ar ea indicates the underlying performance.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 29 OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES After 40 years in business we understand that sustainable long-term returns stem from good conduct.
We seek to act with integrity towards our staff, our clients, our regulators and the markets, maintaining a reputation for quality and transparency.
As a global employer with people in 20 countries, our COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS commitment to our people is both an important part of We aim to put our customers at the heart of everything we delivering our strategy and a cornerstone of our success.
do, and we strive to ensure that we understand our clients needs and consistently deliver fair outcomes and positive We are committed to providing a rewarding career for each experiences.
We have a very low tolerance for poor consumer one of our almost 1,400 employees.
We recognise that having outcomes, and we are committed to investing in process, a long-term strategy which develops our people is crucial to training and culture to prevent unsatisfactory customer our success, as well as being a factor that contributes strongly experiences and to address root causes where any practice to our reputation within the financial services industry.
We maintain this policy even when it may have a SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS negative impact on our own revenue or costs.
Our conduct as a business is driven by our values of We ensure that commitment to our hallmark quality, passion for progress, transparency in dealing and meritocratic opportunity.
These values have customers is embedded in our culture been fundamental in the historic growth and success of IG.
and strategic initiatives, and we However, with growth comes the challenge of maintaining regularly seek and review feedback that culture and with it appropriate conduct.
For that reason, we decided to define the values set out above to support from our clients.
This enables us to us in realising the Groups overall vision and strategy.
develop our products and services This has enabled us to embed sound corporate conduct specifically to meet the needs of active in the culture of the business, so it is not simply a risk or regulatory requirement.
However, conduct undoubtedly represents a real risk to Central to our commitment to our customers is the quality of all firms within the financial industry.
Consequently we our order execution.
We offer near-instantaneous execution, have actively engaged in the agenda and developed a risk with around 99.3% of client orders accepted automatically.
We management strategy, entrenching various quantitative never requote prices and, outside our set margin of tolerance, and qualitative measures to identify, measure, manage our innovative price-improvement technology enables and monitor Conduct Risk.
Demonstrable elements to customers to receive a better price if one becomes available this strategy include among others the production and as a trade is executed.
appropriate escalation of monthly conduct risk Key Risk Indicators KRIs and dashboards, a rolling plan of thematic CLIENT SUPPORT AND EDUCATION conduct risk reviews, and formalised conduct consideration We offer extensive educational resources for clients, including prior to project signoff.
an introduction programme for new clients that promotes responsible trading, and a wide range of client seminars and In this way we ensure effective communication of the webinars.
We continually look to keep this content engaging tone from the top throughout the organisation.
We apply and targeted towards our clients needs.
high standards across our businesses, and specifically in our corporate governance as set out in the Corporate For example, in recognition of the feedback received from Governance Report and the Directors Report in compliance clients and following the launch of our in-house TV studio in with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The following areas 2014, we have continued to increase the amount of original demonstrate how we do this.
This ensures our clients have instant | 30 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 access to educational resources covering everything from reviews.
Based on the results of these assessments, we may fundamental trading concepts to risk mitigation across all choose to provide an applicant with a clear warning about the their devices and in the medium they want.
We may also decline to open an account for them, or indeed close their account if it has We also provide an extensive range of trading tools, such as already been opened.
regular free news, commentary and analysis on IG TV and via the Market Insight section of our website.
We offer charting LIMITING CLIENT LOSSES packages and various technical analysis tools that enable our We have a number of services designed to help clients limit clients to screen markets for trading opportunities and to their losses.
receive alerts when trading signals appear.
Our clients can choose to attach guaranteed stops to their CLIENT APPROPRIATENESS positions, so that they know their maximum possible loss at Our products are not appropriate for everyone, and we the outset of the trade.
recognise that our conduct is particularly vital in relation to Our close-out monitor COM, which automatically liquidates marketing and client onboarding, in order to prevent poor clients positions when their margin has been significantly consumer outcomes arising from them.
Accordingly, we eroded, also aims to restrict our clients potential losses.
At have a number of procedures that ensure our advertising 31 May 2015, 99.4% of all client accounts were subject to the reaches the right audience, and that our clients appreciate automatic COM procedure.
Further details are set out in note the risks involved with our products and understand how our 36 to the Financial Statements.
PROTECTING OUR CLIENTS DATA AND FUNDS We follow strict guidelines to ensure We prioritise the security of our clients information and have achieved the ISO 27001:2005 certificate for information that we only promote our products to security management.
a target audience within appropriate We fully segregate funds for retail individuals, in compliance sectors and demographic groups.
We with the regulations, and we hold segregated client money also conduct rigorous checks to ensure entirely separately from our own money across a diverse range of banks.
This ensures that, in the event of our default, that all promotions are clear, fair and client funds would be returned to the clients rather than being not misleading, and that risks are not treated as a recoverable asset by our general creditors.
downplayed compared to the benefits We continue to engage  LLP to of our products.
conduct ongoing independent reviews of our controls and procedures for client money calculation and segregation Before we allow a prospective client to open an account, ISAE 3000.
In committing to this review process, we have we undertake an assessment to determine whether our taken an additional step, over and above standard audit products are appropriate for them.
At account opening we checks and our regulators reporting requirements.
This actively question and must be satisfied that clients have reflects our dedication to keeping our clients funds secure the necessary knowledge or experience to understand the and delivering beneficial outcomes for customers.
To further assess whether our products could produce poor outcomes, we ask clients for details of their income and savings, both at account opening and in rolling | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 31 OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We believe that understanding our employees motivations, concerns and feedback in general is crucial in allowing us to decide what employee engagement initiatives we take forward each year.
It is for this reason that we have again partnered with IBM to deliver our employee engagement survey and were delighted to have an 85% response rate this year.
In terms of highlights, we are pleased to report that over OUR PEOPLE 90% of our employees feel that there is a strong sense of The Group provides a dynamic and friendly working teamwork and cooperation within IG.
Similar numbers feel environment for almost 1,400 employees, located around a strong sense of belonging and involvement and over 90% the world.
We believe that our people should take pride in feel that there is a clear future vision and trust the senior what we achieve together, should have a powerful sense leadership of IG.
of belonging to IG Group, and should know that we fully This year, 98% of employees who completed our engagement recognise the crucial role that the quality of our employees survey agreed that IG has an outstanding future and just plays in our success.
over 90% have trust in senior leadership to deliver against In order to attract and retain the right people, we offer a the vision.
Both these questions scored above external competitive reward package to recognise past performance global benchmarks.
and encourage our key talent to be part of our future.
We In terms of work in progress, we still have work to do in clearly believe that working together as a team is key to our global setting out career and reward structures and are working with success and so to complement our market-related salary our management team to help them explain and develop structure, we also include over 90% of our employees in performance management processes.
a group bonus scheme which is completely linked to the financial success and ongoing stability of IG.
This bonus is In summary, this data continues to provide invaluable insight then distributed on an individual performance related basis to what our employees feel about working for us around the identified through an annual  system.
Working with a world leader like IBM means that we We also reward our high potential employees through continue to be able to benchmark our results against global long-term incentive plans.
The remainder of our employees high-performing organisations and the finance sector.
have specific sales-related bonus schemes.
Linked to our belief in our employees investing in IG, we are happy to offer employees tax-advantaged share purchase schemes in the UK, Australia and the US.
An average of 33% of eligible employees took part in our share plans in 2014.
To complement these direct financial rewards, we also provide a full range of appropriate benefits, including pension contributions.
In the UK, we contribute up to 10% of an employees basic salary to their pension, provided the employee contributes 5% of their salary.
If they choose to contribute less than 5%, we will contribute double the individual rate.
We are auto-enrolment compliant, having met our planned staging date in November 2013, as part of the governments workplace pensions reform, and continue to have over 85% participation in our UK Group pension schemes.
| 32 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY In terms of gender, our workforce is made up as follows: We are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce at all levels of the Group.
We believe that diversity is a broad issue, BOARD encompassing variations in an individuals experience, skills, age and background, as well as more traditional diversity MALE 7 factors such as ethnic origin and gender.
Our total employee FEMALE 1 gender breakdown is shown to the right.
PERCENTAGE Commercially and for every other best practice reason, we FEMALE: 13% are an equal opportunities employer.
We strongly believe that to succeed as a global business, we need to make the most of the potential workforce in every country that we work within.
As such, we have extensive human resource policies in place to ensure that we attract the right people and that STRATEGIC once working with us, our people can expect to develop in an 1 MANAGEMENT TEAM environment free from discrimination and harassment.
MALE 10 For this reason, we continuously reinforce the need to treat FEMALE 3 all employees fairly.
We are committed to creating a work PERCENTAGE environment free from bullying, where everyone is treated FEMALE: 23% with dignity and respect, irrespective of position or grade within the organisation.
We give full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, where the candidates aptitudes and SENIOR abilities are consistent with meeting the requirements of the 2 MANAGEMENT TEAM job.
Where existing employees become disabled, whether on a temporary or permanent basis, it is our policy to provide MALE 41 continuing employment wherever practicable in the same or FEMALE 9 an alternative position, and to provide appropriate training PERCENTAGE and or graduated back-to-work programmes, in conjunction FEMALE: 18% with the occupational health professionals to achieve this aim.
LEADERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT With our strategic management team having been with us for over nine years on average and therefore having developed their careers within the Group, we recognise the strength of TEAM MEMBERS having a stable and long-serving workforce.
This is especially MALE 919 true within the decision-making core, and as such we FEMALE 357 continue to invest in developing our employees worldwide PERCENTAGE while improving the quality of learning opportunities.
FEMALE: 28% We have recently implemented an online learning and policy-management system, which is accessible by all of our employees wherever they are located in the world.
We are making every effort to enhance the systems content as well using this system as a means to record our policy based training.
TOTAL Our new recording studio is enhancing our internal MALE 977 communications and allowing our senior team to reach out to FEMALE 370 all of our offices with our popular Views from the Bridge a PERCENTAGE series of videos featuring members of the senior management FEMALE: 28% team which aim to ensure that our key leadership messages reach all of our people around the globe.
1 The strategic management team is defined as the employees responsible for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
2 The senior management team is defined as the strategic management team plus the Directors of the subsidiary companies included in the consolidated Financial Statements.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 33 OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED TALENT MANAGEMENT Retention of talent can be challenging in companies with relatively flat organisational structures, and we recognise the importance of encouraging people to grow and stretch themselves in roles that have limited scope for vertical movement.
We also acknowledge that it is important to employees to understand where they are in their career and salary progression and it is with this in mind, and in answer to feedback from our employee engagement survey, that we We support our staff in their continuing personal and launched our salary grading communication this summer.
It is professional training and development, and encourage one of our core values to be transparent in dealing with our attendance at external and industry-recognised training employees in all areas, but particularly with regard to career courses, sponsoring our people to undertake formal and salary aspirations.
education programmes and achieve professional We have had career pathways and associated competency qualifications.
We also offer internal secondments, both frameworks in place for key areas of the business for a in terms of pure training of newer employees and more number of years now and we continue to build on these.
strategic, longer-term appointments, which allow individuals The frameworks describe what is needed for exceptional to work in our smaller offices and provides an opportunity for performance in each role and provide space for individuals to growth and expanding skill-sets.
strengthen their performance in readiness for future horizontal We have made further progress this year as measured by our or vertical moves.
We continue to expand our mentoring annual employee engagement survey in terms of the senior programmes with the aim of not only motivating and team articulating our vision and strategy for the future.
Our developing the careers of employees with high potential, but next goal is to allow our future generation of leaders to carry also providing advancement opportunities for our mentors.
on with this important leadership skill, as well as ensuring that To attract new, high-calibre staff, we offer three graduate we are building a strong group of managers equipped with schemes, in IT, operations and finance.
Graduates joining the the competences and behaviours to take IG forward.
IT and operations schemes follow a 12-month training plan Last year we agreed a new set of leadership behaviours for before we assign them to a permanent position.
The finance our managers, and during the 2015 2016 appraisal cycle, scheme is longer term, aiming to train graduates as qualified we will actively measure performance against these metrics.
Graduates joining IG benefit There are four core principles: communicating with others, from the support of a business mentor, access to crossleading by example, developing people and being passionate business placements, structured training plans and reviews, about results.
which fast-track their development to first-role competence in their chosen area.
We continue to support our managers in their ongoing training with our Inspirational Development programme which focuses on the outcomes of 360 feedback and the behaviours associated with generating high performance.
All of our strategic and senior management team have attended at least one structured programme over the past 18 months and our more junior managers attend a Transition to Leadership programme, which specifically targets the process of developing from a technical specialist to a leader of people.
| 34 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY We take pride in being an open, non-hierarchical We believe that our employees are one of our most valuable organisation, with direct and open access among all teams assets, and we are committed to providing each employee and at all levels.
The Chief Executive Officer addresses all with a safe and healthy working environment.
employees every six months, at the half-year and full-year Health and safety is an integral part of our business, and by points, and presents the Groups financial results, business providing key members of staff with the relevant external updates and plans for the future.
He and other members training, and all other staff with appropriate in-house training, of senior management maintain a schedule of overseas we ensure that we comply with all statutory health and office visits and take these opportunities to address each safety requirements.
local employee audience, while we also make full use of our WELLBEING in-house TV studio to record interviews with key members We are fully committed to our employees health and of the business, including the CEO, to ensure a consistent wellbeing, and the benefits we provide to all employees message is sent out to all our offices.
include private medical cover, permanent health insurance and TOP EMPLOYER life assurance.
Our positive workplace culture continues to be recognised as IG celebrates being named as one of Britains Top Employers To help our people enjoy healthy lifestyles, we reimburse for the eighth year running in 2015.
50% of the costs of employees annual gym subscriptions, up to a specified amount, on a global basis.
We also support The Top Employer certification is awarded only to cycling, and we offer our staff savings on bicycles under organisations that meet the highest standards in human the government-backed cycle-to-work initiative, as well as resource management, and we are very proud to be a longproviding free-of-charge bicycle parking at our London office.
The award, by the Corporate Research We support our employees wellbeing by providing a Foundation, is based on a strong performance in each confidential employee assistance programme that offers a of the audited categories: pay and benefits, training and 24 7 telephone counselling service to all our Head Office development, corporate culture and career development.
employees and their immediate families.
SOCIETY AND EMPLOYEE SPONSORSHIP Our people can use this service for impartial advice on all We are keen to encourage our people to engage in activities matters, from housing to personal finance.
that both help their own development and support local communities, so we are proud to support a wide variety of different charities that are close to our employees hearts.
We match any funds our employees have raised for sponsored events.
To make the most of charitable donations, we continue to work with the Charities Aid Foundation, allowing our employees to operate a charity fund and make contributions to selected charities from gross earnings, directly from their monthly pay.
Not only do we support charities with gifts of money, but also by providing time and resources.
Our absence-management policy offers the opportunity for our people to take up voluntary work, for which we grant additional leave on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five matched days per annual leave year.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 35 OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CONTINUED The global nature of our business, with employees located in 20 countries, results in the need for our people to travel around the globe to provide local support for staff and clients.
We have taken further steps to minimise these journeys by installing state-of-the-art video-conferencing equipment in two more of our global locations, taking the tally of offices offering this facility up to nine.
We provide emissions data in respect of the financial year ending 31 May 2015 in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Emissions Report and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity As a business which conducts nearly all of its client trades Ratio tables to the right.
In the tables, Scope 1 emissions are online and undertakes no industrial activities, we do not see those incurred in air conditioning our offices and running ourselves as a significant emitter of environmentally harmful back-up generators for our servers, while Scope 2 emissions substances.
However, we understand that we need to take are purchased energy such as electricity.
For the most any necessary actions to ensure that we mitigate the impact significant sources of energy consumption discussed above, of our operations on the surrounding environment.
we purchase electricity via our landlords.
Running and maintaining our IT BASIS OF PREPARATION Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the basis of infrastructure comprises the main financial control, with the emissions data included for the source of our environmental impact.
companies consolidated in the Financial Statements, noting This supports our award-winning the Statement of Exclusions given below: platform and ensures we are able to We have based our methodology on the principles of the consistently maintain our high level of Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
We have reported on all the measured emissions sources platform uptime.
required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Powering and cooling our datacentres results in the majority Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, except of our power usage as well as our energy costs.
we update our hardware and software as appropriate to save This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where money and energy.
stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3.
This year we continued replacing a number of our rack servers Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are with new blade technology.
This has allowed us to integrate those published by the Department for Environment, Food power and cooling technologies across the server estate and Rural Affairs for 2014-2015. and provides a considerable saving in energy and costs.
STATEMENT OF EXCLUSIONS We recycled the legacy hardware in accordance with our Global diesel use for vehicles has been excluded from internal recycling policy, ensuring that any data was securely the report on the basis that it is not material to our destroyed before recycling the remaining components.
Our global offices follow our datacentres as the second The scope of reporting for our fugitive emissions has been largest consumer of energy.
A number of energy-saving restricted to the United Kingdom.
Other regions have been processes is in place and we are committed to a far-reaching excluded due to lack of data or immateriality.
This encompasses not only a proportion of our daily office waste, but also extends to our IT equipment when we replace hardware, while trying to ensure that we use any desktop equipment for its maximum useful life.
Our head office building, where more than half of our employees are based, is also ISO 14001 certified, and we complement this  system with our own sensorlighting to reduce our energy use.
In addition, we have used PIR technology in both of our newly opened offices in Dubai and Geneva and we invested in the most modern and energy-efficient personal computers and peripherals, in line with our commitments.
| 36 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 EMISSION CATEGORY MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORT Operation of facility Tonnes of carbon dioxide Purchased energy Emission type equivalent tCO e 2 Combustion Scope 1: operation of facilities 161.77 Scope 1: combustion 34.93 Total Scope 1 emissions 196.7 Scope 2: purchased energy 4,007.64 Total Scope 2 emissions 4,007.64 Total emissions 4,204.34 EMISSION SOURCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATIO Electricity Total footprint F-gas Scope 1 and Scope 2 tCO e 4,204.34 2 Diesel Turnover m 388.4 Gas Intensity ratio tCO e m 10.82 2 Vehicles Global diesel use for vehicles has been excluded from the report on the basis that it is not material to our carbon footprint.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 37
