OUR STRATEGY In this section we outline our strategic objectives and work through examples of our strategy in action and our focus in the year ahead.
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ACTIVE TRADERS The most valuable traders are those that trade most frequently or in the largest deal size.
We aim to service the needs of these traders as they evolve over time with the suite of products and platform functionality that we offer.
Our platforms, products and service levels are therefore designed with these clients in mind, while we remain conscious of the importance of delivering an excellent trading experience for all.
See page 23 ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND MARKET LEADERSHIP Market leadership is a result of an award-winning platform and product offering, combined with a service ethos with the client at its centre: by delivering this we can ensure the long-term success of our business.
We are a global leader in online trading, with the aim to become the default choice for active traders.
1 global provider of CFDs and financial spread betting and a recognised authority on financial trading.
We have achieved this position through a focus on what traders need: technology, platform functionality, education and research, services, product breadth, all supported by the excellent customer service provided by our people.
We will remain focused on achieving, maintaining, or extending market leadership in each of the markets and regions in which we operate.
See page 24 STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE We began our expansion outside the UK in 2002, with the opening of an office in Australia.
We now have sales offices in 17 countries, serving clients in the vast majority of the countries of the world.
We have used a consistent and purposeful approach in growing our client base, both in established and new regions.
Our single global brand IG is helping us to develop our reach, increase our market penetration and target additional countries, from the offices where we already operate, using lighter versions of the IG website.
These sites are fully responsive, and aim to remove the barriers to converting clients to IG by catering for additional currencies, offering faster identity checks and facilitating the uploading of application paperwork.
See page 25 DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS Our vision is to deliver an industry-leading and world-class service to our clients, and for the quality of our customer service to be viewed as a competitive advantage.
Through fast and reliable execution, transparent pricing, investment in education and market insight resources and full segregation of client funds, we aim to make our clients feel secure and confident in trading with us.
Backing this up with the best online support, helpdesk and service levels will position us very well to attract and retain valuable active clients.
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP See page 26 This is a virtuous circle.
Our original concentration on delivering technological excellence assisted us in building a highly profitable business.
Our financial strength now enables us to maintain a high level of investment in IT development and infrastructure to remain at the forefront of the industry, with a superior platform, technology, tools and resources.
The strength of our platform and its proven resilience over a long period of time are essential in acquiring and retaining clients and maximising the length and value of a client relationship.
1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2015: for See page 27 spread betting, number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2014.
| 22 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ACTIVE TRADERS STOCKBROKING SERVICE In September 2014 we successfully launched our executionIn addition, at the end of November we enhanced the only stockbroking business in the UK and Ireland our first offering by giving clients the ability to use their share portfolio significant diversification from leveraged trading and a key as collateral to support their shorter-term trading with CFDs milestone on our journey to become the default choice for or spread betting, with over 900 clients already signed up for active traders.
In March we extended the stockbroking service to the Netherlands and in July we rolled it out in Germany the Prior to developing the service, a survey of our clients largest of our continental European countries by revenue.
concluded that 60% of them also traded cash equities, and 65% of those said that they would consider moving their We anticipated that initial take up of the stockbroking business to IG if we offered this service.
In addition, our service would be slow but steady.
However, we have been research indicated that the trading life of a cash equity client encouraged by the number of early sign-ups and pleased with was longer than that of our existing client base, that many the proportion of these that has come from new clients.
After of them were wealthy and that there was a constituency nine months, we have over 4,000 clients who have opened among them that traded very actively.
This presents several and funded a stockbroking account, with roughly 65% of opportunities: it gives us a new and much broader sales and these being clients new to IG.
Although it is very early in the marketing opportunity: it allows us to deepen the relationship life of this product, we have seen evidence already that a we have with our clients and to manage a greater proportion proportion of clients who start as stockbroking clients do then of their trading and investment activity.
Stockbroking should move on to also trade with our other products.
There isnt extend the duration of a client relationship as their risk sufficient data to be clear about the size of this opportunity appetite changes and it enables a cross-sell from more active but the early evidence suggests that around 20% of those stockbroking customers into the leveraged product set.
new clients who began with stockbroking go on to trade with a leveraged product.
We strive to deliver unparalleled service to our clients and therefore we have undertaken a number of initiatives to FOCUS ON MOBILE address their needs and differentiate ourselves from the competition.
We offer our customers the opportunity to With the use of mobile apps continuing to grow, an increasing number of our clients use this as their primary method for transfer their existing shareholdings to us, free from IG interacting with IG and the financial markets.
Once the portfolio has been transferred, the client to the needs of our experienced clients, our core apps has access to the full range of features on IGs platform.
This are extremely feature-rich and provide powerful tools.
includes access to our range of over 8,000 shares, which However, they may not be appealing to less sophisticated are offered in their local denomination, regardless of the traders, discouraging them from opening an account with currency on the clients account.
This means our customers us.
Therefore, towards the end of our last financial year know exactly what they are paying, with our fee to convert we established an operation in Eastern Europe in order to to their base currency being one of the most competitive in develop apps that better suit the needs of prospective and the market.
new clients, with the vision to recruit, educate and support Unlike most traditional stockbrokers, we charge our clients their journey to high-value customers.
In tandem with this only when they trade and not for holding an active account we are actively building the necessary marketing skills and with us, while our superior technology supports both at support to encourage app downloads and then convert the quote and on exchange trading, ensuring clients have interest shown into active clients.
In December we launched access to the best possible price.
We allow traders to interact the IG Major Markets app for iPad in the UK aimed at directly with the order book and our systems search for improving acquisition rates.
The app aims to be less daunting, liquidity and price improvements across multiple venues.
This offering a simpler experience, access to a smaller suite of means they have more options when looking for the best markets as well as being highly customisable.
Since then we execution as well as live visibility of the market and access to have added versions for different platforms and rolled it out full market depth.
to most of our geographic locations.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 23 OUR ACHIEVE, STRATEGY MAINTAIN OR EXTEND CONTINUED MARKET LEADERSHIP Market leadership is a result of delivering the products and services that our clients require.
Our strategies for achieving, maintaining and extending market share have consistent themes but have also been localised to suit each market.
1 global provider of CFDs and financial spread betting and acknowledged as a recognised authority on financial trading.
Presented here is the background and current performance of our three largest individual markets.
UK IG Index was founded in 1974, becoming the UKs first financial spread betting company.
CFDs were then introduced in 2000 under the IG Markets brand.
We now offer a full suite of assets under the IG brand.
Our UK business is based in the City of London and accounted for just over half our Group revenue in 2015.
Last year over 60,300 active clients traded with us in the UK and Ireland, and in the UK market we are the market leader and in CFDs by in spread betting by 32 percentage points SINGAPORE 2 13percentage points.
We opened our office in Singapore in 2006.
Although quite small, Singapore has a highly concentrated and financially AUSTRALIA sophisticated population.
IG has grown its market share Our Australian business was established in 2002 and is consistently to overtake most other providers.
We are now based in Melbourne.
Although not first to market, we rapidly the second-largest CFD provider in Singapore, with a market overhauled the market leader to become the largest CFD share of 17% and the second largest retail forex trading provider in Australia.
In 2014 we had a 33% market share, provider with a market share of 15%.
Adapting to local cultural 2 16percentage points ahead of the second-placed provider.
preferences, in 2013 we opened up our first shop front office Australia represented 15% of Group revenue in 2015. in the centre of Singapore and this has increased the flow The total CFD market has grown strongly over the last six years of current and new clients to the office.
In 2015 Singapore 3 from 32,000 to 42,000 traders, as the product has become accounted for 6% of Group revenue and was the third-largest better understood and displaced the retail warrants market, revenue country within the Group.
apreviously popular leveraged trading product in Australia.
1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2015: for spread betting, number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2014.
2 By number of active primary accounts.
All market share data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited please refer to the Investor Resources section on page 190 for further details.
3 By number of active Australian CFD traders Investment Trends Australia CFD Report, 2014.
| 24 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE With the opening of our office in Dubai in June we made further progress in expanding our worldwide presence to markets where regulation allows and where the potential financial returns to IG are attractive.
Dubai is the financial centre of the Middle East region and an obvious location for our expansion.
There are a significant number of financially sophisticated and high net worth individuals in the region and our investment in producing an Arabic language website could ultimately prove popular to potential clients across the broader UAE.
We recruited a 17-strong team, giving us full local language customer service capabilities, and, following approval of our licence by the Dubai Financial Services Authority DFSA, we opened our office in June.
The launch coincided with Ramadan and so we delayed our first major marketing and media push until the end of the summer.
Dubai provided some of our greatest challenges to date, due to the increased requirement to localise the offering, but the team rose to these challenges and we are delighted to be now serving this region locally.
Switzerland was another example of a more complex setup process, requiring a flexible but disciplined approach to the licensing process.
We were granted our licence by Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA in September 2014 and opened for business in Geneva in October 2014.
The application process was extremely rigorous, requiring us to apply for a full banking licence in order to be able to offer our full product set to clients there.
In order to comply with local requirements, we also had to clearly establish a process by which clients could opt to ring-fence their personal data within Switzerland and be able to operate in four languages.
The granting of this licence is a powerful testament to the quality of our people and our growing credibility and reputation internationally.
It will take time for us to establish ourselves in this market but the early progress is encouraging and we are excited by its potential in the long term.
Looking forward, we continue to have dialogue with other regulators and potential partners to explore ways to further extend our geographic reach.
It will not always be viable for us to open offices everywhere where we believe clients would benefit from our products.
In light of this in the last year we have launched slimmed-down websites for European countries without offices.
These sites are fully responsive but aim to remove the barriers to converting clients to IG by catering for additional currencies, and offering faster identity checking and uploading of application paperwork.
Dubai is the financial centre of the Middle East region and an obvious location for our expansion there.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 25 OUR DELIVER STRATEGY QUALITY SERVICE CONTINUED TO CLIENTS Our vision is to deliver an industry-leading and world-class We have developed and will soon offer My IG, where a service to our clients, and for the quality of our customer client will be able to access all products and add-ons in one service to be viewed as a competitive advantage.
Through place using a single login.
In addition, we plan to introduce fast and reliable execution, transparent pricing, investment in a major markets moves service that will identify significant education and market insight resources and full segregation moves in the market which a client trades and alert them of client funds, we aim to make our clients feel secure and with relevant information in a timely fashion: they will then confident in trading with us.
Backing this up with the best be able to link straight through seamlessly to place a trade.
online support, helpdesk and service levels will position us We consistently monitor both our response times and the very well to attract and retain valuable active clients.
quality of our answers to ensure our customer service remains Our 110-strong trading services team supports our clients industry-leading in both aspects.
This year: across the world, 24 hours a day.
They are located in 8 offices Percentage of calls dropped or missed decreased, while around the world, speak 12 languages and deal with around call volumes increased 80,000 client communications per month.
Over 90% of emails were answered within 24 hours We continually seek to improve our service to our clients: We developed a dedicated social media response strategy, forexample in the last year: with our followers increasing by 46% over the year and daily We introduced livechat for prospective clients in all our mentions increasing by approximately 75% sites and to date this has already been used for over 83,000 We were also ranked first in an IPSOS mystery-shopper conversations.
The service is now offered globally to answer exercise involving UK spread betting providers, with the queries efficiently, to provide reassurance and to speed survey also providing very useful insights into the areas up the client application process.
Livechat is also very where we have further room for improvement.
Meanwhile, popular with our existing clients because it provides a more our service was rated as good or very good by 89% of immediate and personal answer than email especially spread bettors and 81% of CFD traders who responded to an when speed is of the essence and is more discreet 1 independently conducted satisfaction survey.
Our teams are trained to deal with client queries as quickly and comprehensively as possible.
In order to measure our progress we have also put in place a Looking ahead, we are working to increase the functionality series of more stretching targets for next year.
These include of our livechat tools to enable clients and the client service answering all dealing calls within ten seconds, answering all team to share screenshots to help resolve queries: we are customer service calls within 15 seconds, responding to client also exploring the potential for video chat.
emails within two hours and responding to a livechat request within 20 seconds.
We have commissioned a new contact centre management tool.
This tool will manage engagement with clients across all channels, including social media and livechat, and facilitate more regular proactive contact with higher value clients.
We have designed a peer-to-peer support service, which will go live in the first half of next year, with the aim being to build a forum where clients can engage with and support one another on elements of trading such as charts, mobile apps, market events and technical analysis.
We envisage this IG Community being a closed group for the first six to nine months to allow us to trial and perfect the offer and the technology.
In time we expect clients to be able to move seamlessly between trading on the platform and peer support, and to integrate the service into our mobile apps.
1 Survey provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2014.
| 26 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP Our original concentration on delivering technological We have also built our stockbroking offer to integrate excellence assisted us in building a highly profitable business.
seamlessly with all our platforms and it is currently being Our financial strength now enables us to maintain a high rolled out into selected markets around the globe.
We believe level of investment in IT development and infrastructure it is the most advanced offering in the market as, distinct from to keep at the forefront of the industry, with a superior other providers, it provides a straightforward choice between platform, technology, tools and resources.
In the last year a quote-based order or going directly to the exchange.
As this has resulted in 99.29% of deals being executed in under well as providing greater price transparency in the UK, it 1 2 0.1seconds and a core platform uptime of 99.95%.
allows clients to trade in US shares in all sessions, thereby enabling extended hours trading.
We also permit clients to We appreciate the importance of technology in underpinning use their shares as collateral for their leveraged trading.
the trading experience of our clients.
Consequently, in the last year we have introduced various enhancements to Our IT team remains focused on innovating to provide our improve the client experience, for example: a more flexible clients with the latest in cutting-edge technology to help layout which allows panels to be tabbed together: enabling them trade international markets.
For example, on 10 April markets to be dragged and dropped on to charts and into 2015, the day the Apple Watch was available for pre-order, watchlists: and the ability to rebase markets on charts to we announced that we were one of the first online trading improve comparability.
providers to build an Apple Watch app that automatically installs itself on to a clients watch if they have the IG app on We have also sought to support more valuable active their iPhone.
Via a one-tap login, clients are able to buy and traders who want to deal in larger quantities by improving sell stocks, trade CFDs and spread bet across a number of our execution of large orders and allowing clients to submit asset classes: monitor their existing positions: receive push partial orders to us.
For clients who are new to our products, notifications and view upcoming market events.
Available in we now allow permanent demo accounts, and we are allowing 12 languages and fully localised, this is our first move into clients with live trading accounts to also have an additional wearable technology and offers a new, light-touch and more demo account where they can test automated and new instantaneous way to trade and monitor the financial markets.
In addition to this activity: We launched a web API for our more sophisticated traders, allowing clients to automate their trading by building their own software to create trading strategies We rolled out the economic calendar to our mobile apps, with push message alerts on the release of economic figures We also implemented changes to our mobile charts, with improved data quality, speed and usability Going forward, the strength of our platform and its proven resilience across web, mobile and tablet devices is essential to maintaining client satisfaction, retention and acquisition and keeps us at the forefront of the industry.
We will therefore continue to invest to maintain our competitive advantage.
1 99.29% of trades executed in 0.1 seconds: IG globally 12 months to 31 May 2015.
2 99.95% core platform uptime: IG globally 12 months to 31 May 2015.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 27
