WHAT WE DO We offer our clients fast and flexible trading on a range of instruments including indices, shares, forex and commodities on award-winning platforms.
Wealso offer trading opportunities on interest rates, government bonds, exchange-traded funds ETFs and anumber of other markets.
The vast majority of our clients engage directly with us, and we aim to build a long-term relationship with them by anticipating and responding to their changing needs through technological and service innovation.
Most of our global revenue comes from CFDs and financial spread betting in the UK and Ireland, with an increasing proportion arising from binaries trading, including our US retail derivatives exchange, Nadex.
This year we introduced execution-only stockbroking in the UK and Ireland and began our international roll-out of this product in the Netherlands in March.
Worked examples of our major products are shown below.
CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE CFDs CFDs are derivatives contracts that enable clients to take advantage of changes in an assets price, without owning the asset itself.
1 CFD provider We offer global CFD trading, including direct market access DMA to shares and forex markets The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a CFD can be used to sell a market when you expect it to fall.
This is known as going short.
In this scenario, a subsequent fall in the market price results in a profit for the client while a rise would have resulted in a loss.
The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a CFD trade on page 180.
THE TRADE You open a trade for 500 contracts MARKET at the market price of 320p RISE COMMISSION 370p 10.00 CLOSING MARKET PRICE SIZE SHARES 350p PRICE 320p 500 If you expect the market MARKET to fall, you sell at the 320p PRICE MARKET PRICE GOING SHORT MARKET PRICE RISES CLOSING 290p PRICE CLOSING PRICE LOSS 270p 350p 150.00 The market moves by 30p MARKET FALL CLOSING PRICE PROFIT 290p 150.00 MARKET PRICE FALLS 1 Based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2015.
| 14 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 SPREAD BETTING 1 Financial spread betting in the UK and Ireland is a tax-free way to trade by betting on the price movement of an asset.
Like a CFD, a client takes advantage of changes in an assets price, without owning the asset itself, and the size of a clients win or loss depends on the magnitude and direction of the price movement.
2 We are the UKs largest and longest-running spread betting provider 3 We hold 40% of the UK financial spread betting market The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a spread bet can be used to buy a market when you expect it to rise.
This is known as going long.
In this scenario, a subsequent rise in the market price results in a profit for the client while a fall would result in a loss.
The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a spread bet on page 182.
THE DEAL You open a position for 10.00 per point MARKET at the offer price of 1001 RISE SIZE PER POINT BUY OFFER PRICE 1002 10.00 1001 If you expect the market to rise, you buy at the IG BUY OFFER 1001 OFFER PRICE PRICE MARKET PRICE RISES GOING LONG THE UNDERLYING PROFIT SELL BID PRICE 1000 MARKET VALUE SPREAD 60.00 1007 IG SELL BID 0999 PRICE The market moves by eight points LOSS SELL BID PRICE 0998 100.00 0991 MARKET MARKET PRICE FALLS FALL STOCKBROKING Our stockbroking service, which launched in the UK in the second quarter of the year, is powered by our existing market-leading technology and provides clients with access to live streaming prices and a transparent execution process, as well as a cost-effective way to trade international equities.
At the end of November we enhanced the offering by giving clients the ability to use their share portfolio as collateral to support their shorter-term trading with CFDs or spread betting.
Clients can benefit from lower charges if they have executed at least ten stockbroking transactions or placed at least one spread bet or CFD trade in the previous month.
Fora detailed stockbroking example please see page 184.
1 Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances.
1 spread betting provider: based on number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2014.
3 By number of active primary accounts.
All market share data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited please refer to the Investor Resources section on page 190 for further details.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 15 WHAT WE DO CONTINUED Our centralised operating model enables us to consolidate BINARIES the market risk associated with client trades from around Our pioneering binary contracts are based on a single the globe, which lessens our requirement to hedge due to question: Will the underlying market behave in a specific way the net impact of clients buying and selling the same asset, before the contract expires?.
Clients use their knowledge of and so reduces risk and cost.
This model also enables us to the financial markets to decide whether the answer will be yes maintain lower-cost and capital-efficient processes, while or no.
We also offer sprint markets high-speed, fixed-risk robust risk-management procedures help us monitor and trades.
Our binary contracts give clients the opportunity to control the impact of market and credit risk on the company trade in even the flattest markets.
The main attributes of binary contracts are that they enable Our exposure to market risk at any point in time depends clients to trade with limited risk and are unrestricted by primarily on short-term market conditions and the levels of low volatility, therefore remaining attractive to clients when client activity.
We utilise market position limits for operational markets are relatively stable.
efficiency and do not take proprietary positions based on an expectation of market movements.
As a result, not all NORTH AMERICAN DERIVATIVES net client exposures are hedged and we are likely to have EXCHANGE NADEX a residual net position in any of the financial markets in which we offer products up to the market risk limit.
The Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US and costs associated with the hedging of market risk as well as overseas investors to trade options on global financial any gains or losses incurred on the unhedged residual net markets in retail-sized contracts.
position are reported within revenue, along with the charges Nadex is the first and largest US-based levied on our clients.
retail-oriented exchange We provide a flexible way for our clients to trade with limited risk The main product on Nadex is the binary option HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE Our principal revenue sources on our core leveraged products are the dealing spreads or commission charges we apply to each transaction, according to the asset and product type being traded.
As clients are trading on margin, we also levy a financing charge for positions held overnight.
Our stockbroking offer charges a flat fee commission per trade in UK shares.
We derive our earnings from the volume of our clients dealing transactions, which is influenced by the level of activity in the underlying financial markets.
Since our clients can choose to buy or sell, dealing volumes can be maintained, and we are able to profit, irrespective of the direction in which markets are moving.
| 16 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
