OUR CLIENTS In the year, we had 136,100 active clients around the globe.
The majority of our customers engage directly with us and our aim is to build a long-term mutually beneficial relationship with them by anticipating and responding to their changing needs throughout their time with us.
We offer them a portfolio of instruments to trade including indices, shares, forex and commodities on award-winning platforms.
In addition, we offer trading opportunities on interest rates, government bonds, exchange-traded funds ETFs and a number of other markets.
We aim to make our platform execution consistently fast and flexible.
We also provide our products through a number of third-party institutional providers that are chosen carefully to ensure they maintain our strict standards of regulatory compliance as well as fitting our risk profile.
Of our active clients, approximately 10% were introduced by our partners in the financial year ended 31 May 2015.
The basis of these partnerships varies from straight referral, where an institution refers the client directly to IG, through to full white-labelling of our dealing and back-office systems, where we provide a dealing solution in the branding of the institution.
This allows our partners to generate new revenue streams using their marketing and sales capabilities while relying on our award-winning dealing platforms, and our expertise in dealing, risk management and client services.
Clients introduced to us through partner institutions are able to trade our full product suite over the counter, or if they prefer can trade directly on the underlying exchange via our direct market access products.
Our platform offering encompasses our regular web and mobile platforms, as well as a downloadable proprietary platform specifically designed for institutional users.
We also have web and direct API Application Programming Interface connectivity for those clients who wish to fully integrate their trading strategies to the IG infrastructure via their own front end or any number of third-party solutions.
Our partner relationships are designed to be mutually beneficial, with generous rebates for successful partners, which resulted in 33.7 million of payments being made to partners in the year.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 17 OUR CLIENTS AND US We aim to be responsive to the needs of our clients as they evolve, with the suite of products and services we Expanding product suite: offer.
By achieving this we will Stockbroking NEW IN 2015 attract and retain the most Spread betting active traders.
1 GLOBAL PROVIDER OF CFDS AND FINANCIAL SPREAD BETTING Ongoing investment in Customer Relationship Management BRAND STRENGTH PRODUCT SUITE Our unrivalled global brand We provide clients with an and reputation for integrity and extremely broad product set, transparency are key reasons why both in terms of markets to new clients choose IG as their trade and platform functionality, trading provider.
to enable them to manage their risk.
| 18 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Industry-leading investment in core platform to remain at the forefront of the industry.
News flow provision including economic calendar, alerts and market insight.
IG TV with more than 20 educational videos in multiple languages launched in 2015 Innovative products including: Major Markets App Apple Watch App API introduction TECHNOLOGY ONLINE EDUCATION IG is recognised as a technology Resources such as an economic leader in the industry, with calendar, current news, market a track record of innovation.
insight and educational videos are Weconstantly engage with our designed to assist clients to trade clients to understand what they and to deepen the relationship we require of a trading platform.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 19
