OUR BUSINESS Back in 1974 we invented a new way for people to trade gold.
Sincethen IG has grown to become a global leader in online trading and the 1 worlds No.
In2002 we opened our Melbourne office and we are now located in 20 countries.
IG is a global leader in online trading, providing active traders Technology is key to our client acquisition and retention.
More with fast and flexible access to the worlds financial markets sophisticated clients have greater expectations when it comes through our award-winning dealing platforms.
Since our to a trading platform.
As a result, we invest significantly in inception in 1974 we have opened sales offices in a further 16 ensuring our dealing platforms are not just robust and secure countries across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Australia, but also available via both web-based and downloadable Asia and the US, and serve clients in 164 countries.
We are platforms as well as via a full range of tailored apps for mobile 1 the No.
1 provider of CFDs and spread betting worldwide and tablet devices.
We also invest in providing a range of and in the last year we also launched our execution-only advanced trading and education tools to support our clients stockbroking service in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands.
For more information on our products please see the In 2014 we celebrated our 40th anniversary.
Through the last WhatWe Do section of this report, on page 14.
40 years our operating model and risk management strategy Our industry and our products are highly regulated we have been thoroughly tested and have proved highly resilient.
are regulated by the FCA in the UK and Europe and by the Our long history of profitability has produced the financial equivalent local regulators in other jurisdictions where we strength which is visible today and provides the capital and have a physical presence.
We set out to develop strong and liquidity we need in our regulated environment as well as constructive relationships with regulators and engage with supporting our future growth.
Our business has continually them and policymakers as much as possible both where we adapted to a changing world and the technological and have a licence and in countries where we see the potential for economic backdrop, and we will continue to innovate as we future expansion.
look to the next phase of our growth.
Two years ago we established the clear global brand of IG, with the exception of Nadex, our binaries exchange in the US.
As part of this process we acquired the IG.
com domain name and consolidated our global web traffic through this route.
47% Online leadership is increasingly important in our industry, from a perspective of acquiring, educating and providing a high level of service to clients.
The global nature of our business, coupled with the 136,100 consistent brand, provides us with several advantages.
Over the past yearthis enabled us to launch a global advertising 47% REVENUE 136,100 ACTIVE campaign Live Every Trade based on the more emotional OUTSIDE THE UK CLIENTS side of trading and the factors that can influence success.
WORLDWIDE The campaign included a major television advert, and in the past we would have had to recut such an advert to suit local IG RETAIL markets.
Our centralised operating model has also made it BRANDS easier for us to expand into additional countries, with a wellpractised approach to launching an office and the associated marketing that accompanies it.
1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2015: for spread betting, number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2014.
| 6 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 WHERE WE OPERATE UK EUROPE Introduced the first financial spread betting product in 1974 Entered the market in Germany in 2006, with rapid expansion across Europe from 2007 Offices located in the City of London and Dublin Republic of Ireland Offices located in France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland Annual revenue of 206.0 million in the 2015 financial year, with 60,400 active clients trading Annual revenue of 76.9 million in the 2015 financial year, with 29,800 active clients trading Accounts for 53% of Group revenue Accounts for 20% of Group revenue AUSTRALIA REST OF WORLD Entered the market in 2002 Began expansion in 2006 Office located in Melbourne Offices located in Dubai, Japan, Singapore, South Africa Annual revenue of 58.1 million in the 2015 financial year, and the US with 18,700 active clients trading Annual revenue of 47.4 million in the 2015 financial year, Accounts for 15% of Group revenue with 27,200 active clients trading Accounts for 12% of Group revenue STOCKHOLM OSLO DSSELDORF AMSTERDAM DUBLIN LUXEMBOURG GENEVA LONDON TOKYO DUBAI MADRID CHICAGO JOHANNESBURG SINGAPORE PARIS MILAN MELBOURNE - | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 7
