DIRECTORS REPORT the Financial Statements, as described in note 12, includes this The Directors are pleased to financial years interim dividend and the final dividend from the submit their report, together with previous year, both of which were paid.
the Group Financial Statements The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on for the year ended 31 May 2015.
30October 2015 to those shareholders on the register at 02October 2015.
OPERATIONS OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM In line with our strategic objectives, the Group has branches in Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Ireland, Spain and Sweden.
It has operating subsidiaries in the US, Singapore, Japan, Australia, India, Switzerland, Dubai and Belarus.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND LIKELY FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS We provide a review of the Groups progress, outlining developments during the year and giving an indication of likely The Directors Report comprises pages 102 to 104 of this future developments, in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to report, together with the sections of the Annual Report 53.
The Strategic Report also covers an analysis of the financial incorporated by reference.
position of the Group at the year-end, and information about The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the Directors to our Key Performance Indicators.
present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report and Accounts.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION This information can be found on pages 10 to 53.
The Companys articles of association the Articles are The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 C 11 available from the Groups website, iggroup.
com, or by writing of the Act and as noted in this Directors Report, to include to the Company Secretary at the Groups registered office.
certain matters in its Strategic Report that it would otherwise The Articles can also be obtained from the UK Registrar of be necessary to disclose in the Directors Report.
Amendments to the Articles can only be made by means of a special resolution at a general meeting of the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Companys shareholders.
In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS are set out in this Directors Report and in the Corporate Details of the Directors who held office at the end of the Governance Report on pages 54 to 109 which, together with year are set out on pages 56 to 57 and are incorporated into the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, is incorporated by this report by reference.
We provide information about the reference into this Directors Report.
Directors service contracts, and their interests in the share capital of the Company, in the Directors Remuneration Report ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT on pages 70 to 93.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is set out immediately prior to that section During the year, Jonathan Davie and Martin Jackson stepped of the Annual Report, on page 105, and a statement regarding down as Chairman and Non-Executive Director respectively on the use of the going-concern basis in preparing these Financial 16 October 2014.
On this date, Andy Green, who joined the Statements is provided later in this report.
Board as Deputy Chairman on 9 June 2014, became Chairman The Independent Auditors Report, which sets out the auditors of the Group.
Roger Yates and Tim Howkins will retire from the reporting responsibilities, can be found on pages 106 to 109.
Board at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 15October 2015.
PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS The Groups statutory profit for the year after taxation The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by amounted to 131,933,000 2014: 147,156,000, all of which the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, is attributable to the equity members of the Company the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Board has 2014: 147,156,000. the power to appoint any person as a Director to fill a casual The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of vacancy or as an additional Director, provided the total number 19.70pence per share, amounting to 71,843,000, making a of Directors does not exceed the maximum prescribed in the total of 28.15 pence per share and 102,660,000 for the year.
Any such Director holds office only until the next AGM, Dividends are recognised in the Financial Statements for the and is then eligible to offer himself or herself for election.
year in which they are paid or, in the case of a final dividend, The Articles also require that all those Directors who have been when approved by the shareholders.
The amount recognised in in office at the time of the two previous AGMs, and who did | 102 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 not retire at either of them, must retire as Directors by rotation.
shares can also be found in the Articles.
Details of the Groups Such Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
However, in required regulatory capital are disclosed in note 37 to the line with the Codes recommendation that all directors of FTSE Financial Statements.
350 companies should be subject to annual election, all our VARIATION OF RIGHTS Directors will stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM with the Subject to the provisions of applicable statutes, the rights exception of Roger Yates and Tim Howkins, who are retiring attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the from the Board.
consent in writing of the holders of at least three-quarters in DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors must sanction of a Special Resolution passed at a separate meeting disclose both the nature and extent of any potential or actual of the holders of the shares of that class.
conflicts with the interests of the Company.
We explain the RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES procedure for this in the Board section, on page 61.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles The Group has Directors and Officers liability insurance and certain laws or regulations, such as those related to in place, providing appropriate cover for any legal action insider trading, which may be imposed from time to time.
Qualifying third-party indemnity The Directors and certain employees of the Company are provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act required to obtain the Companys approval prior to dealing in 2006 were in force during the year ended 31 May 2015.
At the the Companys securities.
The Company is not aware of any date of approval of the financial statements these provisions agreements between holders of securities that may result in remain in force for the benefit of the Directors, in relation to restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or have EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF SHARES IN EMPLOYEE incurred to third parties in the course of acting as Directors of SHARE SCHEMES the Company.
The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust do not seek to RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts, In the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No develops new products and services.
voting rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS Information on the required disclosure of the Groups GHG POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE OR emissions for the year ended 31 May 2015 is set out in the PURCHASE THE COMPANYS SHARES Strategic Report on page 37.
The Articles permit the Directors to issue or repurchase the Companys own shares, subject to obtaining shareholders POLITICAL DONATIONS prior approval.
The shareholders gave this approval at the The Company made no political donations to political 2014 AGM.
The authority to issue or buy back shares will organisations or independent election candidates and incurred expire at the 2015 AGM, and it will be proposed at the no political expenditure in the year 2014: nil.
meeting that the Directors be granted new authorities EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT to issue or buy back shares.
The Directors currently have The Company is fully committed to involving employees in all authority to purchase up to 36,606,154 of the Companys aspects of the business.
Detailed information on employee ordinary shares.
However, the Company did not repurchase engagement can be found on page 35 of the Strategic Report.
any of its ordinary shares during the year.
EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES During the year, the Company instructed the trustee of the We give full and fair consideration to applications for Employee Benefit Trust to purchase shares in order to satisfy employment from people with disabilities.
Information on the awards under the Groups share-incentive plan schemes.
Companys policy on employing people with disabilities can be The Company also issued shares in respect of long-term found on page 33 of the Strategic Report.
incentive plan and value-sharing plan schemes.
Details of the shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts and the SHARE CAPITAL amounts paid during the year are disclosed in note 28 to the The Company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, Financial Statements.
As at 31 May 2015, the Companys issued shares comprised 366,157,776 ordinary MAJOR INTEREST IN SHARES shares of 0.005p each, 65,000 B shares of 0.001p and 40,000 Information provided to the Company by major shareholders preference shares of 1.00 each.
Details of movement in the pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA s Disclosure Companys share capital and rights attached to the issued and Transparency Rules DTRs is published via a Regulatory shares are given in notes 26 and 27 to the Financial Statements.
Information Service and is available on the Companys Information about the rights attached to the Companys website.
The following information has been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 103 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of our use of financial instruments and financial risk management are set out in note 35 and 36 to the Financial Statements.
RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS Details of related-party transactions are set out in note 34 to the Financial Statements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING in the Companys issued share capital.
It should be noted The Companys AGM will be held on 15 October 2015.
We set that some of these holdings may have changed since the out details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM in a Company received the notification.
Holders are not required separate circular sent to all shareholders.
to notify the Company of any change until the next applicable INDEPENDENT AUDITORS threshold is reached or crossed.
Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to 31 May 2015 determine their remuneration will be put to shareholders at No.
of shares Percentage the AGM on 15 October 2015.
Massachusetts Financial Services 36,584,986 10.00% GOING CONCERN Company The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements Artemis Investment Management LLP 18,806,983 5.15% on a going-concern basis, which requires them to have Black Rock Inc. 18,313,343 5.01% a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate Cantillon Capital Management LLC 18,258,919 4.99% resources to continue in operational existence for the Prudential PLC Group of Companies 11,066,471 3.00% foreseeable future.
The company was informed of the following movement of notifiable The Directors have reviewed the Groups processes for interest between 31 May 2015 and 20 July 2015. controlling the financial risks to which it is exposed, its 20 July 2015 available liquidity, its regulatory capital position and the annual budget.
As a result of this review, the Directors are No.
of shares Percentage satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue Allianz Global Investors GmbH 18,303,673 4.99% in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
CHANGE OF CONTROL Following any future change of control of the Company, the DIRECTORS STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF Groups banking facilities, which are currently undrawn refer INFORMATION TO AUDITORS to note 18 of the Financial Statements, will be cancelled, and So far as each person who was a Director at the date of any obligations will become immediately due and payable.
approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit There are no agreements between the Company and its information, being information needed by the auditors in Directors or employees providing for compensation on connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors any loss of office or employment that occurs because of are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or a takeover bid.
However, options and awards granted to she is obliged to take as a Director in order to make himself employees under the Companys share schemes and plans or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to may vest on a takeover, under the schemes provisions.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to section RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in accordance with and subject to these provisions.
providing products and services to its clients.
The Board is SUBSEQUENT EVENTS responsible for establishing the overall appetite for these As a result of a review of our contingent liquidity requirements risks, which is detailed and approved in the Risk Appetite and upon approval from the Executive Risk Committee, we Statement.
Our Risk Management Framework is supported have renegotiated and reduced our liquidity facility from by a system of internal controls designed to embed the 200.0 million to 160.0 million.
Further details are set out in management of business risk throughout the Group.
We Note 19 e to the Financial Statements.
outline the risks to which the Group is exposed and our Risk Management Framework, including a description of its system of internal controls, in the Managing Our Business Risk section of the Strategic Report.
| 104 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
