BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES We are committed to growing our alternative asset management activities, capitalising on our global reach and our reputation for high performance and innovation to deliver an increased return on equity for our shareholders.
1 GROW ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT 3 2 Manage invest portfolios to selectively maximise value STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS 1 2 3 GROW ASSETS INVEST MANAGE PORTFOLIOS UNDER MANAGEMENT SELECTIVELY TO MAXIMISE VALUE We aim to increase our third party We aim to invest our assets under We aim to manage our portfolio to assets under management to maximise management on a selective basis maximise returns on invested capital.
the profitability of the business by: to maximise risk adjusted returns.
By doing so we build on our strong track record and generate capital Consolidating and broadening We will utilise: to invest in new products.
The sector specialisations of our We will do this by: Expanding our client base and credit teams.
Reviewing the performance of Our local network of originators.
each investment at least quarterly.
Expanding our product range through A disciplined approach to considering selective acquisitions and team hires.
Engaging regularly with management each investment opportunity.
We will capitalise on our strong track record, in house distribution team Proactively working out problems and ability to develop new investment where appropriate.
strategies through utilising our balance sheet strength.
PRIORITIES FOR FY16 PRIORITIES FOR FY16 PRIORITIES FOR FY16 The Group expects its strong fundraising The Group has substantial third We will continue to actively manage our momentum to continue thereby delivering party capital to deploy on its investment portfolios and proactively on its fundraising target through: investment strategies.
work with management and sponsors on working out problems.
Completing fundraising for the European We aim to deploy the capital raised in funds Senior Debt Partners, UK Real line with the required investment run For our sponsorless transactions in Estate and European Mezzanine.
rate, subject to finding investment our mezzanine funds and secondaries opportunities with the appropriate investment strategy we will actively Consolidate geographical expansion risk return balance.
engage with management to support into the US and Japan by closing their the delivery of their business plan as this first time debt funds.
The Group will maintain its disciplined is critical to maximising the exit value of approach to investment in a highly Raising funds for new strategies, the company.
including the Strategic Secondaries The Group aims to maximise returns in fund and Alternative Credit.
older funds by realising assets to crystallise The first time funds will contribute value for the balance sheet and our fund incremental fee streams to the Group investors.
The timing remains uncertain and increase the operating leverage as it is rarely in the Groups control.
ASSOCIATED PRINCIPAL RISKS ASSOCIATED PRINCIPAL RISKS ASSOCIATED PRINCIPAL RISKS Failure to raise third party funds Failure to execute the Groups Failure to execute the Groups strategic priorities due to unforeseen strategic priorities due to unforeseen Failure to refinance debt as it falls due macroeconomic changes macroeconomic changes Reputational damage due to Failure to deploy capital committed Business risk as a result of exposure a regulatory failing to market movements Unplanned loss of one or more Failure of the Group to meet its key employees Failure to maintain acceptable relative debt covenants investment performance across the majority of funds You can read more about the risks associated with how we create value on pages 3643 20 21
