BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS OUR MARKETS Change in the global economic environment, particularly in the availability of investment capital, is the most significant market driver influencing the delivery of the Groups strategic priorities.
Market conditions which support the Groups fundraising efforts to grow assets under management typically create a more competitive environment in which to invest selectively.
This increased volume of available capital is FUNDRAISING MARKET INVESTMENT MARKET being targeted by a large number of funds In the current economic environment, Our expanded product range and seeking commitments, and competing for the alternative asset industry is benefiting geographical diversity mean there are investors attention.
The resulting selection from strong tailwinds as money continues significant differences between the regions, process is competitive and preference is to pour into higher return asset classes.
sectors and asset classes in which we given to established managers with a strong Traditional asset classes, such as sovereign operate.
Each of our markets is influenced track record, credibility and infrastructure.
bonds, have suffered from a low interest rate by macroeconomic events in different ways.
While the market is still fragmented because environment and institutional investors are However, there are some common features of a high degree of specialism and localism, turning towards higher risk return strategies that provide a broad context to our markets.
it is inevitable that over time investors will in order to generate a better return on their The overriding trend is that the seek to consolidate their relationships, assets.
ICG operates in a rapidly growing attractiveness of alternative asset classes favouring recognised leaders and brands.
component of the global asset management is generating substantial inflows into We are extremely well positioned to take market which is benefiting from a our markets.
This has been aided by the advantage of this fundraising backdrop.
disproportionate share of industry revenues.
announcement by the European Central Our funds offer access to challenging, Our belief is that this is a structural trend Bank that it will undertake quantitative private and less liquid asset classes where which will continue and as a result we are easing and the expectation that interest our teams have consistently generated less likely to suffer from the commoditisation rate rises in the US and elsewhere are still top quality returns and our breadth of which the rest of the asset management some way off.
This has created an increased strategies means that we can provide business faces.
level of competition for assets and could diverse investment solutions to investors.
over time reduce returns across different Increasing momentum in fundraising gives asset classes.
our brand more appeal, as evidenced by In this competitive market environment, recent successes.
In addition, it cements our approach to origination, with local our relationship with investors and increases expert teams, offering flexible and innovative the potential for new product offerings.
structuring skills and sector specialists comes to the fore.
We are able to act quickly to perform the evaluation of complex opportunities as well as source deals off market for our originated funds, while limiting pressure on terms.
Coupled with our strong investment discipline, these are key differentiating factors to be able to generate safe yet attractive investment opportunities.
INVESTORS WANT TO DIVERSIFY AWAY FROM TRADITIONAL ASSET CLASSES.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO INCREASE MARKET SHARE.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS The main market we are targeting globally The demand for new loans, driven by The UK commercial real estate market through different funds and strategies corporate refinancing and acquisitions, bears many of the characteristics of the is the buyout and corporate investment is supported by the issuance of new CLOs wider European loan market, with substantial market.
The recovery of the IPO markets in Europe and the US.
In 2014, CLO funds capital available for investment while banks and an increase in the level of corporate invested in 55% of new loans issued in the remain minority players.
As with our other M&A activity are providing private equity US institutional loan market and 46% of new investment strategies, competition for sponsors with exit routes for their midloans issued in the European institutional prime assets remains high.
However, our market portfolio companies, but it also loan market.
In Europe, the number of deep knowledge of the market, industry reduces the number of potential investment CLO issuers has reduced following the relationships and flexible approach means opportunities.
We have been able to introduction of requirements for CLO we are able to originate attractive deals.
generate attractive investment opportunities managers to put their own capital at risk In summary, while the normalisation of by targeting private companies directly in each vehicle.
Similar regulations are due financial markets and the added inflow of and have had a record level of investment to come into force in the US from 2016 and fresh capital, from which we are strongly by our European funds while our Asian are expected to have a similar effect on the benefiting, have led to a more competitive and US businesses have seen a good flow number of managers who will be able to environment, we have confidence in of opportunities.
the strength of our teams and their A new market segment for us is the private Whilst large companies have much easier ability to generate attractive investment equity secondaries segment where there access to capital markets, the situation opportunities.
This approach has proven is an estimated $100bn of private equity is different for mid-market companies.
highly successful in this past year.
As expected, we have not seen a meaningful assets that are held in funds past their typical holding period, with little incentive increase in bank lending to mid-market for the incumbent manager to sell these corporates.
This can be attributed to a lack assets in the M&A market.
The existing of infrastructure following the withdrawal of secondaries market has evolved to enable many banks to their home markets during the new investors to access these assets thereby financial crisis combined with the regulatory increasing the availability of investment pressures have led to a conservative lending opportunities.
We see this ongoing trend as strategy is designed specifically to address structural and expect the banks appetite this opportunity, with a team that combines for private mid-market lending to remain traditional private equity experience with subdued.
This has contributed to the growth a secondaries market approach, which in alternative asset classes and in particular when supplemented by our existing market the emergence of European direct lending knowledge is a quite unique combination funds, including our own Senior Debt which we believe will be successful.
