BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS We are in the business of designing funds that address the investment opportunities we have identified in the market, for the benefit of our fund investors and shareholders.
We can do this because we maintain an efficient, robust decision-making process, which gets things moving quickly.
ICGs continued success hinges on the skills of our people and remaining flexible and nimble.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS CASE STUDY: TARGETING MARKET OPPORTUNITIES It is estimated that over $100bn of private Our approach is innovative for the well equity assets are invested in funds past established private equity secondaries their typical holding period, and the market and builds on our active manager has not raised a successor fund.
management approach to investments Investors in these funds are unlikely to and broad market and sector knowledge.
recover their remaining investments as During the year, we hired a strategic the manager is no longer incentivised to secondaries team who brought direct maximise the return to their investors as the private equity and fund restructuring fund represents a source of fee income.
skills to complement our existing know Our strategic secondaries business is an how.
The Groups ability to underwrite innovative strategy targeting this specific transactions in anticipation of a future market opportunity by restructuring these fund is critical to demonstrating proof funds.
We do this by partnering with the of concept and to provide comfort to incumbent manager to acquire the fund potential investors that we are aligned from the existing investors.
asset management strategy linked to reset We have completed one transaction incentives for the incumbent manager can and are preparing to launch a dedicated deliver highly attractive returns to new fund during the next financial year.
We offer innovative Strategies and funds 10 11 BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS We pride ourselves on an ability to reach mutually beneficial funding agreements with the companies in which we invest.
As these companies are unique, we are flexible about the form these arrangements take.
This approach, combined with our ongoing involvement, means that we frequently benefit from follow on opportunities.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS CASE STUDY: TAILORED INVESTMENT SOLUTIONS Our direct investment funds have the has been used to support the merger flexibility to deploy capital to suit the of these two businesses, allowing the needs of the company in which we acquiring company to repay a short term invest.
This flexible investment strategy acquisition financing facility and fund the means that each deal has unique terms, deferred consideration.
as illustrated by two of the transactions Groupe Charlois is a French manufacturer completed during the year.
of oak barrels targeting global premium Perpetual Guardian Trust is a New wine and spirit manufacturers.
Our capital Zealand based personal and corporate has been designed to allow management trust services business formed from the to maintain and increase their ownership merger of two long established trust in the family business after the minority companies in 2014.
Our funds investment shareholder sought to sell their holding.
We provide f lexible capital 12 13 BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS We have been expanding geographically.
In moving beyond Europe we have reduced our exposure to geographical risk and built shareholder value.
Operating out of 11 countries, including the worlds largest economies, is a marker of our status as a global business.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS CASE STUDY: EXPANSION INTO NORTH AMERICA AND JAPAN We have expanded our investment During the financial year, the fund business into Japan, through our 50:50 raised 60m of third party money from partnership with Nomura, and into the US.
The Groups mezzanine strategies now North America has the largest and most cover the worlds largest economies with mature financial market with substantial the launch of dedicated North America opportunities to raise capital for new and Japanese mezzanine funds.
In addition, there In Japan, the returns offered by investing is an extensive market to deploy capital in mezzanine assets in an economy to mid market companies.
with zero interest rates and an ageing We have raised a total of 488m for our population have proven attractive North American debt fund and raised to Japanese investors.
Furthermore, three US CLOs, which are fully invested.
the demand for mezzanine debt In parallel our US investment team has from Japanese companies has been completed three transactions in private increasing in popularity in recent years debt, leveraging our 26 year track record.
as a means to finance acquisitions and This illustrates the Groups ability to corporate transactions.
expand its geographical reach where Within a year of signing the joint venture suitable opportunities arise.
agreement with Nomura a fund was structured, established and marketed and the team had closed two transactions.
Our footprint is expanding globally 14 15 BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS Since 1989, we have made it our business to develop products that enable us to capitalise on market opportunities.
By offering the right products at the right time, and investing in the right companies, we have gained the trust of our business partners.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS CASE STUDY: SENIOR DEBT ORIGINATION New investment strategies contribute The Group saw the opportunity to incremental fee streams to the Group expand the strategy into new geographies and with successor funds improve the and asset classes as the banking operating leverage of the FMC.
During the year we have broadened the senior debt In 2014 the Group completed its strategy to the UK real estate asset class, fundraising for a new strategy, Senior raising segregated mandates from large Debt Partners.
This fund was established UK pension funds as a precursor to a to provide investors with an opportunity potential future fund.
to access the European senior secured loan market, a specialist private debt The Group is also considering further asset class.
This fund is now substantially geographical expansion of senior debt invested and is fee earning.
origination, potentially into the US and Asia.
During the year a first close of the successor fund took place, with 1.3bn of capital raised.
This capital will generate fees as it is invested, with little additional cost.
