20 OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Progress on our strategy 1 EXPANDING OUR FOOTPRINT In our home credit business, we The expansion of our digital business We intend to grow in our opened a further two locations is a major strategic opportunity and existing markets and in Mexico and achieved national we will focus on developing our coverage in Lithuania and Bulgaria new markets in Poland, Australia new countries both in the first half of 2015. and Spain.
We are also actively organically and considering commencing The creation of IPF Digital, following through acquisitions.
the acquisition of MCB Finance, brought four new countries Finland, Progress in 2015 Estonia, Latvia and Australia as well Our key objectives for 2015 were to as greatly increasing our presence in return our home credit business to Lithuania.
We expanded our digital growth after a slowdown at the end presence in Poland and Australia of 2014 and grow our digital lending and issued our first digital loans offering.
The implementation of a to customers in Spain in range of growth actions, together December 2015. with expanding our geographic footprint, supported a 7% increase Future targets in customer numbers to 2.8 million.
We see substantial opportunities to However, intensifying competition expand our home credit businesses and regulatory changes impacted in Mexico and Romania-Bulgaria, our European home credit businesses which have not achieved where customer numbers contracted market maturity.
Consequently, we focused on improving efficiency in the business and reduced agent numbers.
Rationale Customer numbers demonstrate The number of agents determines our scale and reach in our how many customers we can serve.
While growth We motivate and guide agents to of our customer base is critically develop their customer portfolios important to our continued and retain quality customers.
success, we will reject potential new customers and not seek to retain existing customers who contravene our credit policies or have a poor repayment record.
Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 21 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 2 IMPROVING CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT competitive offering.
Most of our out of our home, life and family We will expand our home credit businesses introduced personal accident cover.
product set and, moving shorter-term loans of around three We made excellent progress in months in response to demand from forward, focus on adding developing our digital lending some consumers to repay loans over digital channels and proposition to reach new customers shorter terms.
We extended our range who want to borrow digitally and using technology to of longer-term loans and now offer communicate remotely.
We now offer home credit loans repayable up make our customer digital credit through three brands to 130 weeks in Europe.
We also hapiloans, Credit 24 and Sving.
We journey as easy launched a monthly home credit also began testing a Provident digital offering in our established as possible.
loan in Poland to leverage our strong European markets.
brand awareness and customer Progress in 2015 Our insurance propositions, which traffic to our websites, which also Customer retention and our are sold with our home credit loans now feature online decision in customer service score have in some markets, continue to be well principle functionality.
remained broadly stable during a valued by our customers.
In Mexico, period where we have experienced Future targets 320,000 customers have chosen to growing competition and slower Having expanded our product set take Provident Plus family life and growth in some of our considerably in the past three years, medical assistance cover since it European markets.
we will focus on adding digital was launched in July 2014.
In Poland, channels and using technology an optional medical policy is offered In 2015, we continued our strategy to improve the customer journey.
and since February 2015 we have to broaden our product portfolio sold around 270,000 of these policies.
to create a more appealing and In Hungary, we achieved national roll KPIs 57.1% 48.5 Customer retention % Customer service score 2013 57.4 2013 50.0 2014 2014 58.4 49.0 2015 57.1 2015 48.5 Definition The proportion of customers who The score is a net promoter score are being retained for their third and is based on those home credit or subsequent loan.
customers who make a clear statement that they would recommend our service to a colleague or friend.
Rationale Our ability to retain customers is Excellent customer service drives central to achieving our financial improved and sustained revenue targets and growth ambitions and growth through existing customers is a key indicator of the quality of and through them becoming our customer service.
We do not advocates of our brand and retain customers who have a poor product.
It is also a key measure of payment history as it can create our objective to treat customers fairly.
a continuing impairment risk and runs counter to our responsible lending commitments.
22 OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED 3 DEVELOPING A SALES CULTURE growth and improving our customers allow us to refer consumers who fail We will further develop experience, this new approach frees our digital credit score to our home the relationship between up our Development Managers credit business.
to focus on developing high our home credit and While we expect some short-term performance teams and more digital businesses, and effects of our new sales and service closely co-operate with agents organisational structure on our strengthen our sales and their customers.
employee and agent retention, the and service capability.
The introduction of our digital aim of the new approach is expected offerings in Poland and Lithuania, to enhance retention in years to come.
Progress in 2015 where we also have home credit We grew customers by 7% and Future targets operations, has enabled us to at constant FX rates we delivered We will implement the sales and develop a flow of business between a 13% increase in credit issued service organisational structure in digital and home credit to optimise and grew revenue by 4%.
all our home credit businesses.
referrals and acceptance rates in these markets.
This is at an early We implemented a new sales and We will also further develop the stage of development, but we service organisational structure and relationship between our home credit believe it will be important in helping ways of working for our customerand digital business models in markets us retain home credit customers who facing functions in Hungary.
Focused where both offerings are available.
are looking for a digital offering and on driving efficient and sustainable KPIs Employee Agent 376 735.4M 74.5% 65.6% Employee and agent retention % Credit issued per customer Revenue M 2013 82.2 2013 67.6 2013 2013 421 746.8 81.1 2014 2014 392 2014 783.2 2014 65.2 2015 376 2015 735.4 2015 74.5 65.6 2015 Employee Agent Definition The proportion of employees and The value of money loaned to Revenue is income generated from agents who have been working customers measured over the customer receivables.
with us for more than 12 months.
Rationale Experienced people help us This is a key driver of profit per Most of our business costs are achieve and sustain strong customer.
Credit issued per relatively fixed.
As revenues increase in customer relationships and deliver customer should increase over line with customer numbers and a high quality of service, both of time and is driven partly by good receivables, developing markets move which are central to achieving repayment behaviour.
We adopt a into profitability, and profits and good customer retention.
Good low and grow strategy and only margins grow rapidly.
retention also helps reduce costs issue more credit to a customer of recruitment and training, once his or her creditworthiness is enabling more investment to be proven.
Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 23 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 4 EFFECTIVE EXECUTION robust collections performance and In response to changes to legislative We will invest in the contribution from debt sales, led processes, we have increased the technology to improve to an improvement in impairment level of monitoring of regulatory as a percentage of revenue.
matters, strengthened our anticipation our customer service, and engagement capabilities increase efficiency and We continued to control costs tightly in-market and renewed our but the contraction in revenue reduce our cost base.
association and sector resulted in an increase in the reputation strategy.
Credit Progress in 2015 exceptions increased mainly in Our Transformation for Growth Future targets Poland and the Czech Republic.
We T4G programme to modernise A formal review of T4G resulted in have taken action and are starting to the home credit business model the future scope of the programme see improvements in these levels.
underpinned a number of strategic being focused on efficiency.
We also faced a will implement a cost optimisation We launched responsive websites to number of challenges which led programme to drive operating enable our home credit customers in to some delivery delays.
efficiencies through agent handheld Europe to apply for loans online and technology and our new sales and receive an instant decision in We introduced a credit decisioning service organisational structure.
We also began a test of system linked to credit bureaux information on our T4G programme handheld technology for agents.
to enable better quality lending can be found on page 58. decisions.
This, together with a KPIs 3.6% 25.7% 41.4% Credit exceptions % Impairment % Cost-income % 2013 2013 2013 2.3 26.6 39.5 2014 3.0 2014 28.1 2014 38.8 2015 3.6 2015 25.7 2015 41.4 Definition Credit exceptions are recorded The amount charged as a cost Direct expenses of running in those cases where lending to the income statement as a the business, excluding agents has exceeded one or more result of customers defaulting on commission, as a percentage credit parameters defined contractual loan payments stated of revenue.
in the Group credit rules.
Rationale Our credit policies set out our basis Profitability is maximised by The cost-income ratio is useful for responsible lending.
They also optimising the balance between for comparing performance set limits for lending activity that growth and credit quality.
reflect our credit risk appetite.
a good measure for comparing performance across markets and we aim to maintain this ratio between 25% and 30%.
