44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUR BOARD AND COMMITTEES Key strengths and contributions: Gerard has 1.
TONY HALES CBE over 25 years multi-country experience in N Chairman, age 56 Senior independent non-executive director, consumer fi financial services and provides A N R Dan joined the Board on 2 January 2015. age 67 the Company with strong leadership.
Tony joined the Board at the time of Appointments and qualifi cations: Dan was demerger in July 2007.
ADRIAN GARDNER previously a non-executive director of CRH plc and Chairman of Allied Irish Banks plc Appointments and qualifi cations: Tony D E Chief Financial Offi cer, age 53 from July 2009 to October 2010.
In addition, was previously Chairman of Canal & River Adrian joined the Board on 2 January 2014.
Dan spent 10 years as CEO of GE Consumer Trust, Chief Executive of Allied Domecq plc, Finance Europe and was Senior Vice Appointments and qualifi cations: Chairman of Workspace Group plc and President of General Electric.
He was also Adrian was CFO of RSM Tenon Group plc NAAFI, and a non-executive director of a non-executive director of one of Turkeys overseeing its restructuring from late 2011 Provident Financial plc, Welsh Water plc, largest banks, Garanti Bank.
He was previously CFO of PA Aston Villa plc, HSBC Bank plc and Reliance of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Consulting Group Limited and ProStrakan Security Group plc.
He graduated in in Ireland and has a Masters Degree in Group plc and a Managing Director of Chemistry from the University of Bristol and Accounting.
He is a non-executive director Lazard LLC.
He graduated in Engineering is currently Chairman of the Greenwich of Glanbia plc, Argentum Property HoldCo Science and is a Fellow of the Institute Foundation, a non-executive director Limited and Activate Capital Ltd. of Chartered Accountants.
He is a nonof Capital & Regional plc and a board executive director of Amdocs Limited, a member of The Services Sound and Vision Key strengths and contributions: Dan NYSE listed software and services business.
He is also a director of Welsh has over 30 years experience in large National Opera Limited and chairs NAAFI international and fi financial services Key strengths and contributions: Adrian Pension Fund Trustees.
businesses and has brought strong has over 10 years experience as a Chief strategic leadership in his role as Chairman.
Financial Offi cer with specifi c skills in Key strengths and contributions: Tony has fi financial matters, funding, delivering strong business expertise, having been change and M&A-driven growth.
GERARD RYAN in profi t and non-profi t sectors.
He has D E N Chief Executive Offi cer, age 51 extensive knowledge of our business Gerard joined the Board on as well as having chaired and been 17 January 2012. a member of various committees since appointment.
Committee membership key Appointments and qualifi cations: A Audit and Risk Committee Gerard was previously CEO for Citigroups Disclosure Committee consumer fi finance businesses in the Western D Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
He E Executive Committee was a director of Citi International plc, Egg Nomination Committee N plc and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney UK.
R Remuneration Committee Earlier in his career, Gerard was CFO of Transformation for Growth Committee T Garanti Bank, Turkey and CEO of GE Money Bank, Prague.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Char of Char of Chart t ter er ered ed ed Account Account Accountants in Ir ants in Ir ants in Ireland.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 45 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Forum and Trustee of the Peter Jones 5.
He holds a Diploma in Independent non-executive director, Independent non-executive director, Corporate Finance and Accounting from A R N R T age 58 age 53 London Business School and has a Masters Jayne joined the Board on 23 June 2015.
Cathryn joined the Board on Honours Degree in Law from St Catharines 12 February 2014.
He is a Fellow of Appointments and qualifi cations: Jayne set the Association of Chartered Certifi ed up equity release fi rm Stonehaven and was Appointments and qualifi cations: Previously Accountants.
He is currently Chief CEO and then Executive Chairman until Cathryn was Group Chief Operations Offi cer Executive Offi cer of Eir Limited, and an 2014.
She has previously been Managing at Aviva plc.
Other roles with Aviva included advisory board member of Tiaxa, Inc. Chile.
Director of Barclays Home Finance business, Group CIO, UK Commercial Director, COO Group Marketing Director and Strategy and Customer Experience Director of UK Life Key strengths and contributions: Richard Director at Lloyds TSB, Managing Director plus she was chair of Aviva Healthcare UK Ltd, has more than 20 years international of Lloyds TSBs European Internet banking Aviva Healthcare UK Ltd, Aviva Global Services telecoms experience in senior business and a senior partner at LEK and Hill House Hammond.
Her other roles management roles and provides Consulting.
Jayne graduated in Philosophy, included GM of Transformation at BUPA and fi financial and operational expertise Politics and Economics from the University a principal consultant in the fi financial services along with international experience.
She is currently on the Council division at Coopers & Lybrand.
She has an of Oxford University and Chair of its Audit MA in Manpower Studies, completed CeDEPs 7.
JOHN MANGELAARS and Scrutiny Committee.
General Management Programme, was a Independent non-executive director, graduate of the Institute of Personnel HR Key strengths and contributions: Jayne N T age 51 Management and is currently a nonhas over 20 years experience in fi financial John joined the Board on 22 July 2015. executive director of ACE European Group services and is an experienced nonLtd and ACE Underwriting Agencies Ltd as executive director.
She has a strong Appointments and qualifi cations: John well as AA Insurance Services Ltd and The background in consumer fi finance, worked previously for Microsoft for over Equitable Life Assurance Society.
20 years specialising, in more recent years, in the sales and marketing of online Key strengths and contributions: Cathryn has products, MSN Messenger, Hotmail and over 20 years experience in insurance and 6.
He graduated from the Higher School fi financial services together with international Independent non-executive director, of Economics in The Hague with a Bachelor roles.
She is an experienced non-executive A R T age 61 in Information and Communication director, having sat on the board of The Richard joined the Board on 1 July 2012.
Technology B ICT and is currently the CEO Equitable Life Assurance Society since 2009 of online travel agency Travix International.
and also chairs its Remuneration Committee.
Appointments and qualifi cations: Richard She brings a wealth of experience in major was previously Deputy CEO and CFO of Key strengths and contributions: John IT transformation programmes, implementing Everything Everywhere Limited, the UKs has considerable experience in sales and new distribution channels and largest mobile telecoms company.
He was e-commerce, which will support expansion customer service.
Managing Director of T-Mobile UK Limited of our digital lending business and and Chief Executive of Orange Romania SA, the Companys objective to increase Orange Denmark A S and Orange Thailand penetr penetr penetration in online sales c ation in online sales c ation in online sales channels hannels hannels... Limit Limit Limited.
He w He w He was pr as pr as pre e eviously Chair of the viously Chair of the viously Chair of the A A ACC CC CCA A A Account Account Accountants f ants f ants for Business Global or Business Global or Business Global 7.
