58 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TRANSFORMATION FOR GROWTH COMMITTEE REPORT T4G remains at the heart of our strategy to deliver effi ciency and maximise value.
John Mangelaars Chairman 2015 objectives 2015 achievements 2016 objectives Broaden the range of products New monthly product introduced Focus on deliverables that offered to customers and amend across European markets.
bring effi ciency benefi ts.
products as required because Shorter and longer-term loan Roll out agent mobile of regulatory changes.
New functionality to support Develop a new Customer Complete roll out of sales and product changes in Poland.
Relationship Management CRM service organisation design Proxxi roll out completed.
system for implementation in Mexico across all home credit markets.
Complete implementation of approach to organisation design.
Develop a new sales and service new CRM system in Mexico.
New sales and service organisation design.
organisation design Develop and introduce agent introduced in Hungary.
CDS introduced in all markets.
Roll out standard Credit Decisioning Credit bureaux used as part of System CDS across all markets.
credit decisioning in all markets.
Decision in principle website functionality introduced across Europe.
OVERVIEW Committee members John Mangelaars Chairman member from 24 Role September 2015: Chair from 1 January 2016 The Committees responsibilities include: David Broadbent until 23 February 2016 supporting the T4G programme and executive Edyta Kurek until 16 January 2015 management to ensure it delivers quality outcomes Richard Moat at speed and within approved budgets: Cathryn Riley Chair until 31 December 2015 briefi ng the Board on progress and making Christopher Rodrigues until 30 April 2015 recommendations in relation to issues that need to be escalated to the Board for consideration approval: providing assurance to the Board that benefi ts are being delivered, costs are being controlled and T4G is supported effectively by appropriate, reliable plans and governance: and authorising commitments within fi financial limits delegated by the Board.
Composition A quorum is three members.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 59 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 We stated that the implementation of a new CRM ACTIVITIES IN 2015 system in Mexico and Hungary was an objective for 2015.
A number of complications were experienced in Mexico, Meetings primarily in respect of the integration of the new CRM The Committee met fi five times during the year.
system with other legacy systems and the transfer of Throughout 2015, the Committee continued its oversight data between them.
This prompted the Committee of each of the programme workstreams to ensure that to review the benefi ts of a new Group CRM system delivery remained on track and the risks, costs and in comparison with the cost of development and the benefi ts were being considered.
The decision was taken to retain legacy CRM systems and pause the roll out of the new In January, the Committee visited our Polish system.
The new Mexico CRM system is, however, and Hungarian businesses to see how some of the scheduled to go live in early 2016. programme deliverables were supporting the business locally.
In Poland, the Committee got into the detail of Issues with the Group CRM implementation and agent product changes that had been delivered as part of the technology caused the Committee to recommend programme, including a monthly product, changes to the bringing in an independent third party to review the core home collected product and decision in principle programme and Tori Global were engaged to undertake functionality for the website.
An Area Manager and a a programme review and report back to management member of the Learning & Development team joined the and the Committee with its fi findings.
Following discussion meeting to give an overview of the innovative, multiat the Committee and the Board, major reshaping of channel approach to training that had been used to the programme has followed.
T4G is now focusing on help embed the changes, including self-study and the deliverables that will bring effi ciency benefi ts and the use of video clips, in addition to formal training sessions.
programme management and technical oversights of these aspects have been strengthened signifi cantly.
A key objective of T4G is to modernise our home credit business through the introduction of technology for the fi eld workforce and through the implementation of a new organisation design for the sales and service function.
In Hungary, the Committee received a demonstration of the handheld devices that are being piloted by agents.
They were also introduced to the dedicated team that had spent a number of weeks in Budapest in the early part of John Mangelaars the year to design the detailed approach to be adopted Chair on the new organisation design.
Throughout the year, the programmes organisation design work stream received a lot of attention from the Committee, not least because its key objective is to improve both the sales effectiveness and the effi ciency of our sales and service workforce of over 3,300 employees and 28,500 agents: but also because such changes create signifi cant people engagement and retention risks.
The Committee returned to Hungary in October to meet representatives of the sales and service function who were operating under the new model and were pleased to see that people were motivated and that early indications from a business performance perspective were positive.
The new Credit Decision System was implemented in all markets and this, supported by integration with local credit bureaux, is the key driver of loan offers to both new and existing customers.
In turn, this new technology means that we are now able to provide a decision in principle for potential home credit customers who apply for a loan through one of our websites the decision is in principle because the customer will have their application information verifi ed by the agent in their home before the loan is fully approved.
This functionality has been introduced in all the European markets.
