48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD REPORT This section looks at our Board members, the role of the Board, its performance and its oversight.
Dan OConnor Chairman 2015 objectives 2015 achievements 2016 objectives Focus on growth through: Regular updates on brand and Monitor implementation of new product received.
product proposition in Poland in monitoring progress of new response to new pricing restrictions.
product developments including Launched IPF Digital in Spain monthly home credit loans and in December 2015.
Oversee run-off of agent-delivered small business loans: home credit operations in Slovakia.
Focused on Board composition reviewing investment cases for and succession planning.
Continued oversight of regulatory new markets and potential and competition risk.
Strengthened the Board with the acquisition opportunities: appointment of Jayne Almond and Review investment opportunities to continuing focus on development John Mangelaars as independent achieve top-line growth in IPF Digital.
and leadership, including Board non-executive directors.
Oversee growth plans for home succession planning: and Oversaw the acquisition and credit business in Mexico, Romania monitoring the integration integration of MCB Finance and and Bulgaria.
subsequent creation of IPF Digital.
Focus on effi ciency through: Build sustainability through: Navigated changes in the Polish use of technology to increase ensuring a continued focus and Slovakian legislative customer experience and reduce on regulatory risk and the environment.
cost base: and management thereof: Led an independent review strengthening sales and service monitoring progress of the of the T4G programme.
T4G programme: and Continued focus on leadership Approved additional funding under keeping abreast of developments and development.
Eurobond and Polish Medium Term in the competitive environment.
Meetings The Board held eight scheduled meetings in 2015, four ad hoc meetings and one strategy retreat.
Board members Dan OConnor Chairman formerly Chairman-elect, from 2 January 2015 Christopher Rodrigues Chairman until 30 April 2015 Gerard Ryan Adrian Gardner David Broadbent until 23 February 2016 Tony Hales Jayne Almond from 23 June 2015 Edyta Kurek until 16 January 2015 John Mangelaars from 22 July 2015 Richard Moat Nicholas Page until 17 December 2015 Cathryn Riley Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 49 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Matters considered by the Board in 2015 January Update on People and Organisation Planning.
Consideration of Board evaluation results.
February 2014 Group financial results, Annual Report and Financial Statements and 2015 AGM notice reviewed.
Update of the Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
Review of Group Schedule of Key Risks and Risk Appetite Statements.
Approval of the Audit and Risk Committees recommendation that the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess performance, business model and strategy.
Recommendation to re-appoint Deloitte as the auditor of the Company approved.
1 April Approval of additional fundraising under the existing Eurobond programme.
April Update of the Polish Medium Term Note Programme and approval of a new issue thereunder.
IPF Digital: business update, and review and approval in principle of Spanish business case.
Q1 2015 trading update statement reviewed and approved.
Advisory reports from proxy voting agencies reviewed.
Cathryn Rileys appointment to Nomination Committee approved.
1 May Approval of a significant contract in relation to the Mexican business.
June Update on a number of actions from the strategy retreat.
Functional update: Health and Safety.
Approval of Jayne Almonds appointment to the Board.
Technical briefing on Inside Information, Announcements and Investor Relations.
1 July Discussion of proposed revisions to draft total cost of credit amendment law in Poland and associated disclosure obligations.
July Update on Polish legislation.
Share buyback programme approved with a view to reducing equity to receivables ratio towards target of 40%.
Functional update: New Markets and Acquisitions.
Group results for the first six months and the 2015 half year financial report reviewed.
Declaration of interim dividend approved.
Issue of invitations to employees under the Save As You Earn and Have Your Share schemes approved.
Review of Group Schedule of Key Risks.
Approval of John Mangelaars appointment to the Board.
September Update on Poland and product proposition.
Update on competition, product development and brand.
Technical briefing on accounting for impairment.
Approval of Jayne Almonds and John Mangelaars Board Committee membership.
October Presentation by Tori following review of T4G programme.
Discussion of potential financial impact of Polish legislation changes.
IPF Digital: approval of Mexican business case.
Business updates on the Southern European businesses.
Discussion of Q3 2015 trading update statement.
1 December Discussion of proposed revisions to consumer legislation in Slovakia and associated disclosure obligations.
December Budget and strategy plans for 2016 discussed.
Approval of changes in Board Committee composition.
Standing agenda items were discussed at each scheduled meeting comprising reports from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Committee Chairs and Company Secretary: and a review of performance against KPIs.
