Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 43 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary 2 3 4 CHANGE MANAGEMENT We suffer losses or fail to Our global change programme, Executive Director and Country Lead responsibility: optimise profitable growth Transformation for Growth Manager level prioritisation of Chief Executive Officer due to a failure to manage T4G, is key to delivering key initiatives.
T4G has successfully delivered change in an effective manner.
our Strategy for Growth for in many areas throughout 2015.
Standard project management the home credit business.
However, challenges have been methodology principles defined.
Objective faced leading to some delivery Effective management of the Governance structure in place We aim to effectively manage delays.
initiatives within this programme to oversee ongoing change the design, delivery and benefits is essential.
Following external advice, at Group and market levels.
realisation of major global we have restructured the change initiatives and deliver Likelihood programme and expect further according to requirements, T4G is a complex programme successful delivery in 2016 budgets and timescales.
Recent changes to the delivery See our Transformation for structure have been designed Growth Committee report to minimise the likelihood of on page 58. programme-wide issues.
1 4 WORLD ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT We suffer financial loss as a Treasury and credit committees Lead responsibility: Changes in economic result of a failure to identify and review economic indicators.
Chief Financial Officer conditions have a direct impact adapt to changing economic on our customers ability to There were stable Daily monitoring of economic, conditions adequately.
macroeconomic conditions political and national news in our markets in 2015. briefings.
Objective Likelihood GDP forecasts for 2016 are for Strong, personal customer We aim to have business While we operate in numerous a continuation of recent growth.
relationships inform us of processes that allow us to markets, the likelihood of a individual customer respond to changes in change in economic markets circumstances.
economic conditions and that we are unable to respond optimise business performance.
to and that impacts our strategy is minimised by our short-term lending model.
Viability statement The Directors have determined that three years is an The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable appropriate period over which to provide its viability expectation that the Group will continue to operate and statement.
In making this statement, the Directors have meet its liabilities as they fall due for three years from the assumed that both the wholesale funding markets date of this report.
This assessment has been made with remain accessible so as to allow the Groups existing reference to the Groups current financial position, its arrangements to be refinanced, and that the legal and prospects, its strategy and its principal risks, as set out regulatory framework allows for the provision of short-term in the Strategic Report.
credit to the markets in which the Group operates.
The Group undertakes an annual business planning and budgeting process that includes an update to strategic plans together with an assessment of expected performance, cash flows, funding requirements Gerard Ryan and covenant compliance.
The plan is stress tested Chief Executive Officer in a variety of downside scenarios that reflect the crystallisation of the Groups principal risks and the consequent impact on future performance, funding requirements and covenant compliance.
