68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS STATEMENTS Responsibility statement ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This statement is given pursuant to Rule 4 of the International Personal Finance plc presents its own Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Annual Report and its Consolidated Annual Report It is given by each of the directors, namely: Dan as a single Annual Report.
OConnor, Chairman: Gerard Ryan, Chief Executive Officer: Adrian Gardner, Chief Financial Officer: Tony Directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Hales, senior independent non-executive director: Jayne Statements Almond, non-executive director: John Mangelaars, The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual non-executive director: Richard Moat, non-executive Report and Financial Statements in accordance with director: and Cathryn Riley, non-executive director.
To the best of each directors knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the a the Financial St atements, prepared in accordance directors are required to prepare the Group Financial with the IFRSs, give a true and fair view of the assets, Statements in accordance with International Financial liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and the undertakings included in the consolidation European Union and Article 4 of the International taken as a whole: Accounting Standard IAS Regulation and have b the Str ategic Report contained in this report includes also chosen to prepare the Parent Company Financial a fair review of the development and performance of Statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European the business and the position of the Company and Union.
Under company law, the directors must not the undertakings included in the consolidation taken approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied as a whole, together with a description of the principal that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs risks and uncertainties that they face: and of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, c the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as IAS 1 requires that directors: a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to properly select and apply accounting policies: assess the Companys performance, business model present information, including accounting policies, and strategy.
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Statement of the directors in respect of the Annual provide additional disclosures when compliance with Report and Accounts review process the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to The Board came to this view following a rigorous enable users to understand the impact of particular review process throughout the production schedule.
transactions, other events and conditions on the The statements are drafted by appropriate members of entitys financial position and financial the reporting and leadership teams and co-ordinated by performance: and the Investor Relations Manager to ensure consistency.
A series of planned reviews are undertaken by the reporting make an assessment of the Companys ability team, leadership team and directors.
In advance of final to continue as a going concern.
consideration by the Board, it is reviewed by the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Audit and Risk Committee.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 69 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Disclosure of information to the auditor In the case of each person who is a director at the date of this report, it is confirmed that, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and he she has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern The Board statement on its adoption of the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements is given on page 37.
The Boards review of the system of internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups overall approach to risk management and internal control and, on the advice of the Audit and Risk Committee, has reviewed the Groups risk management and internal controls systems for the period 1 January 2015 to the date of this Annual Report and Financial Statements, and is satisfied that they are effective.
By order of the Board Ben Murphy Company Secretary 24 February 2016
