Corpor Corporat ate Go e Gov vernance ernance Str Strat ategic Repor egic Report t t s C Y e E o u l N l m q e R e a r c U d t n i O e a o J o n L R s E M L O o s T a r s S e e n U m n i C s e o s r t s R a u u U e w C d O a Int International P ernational Personal Finance plc ersonal Finance plc OUR INVESTMENT C PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCER ASE TAINTIES 5 5 Ann Annual Repor ual Report and Financial St t and Financial Stat atements 2015 ements 2015 1 COMPLEMENTARY AND VALUED BUSINESS MODELS We are evolving our business to reach a greater share of customers who are poorly served by mainstream financial providers.
We know our customer segment better than most OUR and understand their changing needs.
Our home credit and We are a profitable, International Personal Finance plc CUSTOMER 47 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 digital business models together with our portfolio of brands help FOCUS well-funded business.
us serve customers with products they value.
The relationship Our approach to risk management and risk appetite in Among other things, the Remuneration Committee relation to IPF Digital remains a work in progress.
However, undertook a review of the executive remuneration between our two business models is being managed to we see a great opportunity in IPF Digital to enable us to framework to ensure that it remains suf ciently motivating We offer a clear become a more agile, innovative and entrepreneurial for management whilst at the same time re ecting the organisation.
As a Board, we need to respond to this and interests and concerns of shareholders and our evolved develop as the business continues to change.
Further detail of the activity of the Remuneration maximise referrals so that we are better placed than supported by the Audit and Risk Committee, spent time Committee is provided on pages [ ] to [ ] of this report.
investment proposition discussing speci c risks that are more pertinent to IPF Digital, including information security and cyber-risks.
competitors to offer credit to those customers we know best.
Insight into these matters, as well as the other activities of the Audit and Risk Committee, is provided on pages 53 and 57 of this report.
Dan OConnor and have a sound track See page 6 Chairman record of growing the OUR GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT STRUCTURE Board underlying profitability Transformation 2 Audit and Risk Disclosure Executive Nomination Remuneration EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT for Growth Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee of our business.
Responsible for setting and communicating the strategy and ensuring the financial plan supports Notwithstanding the regulatory challenges experienced this strategy.
Responsible for ensuring the governance, risk and We are committed to in 2015, we have a good track record of responding to risks Risk Advisory control framework is adequate to respond Group appropriately to key internal and external risk factors.
Our control framework and the processes delivering sustainable Transformation Country Steering Group: Finance Management Team: Reputation and Group Loss we implement to identify and manage risks underpin our Group Credit and Change Leadership and Product Regulation Prevention Committee Portfolio Team Development Committee Committee Management returns to our Committee Board decision-making.
This dynamic, well-developed system is integrated at all levels of the Group and aligned to our Financial Transformation shareholders.
We Risk Control and Credit Regulation Strategy Management Reporting Implementation strategic objectives to deliver long-term growth and CFO CFO CEO CEO CEO see significant growth protect our people, assets and reputation.
Treasury and Information Operational Reputation Loss Prevention Funding Technology opportunities for our See page 38 CFO CEO CEO CEO CEO Group Governance Committee Key Risk Area Executive Risk Owner business driven by our home credit operations 3 A PEOPLE BUSINESS in Mexico and Romania- 65.6% We are committed to supporting the growth, development Bulgaria, and IPF Digital.
Agent retention and engagement of our people in order to grow an ethical, This growth will be sustainable business.
Our Board and senior management bring together extensive experience of working in international markets, supported by consumer finance and digital technologies.
We attract and retain reinvestment of experienced, high potential individuals who understand our 74.5% customers and the products we serve.
We are also building capital generated by Employee retention a robust talent pipeline to support further expansion.
our established home See page 10 credit operations.
4 STRONG FINANCIAL PROFILE 40.8% Our business is cash and capital generative.
Our strategy Equity to receivables is underpinned by a strong and diverse debt funding structure with a mix of bond and bank facilities, and balanced maturity profile.
We have demonstrated our commitment to making our balance sheet work harder in order to optimise the amount of equity capital in the business for growth and enhance shareholder returns through share buybacks and a progressive dividend policy.
See page 34 5 HIGHLY PROFITABLE BUSINESS We have a good record of generating underlying profit 10% and see significant future growth opportunities for our underlying profit home credit businesses in Mexico and Romania-Bulgaria, growth and IPF Digital.
The cash and capital generated by our established home credit operations will be reinvested in our growth businesses and used to deliver further returns to our shareholders.
