2: Division of responsibilities COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE The Board has approved a statement of the division of GOVERNANCE CODE responsibilities between the Chairman see A.
3 below, the Senior Independent Director see A.
4 below and As a public company listed on the London Stock the Chief Executive Officer.
Exchange, we report in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The latest The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing version of the Code was published in September 2014 and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and is available on the FRCs website: www.
and for all executive matters apart from those reserved to the Board and the Board Committees We also have a secondary listing on the Warsaw Stock and delegates accordingly.
Exchange but consider reporting in line with the Code as our primary obligation in terms of this Annual Report and A.
At the time of listing in Warsaw, we The Chairman is responsible for chairing Board meetings issued a Statement on Corporate Governance in relation and monitoring their effectiveness, and chairing the to The Code of Best Practice for WSE Listed Companies AGM and Nomination Committee.
The Chairman was in Poland, a copy of which can be found on our website.
The ongoing test of The Board considers that throughout 2015 we applied the independence does not apply to the Chairman.
main principles and complied with the provisions set out in the Code.
4: Non-executive directors The independent non-executive directors have been appointed for a fixed period of three years, subject to A: LEADERSHIP re-election by shareholders.
The initial period may be extended for a further period.
1: The role of the Board may be inspected at our registered office and are The Board is responsible for the long-term success available from the Company Secretary.
Each of the of the business and ensuring that it operates in the non-executive directors has been formally determined best interests of all its stakeholders.
It meets regularly by the Board to be independent for the purposes of throughout the year providing leadership and strategic the Code.
Our business model and strategy can be found on pages 6 to 7 and 18 to 19.
There is a formal schedule Tony Hales is the Senior Independent Director.
He is of matters reserved specifically to the Board for decision, available to shareholders if they have concerns, which published at www.
Other matters are contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief delegated specifically to six principal Board Committees.
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer has failed to The Chairman of each Committee briefs the Board at address or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
The each meeting on the principal items that were discussed, Senior Independent Director will review the performance decisions made and key issues.
Their terms of reference of the Chairman on an annual basis.
In carrying out this are available at www.
co. uk and from the Company review, the Senior Independent Director will consult with Secretary.
You can read about the membership and other Board members and consider the relationship work of: between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
the Nomination Committee on pages 50 to 52: The Chairman has held a number of sessions with the the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 53 to 57: non-executive directors without executive directors present, and the non-executive directors have met the Transformation for Growth Committee on pages without the Chairman.
58 to 59: Where directors have concerns about the running of the the Remuneration Committee in the Directors Company, which cannot be resolved, these are recorded Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 89. in the Board minutes.
No such concerns have been The day-to-day running of the business is delegated raised during the period under review.
to the Executive Committee, which in 2015 comprised the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer B: EFFECTIVENESS and the Chief Commercial Officer.
In 2015, the Executive Committee met frequently to process a wide range of B.
1: The composition of the Board matters, often of a technical nature.
The Disclosure At 31 December 2015, the Board comprised five Committee meets as required to consider whether non-executive directors, three executive directors and an announcement to the London and Warsaw Stock the Chairman.
Biographical details and Committee Exchanges is required.
During 2015, it comprised the membership are shown on pages 44 and 45, other Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, than for David Broadbent, who resigned from the the Chief Commercial Officer and the Company Board on 23 February 2016.
Secretary and met five times.
Our governance framework extends to B.
2: Appointments to the Board operational activities, with decision-making and Membership of our Board was refreshed during 2015, oversight responsibilities delegated to a series of with Dan OConnor joining as Chairman-elect in January Group governance committees, as shown in Our and becoming Chairman in April on the retirement of governance and oversight structure on page 47.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 61 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Christopher Rodrigues.
6: Evaluation Mangelaars joined in June and July respectively and, In 2015, the Board carried out an internal evaluation of its having served the business as a non-executive director performance with directors completing a questionnaire, for over eight years, Nicholas Page retired from the Board the results of which were collated in early 2016 by the in December.
As a result, Richard Moat was appointed Company Secretary.
Following a review of the results, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Cathryn the action plan for 2016 includes increased focus on Riley was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration longer-term strategic issues: more concise financial Committee in January 2016.
Full details of the changes information: and regular monitoring of critical risks.
in 2015 are given in the Nomination Committee report Under the Code, evaluation should be facilitated on pages 50 to 52. externally at least every three years.
Evaluation was last facilitated externally in 2013 by Andrew Jackson of B.
3: Commitment Stanton Marris, who has no other connection with IPF.
Our policy is that the Chairman and the non-executive We intend to carry out an externally facilitated directors should have sufficient time to fulfil their duties, evaluation in 2016. including chairing a Board Committee as appropriate.
A non-executive director should not hold more than four B.
7: Election re-election other material non-executive directorships.
If he she holds Under our Articles of Association, each director must offer an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he she himself herself for re-election every three years.
After nine should not hold more than two other material nonyears, a director, other than an executive director, must executive directorships.
offer himself herself for re-election annually.
A director The Board has approved a policy on other directorships: who is appointed initially by the Board is subject to any request for an exception to this is considered on its election at the next AGM.
An executive director will be permitted to hold one and John Mangelaars will stand for election in 2016.
In non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from accordance with best corporate governance practice, that appointment provided that the Board considers all other directors will offer themselves for re-election this will not affect his her executive responsibilities again at our AGM in 2016.
Details of the directors, adversely.
Adrian Gardner is a non-executive including the reasons for proposing their election director of Amdocs Limited.
re-election, are contained in the Chairmans letter to shareholders, which will accompany the Notice of AGM.
The external commitments of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-executive directors have C: ACCOUNTABILITY been reviewed and the Board is satisfied that these do not conflict with the commitment required of them to C. 1: Financial and business reporting the Company.
A statement of the directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements and the Groups status as B.
4: Development a going concern is on pages 68 to 69.
The Groups Our policy is to provide appropriate training to strategy and business model, relevant risks and key directors.
Training takes into account each individuals performance indicators are on pages 20 to 23 and 38 qualifications and experience and includes to 43.
A statement confirming that the Board considers environmental, social and governance training as that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken appropriate.
Training also covers generic and specific as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and business topics and in 2015 included presentations provide the information necessary for shareholders to to the Board on subjects such as inside information, assess the Companys position, performance, business announcements and investor relations.
A comprehensive, model and strategy is on page 68. individually tailored induction plan is prepared for new directors.
The Board also visited the businesses in Poland C. 2: Risk management and internal control and Hungary and received updates from the Czech The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the and Slovak management team.
In addition to regular principal risks facing the Company, including those that executive director visits, individual non-executive directors would threaten its business model, future performance, visited other markets during the year including Bulgaria, solvency or liquidity.
Details can be found on pages the Czech Republic, Mexico, Poland and Romania.
The Board determines the Companys risk appetite and has established risk management B.
5: Information and support and internal control systems.
The Board reviews All directors are able to consult with the their effectiveness annually.
Company Secretary, who also updates the Board on developments relating to governance on a regular C. 3: Audit Committee and auditors basis.
The appointment and removal of the Company The report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out Secretary is a matter for the Board.
This details its composition, role and Secretary is secretary to the Board Committees other responsibilities, work during 2015, its interactions with than the Disclosure Committee of which the Assistant the external auditor and our policy regarding external Company Secretary is Secretary.
Any director may take auditor tendering and rotation.
The Committees Terms independent professional advice at the Companys of Reference are available at www.
expense relating to the performance of his her duties.
62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED D: REMUNERATION OTHER DISCLOSURES In addition to the Code, we are required to comply D. 1: The level and components of remuneration with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Full details of the Companys policy on remuneration Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
These are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report requirements are covered in this section.
Incorporation and constitution D. 2: Procedure International Personal Finance plc is registered in Development of the policy on executive remuneration is England and Wales under Company Number 6018973. delegated to the Remuneration Committee.
Details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
No director Our Articles of Association the Articles may only be is involved in deciding his her own remuneration.
amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders and are available online at www.
co. uk, by writing to the Company Secretary or from Companies E: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS House in the UK.
E. 1: Dialogue with shareholders Share capital The executive directors meet with institutional Details of our share capital are shown in note 27 shareholders regularly.
The Chairman and Senior on page 129.
On 31 December 2015, there were Independent Director also meet with shareholders 234,244,437 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue.
from time to time and held a constructive meeting with No shares were issued during the year.
The Chairman is ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 1,277,277 responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of representing 5.45% of the Companys called up share communication are established between the executive capital, were bought back.
7,312,111 shares were directors and shareholders and for ensuring that the transferred to treasury during 2015, to be used primarily to views of shareholders are made known to the entire satisfy share scheme exercises.
The Board is updated on investor relations on a regular basis.
The total consideration paid under the buyback programme in 2015, excluding costs, was 49,898,730.
The Board seeks to present IPFs position and prospects The average price paid per share was 390.66 pence.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements, A share buyback was chosen as the most flexible circulars and announcements we make to the London mechanism to return the required level of capital Stock Exchange and the Warsaw Stock Exchange are value to shareholders and to reduce the capital ratio posted on our website: www.
In addition, this method was expected Shareholders, whatever the size of their shareholding, to result in an increase in earnings per share.
are able to express their views via email or telephone The ordinary shares can be held in certificated with the Investor Relations Manager.
E. 2: Constructive use of general meetings Shareholders rights and obligations We give at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
The full rights and obligations attached to the Companys Our policy is that the Chairman of each of the Board ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their Committees will be available to answer questions from holders by law, are set out in our Articles.
A summary shareholders and there is an opportunity for shareholders of those rights and obligations can be found below.
to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
Details of proxy votes are made available to shareholders and Restrictions on shareholders rights other interested parties by means of an announcement Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, any to the London Stock Exchange, the Warsaw Stock share may be issued with or have attached to it such Exchange and on our website.
rights and restrictions as the Company may decide by Shareholders are invited each year to the AGM.
Our ordinary resolution or, if no such resolution has been 2016 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 4 May passed or so far as the resolution does not make 2016 at International Personal Finance plc, Number Three, specific provision, as the Board may decide.
Such Leeds City Office Park, Meadow Lane, Leeds LS11 5BD.
The rights and restrictions shall apply to the relevant notice of meeting, together with an explanation of the shares as if the same were set out in the Articles.
items of business, will be contained in the Chairmans Restrictions on holding securities letter to shareholders to be dated 15 March 2016.
No person shall be recognised by the Company as holding any share upon any trust.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 63 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Transfer Fractions: whenever as a result of a consolidation, There are no restrictions on the transfer including consolidation and sub-division or sub-division of requirements for prior approval of any transfers or shares any holders would become entitled to fractions limitations on the holding of ordinary shares subject of a share, the Board may deal with the fractions as it to the fact that the Board may refuse to register the thinks fit including by aggregating and selling them or transfer of: by dealing with them in some other way.
a partly-paid share: Variation of rights: subject to the provisions of the an uncertificated share in the circumstances set out Companies Act, all or any of the rights attached to any in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001: and existing class of shares may from time to time be varied a certificated share if a duly executed transfer is not either with the consent in writing of the holders of not provided together with any necessary document less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued of authority.
shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a Voting special resolution passed at a separate general There are no restrictions on voting rights except as meeting of the holders of those shares.
set out in the Articles in circumstances where the shareholder has not complied with a statutory notice Profit and dividends or paid up what is due on the shares.
Details of the 2015 interim dividend declared by the Board and the proposed final dividend for 2015 payable Alteration of share capital and variation of rights in 2016 can be found on page 35.
Our target dividend Sub-division: any resolution authorising the Company pay-out ratio is discussed on page 35. to sub-divide its shares, or any of them, may determine that, as between the shares resulting from the subdivision, any of them may have any preference or advantage or be subject to any restriction as compared with the others.
Interests in voting rights As at 31 December 2015, we had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in our issued share capital.
1 2 Name Voting rights % of issued share capital Nature of holding Standard Life Investments Ltd 22,030,815 9.97 Direct Indirect Marathon Asset Management LLP 12,841,168 5.01 Indirect Franklin Templeton Investments Ltd 12,062,651 5.01 Indirect Aberforth Partners LLP 11,605,513 5.01 Indirect FMR LLC 12,625,113 4.97 Indirect FIL Limited 12,711,680 4.94 Indirect Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 12,547,167 4.88 Direct Indirect Schroders plc 12,287,572 4.77 Indirect BlackRock, Inc. 11,670,102 4.54 Indirect Norges Bank 9,274,419 3.99 Direct Investec Asset Management Ltd 8,995,482 3.50 Indirect Oppenheimer Funds Inc Baring Asset Management Ltd 7,769,836 3.02 Indirect BNP Paribas Investment Partners 7,017,954 3.02 Indirect Between 1 January and 19 February 2016, we were notified pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following notifiable voting rights in our issued share capital.
1 2 Name Voting rights % of issued share capital Nature of holding FMR LLC 11,193,648 5.06 Indirect 1 The holdings set out in the tables above relate only to those institutions which have notified us of an interest in the issued share capital.
2 The % of issued share capital in the table above is based on the Companys issued share capital at the point of notification.
64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED forint 4 billion issued in January 2013 with a five-year term and Agreements on change of control an 11.0% coupon: sterling 101.5 million issued in May 2013 We do not have any agreements with any director or and November 2013 with a seven-year term and a 6.125% employee that would provide compensation for loss coupon: Romanian Lei 60.5 million issued in October 2013 with of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
a three-year term and an 8.1% coupon: Czech crown 250 million issued in November 2013 with a five-year term and a 5.25% We are not party to any significant agreements that coupon: Euro 300.0 million issued in April 2014 with a seven-year would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change term and a 5.75% coupon: Euro 40.0 million issued in May 2014 with a four-year term and a 4.25% coupon: Czech crown 200 of control following a takeover bid, apart from: million issued in December 2015 with a three-year term and a 5.5% coupon: Euro 100 million tap of our existing Eurobond our bank facility agreements, which provide for a issued in April 2015 with a six-year maturity and a 5.75% coupon: negotiation period following a change of control and and Romanian Lei 43.5 million and 22.0 million bonds issued the ability of a lender to cancel its commitment and for in December 2015 with a three-year term and a 7.0% coupon.
outstanding amounts to become due and payable: 2 Under the Polish Medium Term Note programme, a subsidiary 1 our Euro Medium Term Note programme, which company, IPF Investments Polska Sp.
z o. o. issued 200 million Polish zloty Notes which are listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange: entitles any holder of a Note to require us to redeem they mature on 3 June 2020 and the coupon is a floating rate such holders Notes if there is a change of control of six-month WIBOR plus a margin of 425 basis points.
and, following such change of control, the Notes are downgraded: Carbon reporting 2 our Polish Medium Term Note programme, which We have reported on all of the carbon emissions sources entitles any holder of a Note to require the issuer to required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report redeem such holders Notes if there is a change of and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Our emissions control and, following such change of control, the data has been calculated in line with the Greenhouse Euro Medium Term Notes are then downgraded Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and or if no such Notes are then outstanding, in Reporting Standard, and we have used emissions certain other circumstances : and factors from the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factor Repository.
The emissions data covers provisions in our share incentive plans may cause our operations in the UK, Poland, the Czech Republic, awards granted to directors and employees to vest Hungary, Slovakia, Mexico, Romania, Bulgaria and on a takeover.
IPF Digital data is not included for 2015 as the 1 The Euro Medium Term Note programme was established in full years data is not available but this will be included in 2010.
The following Notes listed on the London Stock Exchange 2016.
These sources fall within our consolidated Financial have been issued under the programme and are outstanding as at the date of this report: Czech crown 100 million issued in Statements.
Where available data is incomplete, we have July 2012 with a four-year term and a 9.0% coupon: Hungarian extrapolated data.
However, as a growing business, we find it more 4,040 appropriate to measure progress by normalising this data against customer numbers.
When normalised by customer number our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions fell by 6.9% compared with 2014 and 12.5% compared to base-year 2013.
We aim to reduce our environmental impact where possible and our Transformation for Growth programme is 25,490 instrumental in helping us to achieve this.
The programme focuses on processes, people and technology, and one Gas expected outcome of this is to deliver resource savings Business travel by car for the business.
By streamlining our existing processes, Purchased electricity we are achieving relative savings against our most significant environmental aspects: business travel by car: electricity: and paper purchased.
A full environmental policy statement can be found in the sustainability section of the Companys website: www.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 65 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Employees Directors conflicts of interest Engagement To take account of the Companies Act 2006, the directors adopted a policy on conflicts of interest and established Employee engagement is important to us and in 2015 a register of conflicts.
The directors consider that these we surveyed employees across the Group in conjunction procedures have operated effectively in 2015 and up with Gallup.
Action plans were then developed as part to 24 February 2016. of our continued commitment to empower our people.
Directors indemnities and insurance Appointment and removal of directors Our Articles permit us to indemnify our directors or those The Board may appoint any person as a director of the of any associated company in accordance with the Company to hold office until the next AGM, when they Companies Act 2006.
However, no qualifying indemnity may stand for re-election by shareholders.
Under the provisions were in force in 2015 or at any time up to Articles, Directors retire by rotation on a three yearly 24 February 2016 other than under the International basis.
However, in line with the Code, all directors of Personal Finance plc Pension Scheme the Pension the Company stand for reelection annually.
Under the deed establishing the Pension Scheme, we grant an indemnity to the trustee and Donations the directors of the trustee.
Three of these directors Charitable are directors of subsidiaries of IPF.
The total value of our community investment We have appropriate Directors and Officers liability contribution across the Group was 571,284 in 2015 insurance in place.
Our employees also volunteered 11,301 hours in Company time to local communities and a further 5,876 hours in their own time.
We BUDGETARY PROCESS AND mobilised 3,408 of our employees into effective FINANCIAL REPORTING community activities, reflecting our direct impact on the communities in which we operate.
The Board approves a detailed budget each year usually in December for the year ahead.
Actual Political performance against budget is monitored in detail No political donations were made.
regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
The Board requires its subsidiaries to Directors powers operate in accordance with corporate policies.
Authority to purchase shares The Financial Statements for the Group are prepared by At the 2015 AGM we received shareholder authority aggregating submissions from each statutory entity.
Prior to buy back up to 23,163,999 of our own shares until to submission to the Group reporting team, each country the earlier of the conclusion of the 2016 AGM and submission is reviewed and approved by the Finance 30 July 2016.
Any ordinary shares so purchased could Director of the relevant country.
When the submissions be cancelled or held in treasury.
This authority was have been aggregated and consolidation adjustments exercised in 2015 to the extent described on page 62. made to remove intercompany transactions, the A further authority to purchase our own shares will be consolidated result is reviewed by the Group Head of sought at the 2016 AGM.
Finance and the Chief Financial Officer.
The results are Power to allot securities and pre-emptive rights compared with the budget and prior year figures, and As at 31 December 2015, the directors had authority any significant variances are clarified.
Checklists are to allot further securities up to an aggregate nominal completed by each statutory entity and by the Group amount of 7,721,000 and, broadly, up to a further reporting team to confirm that all required controls, 7,721,000 for a rights issue.
Further authorities will be such as key reconciliations, have been performed sought at the 2016 AGM including the disapplication and reviewed.
of pre-emption rights in certain circumstances.
The Financial Statements, which are agreed directly to the consolidation of the Group results, are prepared Borrowing powers and other restrictions by the Group reporting team and reviewed by the The directors are responsible for the management Group Head of Finance and the Chief Financial Officer.
of the Company and may exercise all the powers of The supporting notes to the Financial Statements the Company, subject to the provisions of the relevant are prepared by aggregating submission templates statutes and our Articles.
For example, our Articles from each market and combining them with central contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding information where applicable.
The Financial Statements IPFs powers to borrow money: provisions relating to and all supporting notes are reviewed and approved the appointment of directors, subject to subsequent by the Group Head of Finance and the Chief Financial shareholder approval: delegation of powers to Officer.
These are signed by the Chief Executive Officer a director or committees: and, subject to certain and the Chief Financial Officer.
exceptions, a director shall not vote on or be counted in a quorum in relation to any resolution of the Board in respect of any contract in which he she has an interest which he she knows is material.
66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED SHARE INCENTIVES Equity incentive schemes The Company currently operates six equity incentive schemes.
Details of individual grants to directors made in 2015 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 83.
The schemes are as follows: Scheme Abbreviated name Eligible participants The International Personal Finance plc CSOP Executive directors and senior managers Approved Company Share Option Plan The International Personal Finance plc Deferred Share Plan Executive directors and senior managers Deferred Share Plan The International Personal Finance plc Have Your Share Plan Overseas employees Have Your Share Plan The International Personal Finance plc Performance Share Plan Executive directors and senior managers Performance Share Plan The International Personal Finance plc SAYE Scheme Executive directors and UK employees Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme The International Personal Finance plc Discretionary Award Plan Employees other than executive directors Discretionary Award Plan Details of outstanding awards are as follows: Awards Awards Awards Awards exercised outstanding at Awards exercised outstanding at vested from 31 December lapsed vested 31 December Exercise price Normal exercise vesting 1 January to Scheme 2014 in 2015 in 2015 2015 if any date 19 February 2016 23 Jul 2013 1 CSOP 332,269 27,864 120,407 213,812 208p 636p 1 Mar 2025 Deferred Share 24 Mar 2014 Plan 1,621,277 1,963 610,652 1,490,878 1 Mar 2025 2 June 2017 Have Your Share 217,021 20,896 309,257 2 September 2018 Performance 23 Jul 2013 1 Share Plan 4,680,926 302,466 1,425,169 4,420,849 1 Mar 2025 2,987 01 Oct 2014 2 SAYE Scheme 400,428 93,334 142,924 407,587 112p 509p 30 Apr 2021 Discretionary Award Plan 120,000 8 May 2018 1 Half of the awards that vest are not released for a further year.
2 Exercise dates vary depending on whether the employee has chosen a three, five or seven year savings contract.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST OTHER EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS We operate two employee trusts with an independent Supplier policy statement trustee, Capita Trustees Limited, to hold shares pending We agree terms and conditions for our business transactions employees becoming entitled to them under our share with suppliers and payment is made in accordance with incentive plans.
On 31 December 2015, the trustees them, subject to the terms and conditions being met by held 533,181 shares in IPF.
The trusts waive their dividend the supplier.
IPF acts as a holding company and had no entitlement and abstain from voting the shares at general material trade creditors at 31 December 2015.
Shares to be acquired through our share plans number of days credit taken by the Group during the year rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no was 18 days 2014: 19 days.
Key contracts and other arrangements This information is given pursuant to Section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006.
Our trading subsidiaries have Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 67 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 entered into contracts with their agents, who are selfThere is a range of appropriate corporate standards, employed.
The exception to this is Hungary, and from 30 policies and governance structures covering December 2015, Romania where agents are employed all operations.
Agent agreements govern the The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
It is our relationship and the agents are remunerated primarily policy that no job applicant, member of staff or agent for repayments collected.
will receive less favourable treatment because of race, Certain Group companies have entered into agreements colour, nationality, ethnic or other national origin, gender, with Fujitsu Services Limited, Mastek UK Limited, GTS sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability or religion.
z o. o. and Metro Net S. A. P. I. in relation to The aim of this policy is to ensure recruitment and IT services provided to the Group.
progression is based purely on merit.
The Groups activities in the Czech Republic, Poland, During 2015, we continued to build on the success Mexico and Spain are subject to general trade licences of our business ethics programme with a focus on only, as opposed to any licensing or supervision by communications and training around our Code of Ethics.
In Romania and Lithuania, the 97% of employees completed business ethics training business is included in a register of credit providers successfully during 2015.
We also started to extend this maintained by the respective National Bank and in training to our agents and 80% of agents in Europe Finland by the Regional State Administrative Agency completed it successfully.
We plan to roll out training to of South Finland.
The Groups operations in Bulgaria, the remainder of agents in 2016.
The training, which utilises Hungary and Slovakia are subject to an operating ethical dilemmas that our employees and agents may licence issued by the respective National Bank and face, ensures that employees and agents are fully aware in Estonia to a licence by the Financial Supervision of our business ethics programme and Code of Ethics.
Authority and in Latvia to a licence by the Consumer We plan to conduct the training for employees and Rights Protection Centre.
The business in Australia holds agents annually.
a credit licence issued by the Australia Securities and We view the health and safety of our employees, agents Investment Commission Australia.
There are licensing and other people who may be affected by our activities proposals in the Czech Republic.
Our arrangements for safety have been assessed independently against OHSAS Whistle-blowing 18001 and all home credit markets, including Group We have a whistle-blowing telephone hotline service head office, were certified as compliant.
The framework operating in all of our markets.
This allows employees is overseen by the Group Loss Prevention Committee, to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or which reports annually to the Board by means of a malpractice on a confidential basis.
Reports are received written report.
Each subsidiary board is responsible for on any matters raised through these services and we the implementation of its own health and safety policy, monitor their use throughout the Group.
and health and safety is considered regularly at Group Board meetings.
REPORT ON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND Community investment activity is focused on the GOVERNANCE ESG MATTERS needs of the communities we serve and we utilise London Benchmarking Group LBG methodology to The Board takes regular account of the significance measure this investment in terms of inputs, outputs and of ESG matters to the Group and has identified impacts.
Our application of the LBG model is assured by and assessed the significance of ESG risks to the Corporate Citizenship.
Our Environmental Management Companys shortand long-term value as part of the System is subject to internal audit by Ricardo Energy & risk management process.
It recognises that a proactive Environment.
programme of reputation management through a range of progressive, responsible business initiatives When setting incentives, the Remuneration Committee adds to the sustainable long-term value of the Company.
takes account of all implications, including the need to Responsibility for this area rests with the Chief Executive avoid inadvertently motivating inappropriate behaviour, Officer who sits on the Reputation and Regulation and the Head of Internal Audit reviews incentives from Committee, which sets guidance, provides direction a risk perspective.
and oversees policies and progress in ESG matters.
The executive directors are given relevant objectives Key ESG issues that impact our stakeholders are: business relating to ESG issues for the purposes of the annual ethics: public perception and ensuring that work with bonus scheme.
Details of the bonus scheme are set out communities is relevant: social and financial exclusion: in the bonus section of the statement of the Companys health and safety: and attracting and retaining skilled policy on directors remuneration in the Directors and well-motivated people.
ESG matters are taken into account in the training of directors.
Corporate affairs activity, health and safety, people management and business ethics issues were all Full information on specific ESG matters, and how these discussed at Board meetings in 2015.
The Board formally are managed, can be found in the sustainability section reviews a sustainability report on a quarterly basis.
Board has received adequate information to make an assessment against ESG risks.
