Strategic Report Strategic Report Outlook Current Market Environment and Future Opportunities The Company anticipates continued benefits arising from the 2015 Budget, the UK government pledged to be bold in strong outlook in the infrastructure markets in which we delivering infrastructure and announced the intention to invest.
Moreover, the governments in the jurisdictions in publish a productivity plan that will set out measures to which our efforts are directed continue to promote new encourage long-term investment in economic infrastructure projects and broadly favour continued reliance capital... including infrastructure.
on the private sector as the source of finance and investment expertise in this space.
In recognition of this it has now streamlined its approach to the development of infrastructure assets in the UK, Most government in developed nations have a policy on establishing the Infrastructure and Projects Authority.
The renewing and improving infrastructure provision in their Authority will provide support for the major economic countries.
In the UK and Australia this is evidenced by the projects, centralising the financing and delivery of such National Infrastructure Plan and many other countries have projects.
In order to assist the planning of major similar ambitions.
This trend for promotion of new infrastructure projects the government also established the infrastructure projects will, in the Companys view, persist in National Infrastructure Commission which is charged with the medium to long term.
This offers very positive offering unbiased analysis of the UKs long-term macroeconomic support for the Companys future growth infrastructure needs.
While many of the 411 billion projects currently identified in While the Company is confident of the long term the National Infrastructure Plan fall outside the scope of the opportunities within the sector, the prospects for new Companys investment parameters, there is likely to be a investment over any short term period are inevitably more wide variety of projects in which the Company might difficult to predict.
The investment levels of the past should invest.
Although these projects may have risk return not necessarily be seen as indicative of the levels of dynamics similar to those found in the Companys existing investment that the Company may make going forward.
portfolio, increasingly these assets are not likely to be Future investment is dependent on factors including: structured as traditional PFI PPP procurements.
The Company expects more regulated assets to come under - The number and quality of new greenfield infrastructure opportunities being procured by public sector bodies consideration by it in 2016. known as the primary market For example, the Company is particularly interested in the - The number and quality of investments being sold by existing owners known as the secondary market governments willingness to use the regulated asset model - The level of competition for primary or secondary as a means for infrastructure procurement where, simplistically, investors receive a permitted and pre-specified opportunities and the resulting impact on pricing and levels of returns return on capital invested through agreement with the relevant regulator.
This methodology was used in the recent - The macroeconomic environment e. g. the impact of inflation, interest rates, and the pricing of risk and return Tideway transaction with water regulator, Oftwats oversight for alternative investments and support.
The expectation is that the regulated model could be used to procure other core infrastructure assets and We also continue to guide investors that competition in the we watch this space, as well as opportunities with existing utilities, with interest.
secondary market for assets such as those in which the Company invests remains strong.
While the Company is always interested in reviewing mature secondary market We have also highlighted for some time the attractive characteristics of the offshore transmission OFTO sector investment opportunities being sold by their existing owners, not all of these opportunities are likely to be accretive to the where investment is made into the cables and substations Companys portfolio.
that link offshore wind farms to the national electricity grid.
These projects continue to be amongst some of the most The Company is also selective to enable it to realise an attractive in our sector as they provide long-term income appropriate risk and return balance within the overall without demand risk i. e. no exposure to volume of electricity generated by the wind farm.
The Company has, to date, portfolio.
In the past, this has resulted in the Company taking opportunities to divest smaller, non-strategic assets where been a market leader in investment into this space having invested into six projects.
The Company expects to continue there is little prospect of increasing stakes to controlling positions and where market pricing is higher than book value.
to benefit from additional opportunities in this sector that will While no such divestments are currently envisaged, the come to market over the coming years: the regulator, Ofgem, has estimated a further 2 billion of investment required in Company will continue to review its portfolio with this option in mind.
OFTOs within the next two years with the prospect of significantly more in the years thereafter.
The government has also been engaged in a consultation process on The Company has an international focus and the current market environment in each of the major jurisdictions in arrangements for the introduction of competitive tendering of onshore electricity transmission projects.
which it operates and the potential for future investment within each is outlined in more detail below: Australia United Kingdom Australia has long involved private sector organisations in The UK government has continued the previous coalition the provision and financing of its public sector infrastructure.
governments focus and interest in the UK infrastructure It also has a well-developed market for investment, not only sector, and it views high-quality infrastructure as a means to by local superannuation funds and similar investors but it has increase productivity and competitiveness.
In its Summer International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 31 Strategic Report Strategic Report Outlook continued also developed a large pool of international investors who The Investment Plan for Europe, launched in November have invested widely there.
2014, was set up to enable 315 billion of investment in strategic projects across Europe in a three year period from Both Federal and State governments have their own longJanuary 2015: its aim is to encourage the mobilisation of term infrastructure strategy delivery organisations and there private funding in Europe.
is a unified method for the delivery of PPP projects.
A National PPP Policy Framework has been developed which The plan laid the foundation for the creation of a 16 billion aims to provide a consistent approach by procuring agencies guarantee to be provided by the European Investment Bank and streamlined procedures that encourage private sector EIB, funded from the EU budget, known as the European investment in public infrastructure.
Fund for Strategic Investments EFSI.
The EFSI guarantee offers specific cover to investments financed by the EIB, and Currently Australias infrastructure priorities include multiwill allow the EIB Group to provide additional financing of billion Australian Dollar transport projects such as approximately 61 billion over its investment period.
improvements, developments and modernisation of highways and rail transport together with water and The strategic investments which the EFSI will support communications infrastructure.
There are presently six include projects in the transport and energy infrastructure potential PPP projects identified by State governments for sectors.
The EFSI guarantee has already been used for development in 2016 17, with a further three greenfield PPP and other infrastructure energy projects including projects in procurement as well as one existing project examples in continental Europe such as the Vienna subject to a major augmentation.
It is also anticipated that Hospitals PPP and the 560m West Strasbourg Bypass asset sales in some states may lead to funding availability for concession.
In summary therefore the infrastructure markets of Europe The Australian governments 2015 Infrastructure Audit continue to grow in ways that offer encouragement to the identified a number of infrastructure challenges facing Company.
The same qualification as applies to all the Australia, including population growth, a desire to increase Companys opportunities applies equally to those in Europe: productivity and connectivity and improve resilience and that is that future success will depend on both success in bid maintenance.
processes both in the primary and secondary markets and confidence that such opportunities fit within the Companys Consequently an Australia Infrastructure Plan was released risk and reward parameters and offer overall benefit to the in February 2016 which provides a comprehensive roadmap portfolio.
to address infrastructure gaps and identifies a priority list of project initiatives in each state and territory.
Particular focus United States is placed on solutions that would improve the public funding The infrastructure market in the United States is very of infrastructure and enable increased private sector significant in size.
In 2015 KPMG estimated the historical investment.
size of the US P3 market as being around US$8.5 billion per annum with a future forecast of US$12.5 billion per annum.
Europe excluding UK As with infrastructure markets in other developed countries Select jurisdictions in Northern Europe, including Belgium, the projected growth is anticipated to be delivered partly as a the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, Ireland and parts of consequence of the need for infrastructure renewal and Scandinavia, continue to offer new primary market partly because of changes in demographics and the future infrastructure opportunities across a range of sectors shape of public services.
Moodys Investor Services stated in including accommodation and transportation which are October 2014, Given the sheer size of its infrastructure and attractive to the Company.
The Company expects further growing urban population the US has the potential of suitable opportunities to be offered by the European market becoming the largest market for public private partnerships in following the publication of the Investment Plan for Europe the world.
commonly known as the Juncker Plan by the European Commission in November 2014.
Following the launch of President Obamas Build America Investment Initiative in July 2014, the US Treasury released According to European PPP Expertise Centres 2014 Market recommendations formulated by the Interagency Update: Review of the European PPP Market in 2014, 82 Infrastructure Finance Working Group in order to expand PPP transactions, with a total value of 18.7 billion reached public-private collaboration in infrastructure.
The financial close in the European market including the UK, recommendations included eight pathways designed to representing a 15% increase in value from 2013.
Whilst the provide more favourable conditions for private investors UK was the largest such market in Europe by value and across all infrastructure sectors.
The Treasury is also number of transactions in 2014, Germany was named in working on a white paper exploring options for alternative 2014 as the third largest PPP market, and the Company was incentive arrangements that would assist in aligning the recently announced preferred bidder on a PPP opportunity incentives of the public and private sector.
Some 33 of the individual states have enacted legal authority Looking forward, there are further potential new PPP to transact public private partnership PPP P3 projects and opportunities announced in jurisdictions such as the availability based payment schemes which match the Netherlands, with twelve projects identified as being Companys preferred form of project have seen increasing prepared to tender through PPP and or in procurement.
levels of attention from procurers.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 32 Strategic Report Strategic Report Outlook continued The Company is well positioned to capitalise on existing investments and the opportunity to add high quality developments in this market through its relationship with investments to the portfolio during 2016.
Hunt described in more detail on page 15, where it has right of first look over investment opportunities in the United Key areas of current activity within the Company and or its States originated or divested by Hunt which meet the Investment Adviser or associates include: Companys investment criteria.
- Continued activities in the area of UK offshore transmission where the Company has recently closed its Other Countries sixth project, Westermost Rough OFTO and is actively Infrastructure opportunities are well established in Canada bidding each new opportunity as it comes to market - Enhanced access to US P3 opportunities, particularly and the Company holds two existing Canadian PPP investments.
The Companys Investment Adviser remains through the relationship with Amber Hunt active in the Canadian market.
However, the market is - Other UK and European primary investment dominated by very price competitive domestic pension funds opportunities for instance in the regulatory, healthcare making entry into new investment opportunities more and judicial sectors challenging.
The Investment Adviser continues to believe - Other UK and international regulated assets that there will be attractive investment opportunities in the - Acquisition of additional investments in projects where longer-term as infrastructure is upgraded.
In the short term the Company already has an investment.
Typically these investment is more likely to be secondary market will arise under pre-emption and similar rights opportunities rather than primary investments.
- Appropriately priced proposals from third parties seeking to dispose of projects meeting the Companys investment New Zealand continues to also be of interest to the criteria which have synergies with the Companys Company.
The government in that market has been existing portfolio pursuing a privatisation process of several government controlled energy and infrastructure businesses.
While Current opportunities identified by the Investment Adviser relatively small, the Investment Adviser continues to monitor are outlined in the table below.
It should be noted that it can projects as they come to market, resourcing these take a number of months for such opportunities to be opportunities from its Australian offices and is reviewing one awarded to a preferred bidder and many more again to reach such opportunity.
Moreover none of these projects is certain to progress either with the Company or at all.
The Company keeps a watching brief on opportunities in other international markets including markets such as Finally, and notwithstanding the comments above and the Scandinavia but will only consider deals in other markets opportunities listed below, it should be noted that the where it is satisfied that the combination of sovereign credit Companys projected economic performance is not and rule of law makes such investment comparable with the dependent upon making future investment commitments in Companys existing investments.
order to deliver its projected returns.
These can be delivered in the Companys view from its existing assets.
Current Pipeline Fundamentally therefore, further investment opportunities will, first and foremost, be judged based on whether they add Overall, the Company is very positive about its short and longer term prospects, both in terms of the performance of its value and quality to the Companys existing portfolio.
Estimated Investment Opportunity Project Expected Concession Current Projects Location Capital Value Length Project Status 1 UK Up to 7 million 25 years Remaining investment expected to Priority Schools Building be made in early 2016 Aggregator Programme UK Up to 151 million 120 years The Company is part of the Thames Tideway Tunnel investment Bazalgette consortium awarded commitment licence to own and finance project.
1 remaining Investment in phases until early 2018 1 UK 8 million c. 25 years Investment in existing projects, Education projects some pre-emptive 2 UK 132 million c. 25 years Hub framework for various Scottish HUB framework projects social community 2 Australia 133 million c. 15 years Follow-on investment in existing Transportation project project 1 Germany c. 6 million c. 32.5 years Named as preferred bidder Police Centre International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 33 Strategic Report Strategic Report Outlook continued Other medium-term opportunities 2 Netherlands c. 66 million c. 25 years The Company is involved in a Judicial number of ongoing bids for projects 2 Austria 57 million c. 25 years Healthcare 1 Australia 56 million c. 20 years Transportation 2 Australia, 233 million c. 20 years Accommodation Germany 2 UK 250 million 20 years OFTOs 1 Represents current estimated total investment that may be invested by the Company.
2 Represents the estimated current unaudited capital value of the project and includes both debt and equity.
The above represents potential opportunities currently under review by the Investment Adviser and its associates including current bids, preferred bidder opportunities and the estimated value of opportunities to acquire additional investments including under preemption first refusal rights.
There is no certainty these will translate to actual investment opportunities for the Company.
The value referenced in relation to the pre-emption opportunities represents the estimated potential investment value which reflects the current estimate of the total likely acquisition value at that time.
In relation to opportunities where the current estimated gross value of the relevant project is given which includes an estimate of both debt and equity, the estimates provided are not necessarily indicative of the eventual acquisition price for, or the value of, any interest that may be acquired.
Rupert Dorey John Whittle 23 March 2016 23 March 2016 Chairman Director International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 34
