Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategy The Companys strategy, which is determined and meet its investment objectives.
The key objectives in reviewed by the Board, covers three different but intereach area are set out below and Companys 2015 linked areas of focus.
In combination, these areas of performance measured against these is summarised on focus assist the Company to manage its investments and pages 16 17. finances throughout the investment cycle and, where justified, identify new investment opportunities which The delivery of returns anticipated to be received from the Companys investments is - Focus on delivery of anticipated fundamental to the Companys performance.
returns from existing assets The Company takes an active approach to asset management, encouraging the - Maintain high levels of public Investment Adviser and its associates to maximise cash flow from its investments in ways that are consistent with delivering high levels of service to the underlying assets sector satisfaction and asset public sector clients.
performance These relationships and the Companys overall approach are described in more detail - Deliver additional capital value in the Operating Model section below.
from existing assets through The success of the Companys policy of active asset management can be seen through management of construction risk a combination of the Companys record in receiving investment cash flows in line with projections and the level of satisfaction that public sector clients have with the facilities and delivery of operational which they occupy.
improvements to meet client requirements International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 11 1.
Active Asset Management Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategy continued The second aspect of the Companys strategy is to seek out further attractive - Through relationships with coinvestments that can improve the overall quality of projected returns from the shareholders and pre-emptive Companys portfolio.
rights where applicable increase The Company works closely with its Investment Adviser to seek out new opportunities individual investment holdings to which meet the Companys desired risk and return profile.
Historically this has included 100% where beneficial both primary investments where the Company or its Investment Adviser have originated a new project and secondary investments where an existing investment is - Make additional acquisitions acquired from a third party.
where possible, ideally off market, The Company does not have a preference as to whether the investments it acquires at prospective returns that are are characterised as senior debt, subordinated debt or equity or a combination of any beneficial in risk return terms of these.
What is relevant to the Company is the risk adjusted return available to it from such investment.
- Enhance prospects for capital The Companys preference is to own majority or 100% holdings in its investments, growth by investing as primary where possible, in order to have full oversight and control over underlying investment investor and or in construction performance.
The Companys strategy during the year has therefore been to continue phase assets where available to make incremental investments in existing projects where available and beneficial to the overall risk return profile of the Company.
- Identify complementary The Company has also targeted, and expects to continue to target, overseas markets investment sectors within the where it has experience from existing investments and client relationships, and where it and its Investment Adviser have operational experience of the effectiveness of Companys investment policy contractual structures, to mitigate risks.
offering better returns with a In recent times, the level of market competition for assets sold through open auction similar risk profile processes has led the Company to focus its strategy particularly on identifying niche, off-market, secondary opportunities and continuing to develop its access to primary - Take advantage of infrastructure market transactions.
The Company continues to see such opportunities offering opportunities internationally attractive returns for the level of risk.
where investments have an The Company considers that it has sector differentiation and a competitive advantage appropriate risk profile and in being able to take this approach through the strong record of its Investment Adviser contractual structures are reliably and its associated group in developing new opportunities and gaining early-mover enforceable to enhance 1 competitor advantage in relatively new growth sectors such as OFTOs and through diversification innovative structures including Tideway and the Priority Schools Scheme Aggregator programme.
- Undertake ongoing review of As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company will continue to be well portfolio composition to ensure a placed to take advantage of similar off-market and emerging sector opportunities in the suitable blend of risk return, future as well as on-market opportunities that may emerge.
For further details, refer to inflation linkage, yield versus the Operating Model section of this Strategic Report.
capital characteristics, level of Portfolio development may also include realisation of value for investors through diversification and opportunistic divestment, particularly where investments are no longer core or are minority holdings enhancements and where the acquisition of further investment to a majority position is considered unlikely..
The Board seeks to manage returns on operating cash surpluses and efficiently - Efficient financial management of manage cash available for investment through prudent use of a corporate debt facility.
cash holdings and debt facilities available for investment and The Company also seeks to use foreign exchange derivatives, interest rate swaps and other appropriate hedging strategies to protect investment returns where appropriate to appropriate hedging strategies do so, in accordance with the Investment Policy see Investment Policy section.
Currently the Company only has foreign exchange forward contracts in place excluding hedging arrangements at the underlying investment entity level.
1 Offshore electricity transmission owner licensed entities.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 12 3.
