Corporate Governance Board of Directors The table below details all Directors of the Company at the date of this report.
Background and Experience 1 1 1 1 1 Rupert Dorey John Whittle John Le Poidevin John Stares Claire Whittet Giles Frost Chairman Senior Independent Chairman, Risk SubChairman, Management Director Chairman, Investment Committee Engagement Committee Committee Chairman, Risk and Chairman, Nomination Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee Aged 55 and a Aged 60, John is a Aged 45, and a Aged 64 and a Aged 60 and a Aged 53, resident of resident of resident of resident of resident of Guernsey, resident in the Guernsey, Rupert Guernsey.
John is Guernsey, John Guernsey since Claire has over 38 United Kingdom, has over 30 years a Chartered has over 20 years 2001, John has years experience in Giles is a of experience in Accountant and of business over 40 years the banking industry.
founder and financial markets, holds the Institute experience.
business Since 2003 Claire Director of including 17 years of Directors experience.
has been a Director Amber and has at CSFB where Diploma in and, more recently, worked in the John is a Fellow of he specialised in Company Managing Director infrastructure the Institute of Before moving to credit related Direction.
John and Co-Head of investments Chartered Guernsey John products.
holds nonRothschild Bank sector for over Accountants in worked for 23 executive positions International Ltd and 20 years.
Giles England and Wales years as a on a number of Director of Rothschild qualified as a Ruperts expertise and a former management other boards.
Bank CI Ltd. Claire solicitor and was principally in partner of BDO consultant with was previously with partner in the law the areas of debt LLP, where as Accenture where Bank of Scotland and firm Wilde Sapte distribution, John was Head of Consumer he held a wide was latterly Global now Dentons.
origination and previously Finance Markets, he variety of Head of Private trading, where he Director of Close developed an leadership roles.
Client Credit at Bank held a number of Fund Services, a extensive breadth Giles is a of Bermuda.
senior positions at large independent of experience and Director of He currently holds CSFB, including fund administrator.
knowledge across Amber non-executive Fixed income the leisure and Claire is a NonInfrastructure positions on the Credit product retail sectors in the Executive Director on Group Holdings Prior to moving to boards of several coordinator for UK and overseas.
a number of other Limited, the Guernsey, John other companies.
European offices funds, is a member of ultimate holding was at Price and head of UK the Chartered company of the Waterhouse in John is a nonJohn is a Fellow of Credit and Rates Institute of Bankers in Investment London before executive on the Institute of Sales.
Scotland, a member Adviser to the embarking on a several plc boards Chartered of the Chartered Company and career in business and chairs a Accounts in Insurance Institute, a various of its Since 2005 services, number of Audit England and Chartered Banker, a subsidiaries.
Rupert has been predominantly Committees.
Wales, a member member of the a Non-Executive telecoms.
of the Worshipful Institute of Directors Director for a Company of and holds the number of Hedge Management Institute of Directors Funds, Private Consultants and a Diploma in Company Equity & Freeman of the Direction.
He is a member of the Institute of Directors.
Date of Appointment 2 August 2006 6 August 2009 1 January 2016 28 August 2013 10 September 2012 2 August 2006 1 All of the Independent Directors are members of all committees International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 43 Corporate Governance Board of Directors continued Listed Company and Other Relevant Directorships Rupert Dorey John Whittle John Le Poidevin John Stares Claire Whittet Giles Frost Advance Frontier Challenger JT Group BH Macro Limited Giles is also a AP Alternative Acquisitions Chairman Director of a Assets LP, AAA Markets Fund Ltd Limited number of the Guernsey Ltd Eurocastle Companys Terra Firma Investment Limited Globalworth Real Market Tech subsidiary and Guernsey-based Cinven Capital Estate Investments Holdings Limited investment holding entities Management III, IV, Riverstone Energy Ltd entities and of V, VI Ltd, Ltd Safecharge other entities in General Partner Ltd, Governor of More GLI Finance International Group which the Cinven Ltd House School TwentyFour Select Limited Alternate Limited Company has an Monthly Income investment.
He NB Global Floating New Philanthropy Fund Limited Stride Gaming plc does not receive India Capital Rate Income Fund Capital Trustee directors fees from Growth Fund Ltd Ltd such roles for the and Advance Company.
Frontier Markets M&G General Fund Ltd Partner Inc, Episode LLP & Episode Inc. Starwood European Real Partners Group Estate Finance Global Opportunities Limited Ltd Toro Limited Tetragon Financial Group Ltd Tetragon Financial Group Master Fund Ltd International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 44
