Corporate Governance Directors Report Introduction The Directors present their Annual Report on the paid must not be more than 5% above the average of the performance of the Company and Group for the year ended middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five 31 December 2015. business days before the shares are purchased unless previously advised to shareholders.
No such shares were Principal Activity bought back by the Company in the period from 2 June 2015.
The Company is a limited liability, Guernsey incorporated In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association up authorised closed-ended investment company under Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The Companys shares to 10% of the Companys shares may be held as treasury shares.
have a premium listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and are traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors The Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report contain a likely to affect its future development, performance and review of the business during the year.
A Corporate position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 9 - 42.
Governance Report is provided on pages 45 52.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing are described in the financial Directors Indemnities statements from page 62.
The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity The Directors have considered significant areas of possible provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the period and remain in force at the date of this financial risk and comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
Directors have, based on the information contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the committed banking Substantial Shareholdings facilities in place, formed a judgement, at the time of As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified, in approving the financial statements, that the Group and the accordance with chapter five of the Disclosure and Company have adequate resources to continue in Transparency Rules, of the following interests in 5% or more operational existence for the foreseeable future.
of the Companys Ordinary Shares to which voting rights are attached: After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that it is No.
of appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the % Issued Ordinary financial statements.
Name of holder Capital Shares Date notified Director Declaration Schroder plc 13.97% 116,774,275 4 Dec 2014 Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval Investec Wealth & of this Annual Report confirms that: Investment Limited 9.85% 97,616,757 19 Nov 2015 So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's external Auditor is As at 23 March 2016, being the most current information unaware.
available no further notifications had been received.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares and Treasury have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Shares the Company's Auditor is aware of that information.
This The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or confirmation is given and should be interpreted in cancellation during the year.
accordance with the provisions of Section 249 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Share By order of the Board Capital expires on 2 June 2016.
The Company will seek to renew such authority at the Annual General Meeting to take place on 2 June 2016.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the Rupert Dorey John Whittle market at prices below the prevailing NAV of the Ordinary 23 March 2016 23 March 2016 Shares as last calculated where the Directors believe such Chairman Director purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 56
