Strategic Report Strategic Report Investment policies and objectives Investment Objectives The actual asset allocation will depend on the maturity of the local infrastructure investment market, wider market The Company seeks to provide shareholders with a predictable, attractive and sustainable investment yield in conditions and the judgement of the Investment Adviser and the Board as to the suitability of the investment from a risk addition to the potential for capital appreciation of the and return perspective.
Key Portfolio Facts on page 5 has investment portfolio.
details of the current composition of the investment portfolio.
The Company targets a minimum annual dividend growth of Investment restrictions c. 2.5%.
The target annual dividend per share for 2016 and 2017 is 6.65 pence and 6.82 pence respectively.
The The Companys investment policy restricts it from making any Company seeks to increase this annually by a similar rate investment of more than 20% of the Companys total assets in where sustainable to do so.
any one investment at that time.
The Company also targets an internal rate of return IRR This policy does not however oblige the Company to equal to or greater than 8% per annum on the Initial Public rebalance its investment portfolio subsequently as a result of Offer issue price of 100 pence per Ordinary Share to be a change in the Net Asset Value of any investment or the achieved over the long-term.
The Directors seek to achieve Company as a whole.
However, its purpose is to limit the risk this through asset development, future acquisitions, active of any one investment to the overall portfolio.
management and prudent use of gearing.
The 2015 Financial and Operating Performance Review section provides further The Company is also subject to certain restrictions pursuant information relating to performance during the year.
to the UKLA Listing rules, i. e. to invest and manage assets with a view to spreading or otherwise managing investment risk in accordance with the Investment Policy: to not conduct a Investment Policy The Companys investment policy is to invest directly or trading activity which is significant to the Group: to not hold more than 10% of its total assets in other listed closed-ended indirectly in public or social infrastructure assets usually via investment funds.
Currently the Company has no investment entities which have been granted a concession to operate and manage those assets and related businesses located in the in any listed closed-ended investment funds.
UK, Australia, Europe, North America and, it is anticipated, in Managing conflicts of interest due course, in other parts of the world where the risk profile meets the Companys risk and return requirements.
It is expected that further investments will continue to be sourced by the Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management The Company intends to continue to acquire operational and Limited.
It is likely that some of these investments will have construction phase assets and hold them for the long-term or been originated and developed by, and in certain cases may life of the asset or concession, unless there is a strategic be acquired from, members of the Amber Infrastructure rationale for earlier realisation.
The Company will seek to Group.
enhance the capital value and the income derived from its investments.
The full Investment Policy is available on the The Company has established detailed procedures to deal Companys website www.
with conflicts of interest that may arise and manage conduct in respect of any such acquisition.
The Companys Board is required, in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules, to have Investment parameters a majority of independent members and a Chairman who is The Company intends to acquire further investments within independent from the Investment Adviser.
The Operating the following parameters: Model section within this Strategic Report sets out the - investments with characteristics similar to the existing operating model for the Company and the Corporate portfolio: Governance Report sets out more details on the conflicts - investment in other assets or concessions having a public management process.
or social infrastructure character and in respect of which: availability based payments are or will become Financial management payable: The Company may hold derivative or other financial a property rental is or will become payable, or instruments designed for efficient portfolio management or to user paid charges or payments related to amount of hedge interest, inflation or currency risks.
use are or will become payable: - investments in infrastructure assets or concessions Subject to the strategy approved by the Board, the Investment characterised by high barriers to entry and expected to Adviser manages such hedging activities for the purpose of generate an attractive total rate of return over the life of efficient portfolio management to enhance returns from the the investment.
Hedges are not entered into for speculative purposes.
Further details on the Companys use of hedges Portfolio composition are provided in the financial statements in note 12.
The Company may make investments in any location or jurisdiction where the investment meets the parameters set out above, although the Company does not currently expect to invest in projects in non-OECD countries.
The Company will, over the long-term, maintain a spread of investments both geographically and across industry sectors in order to achieve a broad balance of risk in the Companys portfolio.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 9 Strategic Report Strategic Report Investment policies and objectives continued The underlying entities into which the Company invests often are leveraged.
Any debt assumed by these vehicles is nonrecourse to the Company and variable interest rate debt is swapped to fixed rates at that projects inception to ensure that the cost of the debt is known over the life of the project concession.
The Company may make prudent use of leverage to enhance returns to investors, to finance the acquisition of investments in the short-term and to satisfy working capital requirements.
Under the Companys Articles, outstanding borrowings at the Company level, including any financial guarantees to support subscription obligations in relation to investments, are limited to 50% of the Gross Asset Value of the Companys investments and cash balances.
The Company has the ability to borrow in aggregate up to 66% of such Gross Asset Value on a short term basis i. e. less than 365 days if considered appropriate.
As at the date of this report the Companys corporate debt facility, which was increased to 300 million in May 2015, was 169 million drawn via letters of credit and the remaining undrawn see page 30 for further details.
The Company and Group may borrow in currencies other than GBP as part of its currency hedging strategy.
Operating cash surpluses and funds pending investment are held in cash, cash equivalents, near cash instruments, money market instruments and money market funds and cash funds.
Changes to investment policy Material changes to the investment policy summarised in this section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the UK Listing Rules.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 10
