Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance continued contribution to colleagues, clients and For further details on non-audit Board committees society.
Further information regarding our services see note 6 on page 157. remuneration philosophy and processes In exercising control of the group, the and directors remuneration is provided in directors are empowered to delegate to Investecs 2015 integrated annualreport.
various board and executive committees.
Regulation and The committees have specic terms of supervision reference, appropriately skilled members PRA Remuneration Code disclosures and access to specialist advice when Investec is subject to external regulation necessary.
and supervision by various supervisory In terms of the PRAs Chapter 11 Disclosure authorities in each of the jurisdictions in Requirements BIPRU 11.5.
18 the bank, as The full terms of reference are available on which we operate, the main ones being a tier 2 organisation, in the UK is required our website.
The reports of the chairman the UK Prudential Regulation Authority to make certain quantitative and qualitative of the board committees are provided in and the Financial Conduct Authority, and remuneration disclosures on an annual Investec's 2015 integrated annual report.
the Australian Securities and Investment basis with respect to PRA Code staff.
The full terms of reference are Code staff are defined as those employees available on our website.
including directors whose professional activities could have a material impact on Values and code of Remuneration the banks risk profile.
conduct The board believes that a properly These disclosures can be found in We have a strong organisational culture constituted and effective remuneration Investecs 2015 integrated annualreport.
of entrenched values, which forms the committee is key to maintaining the link cornerstone of our behaviour towards all between pay and performance.
These values are embodied in remuneration philosophy, which remains a written statement of values, which serves unchanged from prior years, is to employ Investecs external auditors are Ernst & as our code of ethics, and is continually the highest calibre individuals, who are Young LLP.
The independence of the reinforced.
characterised by integrity, intellect and external auditors is reviewed by the audit innovation and who adhere and subscribe committees each year.
We view all employees as the custodians to our culture, values and philosophies.
of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced We strive to inspire entrepreneurship by The audit committees meet with the external through internal processes, policies and providing a working environment that auditors to review the scope of the external procedures.
As such all new employees stimulates extraordinary performance, so audit, budgets, the extent of non-audit are invited, and are strongly encouraged, that executive directors and employees may services rendered and all other audit matters.
to attend an induction process at which be positive contributors to our clients, their our philosophies, values, culture, risk The external auditors are invited to attend communities and the group.
management and compliance procedures audit committee meetings and have access are explained and discussed.
The type of people the organisation to the chairman of each audit committee.
attracts, and the culture and environment Recommendations on the rotation of Our Organisation Development team within which they work, remain crucial auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing plays an important role in facilitating the in determining our success and longPractices Board Ethical Standard 3, were understanding and ongoing practice of term progress.
Our reward programmes adhered to during the year under review.
our values, philosophies and culture.
In are clear and transparent, designed addition to our values, acceptable business Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of and administered to align directors and practices are communicated through an agreed policy which states that: employees interests with those of all the human resources practices manual, stakeholders and ensure the groups External audit firms will have internal available on the intranet.
standards and processes to monitor 3 3 In summary, we recognise that banks have and maintain their independence and to divide the return from their enterprises these must be presented to the audit between the suppliers of capital and labour committees on an annual basis.
These and the societies in which they do business, will be considered based on the explicit the latter through taxation and corporate exclusions contained in existing rules social responsibility activities.
and guidelines Our group-wide remuneration philosophy Safeguards must be in place to ensure seeks to maintain an appropriate that there is no threat to the objectivity balance between the interests of these and independence in the conduct of the stakeholders, and is closely aligned to our audit, resulting from the provision of noncore values and philosophies which include audit services by the external auditors.
risk consciousness, meritocracy, material employee ownership and an unselfish 122 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Directorate Appointed to the board in December 2010.
Other directorships include: Financial Executive directors Services Board, Investec Bank Limited, After lecturing economics at the University Kumba Iron Ore Limited, Lewis Group details as at 30 June 2015 of Stellenbosch, Hendrik joined the Limited, Oceana Group Limited, Senwes Investment division of Old Mutual from Stephen Koseff 63 Limited, Sun International Limited, where he moved to Investec in 1991 as Vodacom Proprietary Limited and Chief executive officer portfolio manager and later chief executive Woolworths HoldingsLimited.
BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA officer of Investec Asset Management.
Laurel C Bowden 50 Board committees: DLC board risk Other directorships include: Investec and capital, DLC capital and DLC social National Higher Diploma Engineering, Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd and andethics BSc, MBA Investec Asset Management Limited as well as their subsidiaries.
Appointed to the board in October 1986.
Board committees: DLC audit committee, Investec plc audit and Investec Limited Stephen joined Investec in 1980.
He has group audit had diverse experience within Investec Non-executive directors as chief accounting officer and general Appointed to the board in January 2015. details as at 30 June 2015 manager of banking, treasury and merchant Laurel is a partner at 83 North, where her banking.
Fani Titi 53 areas of focus include internet, enterprise Other directorships include: Investec software and fintech.
Laurel has over Chairman Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc and a 15years investment experience and BSc Hons, MA, MBA number of Investec subsidiaries.
was previously a director at GE Capital in Board committees: DLC remuneration, London, where she was responsible for Bernard Kantor 65 DLC board risk and capital, DLC acquisitions in consumer and transport nominations and directors affairs, finance in Europe.
Managing director DLCsocial and ethics and DLC capital CTA Other directorships include: Bluevine Appointed to the board in January 2004.
Capital Inc. Edbury Partners Limited, Board committees: DLC board risk Following the retirement of Sir David and capital, DLC capital and DLC social 83North, GE Ventures Limited, iZettle AB, Prosser in August 2014, Fani became the Notonthehighstreet Enterprises Limited, and andethics sole chairman.
Appointed to the board in June 1987.
Fani is chairman of Investec Bank Limited, Cheryl A Carolus 57 Bernard joined Investec in 1980.
He has Investec Bank plc and former chairman BA Law, BEd, Honorary doctorate in Law had varied experience within Investec as a of Tiso Group Limited and former deputy manager of the Trading division, marketing chairman of the Bidvest Group.
Board committees: DLC social and ethics manager and chief operating officer.
Other directorships include: Investec Appointed to the board in March 2005.
Other directorships include: Phumelela Bank Limited chairman, Investec Bank Gaming and Leisure Limited, Investec Bank Cheryl acted as the South African High plc chairman, Investec Employee Benefits Limited, Investec Bank plc and a number of Limited and Investec Asset Management Commissioner to London between 1998 Investec subsidiaries.
and 2001 and was chief executive officer Holdings Pty Ltd, Investec Asset Management Limited, Kumba Iron Ore ofSouth African Tourism.
Glynn R Burger 58 Limited chairman, MTN Group Limited and Other directorships include: fide Beers Group risk and finance director MRC Media Pty Ltd. Consolidated Mines Limited, Gold Fields BAcc, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBL Limited, Mercedes-Benz South Africa Pty Zarina BM Bassa 51 Ltd, WWF South Africa and International, Board committees: DLC board risk and 3 3 BAcc, DipAcc, CA SA capital and DLC capital The IQ Business Group Pty Ltd, Ponahalo Capital Pty Ltd, Investec Asset Board committees: DLC audit, Investec Appointed to the board in July 2002.
Management Holdings Pty Ltd, Investec plc audit and Investec Limited group audit Asset Management Limited, executive and DLC board risk and capital Glynn joined Investec in 1980.
His positions chairperson of Peotona Group Holdings within Investec have included chief Appointed to the board in November 2014.
Pty Ltd and director of a number of the accounting officer, group risk manager and Peotona group companies and International joint managing director for South Africa.
Zarina is the executive chairman of Songhai Crisis Group.
A former partner of Ernst & Young Other directorships include: Investec Inc. she joined the Absa Group in 2002 and Perry KO Crosthwaite 66 Bank Limited and a number of Investec was an executive director and a member subsidiaries.
Senior independent director of the banks executive committee, with MA Hons in modern languages accountability for private banking.
She has Hendrik J du Toit 53 previously chaired the Public Accountants Board committees: DLC remuneration and Investec Asset Management chief and Auditors Board and the Auditing DLC nominations and directors affairs executiveofficer Standards Board and has been a member BCom Law, BCom Hons cum laude, of the JSE GAAP Monitoring Panel.
MCom cum laude, MPhil Cambridge Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 123
