Risk management and corporate governance Internal Audit The head of internal audit reports at each environment.
The audit committee approves audit committee meeting and has a direct any changes to the plan.
Internal Audits reporting line to the chairman of the audit activity is governed Significant control weaknesses are committee as well as the appropriate chief reported, in terms of an escalation by an internal audit executive officers.
The head of Internal protocol, to the local assurance forums, audit operates independently of executive charter which where remediation procedures and management, but has regular access to progress are considered and monitored is approved by their chief executive officer and to BU in detail by management.
The head of internal audit the group audit committee receives a report on significant is responsible for coordinating internal issues and actions taken by management committees and is audit efforts to ensure departmental skills to enhance related controls.
An update are leveraged to maximise efficiency.
on the status of previously raised issues administrative purposes, the head of The charter defines is provided by Internal Audit to each audit internal audit also reports to the global head committee.
If there are concerns in relation the purpose, of corporate governance and compliance.
to overdue issues, these will be escalated The functions comply with the International authority and to the executive risk review forum to Standards for the Professional Practice expediteresolution.
responsibilities of of Internal Auditing, and are subject to an independent Quality Assurance Review the function Internal Audit proactively reviews its QAR at appropriate intervals.
The most practices and resources for adequacy and recent independent QAR benchmarked appropriateness to meet an increasingly the functions against the July 2013 demanding corporate governance and publication by the Chartered Institute for regulatory environment.
The audit team Internal Auditors entitled Effective Internal comprise well-qualified, experienced Audit in the Financial Services Sector.
The staff to ensure that the function has the results were communicated to the audit competence to match Investecs diverse committees in March 2014 and to the requirements.
Where specific specialist respective regulators.
A QAR follow-up skills or additional resources are required, review was completed and results issued these are obtained from third parties.
to the audit committees in January 2015 Internal Audit resources are subject to aswell as to the respective regulators.
review by the respective auditcommittees.
Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of the entire business from which a comprehensive risk-based audit plan is derived.
The assessment and programme are validated by executive management and approved by the responsible audit committee.
Very high risk businesses and processes are audited at least every 12 months, with other areas covered at regular intervals based on their risk profile.
There is an ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as well as auditing technology risks given Investecs dependence on IT systems.
Internal Audit also liaises with the external 3 3 auditors and other assurance providers to enhance efficiencies in terms of integrated assurance.
The annual plan is reviewed regularly to ensure it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in the operating Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 113 Risk management and corporate governance Compliance Over the last year the pace of regulatory legal framework governing the requirements Consumer protection change in the financial sector has shown applicable to investment firms, trading The FCA has vigorously pursued its venues, data reporting service providers little signs of abating, and the pressure the consumer protection objective since taking industry has faced to implement various and third-country firms providing investment over from the FSA.
This has included services or activities in the EU.
regulatory initiatives has continued to several strategic thematic reviews into most be resource intensive.
In addition, the areas of consumer activity.
These reviews These reforms will drive change across scale and frequency of regulatory fines have included: firms complaint handling, Investec Bank plc, Investec Asset and redress orders continues to impact conflict management arrangements, Management and Investec Wealth & firms balance sheets with the regulators manufacturing and distribution of structured Investment, with the majority of these intensive and intrusive approach to products, affordability assessment and reforms required to be implemented by supervision expected to continue for the forbearance policies in consumer credit and January 2017. foreseeable future.
mortgage lending, as well as the way firms Segregation of client assets incentivise front line sales staff and protect Global regulators have continued to focus and funds client assets.
on promoting stability and resilience in Following the failures of Lehman Brothers financial markets, with increasing emphasis Market integrity and MF Global, the FCA has proposed on recovery and resolution plans and fundamental changes to the Client Assets structural reforms to the banking sector The FCA has adopted a markedly different Protection Regime CASS.
These changes as well as customer and market conduct approach to supervising conduct in the are designed to ensure that client assets related reforms.
wholesale markets to its predecessor, the and client money are segregated at all times FSA.
The FCA is now adopting a more Investec remains focused on complying and capable of being returned to clients interventionist and assertive approach in with the highest levels of compliance swiftly in the event of a firm failure.
identifying and addressing risks arising professional standards and integrity in each from wholesale conduct and scrutinising These new rules will require operational of our jurisdictions.
Our culture is a major these markets more broadly than before.
changes across Investec Bank plc, Investec component of our compliance framework It is driven by the recognition that poor Asset Management and Investec Wealth & and is supported by robust policies, conduct in wholesale markets can result Investment.
This will include the manner in processes and talented professionals who in detriment to retail customers and erode which firms segregate and manage client ensure that the interests of our customers trust and confidence in the integrity of money and assets through customer and shareholders remain at the forefront of UK markets.
This has become apparent relationships, outsourcing arrangements, everything we do.
in FCAs more pronounced focus on the operations, IT systems and related policies wholesale markets and outcomes for clients and procedures.
irrespective of their categorisation as either Year in review These new CASS rules come into force retail or professional.
in stages between December 2014 and Conduct risk Specific wholesale conduct areas of 1June 2015. regulatory focus over the past 12 months The FCA continues to focus on advancing Senior managers and certified have included: conflicts of interests its three operational objectives: securing persons regime management: best execution and an appropriate degree of protection for benchmark regulation.
The FCA and PRA are putting in place a consumers: protecting and enhancing the new regulatory framework for individuals integrity of the UK financial system: and Competition working in the UK banking sector.
The promoting effective competition in the incoming regime will consist of three key On 1 April 2015, the FCA gained additional interests of consumers.
The FCAs aim is components: competition powers alongside the to ensure that clients interests are at the Competition and Markets Authority the forefront of firms agendas and that their I.
A new Senior Managers Regime which CMA, including investigation of breaches needs are placed at the heart of the firms will clarify the lines of responsibility and enforcement of competition laws.
Firms are also expected to behave at the top of banks, enhance the 3 3 FCA has made use of these powers to appropriately in the wholesale markets in regulators ability to hold senior carry out a number of competition market which they operate.
individuals in banks to account and studies in areas such as: cash savings, require banks to regularly vet their Investec has focused over the period credit cards and SME banking.
The FCA is senior managers for fitness and on delivering good customer outcomes also planning further market studies into the propriety.
and effectively managing conduct risk investment and corporate banking sector, throughout our business.
A Certification Regime requiring firms mortgage markets and investor charges in continued and ongoing investment in and to assess fitness and propriety of staff the asset management sector.
enhancement of the conduct risk and in positions where the decisions they Investment services reform compliance frameworks in place throughout make could pose significant harm to the bank or any of its customers: and the group.
European Regulators are in the process of reforming the rulebooks for Investment III.
A new set of Conduct Rules, which Services in the EU Markets, via take the form of brief statements enhancements to the Markets in Financial of high-level principles setting out Instruments Directive MiFID.
This reform the standards of behaviour for package, known as MiFID II, will form the bankemployees.
114 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015
