Annual financial statements Strategic and directors report continued This takes the form of staff education, Environment, including Research and regular fire drills and maintenance of an greenhouse gas development open door policy with regard to dialogue on the issue.
Where appropriate, the emissions In the ordinary course of business, Investec appointment of individuals responsible for plc develops new products and services in various areas of health and safety is made.
We are committed to pursuing sound each of its business divisions.
environmental policies in all aspects of Further information is provided in Investecs our business and seek to encourage and 2015 integrated annual report.
promote good environmental practice Additional information among our employees and within the community in which we operate.
for shareholders Political donations and Further information can be found in Schedule A to the directors report is a expenditure Investecs 2015 integrated annual report.
summary of certain provisions of Investec Investec plc did not make any donations plcs current Articles of Association for political purposes in the UK or the and applicable English law concerning Going concern rest of the EU, nor did it make any companies the UK Companies Act 2006. political donations to political parties or Refer to page 118 for the other political organisations, or to any directors statement in relation to independent election candidates, or incur going concern.
any political expenditure during the year.
The board considers that this integrated annual report and annual financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
On behalf of the board of Investec plc Fani Titi Stephen Koseff Chairman Chief executive officer 19 June 2015 4 4 134 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report the opinion of the board, justifies such interests in those shares required to be Additional information payment.
provided under the Companies Act.
for shareholders The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies Set out below is a summary of certain Deadlines for exercising payable in respect of Investec plcs shares provisions of Investec plcs current Articles from a person with a 0.25% or more of Association the Articles and applicable voting rights interest in nominal value of the issued English law concerning companies the Votes are exercisable at a general meeting shares if such a person has been served UK Companies Act 2006.
This is a of Investec plc in respect of which the with a notice after failure to provide Investec summary only and the relevant provisions business being voted upon is being heard.
plc with information concerning interests in of the Articles or the Companies Act 2006 Votes may be exercised in person, by those shares required to be provided under should be consulted if further information is proxy, or in relation to corporate members, the Companies Act 2006. required.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before Voting rights Share capital the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions The issued share capital of Investec plc attaching to any class of shares, at a at 31 March 2015 consists of 613609 general meeting, every member present in 642 ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, person has, upon a show of hands, one 15081149 non-redeemable, Variation of rights vote and on a poll every member who is non-cumulative, non-participating preference Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the present in person or by proxy has one shares of 0.01 each, 2 275 940ZAR Articles specify that rights attached to vote for each share.
In the case of joint non-redeemable, non-cumulative, nonany class of shares may be varied with holders of a share, the vote of the senior participating preference shares of R0.001 the written consent of the holders of not who tenders a vote whether in person or by each, 285 748 623 special converting less than three-fourths in nominal value proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of shares of 0.0002 each, the special voting of the issued shares of that class, or with the votes of the other joint holders and for share of 0.001, the UK DAN share of the sanction of an extraordinary resolution this purpose seniority shall be determined 0.001 and the UK DAS share of 0.001 passed at a separate general meeting of by the order in which the names stand in each class as defined in the Articles.
the holders of those shares.
At every such the register of members in respect of the separate general meeting the quorum share.
Under the Companies Act 2006 shall be two persons or, if there is only members are entitled to appoint a proxy, Purchase of own shares one holder, that holder at least holding or who need not be a member of Investec representing by proxy at least one-third in Subject to the provisions of the plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to nominal value of the issued shares of the Articles, the Companies Act 2006, the attend and vote on their behalf at a general class calculated excluding any shares held uncertificated securities regulations 2001 meeting or class meeting.
A member may as treasury shares.
The rights conferred and every other statute for the time being appoint more than one proxy in relation to a upon the holders of any shares shall not, in force concerning companies and general meeting or class meeting, provided unless otherwise expressly provided in affecting Investec plc, the approval of that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to those shares, be shareholders as provided in the Investec the rights attached to a different share or deemed to be varied by the creation or plc Articles, and without prejudice to shares held by that member.
Amember issue of further shares ranking pari passu any relevant special rights attached to that is a corporation may appoint an with them.
Where, under the companys any class of shares, Investec plc may individual to act on its behalf at a general share incentive plan, participants are the purchase, or may enter into a contract meeting or class meeting as a corporate beneficial owners of the shares, but not the under which it will or may purchase, any representative.
The person so authorised registered owners, the participants are not of its own shares of any class, including shall be entitled to exercise the same 4 4 entitled to exercise any voting rights until without limitation any redeemable shares, powers on behalf of such corporation as the shares are released to the participants.
in any way and at any price whether at par the corporation could exercise if it were an Under the companys employee trust, or above or below par.
individual member of Investec plc.
the trustee does not vote in respect of unallocated shares.
Restrictions on voting Dividends and distributions No member shall be entitled to vote either Transfer of shares in person or by proxy at any general Subject to the provisions of the Companies All transfers of shares may be effected by meeting or class meeting in respect of any Act 2006, Investec plc may by ordinary transfer in writing in any usual or common shares held by him if any call or other sum resolution from time to time declare form or in any other form acceptable to the then payable by him in respect of that share dividends not exceeding the amount directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be remains unpaid.
In addition, no member recommended by the board.
The board signed by or on behalf of the transferor and shall be entitled to vote if he has been may pay interim dividends whenever except in the case of fully paid shares by served with a notice after failure to provide the financial position of Investec plc, in or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of Investec plc with information concerning Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 135 Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report continued shares which are in uncertificated form are Investec plc may, at its option, redeem The preference dividend or any part effected by means of the CREST system.
all or any of the plc preference shares for thereof remains in arrears and unpaid the time being issued and outstanding as determined in accordance with The directors may, in the case of shares in on the first call date or any dividend Article 150.2 e ii after six months certificated form, in their absolute discretion from the due date thereof: and or payment date thereafter and without assigning any reason, refuse A resolution of Investec plc is to register any transfer of shares not Holders of plc preference shares will proposed which resolution directly being fully paid shares, provided that such not be entitled to attend and vote affects the rights attached to the discretion may not be exercised in such a at general meetings of Investec plc.
perpetual preference shares or the way as to prevent dealings in the shares of Holders will be entitled to attend and interests of the holders thereof, that class from taking place on an open and vote at a classmeeting of holders of plc or a resolution of Investec plc is proper basis.
The directors may also refuse preference shares.
proposed to wind up or in relation to to register an allotment or transfer of shares the winding-up of Investec plc or for whether fully paid or not in favour of more the reduction of its capital, in which than four persons jointly.
If the directors Non-redeemable, event the preference shareholders refuse to register an allotment or transfer shall be entitled to vote only on non-cumulative, they shall within two months after the date suchresolution.
on which the letter of allotment or transfer non-participating was lodged with Investec plc send to the preference shares allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
Rand-denominated The directors may decline to recognise any The following are the rights and privileges non-redeemable, instrument of transfer unless the instrument which attach to the perpetual preference non-cumulative, of transfer is in respect of only one class of shares: share and, when submitted for registration, non-participating Each perpetual preference share will rank is accompanied by the relevant share as regards dividends and a repayment perpetual preference certificates and such other evidence as the of capital on the winding up of Investec directors may reasonably require.
Subject shares the ZAR perpetual plc prior to the ordinary shares, the to the Companies Act and regulations and plc special converting shares, the UK applicable CREST rules, the directors may preference shares DAN share, the UK DAS share, but determine that any class of shares may be pari passu with the plc preference held in uncertificated form and that title to The ZAR perpetual preference shares are shares.
The perpetual preference shares such shares may be transferred by means subject to substantially similar terms and shall confer on the holders, on a per of the CREST system or that shares of conditions as the existing Pounds Sterling perpetual preference shares and equal any class should cease to be so held and non-redeemable, non-cumulative, basis, the right on a return of capital transferred.
non-participating preference shares, on the winding-up of Investec plc of an as outlined above, save that they are A number of the companys employee amount equal to the aggregate of the denominated in South African Rand.
share plans include restrictions on transfer nominal value and premiums in respect of shares while the shares are subject to the of perpetual preference shares issued, plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
divided by the number of perpetual preference shares in issue Each perpetual preference share may Plc preference shares confer upon the holder thereof the right to receive out of the profits of The following are the rights and privileges Investec plc which it shall determine which attach to the plc preference shares: to distribute, in priority to the ordinary 4 4 On a return of capital, whether or not on shares, the plc special converting a winding up but not on a redemption shares, the UK DAN share and the UK or purchase of any shares by Investec DAS share, but paripassu with the plc or otherwise, the plc preference plc preference shares, the preference shares will rank, pari passu interse and dividend calculated in accordance with with the most senior ranking preference the Articles shares of Investec plc in issue if The holders of the perpetual preference any from time to time and with any shares shall be entitled to receive notice other shares of Investec plc that are of and be present but not to vote, either expressed to rank pari passu therewith in person or by proxy, at any meeting of as regards participation in the capital, Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect and otherwise in priority to any other of the perpetual preference shares, class of shares of Investec plc unless either or both of the following circumstances prevail at the date of themeeting: 136 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015
