Marketplace Current economic climate The UK Governments While the economic recovery continues globally, it Eight Great Technologies remains fragile with the prospect of rising interest 1 Big data and energy efficient computing rates in the US coupled with an economic slowdown in China contributing to uncertainty.
The International 2 Satellites and commercial applications of space Monetary Fund is currently forecasting the world Robotics and autonomous systems 3 economy will grow modestly in 2016, by 3.6% compared with growth of 3.1% in 2015.
Average 4 Life sciences, genomics and synthetic biology forecasts for the UK economy, meanwhile, point to 5 Regenerative medicine GDP growth of about 2.5% over the next couple of years.
Agri-science 6 Global research landscape 7 Advanced materials and nano-technology The UK and the US, which have been responsible for 8 Energy and its storage some of the most significant scientific breakthroughs Source: Our plan for growth: science and innovation, the UK in recent history, remain at the forefront of producing Department for Business Innovation & Skills.
world-class scientific research with the most The Government recognises the increasingly prestigious research institutions in both countries important role that business building and venture continuing to attract outstanding researchers and capital companies can play in supporting the innovators from around the world.
The OECD Science, incubation companies which emerge from university Technology and Industry Outlook 2014 noted, research.
IP Group already seeks opportunities in however, that China is on track to be the worlds top the majority of the eight technologies and welcomes R&D spender by around 2019.
The report highlighted the Governments approach, believing that central that with R&D spending by most OECD governments policy support is likely to improve the high-quality, and businesses yet to recover from the economic innovative output emanating from the research crisis, the OECDs share in global R&D spending institutions with which it has partnerships.
has slipped from 90% to 70% in a decade.
Annual growth in R&D spending across OECD countries The US Government continues to fund science was 1.6% over 2008-12, half the rate of 2001-08 as and innovation and has highlighted advanced public R&D budgets stagnated or shrank in many manufacturing, clean energy and innovation in life countries and business investment was subdued.
sciences, biology and neuroscience as some of its Chinas R&D spending, meanwhile, doubled from budget priorities for 2015 and 2016.
Further, the report found that Korea US Government and universities commitment to became the worlds most R&D intensive country in supporting science and technology, venture capital 2012, spending 4.36% of GDP on R&D, overtaking investment companies in the US have, in recent Israel 3.93% and versus an OECD average of 2.40%.
years, increasingly focused on opportunities in IT The BRIICS produced around 12% of the top-quality and social media and therefore the Directors believe scientific publications in 2013, almost twice its that this mismatch of funding creates an attractive share of a decade ago and compared to 28% in the opportunity for IP Group.
IP Group currently has United States.
China and Korea are now the main arrangements with three Ivy League universities in destinations of scientific authors from the United the North East Corridor of the US.
States and experienced a net brain gain over 1996- 2011.
Accessing quality research The Group aims to establish credible partnerships In the UK, the Government remains committed to with the top research institutions in countries its plan of capitalising on the cutting-edge science where leading research is produced in order to base that will be critical to our future prosperity access research with commercial potential.
In its report, Our plan for Companys two current areas of geographic focus growth: science and innovation, the UKs Department are the US and the UK, with its core activities for Business, Innovation & Skills pledged 5.9bn continuing to remain in the UK.
In 2014, the Research to science capital up until 2021 and additionally Excellence Framework REF carried out a ranking maintains its focus on the Eight Great Technologies assessment of the quality of research carried out in see table.
IP Group currently seeks to commercialise IP developed at 11 of the top 8 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy syndication of investment.
However, there are also occasions when IP Group may need to participate in a competitive process to obtain an interest in a particular technology.
The Groups portfolio companies regularly compete with a range of technology and other businesses when seeking capital for the development of their business models.
This competition for both opportunities and capital can come from a wide variety of categories of entity, including: specialist traditional venture capital investors: large private institutional investors: privately managed schemes based on government funding: private individuals, both acting individually or collectively as groups such as business angel networks, crowdfunding platforms or through beneficial tax mechanisms such as SEIS, EIS IP Groups and VCTs: key differentiators direct public funding, for example the EU level JEREMIE fund and other national and local schemes: and Strength of partnerships with leading research institutions, giving access to potentially universities and research intensive institutions disruptive IP in both the UK and the US.
seeking to raise private sector funding themselves to support their in-house technology Business-building expertise including an commercialisation activities.
executive search function and innovative programmes working with CEOs and boards of IP Groups competitive advantage portfolio companies.
IP Groups approach to building businesses is one Patient capital approach.
of the ways in which it differentiates itself from more traditional venture funds.
The Group actively supports the development of its portfolio companies through access to early-stage business-building 20-ranked institutions identified by the REF as well as expertise, interim executive support, technical and a number of others.
The Group believes that no other commercial networks and senior team recruitment organisation seeking to provide commercialisation and development in addition to the provision of services to universities has as broad a range of capital.
In addition, the Group provides operational, access to high-quality research in the UK.
The legal, business and company secretarial support to Group regularly gives consideration to future its companies, with a view to minimising the most geographic areas where the Groups model may offer common administrative factors that can contribute opportunities for value creation but currently has no to early-stage company failure.
The Group has also operations outside of the UK and US.
successfully carried out a number of instances of two innovative programmes to accelerate company Competitive landscape growth, working with CEOs and company boards to The number of companies and organisations improve performance.
seeking to commercialise intellectual property, and or provide capital to spin-out companies from universities and research intensive institutions in the UK has increased.
Further, the Group continues to face the risk of competition in new geographies in which it seeks to operate, for example as a result of its recent expansion into the US.
When approaching new opportunities, potential funders will often act in a collaborative manner through 9 Stock Code: IPO www.
