OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, we are committed to complying with the Code, which is available on the FRC website at frc.
Throughout the accounting period, we have complied with the provisions of Sections A to E of the Code as detailed below, with the exception of Sections B.
2.1 and C. 3.1, as explained in the following table.
1.2 At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should Throughout the accounting period, excluding the Chairman, comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board there were four independent Non-Executive Directors, to be independent.
four Executive Directors and two non-independent NonExecutive Directors.
2.1 The Chairman or an independent non-executive director Lord Leach of Fairford a non-independent Non-Executive should chair the nomination committee.
The other members comprise four independent Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman and one non-independent Non-Executive Director Lord Sassoon.
C. 3.1 The Board should establish an audit committee of at least The Audit & Risk Committee comprises five Non-Executive three, independent, non-executive directors.
Directors, but only four are independent Non-Executive Directors and one is a non-independent Non-Executive Director Lord Sassoon.
Since 1997, Jardine Matheson has appointed two representatives There are four independent Non-Executive Directors on each onto the Board of JLT.
Jardine Matheson currently has a 40.17% Board Committee and all the Committees have a majority of interest in the Company.
The relationship with Jardine Matheson is independent directors.
maintained on an arms length basis as detailed on pages 55 and The business and profits of JLT have grown significantly in recent 56 and in note 32 on page 152. years and we believe the overall contribution of Jardine Matheson The Jardine Matheson appointed directors, Lord Leach and Lord and its nominated Directors has been very material to this.
Sassoon, will both be standing for re-election at the Companys Jardine Matheson has clearly demonstrated that it is a AGM.
In addition to their Board roles, the Jardine Mathesoncommitted, long-term shareholder.
We believe that their appointed Directors have always held Committee memberships.
interests are fundamentally aligned to the interests of all other Lord Leach is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and shareholders.
In the Boards experience, over many years, a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Lord Sassoon conflicts of interest between Jardine Matheson and the other is a member of each of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and shareholders of JLT are extremely rare and, if they do arise Remuneration Committees.
such as in 2011 when Jardine Matheson sought to acquire As a consequence of the above, JLT has, for a number of years, an additional 10% shareholding in JLT the Jardine Matheson not been in full compliance with the relevant Code provisions butappointed Directors withdraw from any relevant discussion.
has sought to satisfy shareholders with appropriate explanations of All such issues have been handled with great awareness and those areas where it does not comply.
The Board strongly believes that the continuation of these We believe that the continuing support of Jardine Matheson arrangements is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders has been, and will continue to be of great importance to for the following reasons: the success of JLT, especially in Asia, a key growth market for the Company, where Jardine Mathesons reputation and While our Board does not have a majority of independent connections are of great value to us.
Non-Executive directors, we believe it functions very well at its current size.
We believe that the Board includes an appropriate Lord Leach and Lord Sassoon are extremely able and combination of independent and non-independent Nonexperienced Directors in their own right, with a wealth of Executive Directors, in line with the Codes principle that no relevant experience and knowledge to bring to the deliberations individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, Lord Leach has decision-making.
We see no benefit in expanding the size of served on our Board for many years and has great knowledge the Board by appointing additional independent Non-Executive of JLT and the insurance industry.
Directors simply to create the recommended majority.
81 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The independent Non-Executive Directors regularly consider the composition of our Board, and believe that the Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively, as set out in the Code.
All individual members of the Board, both Executive and Non-Executive, are fully supportive of the current arrangements.
The following table describes in more detail how we have complied with the respective provisions of the Code.
LEADERSHIP A1 The role of the Board The Group Chief Executive, Dominic Burke, is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business in line with the strategy and The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
He is also responsible monitoring the performance of the Company as a whole.
Details of for promoting and conducting the affairs of the Company with the matters discussed by the Board are set out on page 55. highest standards of ethics, integrity and corporate governance.
A2 Division of Responsibilities A3 Non-Executive Directors The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinctly The Non-Executive Directors provide strong and robust independent separate and are clearly defined.
The Chairman, Geoffrey Howe, oversight to the proceedings of the Board.
In addition, they bring is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, external experience from other financial services companies and ensuring its effectiveness, setting agendas, ensuring that the international businesses.
The letters of appointment for the NonDirectors receive accurate, timely and clear information and that Executive Directors are available for inspection at the AGM of the there is effective communication with shareholders.
All Non-Executive Directors confirm on appointment they effective contribution to the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments.
particular ensuring constructive relationships between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
EFFECTIVENESS B1 The composition of the Board B4 Development The Nominations Committee annually reviews the balance and All new Directors are invited to take part in a comprehensive experience of the Board.
The Nominations Committee has also induction programme.
Details of the programme undertaken by considered the issue of director independence and knowledge and Charles Rozes, who was appointed during the year, are set out confirmed that the Directors have the right level of experience to on page 57. promote the long-term performance of the Company.
Details of the Directors experience are shown in the chart on page 56.
B5 Information and Support The Chairman and Group Company Secretary work together to B2 Appointments to the Board ensure that all Directors receive full and accurate information in a The process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board timely manner.
is led by the Nominations Committee.
Further details of the appointment made during the year and succession planning B6 Evaluation activities can be found in the Nominations Committees report on The Board and Committees undertook internal evaluations during pages 64 to 66.
The last external evaluation took place in 2013.
Details of the Board evaluation are shown on page 57 above.
B3 Commitment Non-Executive Directors are advised on appointment of the time B7 Re-election commitment expected of them, and this is reviewed regularly.
All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election at External appointments which might impact on existing time the 2015 AGM, and the same process will apply at the 2016 AGM.
commitments must be agreed with the Chairman.
82 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C. ACCOUNTABILITY C1 Financial and Business Reporting C3 Audit & Risk Committee and auditors The Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 11 to 49, sets The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit & out details of the Companys performance, business model and Risk Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Companys strategy, and the risks and uncertainties relating to the Companys financial reporting processes, internal controls and risk management future prospects.
framework, and the work undertaken by the external auditors.
C2 Risk Management and Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control systems, and for regularly reviewing their effectiveness.
The activities of the Audit & Risk Committee, which supports the Board on this matter, are described on pages 58 to 63 and the Risk Management Report is included on pages 40 to 42.
D. REMUNERATION D1 The level and components of remuneration.
D2 Procedure The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Companys remuneration policy.
The key principles and framework remuneration of all Executive Directors.
Details of the composition adopted by the Committee are set out in the Committees report on and the activities of the Committee are set out in the Committees pages 67 to 80.
E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS E1 Dialogue with shareholders E2 Constructive use of the AGM The Board seeks to engage actively with all shareholders.
Details of The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity to meet activity undertaken in this area can be found on page 57. with shareholders.
All of the Directors including the Chairmen of the Board Committees are expected to attend and will be available to answer questions from shareholders attending the meeting.
83 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND STRATEGIC REPORT EMPLOYMENT POLICIES Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding company domiciled The Group aims to provide an environment where individuals can and incorporated in the UK with Registered Number 01679424 excel.
Wide share ownership and share option schemes encourage for an international group of risk specialists and employee employee engagement.
Regular briefings and consultation, benefits consultants.
using the JLT intranet where possible, keep the employees informed about the Groups performance and matters that affect The Strategic Report on pages 11 to 49 covers the activities them as employees.
of the Group, its performance during the year and likely future developments.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and encourages diversity.
Applications from disabled people will always be fully considered, having proper regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS If existing employees become disabled, every effort is made to make The financial statements for the Company for the year to sure their employment with the Group continues.
If such employees 31 December 2015 are detailed on pages 157 to 163.
These are are unable to continue work, every effort is made to safeguard their prepared in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting financial interests.
The Group aims to provide training, development Practice in the UK, also known as UK GAAP.
and promotion opportunities that are identical, as far as possible, for The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 19.5 pence per disabled and non-disabled employees.
share be paid on 3 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on 1 April 2016.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 30.6 pence EMPLOYMENT DIVERSITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL per share, 6% higher than 2015.
REPORTING The Groups Corporate Responsibility statement is set out on pages BRANCHES AND SUBSIDIARIES 43 to 49.
This includes the Groups position on employee diversity A table of the Companys subsidiaries and associated companies is and the environment as well as the Groups Greenhouse Gas included on pages 154 to 156.
In addition, the Company operated Emissions Report for the year ended 31 December 2015. though branches in a number of countries.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS At 31 December 2015 and 19 February 2016 the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: 31 December 2015 19 February 2016 Shareholder % of voting rights % of voting rights JMH Investments Limited 40.17 40.17 MFS Investment Management 9.07 9.07 Standard Life Investments 5.85 5.85 Royal Bank of Canada 4.10 4.04 JMH Investments Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited under s823 1 b of the Companies Act 2006.
The highest percentage held by JMH Investments Limited in JLT in the 12 months preceding the date of this report was 40.17%.
84 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Each of the Directors whose names and functions are listed on STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES pages 52 and 53 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the Group: and for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Strategic Report, contained in pages 11 to 49 of the the Group financial statements in accordance with International Annual Report, includes a fair review of the development Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European and performance of the business and the position of the Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance Group, together with a description of the principal risks and with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice uncertainties that it faces.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial Each Director as at the date of this report, further confirms that: statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company, and of information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
b the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken In preparing these financial statements, the directors are as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant required to: audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them are aware of that information.
consistently: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. and prudent: JLT VIABILITY STATEMENT state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by the IASB and applicable UK Accounting As prescribed by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Standards have been followed, subject to any material Code, the Board of Directors have conducted a detailed departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent assessment of those risk events that could threaten JLT Groups company financial statements respectively: and ability to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
For this assessment Directors have selected a period of three prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, years over which the Viability Statement would be considered.
This unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will timescale is believed to be appropriate given its alignment with the continue in business.
Groups business and strategic planning process.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting JLT has undertaken a rigorous assessment, which included the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys following core components: transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, 1.
Financial Sensitivity Testing For example: levels of planned the financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable revenue, the development of key strategic operations, changes them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors in foreign exchange and interest rates, and cash consumption: Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 2.
Risk Scenario Testing Assessing the impact of a Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the combination of principal risks crystallising during the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, for taking viability period: reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 3.
Reverse Stress Testing Estimating the quantum of a loss, other irregularities.
which may ultimately threaten the companys viability, if not The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of effectively managed, then reviewing this in the context of one of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys the key risks facing an insurance intermediary e. g. E&O risk : website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 4.
Principal Risks & Environmental Factors Reviewing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ companys Principal Risks in the context of the key environment from legislation in other jurisdictions.
factors considerations over the next three years.
These The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, included key trends, issues, uncertainties e. g. regulatory is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information environment, known potentially impactful events e. g. UK EU necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, Referendum and emerging risks e. g. geo-political risk.
performance, business model and strategy.
As a result of this assessment, the Directors can confirm it is their reasonable expectation that, over the next three years, JLT will continue to operate and meet its on-going liabilities as they fall due.
This statement is underpinned by various mitigating factors including the Groups control environment, capital requirements and resources and the quality and accessibility of facilities.
85 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED existence for the foreseeable future and continue to adopt a GOING CONCERN going concern basis in accordance with the guidance Going The Strategic Report on pages 11 to 49 includes information on the Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Group structure, the performance of our businesses, the markets Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council in in which we operate and the principal risks and uncertainties.
The preparing the financial statements.
Financial Statements on pages 96 to 163 includes information on There has been no significant change in the financial or trading our Group financial results, cash flow and balance sheet position.
position of the Group since 31 December 2015.
The Directors have also considered the Groups cash flow OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION projections presented in the review of the budget for the full year to 31 December 2016 as well as work undertaken for the Directors Indemnity and Insurance Viability Statement.
The Directors are satisfied that these cash flow projections, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities The Company provides the appropriate level of Directors and associated with these forecasts and the Groups current funding Officers Liability Insurance in respect of any legal actions brought and facilities, alongside the Groups funding strategy, show that the against its Directors, in addition to the indemnity included in the Group will continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
Neither the insurance nor the The Directors therefore continue to have a reasonable expectation indemnity provides cover where the relevant Director or Officer has that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
LISTING RULE COMPLIANCE The Company has included in this report a Strategic Report on pages 11 to 49 which provides an overview of the Companys business, its position and performance during the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Strategic Report also includes any likely developments in the Group and the Company.
8 R the content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report on pages 11 to 49 and pages 81 to 88 respectively.
4 C R, the information required by section LR 9.8.
4 R can be found at the locations provided in the table below: Section Subject Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Long-term incentive schemes page 73 5 Director waiver of emoluments Not applicable 6 Director waiver of future emoluments Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of shares for cash Not applicable 8 Non pre-emptive issues by a major subsidiary undertaking Not applicable 9 Any participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary undertaking.
Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividend See paragraph below 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividend See paragraph below 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders page 55 In relation to LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13 the Trustees of the JLT Employee Benefit Trust agree to waive dividends on the shares held by the Trust to meet the awards under the Long Term Incentive Plans and Senior Executive Share Scheme.
86 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Trust holds shares which are used to satisfy awards made SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION under the Company share plans.
SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING Movements in the share capital of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2015 are set out in note 24 on page 135.
At 31 No member, unless the Directors otherwise determine, is entitled to December 2015, the issued share capital consisted of 220,171,007 vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting in respect ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
In addition 1,143,131 shares are of any shares held by the member if any call or other sum then held as treasury shares for which voting rights would not be exercised.
payable by the member in respect of that share remains unpaid.
The Company has one class of share capital, being ordinary shares In addition, no member is entitled to vote if the member has been of 5 pence each, and all the shares rank pari passu.
No person served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with holds securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the information concerning interests in those shares required to be Company.
The Company did not puchase any shares during the year.
provided under the Companies Act.
The Board has the power to implement the purchase by the Company DEADLINES FOR EXERCISING VOTING RIGHTS of its own shares in accordance with the power granted at the AGM each year, and will be seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or in relation to AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally adjourned meeting, and the notice of AGM will specify the deadline vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the for exercising voting rights.
satisfaction of any performance conditions as may be appropriate at that time.
VARIATION OF RIGHTS At 31 December 2015, the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Employee Benefit Trusts the Trust held 8,994,952 shares in the Company If, at any time, the capital of the Company is divided into different representing 4.10% of the issued capital excluding treasury shares.
classes of shares then, subject to statute, the Articles specify At 19 February 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to the that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the posting of this report, the Trust held 8,851,233 shares representing written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of 4.04% of the issued capital excluding treasury shares.
the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting, the quorum DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS is two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one third in Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding resolution, but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the any shares held as treasury shares.
amount recommended by the Board.
A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act The Board can pay interim dividends whenever the financial position on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise The Board can withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
any person with a 0.25 per cent interest as set out in the Articles if that person has been served with a notice after failure to provide SHARE BUY-BACK AUTHORITY the Company with information concerning interests in those shares We will, as in previous years, be seeking renewal of our standing required to be provided under the Companies Act.
The Directors share buy-back authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting may also retain any dividends payable on shares on which the of up to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued capital.
Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards As was the case last year, we will not be seeking shareholder satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of approval for a Rule 9 dispensation in relation to this authority which the lien exists.
pursuant to the Takeover Code.
VOTING RIGHTS This means that in the event that the directors were to initiate a buy-back, in order to avoid triggering a mandatory offer obligation On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member present in upon Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited JMH under Rule 37 of person has one vote and on a poll, every member who is present in the Takeover Code, JMH would need to participate in any such person or by proxy has one vote for each share held.
In the case of buy-back so that its overall percentage holding which at 31 January joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, 2016 was 40.17% did not increase following the buy-back.
whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the share.
Voting rights in relation to treasury shares are suspended and the voting rights are not normally exercised in respect of the shares held in the Trust.
87 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Although the Company has not utilised the authority to buy ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING back shares since 2008, the Board believes it would be in the The AGM notice is included in the Circular that accompanies interests of all shareholders for the Company to continue to have this Annual Report.
The meeting will be held at 12 noon on the right to purchase its own shares in the market in appropriate Thursday 26 April 2016 at the St Botolph Building, circumstances.
We would only exercise this authority if we believe 138 Houndsditch, London, EC3A 7AW.
that it is in the best interests of shareholders and would result in an improvement in earnings per share.
At that meeting, shareholders will be asked to vote separately on the Annual Report, and on the Report on Directors Remuneration.
TRANSFER OF SHARES Separate resolutions will also be proposed on every substantially different issue.
A poll will be held on each resolution to ensure that All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected the votes of shareholders unable to attend the meeting are taken by transfer in writing in any usual or common form, or in any other into account, and the results of the voting will be placed on our form acceptable to the Directors.
The instrument of transfer must website as soon as possible after the meeting.
be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case The special business includes the renewal within prescribed limits of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor of: shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the Register of Members of the The Directors authority to allot Company securities within Company.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are The Investment Association guidelines: effected by means of the CREST system.
The disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights: and The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated shares The authority of the Company to purchase its own shares by that are not fully paid provided that partly paid shares must be way of market purchases.
transferable free from restrictions and investors must be provided with sufficient information to allow dealing on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or INDEPENDENT AUDITORS transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than Following review, the Board proposes that  four persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or LLP are re-appointed as the Company auditors.
transfer, they must give the transferee notice of the refusal as soon as is practicable and, in any event, within two months after the A resolution proposing this will be put to the AGM.
date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
By Order of the Board The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and, when submitted for registration, is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system, or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
Jonathan Lloyd A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Group Company Secretary Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a 1 March 2016 transfer of shares to take place.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that might result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles of Association.
The Directors are authorised to issue and allot shares, and to undertake purchases of Company shares, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Any amendment of the Articles requires shareholder approval in accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
88 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAIN HEADER Main Heading Sub FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125 Derivative financial instruments Includes the report of the Independent 126 Trade and other receivables Auditor and the primary reporting statements 127 Cash and cash equivalents as well as the accounting policies under which 127 Trade and other payables the financial statements have been prepared.
128 Financial instruments by category 130 Borrowings Page 133 Deferred income taxes 90 Independent Auditors Report 134 Provisions for liabilities and charges 96 Consolidated Income Statement 135 Share capital and premium 97 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 135 Non-controlling interests 98 Consolidated Balance Sheet 136 Other reserves 99 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 137 Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust 100 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 137 Cash generated from operations 101 Significant Accounting Policies 138 Business combinations 146 Business disposals Notes to the Financial Statements 147 Retirement benefit obligations 152 Related-party transactions Contains the supporting notes to the 153 Commitments financial statements which provide further 153 Subsequent events detail and analysis.
154 Subsidiaries and associated companies 108 Alternative income statement Company Financial Statements 109 Segment information 112 Operating profit Includes UK GAAP accounts of the company 113 Investment income 113 Finance income and costs 158 Independent Auditors Report 114 Employee information 159 Income Statement 117 Services provided by the Companys auditor 159 Balance Sheet and its associates 160 Statement of Changes in Equity 117 Income tax expense 161 Significant Accounting Policies 118 Earnings per share 162 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 118 Dividends 119 Goodwill 120 Other intangible assets 121 Property, plant and equipment 122 Investments in associates 124 Available-for-sale financial assets 89 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
