STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL Clients and Services Risk & Insurance Employee Benefits Acting as an intermediary for Acting as an advisor, intermediary our clients with insurers and and service provider in the pensions reinsurers and providing related risk consultancy and administration, management, analytical, advisory employee benefits and healthcare, and other administrative services.
life insurance and wealth management sectors.
Clients include multinational corporations and other public and Clients include multinational private sector organisations, retail corporations, public and private insurance brokers and individuals.
sector organisations, pension trustees and individuals.
Fees and Commissions Fees are typically charged either on a time-cost or a fixed-fee basis and are earned in both the Employee Benefits and Risk & Insurance business groups.
These fees are paid by the client rather than the insurer or reinsurer.
Commissions are typically based on a percentage of the insurance or reinsurance premium being paid by the client.
Frequently, the level of this commission payment is also subject to negotiation with the client.
This commission is paid by the insurer or reinsurer rather than the client and is largely earned in the Groups Risk & Insurance businesses.
Acquisitions Investment Income People The Groups Strategy see page 6 includes Investment income arises from the holding of cash and investments on behalf The Group continues to retain and recruit a commitment to grow its Specialty-led of clients.
The holding of client monies largely relates to premium and claims market-leading individuals across all of its capabilities and build out its international global operations.
payments which the business holds for a short period of time in its role as the reach and relevance.
In 2015, the Group added 682 individuals been, and will continue to be, an important to the JLT team, more than 400 through element of delivering on this strategy.
JLT now has 10,777 employees working for the Group.
In 2015, the Group made 9 new acquisitions for a total consideration In the last 5 years, the number of of 30.3 million.
Costs employees in the Group has increased by more than 73%.
Key to the success In the last 5 years, the Group has made Two of the largest underlying costs to the business relate to staff and of this recruitment has been retaining a total of 36 acquisitions for a total and attracting individuals who not only premises.
In 2015, these respectively represented 61.0% and 5.1% of consideration of 301 million.
add further capabilities, but also fit JLTs total revenues.
There is a clear focus on cost discipline with the trading distinctive culture.
margin being a Key Performance Indicator of the Group see page 26.
In addition, the Group has a rolling programme of investment in areas such as The Group is committed to investing in information technology, process improvement and other enhancements to the training and development of all its client service.
PROFIT ADDED TO REINVESTED IN RETURNED TO CAPITAL BUSINESS SHAREHOLDERS 22 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
