OVERVIEW One of the largest international broker networks in the world JLT INTERNATIONAL NETWORK with representation in over 135 countries.
The JLT International Network offers our multi-national clients insurance risk management and employee benefit solutions in over 135 countries, making it one of the largest insurance broking networks in the world.
The Network is comprised of majority-owned, associate and non-owned partner operations and provides a distribution channel for JLTs specialty, wholesale, reinsurance and employee benefits activities.
All brokers in the Network are carefully selected for A further area of differentiation is the capabilities of the their specialist knowledge, local market reputation and Global Service Team, a multilingual group that is able quality of service.
We therefore expect them to have the to provide clients with a single point of contact who capability not only to service JLTs multinational clients, can manage their global programme and help resolve but to compete for and win the largest accounts in their any issues on a daily basis.
This central JLT function own territories in collaboration with JLTs specialty, acts as the focal point for JLTs international account wholesale and reinsurance teams.
co-ordination and is used as a centre of excellence, providing information and insight on compliance of global Service standards have been codified through a set of insurance programmes, regulation and market practices clear operating procedures that have been designed to clients and colleagues globally.
to ensure that each client, regardless of their size, consistently receives the highest level of care and Overall responsibility for the Network sits with the attention in the delivery of risk management, insurance JLT International Network Management team, whose broking, and advisory services.
Each member of the role is to ensure common service standards by sharing network is also required to adhere to JLTs Code of expertise and best practices across the Network, whilst Ethical Conduct.
offering a clear channel through which to escalate and resolve issues with speed and efficiency.
10 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT This section includes the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives and Finance Directors Reviews as well as details of our markets, business model, strategic progress, operations and key risks.
Page 12 Chairmans Statement 27 Group Executive Committee 15 Chief Executives Review 28 Review of Operations 18 Our Market Context 36 Finance Directors Review 22 Our Business Model 40 Risk Management Report 23 Delivering on our Strategy 43 Corporate Responsibility 26 Key Performance Indicators
