STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKET CONTEXT JLT is one of the worlds 1 MACRO-ECONOMIC GROWTH TRENDS leading providers of We believe that JLTs long-term growth prospects are shaped more by underlying macroinsurance, reinsurance economic and demographic factors than short-term insurance and reinsurance rating factors.
and employee benefits In essence, higher levels of economic growth are both cause and effect of greater levels of corporate activity, investment and increasing personal wealth.
We believe that this, in turn, related advice, stimulates demand for our services, whether it be placing the insurance for a new airport, brokerage and services.
or helping a growing company arrange and manage its employee benefits programme.
As such our business CURRENT TRENDS IMPACT ON JLT is influenced by seven 2015 has been a mixed year for the Macro-economic headwinds and a volatile major factors: global economy.
The US and the UK have geo-political environment inevitably impact experienced encouraging signs of growth and demand for insurance-related services as new rising employment.
There has also been a projects and investments are delayed, scaled modest recovery in the Eurozone and a return back or cancelled and companies look to drive to positive growth in Japan, supported by more value out of their broker relationships.
accommodative monetary policy, improved Industries or countries with particular exposure financial conditions and, in some cases, to commodity prices e. g. mining and energy currency depreciation.
or foreign exchange are particularly exposed.
However, conditions in many of the worlds Even so, we believe that JLT remains relatively emerging economies have been more well-placed, with our Specialty-led strategy and challenging, as growth has weakened in the distinctive culture allowing us to differentiate face of the prospect of rising US interest rates our offering and attract and retain some of the and strengthening of the US Dollar, a steeperbest people in the market, enabling us to win than-expected slowdown in China, a collapse market share and grow despite the challenging in oil prices, weaker commodity prices and conditions.
Our investment in the US has also increased geo-political and security tensions.
broadened our footprint and allowed us to participate in the relatively strong growth of that market.
FUTURE OUTLOOK Over the longer term, we also believe that our Economic forecasts would suggest that the strategy aligns us to faster-growing sectors outlook for 2016 appears to be tilted towards and geographies where demand is driven the downside.
According to the IMF, the GDP by long-term and fundamental demographic growth of the developed world is predicted to factors and market trends such as population increase marginally from 1.9% in 2015 to 2.1% growth, ageing, medical inflation in the case of in 2016.
The growth forecast for the emerging international Employee Benefits, urbanisation world is expected to remain weak against and accelerating middle-class wealth.
historic levels, with GDP growth projected to increase from 4% in 2015 the lowest rate since the 2008-09 financial crisis to 4.3% in 2016.
In addition to low levels of economic activity, considerable uncertainty and headwinds could further stall global recovery, be it the outcome of the US presidential election, or the UK referendum on membership of the EU, Chinas rebalancing away from an export-driven to a consumer-driven economy, foreign exchange volatility, falling commodity prices in particular oil, rising levels of geo-political tension and protectionism, or rapidly-escalating security risks.
18 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 INTEREST RATES 2 THE INSURANCE RATING ENVIRONMENT The insurance industry is inherently cyclical, with the price of Insurance brokers earn interest income on the fiduciary funds that insurance fluctuating depending on demand for insurance cover and they hold on behalf of clients.
This essentially comprises premiums the supply of capital into the insurance market.
passing through to underwriters and paid claims being passed back to clients.
A lack of capital, typically caused by one or more large losses such as 9 11 or by investors choosing to invest in alternative asset CURRENT TRENDS classes, can lead to a hard market, when the cost of insurance increases.
An over-supply of capital can lead to a soft market, Since the global financial crisis, the global economy has been which results in insurance premiums reducing.
characterised by a sustained period of very low interest rates, particularly in more developed economies, as policy makers have CURRENT TRENDS sought to stimulate growth by reducing the cost of borrowing and boosting exports, as well as injecting unprecedented levels of Both the insurance and reinsurance markets have experienced liquidity into the market in the form of quantitative easing stimulus steep price reductions in 2015, continuing the trend we have programmes.
Base rates in the UK and the Eurozone today stand experienced since the beginning of the second quarter of 2014. at 0.50% and 0.05%, respectively.
The US recently increased its The industry continues to be impacted by a significant over-supply short-term interest rate for the first time in 9 years to 0.50%.
of capital, due to: The influx of convergence capital from non-traditional providers, FUTURE OUTLOOK such as private equity and pension funds, as an often cheaper Despite the recent increase in the US short-term interest rate, alternative to traditional reinsurance providers: the markets expectations are that the timing and level of further Changes in reinsurance buying habits, with more centralised increases remains uncertain.
Future increases in US and UK rates buying and greater levels of risk retention: are expected to be in modest increments and to remain low relative to long-term averages.
Divergence of central bank policy between Improvements in risk management and operational efficiencies: and the Eurozone and the US and UK is expected to continue, with interest rates in the Eurozone expected to remain at historic lows.
An extremely benign loss environment.
IMPACT ON JLT FUTURE OUTLOOK Historically, investment income has provided JLT with a significant Unless the market is hit by one or more major catastrophic events flow of revenue up to 17% of underlying trading profit in 2008. in 2016, and or there is a sharp increase in the global interest rate However, for the reasons stated above, by 2015 this had reduced environment which may drive capital to other asset classes, it is to 3.7 million, 2% of underlying trading profit, despite average hard to see insurance or reinsurance rates firming in the immediate balances increasing over the same period by 104% to 766 million.
Indeed, the 1 January 2016 reinsurance renewal season saw further price reductions of between 10% and 15% in the property Investment income proportion of underlying trading profit catastrophe market, with significant declines on almost all other 17% lines of business.
IMPACT ON JLT JLT is affected by lower insurance and reinsurance pricing as a significant proportion of our income is based on commissions.
Lower pricing also often leads to more aggressive competition on our fee-based business, as rivals discount to retain and 6% 5% win business.
4% 4% The declining rating environment places significant pressure on 2% 2% 2% the business just to stand still, let alone deliver organic growth.
Our strategy aims to counteract these powerful forces by focusing 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 on our Specialty sectors and on economies where there is continued activity and demand for our distinctive value proposition, We estimate that, for every 1% improvement in our average achieved and by winning market share from our competitors.
deposit rate, JLT generates approximately 7.7 million of additional income, assuming broadly consistent average invested balances.
Taking into account the overall interest rate outlook for 2016, JLTs investment income is not expected to increase significantly from that of 2015.
19 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKET CONTEXT CONTINUED 4 EXCHANGE RATES 5 COMPETITION With owned insurance broking and employee benefits As a large international business, JLT has both translational i. e. reporting of foreign financial statements in Sterling and operations spanning 40 territories, JLT faces a large number and range of local, regional and international competitors.
Our largest transactional exposure arises in our London Market businesses, which have Given this, it is impossible to comment on the relative individual Sterling cost bases, but generate a large amount of US Dollar revenue.
strengths and weaknesses of all of our competitors, although In 2015, this amounted to some USD346 million.
we do compete with Marsh, Aon and Willis Towers Watson in many territories around the world.
CURRENT TRENDS CURRENT TRENDS The US Dollar has strengthened against Sterling during 2015, as investors speculated that US interest rates would increase faster Macro-economic headwinds and the continued weakening than in the UK and the EU, given the faster economic recovery in the in the insurance and reinsurance rating environment have US.
During 2015, the US Dollar versus Sterling traded at an annual combined, over recent years, to create a very challenging and average rate of c1.53 GBP0.65 compared to a 2014 average rate of competitive environment, with some rivals willing to discount c1.65 GBP0.61.
The Australian Dollar relevant to us given the relative heavily, particularly on fee-based accounts, to retain and win size of the contribution of our Australian business to our profits has new business, as well as offer very significant remuneration continued to weaken in 2015, versus Sterling, as have some emerging packages to attract new staff.
market currencies, notably the Brazilian Real.
FUTURE OUTLOOK 2015 Foreign exchange rates 0.7000 There is no reason to believe that the competitive environment will ease in the near future, although the nature of our 0.6500 competition is changing as we expand internationally and 0.6000 encounter new local competitors.
0.5500 IMPACT ON JLT 0.5000 JLT has historically been able to attract people and clients due 0.4500 to its differentiated Specialty-led offering and distinctive culture.
0.4000 This can be seen, for example, in how we have been able to Jan 15 Dec 15 USD:GBP AUD:GBP attract market-leading talent around the world.
We remain confident that our client and people proposition FUTURE OUTLOOK and growth momentum will allow us to continue to attract and Market consensus continues to suggest that the US Dollar is retain industry talent and win clients.
expected to outperform Sterling and other currencies during 2016.
This is primarily a reflection of expected relative interest rate yields, with further moderate increases in US interest rates anticipated earlier than in the UK, GDP growth forecasts, and the continued support from the low oil price.
Uncertainty over the UK referendum on EU membership in June 2016 is anticipated by markets to increasingly weigh on Sterling during 2016.
IMPACT ON JLT An increase in the value of Sterling in particular versus the US Dollar reduces JLTs revenue relative to its Sterling cost base transactional and affects the Sterling value of the income statements and balance sheets of our international operations when consolidated at the Group level translational.
Overall, we experienced a favourable foreign exchange impact of 1.1 million on underlying trading profit in 2015 versus 2014.
JLT does not hedge its accounting translational foreign exchange exposure.
However, to mitigate the transactional impact of foreign currency movements arising from actual cash flows, we operate a rolling currency hedging programme, covering our US Dollar exposures in particular, as well as other transactional currency exposures.
While this hedging programme helps smooth the effects of foreign exchange movements, it cannot eliminate these completely.
Further detail on our hedging programme and the impact of currency movements is provided on page 38 in the Finance Directors Review.
20 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 REGULATION 7 TECHNOLOGY JLT operates under the jurisdiction of a number of different Technology continues to influence every aspect of corporate life, regulators around the world.
Its principal regulator is the UK with implications for the risks our clients face, how we operate as a Financial Conduct Authority.
company and how we adapt to the rapidly-changing external and competitive environment.
CURRENT TRENDS CURRENT TRENDS We are increasingly experiencing regulators willingness to review past business, whilst attempting to apply the regulatory standards The past few years have seen the emergence of a digital world, of the relevant period, which can be a challenge given todays with the advent of cloud computing, mobile technologies, big data, interpretation and market practice.
We are also seeing an increasing social media, robotics and many other advances and technological number of regulators in jurisdictions outside the UK adopting developments transforming how businesses are run and the risks regulatory frameworks from countries with more mature and higher they face.
Extra-territorial reach is also becoming a more At one level, this creates a significant opportunity to drive common feature of regulatory and legislative regimes globally, which efficiencies and streamline costs, as well as collect and use data to makes it a more complex challenge for international firms to comply drive better insights for clients.
It also enables new ways of reaching with.
These trends place additional strain and cost on the business and communicating with clients.
At another level, however, this and increase the chances of some form of regulatory action in development adds IT cost and complexity, creates new risks in those jurisdictions.
the form of cyber risk and potentially enables a new generation of competitors to disrupt existing industries and players.
However, we recognise that good regulation also creates a more level playing field and helps stimulate greater client demand.
FUTURE OUTLOOK Proportionate and fair regulation is therefore something we welcome as being positive for our clients, our people and the The digital trends we have witnessed emerging over the last few industry at large.
years are expected to accelerate as adoption increases, momentum builds and new innovation takes place.
This is likely to lead to FUTURE OUTLOOK operational efficiencies and a significant increase in the volume of data that can be collected and analysed, which could have We would anticipate that the various regulatory frameworks a significant impact on the industrys actuarial understanding of under which we operate, particularly in more mature markets, will underlying risk trends and how they should be priced.
continue to increase in their level of scrutiny.
We are monitoring new proposals in several less mature jurisdictions, from a regulatory Cyber risk is likely to continue to emerge as a significant risk for perspective, which could give rise to either new regulators or an most organisations, with the insurance industry developing in enhanced regulatory scope.
Significant amounts of money are also being invested in the so-called FinTech space as start-ups seek to IMPACT ON JLT leverage digital technologies to disrupt markets.
As JLT grows, we can expect a greater level of regulatory scrutiny IMPACT ON JLT in line with our increased relevance, particularly for those of our businesses that carry consumer conduct risk.
JLT is looking to benefit from digital technologies to improve its own Over recent years, we have significantly increased our investment in operational efficiency and develop its data analytics capabilities, our risk management framework and personnel to adjust to these building on the strong analytical capabilities embedded within JLT changing circumstances, as discussed in the Risk Management Re to deliver insights for clients, innovate its offering and enhance Report on pages 40 to 42. its sales and marketing capability.
We are committed to working constructively with all of our While the threat of digital disruption exists at the lower end of some regulators to ensure that we meet our regulatory commitments and of our businesses, we believe our core Specialty-led offering to be protect our clients interests.
less prone to disruption due to the advice and advocacy-based nature of what we do.
Furthermore, we are committed to investing in our own digital offering and data collection and analytics capabilities so as to protect and enhance our own offering and win share from others.
21 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
