John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE Nomination Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in 2015 7156 Total number of meetings attended in 2015 Nomination Audit Remuneration Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Olivier Brousse No 71 Patrick OD Bourke No 7 Non-Executive Directors Phil Nolan On appointment 71 Jeremy Beeton Yes 6156 Toby Hiscock Yes 6156 David Rough Yes 7156 Anne Wade Yes 716 Not applicable.
BOARD SUB-COMMITTEES Sub-committees of the Board have been constituted to consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding matters relating to external and internal audit, internal control and risk management processes, the selection of appropriate accounting policies, the presentation of the half year and full year accounts, investment performance, acquisitions and disposals, the appointment of Directors, and Directors remuneration.
Membership is determined by the Board and the duties of the Board sub-committees are set out in the following sections of this report.
All the sub-committees of the Board operate within clearly defined terms of reference which are reviewed and updated to reflect best practice and the Code as far as is commercially practicable.
The terms of reference of the sub-committees are available on request from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and are published on the Companys website at www.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is chaired by Toby Hiscock, a non-executive director, who has up to date relevant financial experience.
The other members are David Rough and Jeremy Beeton.
During the year, the Committee met five times.
Its terms of reference cover the review of internal and external audit plans and the interim and full year results, as well as internal control procedures and risk management processes.
Regular reviews of significant risks are undertaken at meetings of the Committee and the Committees observations are reported to the Board.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate altogether the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
The internal audit function provides independent assurance to the Board, through the Audit Committee, that internal control processes, including those related to risk management, are relevant, effective and have operated across the business throughout the year.
The Group Finance Director is normally invited to attend meetings, along with other members of management as appropriate.
The external auditor and Head of Internal Audit are also invited to attend meetings and meet with the Audit Committee privately, without management present, at least once a year.
The Committee considers and approves the external audit approach with the external auditor.
The Committee reviews the independence of the external auditor and the procedures in place to ensure that its independence is not compromised.
The Committees specific approval is required for non-audit services performed by the external auditor where the fee is expected to exceed 20,000.
Audit Committee meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes are provided to the Directors and the external auditor.
The Committee reports to the Board, through the Chairman of the Committee.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 46 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee met once during the year.
Phil Nolan is the Chairman of the Committee.
The other members of the Committee are four non-executive directors Anne Wade, David Rough, Jeremy Beeton and Toby Hiscock and the Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider and make recommendations to the Board concerning all new Board appointments and the retirement of Directors and to make recommendations to the Board relating to the policy for the ongoing education and development of Directors.
The Committee uses external search consultants or open advertising for recruitment purposes as deemed most appropriate.
When nominating candidates for non-executive directorships, the Committee takes account of the need for diversity and independence.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the most appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure their continued effectiveness.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee has four scheduled meetings each year and meets additionally as circumstances require.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Anne Wade is the Chairman of the Committee.
The other members are Jeremy Beeton, Toby Hiscock and David Rough.
The Remuneration Committee sets and monitors the overall remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Company has adopted the FCAs Remuneration Code which is applied to those staff involved in regulated activities.
The Committee reviews, but does not limit itself to, the following key areas and makes recommendations to the Board accordingly: total remuneration including base pay, bonus and incentive arrangements : method of remuneration: service contracts: terms and conditions and any material changes to the standard terms of employment: and approval of financial arrangements proposed by the Chief Executive Officer relating to the termination of Executive Directors service contracts.
The activities, recommendations and approvals of the Committee are reported to the next routinely scheduled Board meeting.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES In addition to the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors, the Group Managing Director of Primary Investment, the Group Managing Director of Asset Management and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, there are two further management committees.
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE The purpose of the Investment Committee is to make recommendations to the Board, or to approve proposals within its delegated authority, in relation to the Groups investments in infrastructure projects.
The Committee also reviews the Groups portfolio valuation and monitors the balance of risk across the portfolio.
The activities, recommendations and approvals of the Committee are reported to the Board.
The Committees delegated authorities are reviewed annually by the Board and are currently set at 30 million for each PPP investment and 20 million for each renewable energy investment including biomass.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and comprise the Executive Directors, the Group Managing Director of Primary Investment, the Group Managing Director of Asset Management, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and such other persons as the Board shall appoint from time to time.
The Committee is currently chaired by the Group Managing Director of Asset Management and usually meets at least fortnightly.
RISK COMMITTEE The Risk Committees role is to assist the Audit Committee and Board in monitoring financial, legal and regulatory risks, by reviewing the internal control and risk management systems of the Group.
The Committee normally meets six times a year.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and comprise at least three members of the senior management team, including the Group Finance Director.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and its other members are currently the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Managing Director of Asset Management and four other senior managers.
