John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: as far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
DIRECTORS The following Directors served on the Board during the year.
P M G Nolan appointed on 16 January 2015 O Brousse appointed on 16 January 2015 P OD Bourke appointed on 16 January 2015 N T Hiscock appointed on 16 January 2015 J J Beeton appointed on 17 February 2015 D Rough appointed on 17 February 2015 A K Wade appointed on 17 February 2015 P A Davies resigned on 1 October 2015 G R M Pigache resigned on 1 October 2015 M I Jaffe resigned on 16 January 2015 Biographical details of the current Directors can be found on pages 40 and 41 of this Annual Report.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE The Company has purchased and maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Company has also entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of its Directors, in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS The Groups 350 million committed revolving credit corporate banking facility dated 19 January 2015 and associated ancillary facilities each terminate on 9 March 2020 and include a change of control clause.
In the event of a change of control occurring, it would be expected that new financing arrangements to fund the outstanding utilisations would need to be made by the incoming owners.
EMPLOYEES The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all staff and resultant queries are handled by the relevant business head or Executive Committee member as appropriate.
Regular team briefings at local level provide employees with information about the performance of, and initiatives in, their part of the business.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups intranet.
The framework within which decisions about people are made is set out in the Groups personnel policies which are available to all staff.
It is part of those policies to employ and train disabled people whenever their skills and qualifications allow and when suitable vacancies arise.
If existing employees become disabled, every effort is made to find them appropriate work and training is provided if necessary.
Further details relating to the employees of the Group including details of certain of the Groups employment policies can be found on page 39 of the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report.
The Directors Report, the Strategic Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors Remuneration Report were approved by the Board on 7 March 2016.
On behalf of the Board Carolyn Cattermole GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY 7 March 2016 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 44 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board has resolved that the disclosures to be made in the Annual Report regarding the operation of the Board and its sub-committees should comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and best practice generally.
The Company has complied with the requirements of the Code since Admission on 17 February 2015.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and the full text is available on its website at www.
The following section describes how the Board applies the main principles of the Code.
DIRECTORS The Directors were appointed to the Board in the early part of 2015 in anticipation of the admission of the Companys ordinary shares to the premium listing segment of the FCA and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market of listed securities.
The Board believes it has an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
The Board met on a regular basis throughout the year and as needed to deal with special business.
The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee which consider issues relevant to their specific terms of reference.
The offices of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are held separately.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda of matters reserved for decision and approval by the Board as well as any special business.
Matters reserved for the Board include the review of strategy and organisational change, the review of internal controls and risk management processes, the approval of significant investments and disposals, the approval of budgets and the regular review of current trading and the financial position of the Group.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Board is published on the Companys website at www.
The Board receives regular reports on current trading and the financial position and forecasts of the Group prior to its meetings.
In addition, the Board receives relevant information on business, corporate and strategic issues.
Formal procedures exist to ensure that the Board is made aware of any significant health and safety issues and non-compliance with statutory regulations.
Olivier Brousse is the Board member responsible for health and safety issues.
Further details of the Companys approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 38 of this Annual Report.
All Directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense in the furtherance of their duties and have full access to the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Upon appointment, non-executive directors undertake an induction process to familiarise themselves with the Groups activities, policies and key issues.
During their appointment they are expected to dedicate adequate time to carry out their role effectively and to challenge management in a constructive way.
The Chairman meets regularly with the other non-executive directors to discuss the performance of the Board and the Board sub-committees.
The performance of Executive Directors is measured against predetermined objectives that are agreed with each Executive Director at the start of the financial year.
The Chairman has no executive responsibilities but leads and sets the agenda for the Board ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman also acts as an interface between the Executive Directors and non-executive directors.
EFFECTIVENESS Shortly after the 2015 year end, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
On this occasion, the process was led by the Chairman and conducted internally: the performance evaluation will be externally facilitated for the 2016 financial year.
The Chairman held one-on-one discussions informed by a questionnaire with all Directors and the Company Secretary.
The results of the evaluation process were reported to, and discussed by, the Board.
In addition, the Chairman provided individual feedback to Directors.
Following the review, it is proposed that the terms of reference of the Audit Committee be expanded to include a more formal consideration of business risks.
In addition the Company Secretary has been asked to arrange ongoing relevant training for members of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The evaluation included consideration of the overall composition of the Board including plans for non-executive director succession over time.
Directors identified the backgrounds and experiences which would be desirable in future non-executive directors to complement the Boards existing skills.
In October 2015, the Board held a two-day review to address the future strategy and direction of the business which the Board judged to have been valuable.
In his role of Senior Independent Director, David Rough led a review by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and subsequently reported back to the Board and provided feedback to the Chairman.
The review concluded that the Chairman was fulfilling his role effectively.
