34 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2014 Pensions The amount of the deficit in the Groups main defined 1, 3 The Groups two defined benefit pension schemes are benefit pension scheme JLPF can vary significantly overseen by corporate trustees, the directors of which include No change due to gains or losses on scheme investments and independent and professionally qualified individuals.
The movements in the assumptions used to value scheme Group works closely with the trustees on the appropriate liabilities in particular life expectancy, discount rate funding strategy for the schemes and takes independent and inflation rate.
Consequently the Group is exposed actuarial advice as appropriate.
Both schemes are closed to to the risk of increases in cash contributions payable, future accrual and accordingly have no active members, only volatility in the deficit reported in the Group Balance deferred members and pensioners.
A significant proportion Sheet, and gains losses recorded in the Group of the liabilities of JLPF is matched by a bulk annuity buy-in Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Other hedging is also in place.
In February 2015, the Group made a special contribution to JLPF of assets cash valued at 100 million, thereby significantly reducing the IAS 19 deficit in the scheme.
The next actuarial valuation of JLPF is due as at 31 March 2016.
Competition The Group operates in competitive markets and may not 1 The Group believes that its experience and expertise as be able to compete effectively or profitably.
an active investor accumulated over more than 20 years, No change together with its flexibility and ability to respond to market conditions will continue to enable it to compete effectively and secure attractive investments.
Valuation The valuation of an investment in a project may not 3 The discount rates used to value investments are derived reflect its ultimate realisable value.
from publicly available market data and other market Decreased evidence and are updated regularly.
In circumstances where the revenue derived from a project is related to patronage i. e. customer usage, The Group has a good track record of realising investments at actual revenues may vary materially from assumptions prices consistent with the fair values at which they are held.
made at the time the investment commitment is made.
The Groups investments are in projects which are In addition, to the extent that a project companys actual principally availability-based where the revenue does not costs incurred differ from forecast costs, for example, generally depend on the level of use of the project asset.
because of late construction, and cannot be passed on Where patronage or volume risk is taken, the Directors to sub-contractors or other third parties, investment review assumptions and their sensitivities in detail prior returns may be adversely affected.
Revenues from renewable energy projects may be Where the revenue from projects is related to patronage affected by the volume of power production e. g. from or volume e. g. with regard to investments in renewable changes in wind or solar yield, restrictions on the energy, risks are mitigated through a combination of electricity network or other factors such as noise factors, including i the use of independent forecasts of and other environmental restrictions, as well as future volumes ii lower gearing versus that of availabilityby changes in energy prices and to governmental based projects iii stress-testing the robustness of project support mechanisms.
returns against significant falls in forecast volumes.
The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is The Group typically hedges cash flows arising from affected by movements in foreign exchange rates, which investment realisations or significant distributions in are reflected through the Groups financial statements.
In addition, there are foreign exchange risks associated The intention is that projects are structured such that with conversion of foreign currency cash flows relating i day-to-day service provision is sub-contracted to qualified to an investment into and out of Sterling.
sub-contractors supported by appropriate security packages During the construction phase of an infrastructure ii cost and price inflation risk in relation to the provision project, there are risks that either the works are not of services lies with sub-contractors iii performance completed within the agreed time-frame or that deductions in relation to non-availability lie with construction costs overrun.
Where such risks are not sub-contractors iv major maintenance and ongoing borne by sub-contractors, or sub-contractors fail to project company costs are reviewed annually and cost meet their contractual obligations, this can result in mitigation strategies adopted as appropriate.
delays or cost overruns, which may adversely affect The Groups intention is to maintain a majority of availability the valuation of and return on the Groups investments.
based investments by value in its portfolio.
The Group is reliant on the performance of third parties The Group has procedures in place to ensure that in constructing an asset to an appropriate standard project companies in which it invests appoint competent as well as operating it in a manner consistent with sub-contractors with relevant experience and financial contractual requirements.
If project construction is delayed, sub-contracting or failure of, such third parties may result in the arrangements contain terms enabling the project company impairment or loss of an investment.
to recover liquidated damages, additional costs and lost revenue, subject to limits.
In addition, the project company may terminate its agreement with a sub-contractor if the latter is in default and seek an alternative sub-contractor.
The terms of the sub-contracts into which project companies enter provide significant protections for investment returns from the poor performance of third parties.
The ability to replace defaulting third parties is supported by security packages to protect against price movement on re-tendering.
