16 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Project: Project: Project: Greater Manchester Waste I-4 Ultimate Denver Eagle P3 Location: Location: Location: United Kingdom Orlando, Florida, USA Denver, Colorado, USA Partners: Partners: Partners: Viridor Waste Management, Skanska Infrastructure Aberdeen Infrastructure INOVYN ChlorVinyls Development Investments, Fluor Description: Description: Description: Manchester Waste VL Co, in which This availability-based road project The project is to design, build, John Laing has a 50% interest has a total capex of US$2.3 billion finance, maintain and operate alongside Viridor, is responsible and involves reconstructing 15 major two new commuter rail lines for a network of waste recycling interchanges, building more than and a portion of a third in the facilities in Manchester.
These 140 bridges, adding four variable Denver Metropolitan area.
include five waste treatment sites toll Express Lanes and completely The first line connecting which produce solid recoverable rebuilding 21 miles of general use Denver International Airport fuel suitable for burning at the lanes of the existing I-4 Interstate in and downtown Denver is due combined heat and power facility central Florida.
Construction began to open in 2016 with final managed by Manchester Waste in 2015 and is expected to be completion of the project TPS Co, in which John Laing completed in 2021. expected in 2017. has a 37.4% interest in joint venture with Viridor and INOVYN ChlorVinyls.
Manchester Waste VL Co and Manchester Waste TPS Co became operational in 2015.
J Jo oh hn n L La ai in ng g A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 1 17 7 SECONDARY INVESTMENT At 31 December 2015, the Secondary Investment portfolio comprised 16 PPP projects and three renewable energy projects with a book value of 419.4 million 31 December 2014 292.1 million.
The Secondary Investment portfolio also included a 7.0% TRANSFERS FROM THE PRIMARY INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO shareholding in JLEN valued at 16.1 million at 31 December 2015 During the year, six investments became part of the Secondary 31 December 2014 39.7% shareholding valued at 65.6 million.
Investment portfolio as the underlying projects moved into the In February 2015, a majority of the JLEN shareholding held at operational stage: 31 December 2014 was transferred to JLPF as part of the IPO process.
Auckland South Corrections Facility, New Zealand 30% interest Asset management services in respect of the Secondary Construction of the Auckland South Corrections Facility was Investment portfolio are provided by John Laings Asset completed five weeks early in January 2015.
completion permitted a longer mobilisation and training period prior to operational commencement in May 2015 and build-up The majority of our secondary investments were originated as to the total complement of 960 prisoners was successfully primary investments of the Group.
In late 2015, we also acquired completed in October 2015.
The facilitys operational approach the remaining 50% shareholding in the A55 road project in the UK, places a significant focus on rehabilitation and employment, taking our shareholding in this secondary investment to 100%.
including the use of dedicated buildings to support vocational training and education.
INVESTMENT REALISATIONS During the year, we achieved total proceeds of 86.3 million from Manchester Waste, UK the realisation of investments: After construction delays and a prolonged commissioning phase, both projects Manchester Waste VL Co 50% interest and In the first half, our investments in two renewable energy Manchester Waste TPS Co 37.43% interest became projects, Wear Point Wind Farm 100% and Carscreugh operational in the first quarter of 2015.
All 42 sites comprising Wind Farm 100%, and part of our investment in Branden the Manchester Waste VL Co project are now operational.
Solar Parks 64% were sold to JLEN for 42.5 million: Solid recovered fuel produced at the VL Co processing sites In a separate transaction with JLEN, we sold our investment is now being burned at forecast volumes in Manchester in Burton Wold Wind Farm 100% for 21.8 million: Waste TPS Cos principal asset, the thermal power station at Runcorn in Cheshire, which produces both heat and power.
Our investment in North Birmingham Mental Health Hospital 100%, a PPP project, was sold to JLIF for 11.6 million: and Dungavel Wind Farm, UK 100% interest Our investments in NH3 Road India 36% and Cleveland Located in South Lanarkshire and comprising 13 Vestas V80 Firearms 27.08% were sold to third parties and the 2MW turbines, this 26 MW wind farm commenced commercial remaining shareholding in Branden Solar Parks was sold to operations in October 2015 and is our eighth wind farm to JLEN.
Taken together, the proceeds for these three disposals become operational.
Alder Hey Childrens Hospital, UK 40% interest Taking realisations for the year as a whole, prices were above the most recent portfolio valuation.
Following issuance of the completion certificate at the end of September 2015, this 270 bed state-of-the-art childrens hospital in the north west of England became fully operational Total Realisations Shareholding Purchaser million in early October 2015.
Branden Solar Parks 64% Oldham Housing, UK 95% interest Wear Point Wind Farm 100% JLEN 42.5 This project became fully operational in 2015 and has delivered Carscreugh Wind Farm 100% 648 new or refurbished properties, two new community centres North Birmingham MHH 100% JLIF 11.6 and three new public open spaces in the Oldham area.
Burton Wold Wind Farm 100% JLEN 21.8 Branden Solar Parks 36% JLEN Chris Waples Cleveland Firearms 27.08% Third party 10.4 GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR, ASSET MANAGEMENT NH3 Road India 36% Co-shareholders Total 86.3 The secondary market for operational projects continues to be strong.
In February 2016, we completed the disposal of our shareholding in one PPP project, British Transport Police, and agreed the conditional disposal of another, Oldham Housing, to JLIF for combined net proceeds of 19.5 million.
Our guidance for realisations in 2016 is proceeds of approximately 100 million, excluding the 19.5 million transaction agreed in February 2016.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 18 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Project: Project: Project: Klettwitz Wind Farm Alder Hey Childrens Hospital A1 Motorway Location: Location: Location: Brandenburg Schipkau, Liverpool, United Kingdom Poland Germany Partners: Partners: Partners: Laing ORourke and Interserve Skanska, Intertoll, None NDI Autostrada Description: wholly owned by John Laing A 270 bed state-of-the-art acute Description: Description: childrens hospital.
The project comprises Total installed capacity is 89 MW two phases: The hospital became fully from 27 wind turbines after operational in October 2015.
Phase one approximately repowering, replacing previous 90 km of new road from total installed capacity of 59 MW Gdansk to Nowe Marzy in from 36 turbines at the legacy Northern Poland.
wind farm previously in operation Phase two approximately at the site.
The project benefits 60 km of extension to the city from a feed in tariff for up to of Torun at the southern end 20 years.
Phase one became fully operational in 2008 and Phase two in 2011.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 ASSET MANAGEMENT The Asset Management divisions activities comprise Investment Management Services and Project Management Services.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES To eliminate the risk of increased interest costs over the life of an infrastructure project by Investment Management Services IMS are provided swapping from variable interest rates to xed to both JLIF and JLEN and also to our own interest rates on third party debt finance.
To reduce the impact of short-term volatility on External IMS JLCM provides advisory services to JLIF revenues in our renewable energy projects by and JLEN under investment advisory agreements.
entering into short or medium term power As at 30 September 2015, JLIF and JLEN had published purchase agreements with electricity suppliers.
portfolio values of 877 million and 218 million respectively.
JLCM has an independent chairman and Value enhancement examples two separate dedicated fund management teams To promote a culture of continuous improvement whose senior staff are authorised and regulated by with clients: responding to their need for changes the FCA.
The teams focus their advice primarily on over the life of PPP infrastructure projects, sourcing new investments for and arranging capital reducing the public sector burden and, where raisings by the two funds.
They operate behind possible, to generate incremental revenues information barriers in view of the market sensitive therefrom.
nature of their activities and to ensure the separation of buy-side and sell-side teams when John Laing To optimise SPV management costs and project is selling investments to either fund.
Both funds have a insurance premiums through bulk purchasing or right of first offer over certain investments should they efficiency gains, thereby increasing investor returns.
be offered for sale by the Group.
Both JLIF and JLEN To optimise major maintenance and asset renewal are stand-alone entities separate from the Group: costs over the life of an infrastructure project and each maintains an independent board of directors and thereby increase investor returns.
To maximise working capital efficiency within At 31 December 2015, the Group also managed three project companies.
PPP investments valued at 41.4 million held by JLPF.
To ensure projects are efficiently nanced over Fee income from external IMS grew from 10.3 million their concessions or useful lives.
Internal IMS John Laing actively manages its own PROJECT MANAGEMENT SERVICES Primary and Secondary Investment portfolios.
The Group also provides Project Management Our objective is to deliver the base case returns on Services PMS, largely of a financial or administrative our investments as a minimum and additionally to nature, to project companies in which John Laing, enhance those returns through active asset JLIF or JLEN are investors.
These services are provided management.
There are two main strategies, under Management Services Agreements MSAs : value protection and value enhancement: at 31 December 2015, there were 75 MSAs in total, Value protection examples comprising 29 MSAs with projects in which John Laing invests, 34 MSAs with projects in which JLIF invests, To target PPP projects which have revenue 10 MSAs with projects in which JLEN invests and two streams based on availability of the underlying MSAs with projects invested in by another party.
PMS infrastructure asset rather than revenues based revenue also includes non-contractual income earned on patronage or volume.
from project companies and occasional development To ensure construction risks associated with management fees from property-related investments.
design, workmanship, cost overruns and delays Revenues from PMS in 2015 were 17.0 million lie with our construction supply chain partners 2014 14.6 million, delivered by some 155 staff who are best able to manage them.
across the UK, Continental Europe, Australia and To ensure project operational performance and North America.
Revenues were higher than in 2014 cost risks lie principally with our service supply because of higher development management fees chain partners.
and the full year effect of new MSAs signed in 2014.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
