20 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 ASSET MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION Denver Eagle P3, US 45% interest This project is to design, build, finance, An update on significant Group projects under maintain and operate two new commuter rail construction, which are managed by the Asset lines and a portion of a third in the Denver Management division and are part of the Metropolitan area.
The fleet of rolling stock Primary Investment portfolio, is set out below.
continues to be delivered on schedule and is Intercity Express Programme IEP nearing completion.
Testing of the integrated systems on the East Line is well advanced John Laing is in partnership with Hitachi to and the civil work on the remaining lines is manage the contracts that cover the design, progressing well.
Operator training has been manufacture, finance and delivery into daily taking place on trains running at full speed service and maintenance over 26 years of a on sections of the East Line to Denver fleet of 122 Super Express trains for the UKs International Airport.
The first line is on target Great Western Main Line Phase 1 24% to open in the second quarter of 2016 with interest and the East Coast Main Line Phase final completion expected in 2017.
With a total capital expenditure across the two phases of 3.4 I-4 Ultimate, US 50% interest billion, it is one of the largest PPP projects to This availability project has a total capex of be awarded.
The first three trains arrived in the US$2.3 billion and involves reconstructing UK during 2015 and are currently undergoing 15 major interchanges, building more than testing on the UK rail network.
Hitachis new 140 bridges, adding four variable toll Express UK train assembly plant was opened by the Lanes, and completely rebuilding the general Prime Minister in September 2015. use lanes of 21 miles of the existing I-4 Construction of the Phase 1 Great Western interstate in central Florida.
Construction depots will be completed in early 2016 and commenced in 2015 and is anticipated to development of the Phase 2 East Coast finish in 2021. depots is progressing well.
The first trains are scheduled to become operational during 2017.
Speyside Biomass 51% interest As a result of delays to electrification of the John Laing is a co-investor with the Green Great Western Route being undertaken by Investment Bank and Estover Energy in this Network Rail, the Department of Transport has 74 million capex Combined Heat and Power asked the Phase 1 project company to order biomass renewable energy plant expected to more bi-mode trains that can be powered generate both renewable electricity enough by diesel as well as electricity.
We are not to power more than 20,000 homes and heat in expecting any negative impact on our the form of steam.
The new plant will provide investments from these delays.
90% of the steam needed by the adjacent Macallan whisky distillery.
Works on site are A15 Road, Netherlands 28% interest now well advanced with final take-over of the This road became fully operational in plant expected in the third quarter of 2016.
December 2015 but remains in our Primary New Perth Stadium, Australia 50% interest Investment portfolio awaiting contractual acceptance with completion sign-off expected The New Perth Stadium will be a major later in 2016.
The project includes the iconic sporting and entertainment venue, capable of Botlek bridge, a large lifting bridge which is attracting national and international events.
raised as often as once per hour to allow The stadium will predominantly be used for vessels to pass underneath.
Australian-rules football but can readily accommodate other sports, as well as New Royal Adelaide Hospital NRAH, Australia entertainment events through the use of 17.3% interest drop-in seats.
Construction works are on This project is currently one of the largest track for completion in the fourth quarter building construction projects in Australia, of 2017, in advance of the 2018 Australian with a capital cost of A$1.85 billion.
700 single bedrooms and 100 same-day beds, Rammeldalsberget Wind Farm, Sweden NRAH will have the capacity to admit over 100% interest 80,000 patients per year.
The project is in its final stages of construction: technical Construction of this 15MW wind farm is completion is on schedule for the second virtually complete and final commissioning quarter of 2016 and commercial acceptance is scheduled for the first quarter of 2016. for the third quarter of 2016.
Chris Waples GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR, ASSET MANAGEMENT John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Project: Auckland South Corrections Facility Location: New Zealand Partners: Fletcher Construction and Serco Description: The facility has dedicated buildings to support vocational training and education, and places a significant focus on rehabilitation and employment for prisoners after release.
Construction was completed in January 2015 and build up to the total complement of 960 prisoners was successfully completed in October 2015.
Project: A15 Road Location: Netherlands Partners: Strabag AG, Strukton, Ballast Nedam Description: This road project includes widening of a 36km section of the A15 between Maasvlakte and Vaanplein and constructing the new Botlek bridge, a large lifting bridge which is raised to allow vessels to pass underneath.
The road became fully operational in 2015.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
