John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07 In our IPO in February 2015, new shareholders subscribed for 37.4% of the Companys shares.
Following a lock-up which Pro forma NAV expired at the end of September 2015, the balance of the shares 889.6 million 62.6% was distributed directly by Henderson Equity Partners Henderson to more than 20 underlying fund investors.
On 1 October 2015, in conjunction with this distribution, Priscilla Davies and Guy Pigache stood down as non-executive directors.
Pro forma profit before tax In addition, the agreement put in place to govern the relationship post IPO between Henderson and the Company came to an end.
106.6 million I want to take this opportunity to thank Priscilla and Guy for their very strong contribution to John Laing over a number of years.
No other Board changes have taken place since the IPO and Portfolio valuation the Board complied with all applicable provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in the year under 841.4 million review.
Our new non-executive Directors have rapidly come to grips with the challenges and opportunities of our business and I believe we have a good mix of experience and background at New investment committed Board level and within the senior management team.
As well as regular Board meetings, we held a two-day review in October 180.5 million 2015 to address the future strategy and direction of the business.
This reconfirmed our commitment to creating shareholder value by continued focus on our core investment activities.
During the year, I met and spoke to many members of staff The total final dividend therefore amounts to 5.3p per share, and I would like to thank all of them for their contribution.
which, together with the interim dividend of 1.6p paid in It is to their credit that, following the IPO, it was quickly back October 2015, makes a total dividend for 2015 of 6.9p per to business as usual and this is reflected in the strong results share.
The final dividend will be put to shareholders for for the year.
their approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM which will be held on 12 May 2016.
In our IPO prospectus, the Board set out its policy to pay a base dividend of 20 million.
For 2015, this is reduced pro-rata for Looking forward, we have confidence in the robustness of the period from the date of listing.
Consistent with this, we are our business model and the deliverability of our strategy.
recommending a final base dividend for 2015 of 3.2p per share.
With our growing pipeline of opportunities, and our established position in each of our chosen geographical In the policy, the Board also said that it intended to distribute markets, we are well positioned for future growth.
special dividends of approximately 5% 10% of gross proceeds from the sale of investments on an annual basis, subject to specific investment requirements in any one year.
Accordingly, I am pleased to say the Board is also recommending a special dividend for 2015 of 2.1p per share.
This is equivalent to applying Phil Nolan CHAIRMAN the mid-point of the 5% 10% range to our realisations guidance for 2015 of approximately 100 million.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
