American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 8 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Market Review Despite an intra-year drop of 12%, the US stock market, as represented by the S&P 500, finished almost flat in US dollar terms.
Large cap stocks outperformed small caps in most sectors and growth trumped value within all size segments.
The two macro themes of 2015, very low oil prices and robust US consumer spending, were reflected in the worst and best performing S&P 500 sector returns, with the energy sector falling 24% and the consumer discretionary sector rising 8% in US dollar terms.
Investor concerns in 2015 that contributed to market volatility primarily revolved around three issues: the slowdown in economic growth in China, weakness in commodity prices and a strong US dollar.
The slower growth in China can be attributed to the transition to a more service-based economic model, which inherently has slower productivity growth than a manufacturing intensive economy.
Furthermore, Chinas ability to increase exports has been muted by an overall slow-growing global economy.
With regards to commodity prices, the decline in oil prices can be linked to an oversupply while softness in other commodities has resulted from a slowdown in global demand, predominantly in China.
Finally, the strong US dollar weighed on equity markets in 2015 as multinationals were hurt by falling demand and it remains to be seen whether the dollar will weaken this year.
It is worth noting, though, that the last three times the Federal Reserve Fed began to raise rates, the dollar appreciated leading up to the rate hike and subsequently fell in the following six months.
The Feds long awaited first move finally came on 16th December 2015 when it raised the federal funds rate from 0.25% to 0.50% ending seven years of a near-zero interest rate policy.
In her press conference, Feds Chair, Yellen, emphasised that gradual did not mean mechanical, suggesting that investors should not necessarily expect one rate hike at every other meeting.
The Companys net asset value total return in sterling terms rose by 4.7%, which was below our benchmark, the S&P 500 Index, which returned 6.9%.
Overall Asset Allocation and Performance The investment management team is responsible for managing the allocation between the large and the small cap portfolios, together with the levels of cash and gearing.
In 2015, the Companys gearing ranged between 8.2% and 9.7% of shareholders funds, with the level at the year end being 8.2%.
The level of gearing has been adjusted at regular intervals within the gearing guidelines laid down by the Board.
Despite the market rising overall over the year, gearing and the cost of gearing detracted from relative performance.
The weighting in the small cap portfolio ranged between 3.3% and 4.9% of the Companys total assets less current liabilities and ended the year at 4.2%.
Our allocation model caused us to add and trim from our small cap allocation during the year.
We believe that our ability to move between the two segments enhances returns to shareholders over the long term and also helps to balance our overall risk.
Attribution data for 2015 shows that both our large cap portfolio and our smaller companies portfolio detracted for the period.
Large Companies Portfolio Our investment methodology continues to focus on investing in high quality, reasonably valued companies.
This style leads us to invest in companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
When constructing our portfolio, we use the core tenets of behavioural finance to narrow our investment universe.
Behavioural finance theory indicates that on average, high quality, fast 8 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 9 growing, cheap stocks with good news-flow outperform lower quality, slow growing, and expensive stocks with bad news-flow.
Taking this approach, we rank the stocks in our universe to uncover those companies that are high quality, attractively valued and are also exhibiting improving sentiment momentum.
We then undertake fundamental research to validate the rankings.
This leads us to invest in quality companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
2015 was a difficult investment environment for our strategy.
Throughout the year there was a reduction of cyclicality and beta in the portfolio as the global economic background decelerated.
The returns from the broad market were driven by companies with very strong momentum characteristics, whereas those companies which we would define as high quality and looked particularly attractive from a valuation perspective underperformed.
Although your portfolio had some exposure to stocks with momentum characteristics during the year, it was not enough to offset the impact of holding higher quality companies that were cheaper than the market.
Since the end of the reporting period the outperformance of those companies that have high momentum characteristics is showing signs of coming to an end, which will benefit our strategy.
The large companies portfolio detracted from performance for the period under review.
This underperformance was mainly driven by weak stock selection in information technology, consumer discretionary and telecom sectors.
Good sector calls did however offset some of the negative impact from disappointing stock selection.
Our positioning in the information technology and consumer discretionary sectors had the largest negative impact on our performance.
The best performing stocks over the year were led by a handful of mega cap leaders in Internet commerce: Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google now renamed Alphabet, the now eponymous FANG stocks.
This group of stocks captured much of the attention and soared by an average of 80% during the year.
To put that performance into perspective the S&P 500 ex-FANG average stock return ended at 2%.
Despite their strong momentum characteristics we did not own them on valuation grounds.
This underexposure to the FANG-stocks in the portfolio detracted from performance materially.
Among individual names, our lack of exposure to Amazon detracted from relative performance the most.
Amazon reported accelerating growth globally with Amazon Prime being a key driver of retail growth and Amazon Web Services being a key driver of business growth.
Our largest portfolio position was in Apple, which performed very well in the first half of the year but fell sharply in late August on concerns that slowing Chinese growth would impact sales of the iPhone.
We remain positive on the longer term prospects for the Company despite the recent set back in performance.
In the telecom services sector, an overweight position in CenturyLink was the largest detractor.
The integrated communications company posted weak results early in the year with total revenue falling year-on-year.
The decline in revenue was driven by weakness in data centre hosting revenue and flat growth in TV and broadband.
However, operating metrics remain on track and we maintain confidence in this company.
In contrast, our stock selection within industrials and healthcare proved beneficial.
Solid stock selection in the energy space, the worst performing sector for the year, also aided relative performance.
Marathon Petroleum and Valero were two of the largest contributors to performance over the time period.
Both companies are involved in refining crude oil into different petroleum products and benefitted from the continued decline in crude prices throughout the year.
Refiners continue to look very attractive from a valuation and operating momentum standpoint.
In the industrials sector, our overweight position in Northrop Grumman, a global aerospace and defence company, contributed the most to returns for the year.
Northrop started 2015 on a positive note, providing profit guidance for 2015 that topped Wall Street expectations.
Additionally, it continued this strength with solid earnings and reported 9 American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 10 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED improved guidance for the full year.
Strong momentum and quality factors underpin our overweight position in this name.
Within healthcare, our overweight positions in both Anthem and Cigna added value.
The health benefits company Anthem, formerly known as WellPoint, rallied early in the year after it announced it has closed the acquisition of Simply Healthcare, a Florida managed care operator focused on the Medicaid and Medicare Advantage markets.
The companys growth continues to be balanced with contributions from both commercial and government segments.
Additionally we believe execution remains strong as does the companys pipeline of future revenue growth.
During the year senior management held merger talks with Cigna.
This information caused Cigna to rally strongly during the summer period.
Our position in Cigna ensured that we benefitted from this rally though the company has also had a strong record of earnings per share as well as raising full year guidance for 2015.
PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2015 %% Contributions to total returns Net asset value total return in sterling terms 4.7 Benchmark total return in sterling terms 6.9 Excess return 2.2 Contributions to total returns Large cap portfolio 0.9 Allocation effect 0.4 Selection effect 1.3 Small cap portfolio 0.2 Allocation and selection effect 0.2 Gearing 0.1 Cost of debt 0.5 Currency hedge 0.1 Share issuance buy back 0.1 Management fee expenses 0.6 Performance fee write back 0.1 Total 2.2 Source: JPMAM and Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark index.
A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 66.
10 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 11 In terms of portfolio positioning, we added to our consumer staples exposure and trimmed from consumer discretionary.
Consumer staples is now the second largest overweight and consumer discretionary is our largest underweight.
Our largest overweight remains in the information technology sector.
We find technology to be a fertile ground for stock picking, supported by its valuation and free cash flow.
We are overall optimistic on the technology sector, with a broadly diversified exposure to semiconductors, semi cap equipment, data processing and computer hardware.
Our third largest absolute position, healthcare, remains relatively unchanged.
On the other hand, we retain our underweight in the materials sector, as we are less excited about the long term growth prospects as well as unappealing valuation levels relative to other sectors.
We have also shifted to a larger underweight in industrials during the year.
Sector Weightings of the Large Cap Portfolio versus S&P 500 as at 31st December 2015 Large company Overweight portfolio S&P 500 underweight Sector % %% Information Technology 25.6 20.7 4.9 Financials 15.4 16.5 1.1 Healthcare 15.6 15.2 0.4 Consumer Discretionary 8.5 12.9 4.4 Consumer Staples 13.9 10.1 3.8 Industrials 8.2 10.1 1.9 Energy 7.0 6.5 0.5 Telecom Services 2.2 2.4 0.2 Utilities 2.9 3.0 0.1 Materials 0.8 2.8 2.0 Does not include small cap stocks and net current assets.
Based on the MSCI Global Industry Classification Standards.
The table below shows the largest positive and negative stock contributors to the Companys portfolio performance in 2015: Average position Stock return relative to based on Benchmark average weight over year over the year Contribution Stock %%% Positive Contributors Marathon Petroleum 1.1 24.1 0.50 Northrop Grumman 1.9 38.0 0.47 Broadcom 0.9 42.7 0.37 Valero Energy 0.7 22.6 0.34 Tyson Foods 1.0 42.2 0.29 Negative Contributors Amazon 1.0 0.0 0.62 CenturyLink 1.3 27.8 0.57 Yahoo 0.8 30.3 0.49 Best Buy 0.9 14.1 0.39 General Electric 1.5 0.0 0.36 11 American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 12 Strategic Report continued Smaller Companies Portfolio US small caps came under pressure in 2015 and ended the period lagging their large cap peers for a second year in a row.
The year presented a challenging environment for our investment style and our US small cap portfolio detracted from overall performance.
In particular, our stock selection in healthcare proved unsatisfactory and was the main driver behind our results.
While much of our small cap healthcare portfolio did well, a few of our earlier stage investments materially hindered performance.
On the positive side, stock selection was very strong in the materials and processing space.
For our smaller companies portfolio we believe that long-term investments in companies with leading competitive positions, run by highly motivated and talented management that can sustain growth over a period of many years, will lead to stock market outperformance.
We identify companies with predictable and durable business models deemed capable of achieving sustained growth.
Outlook As always, we remain firmly committed to our disciplined and dispassionate investment process.
We will continue to monitor risks at all levels, taking only risks for which we believe we will be compensated.
We continue to see valuation as the key driver of long-term returns.
We continue to believe that the global economic deceleration remains the biggest risk to the US equity markets.
With the lowered economic growth it is more difficult for companies to increase their revenues and also their profits.
US companies have done an admirable job of keeping their cost structures competitive with their global peers.
A lower dollar in 2016 would be a significant tailwind for the investment environment and particularly US equities, as it would provide a boost to global commodity prices and increase the dollar value of international corporate earnings.
Central bank interventions in the global financial markets through quantitative easing and low interest rates have recently benefitted equity markets.
The situation is more complex at the moment with the introduction of negative interest rates.
In this increasingly volatile environment, we believe that the strongest, best positioned companies will be best able to weather the turbulence.
Garrett Fish Investment Manager 23rd March 2016 12 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
