American Cover A4 24 03 2016 11:08 Page IFC2 Features Objective Management & Performance Fees To achieve capital growth from North American investments by The management fee is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum, outperformance of the Companys benchmark.
paid quarterly in arrears, on the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
The performance fee is calculated at the Investment Policies rate of 10% of the difference between the net asset value total return and the total return of the S&P 500 Index.
The - To invest in North American quoted companies including, performance fee is capped in any one year at 0.25% of the when appropriate, exposure to smaller capitalisation cum-income debt at par net asset value at the Companys companies.
latest year end, and any negative fee resulting from - To emphasise capital growth rather than income.
underperformance is deducted from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with any remaining amount carried Please refer to page 17 for full details of the Companys forward until paid in full.
Please refer to page 23 for full investment policies.
Gearing and Hedging Policies Management Company - To use short and long term gearing to increase potential The Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the returns to shareholders.
The Companys gearing policy is to Manager as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
JPMF operate within a range of 5% net cash to 20% geared in delegates the management of the Companys portfolio to normal market conditions.
The Manager is accountable for JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM which further tactically managing the gearing, within a 2.0% range delegates the management to JPMorgan Asset Management, around a normal gearing level.
The normal gearing level, Inc. All of these entities are wholly owned subsidiaries of which is set by the Board and kept under review, is J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. currently 10%.
- To hedge the currency risk only in respect of the Companys FCA regulation of non-mainstream pooled sterling debenture.
All other debt is drawn in dollars.
investments The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares Benchmark Index issued by the Company can be recommended by independent The S&P 500 Index expressed in sterling total return terms.
financial advisers to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream investment Capital Structure products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable As at 31st December 2015, the Companys share capital future.
comprised 281,633,910 ordinary shares of 5p each, including The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply 5,350,884 shares held in Treasury.
to non-mainstream investment products because they are The Company has a 50 million debenture in issue, carrying a shares in an investment trust.
fixed interest rate of 6.875%, per annum, repayable in June 2018.
The Company currently also has two floating rate debt AIC facilities totalling 60 million.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
Website The Companys website, which can be found at www.
co. uk, includes useful information on the Company, such as daily prices, factsheets and current and historic half year and annual reports.
American pp01-20 23 03 2016 23:00 Page 1 Contents FINANCIAL RESULTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 33 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chairmans Statement 3 Statement of Comprehensive Income 38 Investment Managers Report 8 Statement of Changes in Equity 39 Summary of Results 13 Statement of Financial Position 40 Ten Year Performance 14 Statement of Cash Flow 41 Ten Year Financial Record 15 Notes to the Financial Statements 42 Ten Largest Equity Investments 16 REGULATORY DISCLOSURES Investment Activity 16 AIFMD Disclosures 62 Business Review 17 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE Notice of Annual General Meeting 63 Board of Directors 21 Glossary of Terms and Definitions 66 Directors Report 23 Where to buy J. P. Morgan Investment Trusts 67 Corporate Governance Statement 25 Information about the Company 69 Directors Remuneration Report 30 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 32 1
