American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 21 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sarah Bates Chairman of the Board and Nomination & Remuneration Committee A Director since 2005.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2015.
Chairman of St. Jamess Place plc and Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc.
A Director of U I plc, Polar Capital Technology Trust plc and Worldwide Healthcare Trust.
She sits on or is advisor to various pension fund and charitable investment committees including that of the Universities Superannuation Scheme and East Riding Pension Scheme.
She was previously a director and chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Shared appointments with other Directors: Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited Investment Committee with Dr Kevin Carter.
Until June 2005 Director of Corporate Communications at Cazenove & Co. Mrs Bolsover was previously Managing Director of Signature Financial Group.
She is Chairman of Tomorrows People Trust Limited and Fidelity Asian Values plc.
She is also a Director of Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Simon Bragg Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since 2012.
Chairman and Chief Executive of Stifel Nicolaus Europe Limited, a UK broker dealer, which acquired Oriel Securities in 2014, a firm Mr Bragg founded.
Mr Bragg is also a member of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Authority Advisory Panel together with its Wholesale Markets Practitioner Panel.
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at KPMG, Mr Bragg previously worked at Hoare Govett, Cargill and HSBC.
21 American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 22 Governance continued BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Dr Kevin Carter A Director since 2014.
Currently Chairman and Director of Murray International Trust PLC, a Director of Lowland Investment Company plc, Chairman of the Investment Committee and a trustee director of the BBC Pension Scheme.
He is also a Director of the Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund Limited, a trustee director of Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited and Chairman of its Investment Committee.
Dr Carter is a CFA charter holder and has a doctorate awarded in mathematical statistics with a research subject in financial economics.
Shared appointments with other Directors: Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited Investment Committee with Mrs Sarah Bates.
Sir Alan Collins Chairman of the Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director A Director since 2012.
Sir Alan had a successful career in the British Diplomatic Service where he held a number of Ambassador and High Commissioner appointments and was until August 2011 the Consul General New York and the Director General for Trade and Investment USA.
He was also the managing director in United Kingdom Trade and Investment responsible for the business legacy from the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, having been part of the team that won the bid to bring the Olympics to London.
He is now a non-executive Director of Prudential Assurance Singapore Ltd, Prudential Hong Kong Ltd, Prudential General Insurance Hong Kong Ltd and ICICI Bank UK plc.
He is also an advisor to a number of other limited companies and a member of the Advisory Council of the London Philharmonic Orchestra.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Risk Committee.
All Directors are considered independent by the Board and are members of the Nomination & Remuneration and Risk Committees.
22 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
