American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 23 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and the Audited Financial of interest and other shareholder information is available on the Statements for the year ended 31st December 2015.
co. uk There have been no material changes other than those reflected in these financial statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Any Management of the Company information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds Limited will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through a primary JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the FCA.
1st July 2014, these roles were undertaken by JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMF is an affiliate of JPMAM The Companys leverage and JPMFs remuneration disclosures are and was appointed as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund set out on page 62.
JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, through other Management and Performance Fees subsidiaries, also provides marketing, banking and dealing to the The basic management fee is calculated and paid quarterly in Company.
Custodian services are further provided by a JPMorgan arrears and is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum of the Chase Bank subsidiary, via a contract with the Companys Companys total assets less current liabilities.
on which the Manager or any of its associated companies earn a The Manager is employed under a contract which can be terminated management fee are excluded from the calculation and therefore on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to attract no fee.
In addition, a performance fee may be payable.
The terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of Companys investment in the JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund is remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
not subject to a management fee, and therefore not excluded from the calculation.
The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the investment strategy and the process of the Manager, performance difference between the cum-income debt at par net asset value against the benchmark and a relevant peer group over the long total return and the total return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in term and the support the Company receives from the Manager.
The performance fee due in respect of any single a result of the evaluation process, the Board confirms that it is year is divided into equal parts payable over three years.
satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted interest of shareholders as a whole.
from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with any remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to be The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive absorbed in future years.
AIFMD The performance fee paid in any one year will not exceed 0.25% of JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager the cum-income debt at par net asset value at the Companys latest AIFM.
JPMF has been approved as an AIFM by the Financial year end, with any unpaid excess being carried forward until paid in Conduct Authority FCA.
For the purposes of the AIFMD the full.
Company is an alternative investment fund AIF.
In the year ended 31st December 2015 the Companys cum-income JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management debt at par net asset value total return underperformed the total of the Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
The Company has appointed return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms, by BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its 2.26 percentage points on the above basis.
This results in a negative depositary.
BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the performance fee calculation of 1,818,000.
This amount when Companys custodian.
BNY remains responsible for the oversight of deducted from the 507,000 performance fee provision brought the custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its cash forward leaves a negative balance of 1,312,000, which will be flows.
carried forward and offset against any future outperformance.
The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to Directors investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the year each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out as detailed on pages 21 and 22.
In accordance with corporate information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, governance best practice, all Directors will retire by rotation at the leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer 23 American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 24 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED themselves for reappointment.
The Nomination and Remuneration Capital Structure Committee, having considered their qualifications, performance and The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside cover contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that each of this report.
Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to Voting Rights in the Companys shares the role and the Board recommends to shareholders that they be Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date of reappointed.
For further details on the experience and skills of each this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual General Director please refer to pages 21 and 22.
Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Director Indemnification and Insurance At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the interest in the Companys voting rights: benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Number of indemnities were in place during the year and as at the date of this Shareholders voting rights % report.
Brewin Dolphin Limited 44,991,672 16.6 During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by the Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 25,150,913 9.3 Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company against Quilter Cheviot Limited 14,003,486 5.2 certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
The Company is also aware that approximately 3.3% of the Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through Disclosure of information to Auditor savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are not exercised by In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the the beneficial holders, in accordance with the terms and conditions Company at the time when this report was approved: of the savings products, under certain circumstances the Manager a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant has the right to exercise those voting rights.
That right is subject to audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of certain limits and restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the which the Companys auditor is unaware: and relevant general meeting.
b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves Annual General Meeting aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to Note: This section is important and requires your immediate establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, information.
you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies Act Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will 2006. be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Independent Auditor i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 auditor to the Company and a resolution proposing its At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek authority to reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its issue up to 27,116,525 new shares or shares held in Treasury for remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,355,826 such Annual General Meeting.
amount being equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital and disapply pre-emption rights upon such issues.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 63 and 65.
Section 992 Companies Act 2006 This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section 992 Meeting of the Company in 2017 unless renewed at a prior general Companies Act 2006: meeting.
24 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 25 It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares Corporate Governance Statement or to sell Treasury shares to investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such Compliance issues are only made at prices greater than the net asset value the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is Directors Responsibilities on page 32, indicates how the Company charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a greater has applied the principles of good governance of the UK Corporate number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the in line with the Companys investment policies.
AIC Code, which complements the UK Corporate Governance Code 1 ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares and provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
Resolution 13 The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of At the Annual General Meeting held on 13th May 2015, shareholders corporate governance and considers that the Company has gave authority to the Company to purchase up to 14.99% of its then complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate issued share capital.
At that time, shareholders were informed that Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys this authority would expire on 12th October 2016 but could be business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
renewed by shareholders at any time at a general meeting of the Company.
The Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is Role of the Board in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of A management agreement between the Company and JPMF sets out shares at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV the matters over which the Manager has delegated authority.
This enhances the NAV of the remaining shares and helps to control the includes management of the Companys assets within the guidelines discount and its volatility.
Resolution 13 gives the Company established by the Board from time to time and the provision of authority to buy back its own issued shares in the market as accounting, company secretarial, administration and some permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
All other matters are reserved for the approval limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board of 40,647,672 shares representing approximately 14.99% of the for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and Companys issued shares as at 22nd March 2016 being the latest monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the authority also sets minimum and maximum prices.
capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service providers, review of key investment and financial data and the If resolution 13 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, shares Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury shares.
The Company does not have authority to re-issue shares The Board met seven times during the year and additional meetings from Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of shares are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided from Treasury would be at a premium to the prevailing NAV.
to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Further information on The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on meetings and committees can be found on page 26. pages 63 and 65.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts of prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the interest and, following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010, has remaining shares as and when market conditions are appropriate.
adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during the Recommendation year under review.
The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 13 are likely to promote There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
This is in addition to the access that every unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which JPMF, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring adherence to amount in aggregate to 126,331 shares representing approximately Board procedures and compliance with applicable rules and 0.1% of the existing issued share capital of the Company.
1 Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 25 American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 26 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Board Composition Meetings and Committees The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by Sarah The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to Bates, all of whom are considered to be independent of the committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown with Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of investment the Directors profiles on pages 21 and 22. knowledge, business and financial skills and experience relevant to The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee the Companys business and brief biographical details of each meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were Director are set out on pages 21 and 22. seven Board meetings, including a private meeting of the Directors A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of to evaluate the Manager.
In addition, two Audit Committee the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which meetings, two Risk Committee meetings and two Nomination & may be found below.
Sir Alan Collins, the Senior Independent Remuneration Committee meetings were held.
Director, leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman Nomination & and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot Audit Risk Remuneration be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Tenure Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General 1 Sarah Bates7 2 22 Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is Kate Bolsover 72 22 required that they be reappointed by shareholders.
Subject to the Simon Bragg 72 22 performance evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree Dr Kevin Carter7 2 2 2 whether it is appropriate for Directors to seek annual Sir Alan Collins 72 22 reappointment in accordance with corporate governance best 1 Attended by invitation of the Audit Committee.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself As well as the formal meetings detailed above, the Board necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment but, communicates frequently by email or telephone to deal with day to when making a recommendation, the Board will take into account day matters as they arise.
Directors also visited the fund the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, management team in New York and spent time with a number of including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
longer term strategists as well as with senior management and the A list of potential conflicts of interest for each Director is dealing desk in JPMAMs offices.
These are considered carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding them, and, if Board Committees considered appropriate, are approved.
Nomination & Remuneration Committee The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sarah formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for Bates, consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and Annual General Meeting.
experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
A The Company has a succession plan in place.
To ensure adequate variety of sources, including external search consultants, may be succession planning and continuity it has been agreed that, barring used to ensure that a wide range of candidates is considered.
any unforeseen circumstances, Kate Bolsover and Sarah Bates will retire by the end of 2016 and 2017 respectively.
The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take account of the benefits of this during the appointment process.
The Board Induction and Training remains committed to appointing the most appropriate candidate On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all and seeks to ensure that it does not unwittingly exclude any group.
Thereafter, regular briefings are Therefore, no targets have been set against which to report.
provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend The Directors commissioned Lintstock, a firm of independent industry and other seminars covering issues and developments consultants, to facilitate the evaluation of the Board.
The process relevant to investment trusts.
Regular reviews of the Directors involved the completion of questionnaires by the Board.
The training needs are carried out by the Board by means of the resulting written report was discussed by Directors under the remit evaluation process described below.
of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman and the Chairman is evaluated by the Senior Independent Director.
An externally 26 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 27 Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust facilitated Board evaluation was conducted by Lintstock in respect Sections 1158 and 1159 under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years of the Companys year ended 31st December 2014. commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility recommendations to the Board as and when required.
criteria is monitored on a regular basis by the Manager, who reports on a monthly basis to the Audit Committee Board on the Companys continuing compliance.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Simon Bragg, consists of all the Directors, except the Chairman of the Board, and meets at least The Board is required to be made fully aware of any significant twice each year.
The Chairman of the Board attends by invitation of financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the Committee.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that the preparation of the financial statements.
they have recent and relevant financial expertise and the requisite As a result of the work performed, the Committee has concluded skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
that the Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2015, The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Manager taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the Companys the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the request performance, business model and strategy, and has reported on of the Board, the Audit Committee provides confirmation to the these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect Board as to how it has discharged its responsibilities so that the are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on Board may ensure that information presented to it is fair, balanced page 32. and understandable, together with details of how it has done so.
The Audit Committee also examines the effectiveness of the During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year Companys internal control systems, receives information from the ended 31st December 2015, the Audit Committee considered the Managers compliance department and also reviews the scope and following significant issues, in particular those communicated by results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the the auditor during its reporting: independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In the Directors opinion the auditor is independent.
Significant issue How the issue was addressed The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for making Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and removal and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed of the external auditor.
Representatives of the Companys auditor investments in note 1 to the accounts.
The Company has attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual appointed BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Report & Accounts were considered and also engage with Directors Limited BNY as its depositary.
BNY has appointed as and when required.
Having reviewed the performance of the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys custodian.
BNY remains responsible for the external auditor, including assessing the quality of work, timing of oversight of the custody of the Companys assets.
communications and work with the Manager, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend its reappointment.
The Valuation of The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge Board supported this recommendation which will be put to Derivative instruments the currency element of the GBP debenture.
The shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company enters into short-term currency contracts current tenure of the external auditor dates from 10th August 2006. with a range of counterparties.
The contracts and counterparties are notified to the Board on a The Board opened the external auditor position up to tender in 2015 monthly basis.
The Companys policy is to fair value and three firms, including the incumbent, pitched for the position.
the derivatives as recorded in the Statement of Based upon the presentations, the Board approved the continuing Financial Position.
appointment of Deloitte as auditor to the Company.
In respect of the Companys financial year ended 31st December 2015, a new audit Calculation of The management and performance fees are management and calculated in accordance with the Investment partner was appointed to oversee the audit.
It is the intention that performance fees Management Agreement.
The Board reviews the current partner will remain in this position for a five year term, controls reports, expense schedules and the subject to the annual reappointment of Deloitte LLP by shareholders.
Risk Committee Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken The Risk Committee, chaired by Sir Alan Collins, consists of all the investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 e to the Directors and meets at least twice each year.
Income recording is conducted by the discusses the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance and Manager and the methodology is reported upon to strategy, taking into account the current and prospective the Board within a six monthly independent report macroeconomic and financial environment.
It further reviews the on the operations of the Manager.
Companys key risks and identifies and manages any new risks that 27 American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 28 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED arise during the year.
Finally, the Committee reviews compliance The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time to with the Companys investment restrictions and guidelines.
give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via the Terms of Reference Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and address shown on page 69.
Risk Committee have written terms of reference which define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which are available on the Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Companys website and for inspection on request at the Companys published on the Company website shortly after the Annual General registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Going Concern Risk Management and Internal Control The Directors believe that having considered the Companys The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least investment objective see page 17, risk management policies see annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of pages 54 to 60, capital management policies and procedures see risk management and internal control and to report to shareholders page 61, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure projections that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, that the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial which the Board has identified to include business, financial, structure and suitable management arrangements in place to operational, compliance and risk management.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk these reasons, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to management and internal control which is designed to safeguard adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and Companys financial statements.
They have not identified any ensure that financial information used within the business, or material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve these financial statements.
business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or Relations with Shareholders loss.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Since investment management, custody of assets and all Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMorgan of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to and its associates, the Companys system of risk management and shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided Accounts and the Half Year Report.
This is supplemented by the by JPMorgan and its associates, including the operating controls daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business asset value of the Companys shares.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to and managing the significant risks faced by the Company see attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Principal Risks on pages 19 and 20.
The Company does not have an Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In department of JPMF which reports any material failings or addition, a presentation is given by the investment manager who weaknesses.
This arrangement is kept under review.
The key reviews the Companys performance.
During the year the elements designed to provide effective internal control are as investment management team, JPMF and the Companys brokers follows: held regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the made aware of their views.
The Chairman further writes to the Board of key investment and financial data, including management Companys largest shareholders each year to offer a meeting with accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and herself and other members of the Board, with or without performance comparisons.
The Chairman met independently with shareholders in 2015.
The Chairman and Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a Directors make themselves available as and when required to manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on written agreement.
28 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 American pp21-32 23 03 2016 23:02 Page 29 Corporate Governance Management Systems The Managers system of risk management JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to its and internal control includes organisational agreements which investment process.
As part of its commitment to delivering superior clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control investment performance to clients, it expects and encourages the procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMorgans companies in which it invests to demonstrate the highest standards of Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with corporate governance and best business practice.
JPMAM examines FCA rules and reports to the Board.
the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which it Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the invests, as well as the board balance, oversight functions and Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
These analyses then form the basis of JPMAMs proxy voting and engagement activity.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk management and internal control by monitoring the Proxy Voting operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it associates as follows: would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on reasonable the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms of the judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of clients.
So management agreement and receives regular reports from far as is practicable, JPMAM will vote at all of the meetings called by JPMorgans Compliance department: companies in which it is invested.
the Board reviews a report, which is also independently reviewed, Stewardship Engagement on the internal controls and the operations of its custodian, JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients JPMorgan Chase Bank: as a major asset owner.
the Board reviews every six months a report from the Companys JPMAM is a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment, an Depositary, BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited, which initiative of the UN Secretary-General and supports the principles of summarises the activities performed by the Depositary during the best practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the reporting period: and companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and the Board reviews every six months an independent report on the we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf internal controls and the operations of JPMFs investment trust of our clients.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that available on request from the Company Secretary or can be it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk downloaded from JPMAMs website: management and internal control for the year ended 31st December http: www.
2015, and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
By order of the Board During the course of its review of the system of risk management Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised JPMorgan Funds Limited, of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be Company Secretary significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
23rd March 2016 Corporate Governance and Voting Policy The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following information in italics is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Board.
Details on social and environmental issues are included in the Strategic Report on pages 18 and 19.
