16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 16:57 Page 24 Governance continued Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its statements for the year ended 30th June 2015. depositary.
BNY has delegated its safekeeping function to the custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. BNY remains Management of the Company responsible for the oversight of the custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available FCA.
Prior to 1st July 2014, these roles were undertaken by to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMF is material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual an affiliate of JPMAM and was appointed as the Companys report of each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM from 1st July sets out information on the Companys investment strategy 2014.
JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also provides management, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder marketing, banking, dealing and custodian services to the information is available on the Companys website at Company.
co. uk There have been no material changes other than those reflected in these financial The Manager is employed under a contract which can be statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Any terminated on one years notice, without penalty, unless notice information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the is given as a result of poor investment performance, in which AIFMD will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through case the contract can be terminated on six months notice, a primary information provider.
If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of remuneration is As an authorised AIFM, JPMF will make the requisite payable by way of compensation.
disclosures on remuneration levels and polices to the FCA at the appropriate time.
The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the Management and Performance Fees investment strategy and the process of the Manager, performance against the benchmark and a relevant peer group The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum over the long term and the support the Company receives from of the Companys total assets less current liabilities up to the Manager.
As a result of the evaluation process, the Board 800 million and at the rate of 0.75% thereafter.
The fee is confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Investments on which the Manager is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from the calculation and therefore attract no management fee.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD In addition, until 30th June 2015, the Manager was entitled JPMF has been appointed as the Companys alternative to receive a performance fee equivalent to 10% of any investment fund manager AIFM.
JPMF has been approved outperformance of the Companys net asset value NAV per as an AIFM by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
For the share on an undiluted total return basis over the Companys purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index with net investment fund AIF.
dividends reinvested, in sterling terms, over the period since the last performance fee was earned.
The performance fee was The Company entered into a new investment management calculated at the end of the Companys financial year and agreement with JPMF on 1st July 2014.
JPMF has delegated charged to its capital account in the annual financial responsibility for the day to day management of the statements.
However, an estimate was accrued on a monthly Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
basis and reflected in the Companys published NAV per share.
JPMF is required to ensure that a depositary is appointed to The amount of performance fee earned and paid to the the Company.
The Company therefore has appointed BNY Manager each year was subject to the following conditions: 24 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 16:57 Page 25 Any performance fee earned in a given year was divided consider that there is reasonable evidence to continue to into two categories: that which could be offset offsetable adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
by underperformance in future years: and that which cannot non-offsetable.
Directors The non-offsetable fee that could be earned in any one The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the year was capped at 0.75% of the Companys average year are detailed on pages 21 to 23. monthly total assets less current liabilities for the year.
In Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings may be found in a year when the Company produced a negative NAV total the Directors Remuneration Report on page 34.
No changes return per share, the non-offsetable fee earned in that have been reported to the Directors shareholdings since the year was provided for but not paid.
In a year when the year end.
Company produced a positive NAV total return per share, the Company paid to the Manager all non-offsetable fees In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all earned in that year and those accrued from previous years, Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting subject to the restriction below.
and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
The Nomination Committee, having considered their The maximum fee that could be paid to the Manager in any qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and one year was capped at 0.75% of the Companys average its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be monthly total assets less current liabilities for the year.
effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the The offsetable fee was uncapped and equal to any fees Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
earned in excess of the 0.75% cap.
Until paid i. e. in a year when the NAV total return per share is zero or positive, Director Indemnification and Insurance those fees were capable of being absorbed by any As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the underperformance in a subsequent year.
Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying The performance fee outperformance calculation restarted third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the at the end of a period when outperformance of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were in place during the benchmark had been achieved and a performance fee year and as at the date of this report.
An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which Since the last performance fee payment was made, the indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain Companys net asset value per share has underperformed the liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
This resulted in a negative non-offsetable cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
With effect from 1st July 2015 the performance fee arrangement has been terminated.
Disclosure of information to Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Going Concern Company at the time when this report was approved: The Directors believe that having considered the Companys a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant investment objective see page 17, risk management policies audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 see pages 60 to 65, capital management policies and of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and procedures see page66, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure projections, the Company has adequate b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware management arrangements in place to continue in operational of any relevant audit information and to establish that the existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25 16519 pp21 36 28 09 2015 16:57 Page 26 Governance continued Directors Report continued The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 18.0%.
No further changes to these holdings had been accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies notified as at the date of this report.
The Company is also aware that approximately 6.5% of the Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through Independent Auditors savings products managed by JPMorgan Asset Management  LLP have expressed their willingness and registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a those voting rights are not exercised by the beneficial holders, resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the in accordance with the terms and conditions of the savings Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year products, under certain circumstances JPMorgan Asset will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Management has the right to exercise those voting rights.
That right is subject to certain limits and restrictions and falls away Companies Act 2006 Requirements at the conclusion of the relevant general meeting.
The following disclosures are made in accordance with the The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Companies Act 2006.
Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are Capital Structure contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside the Companies Act 2006. front cover of this report.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities Voting Rights in the Companys shares in the Company: no special rights with regard to control Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the attached to securities: no agreements between holders of date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: General Meeting on page 69. no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between Information on environmental matters, social and community the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for issues is set out on page 20.
The Company has no employees.
Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Annual General Meeting At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action Ordinary you should take, you should seek your own personal financial Shareholders shares % advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Lazard Asset Management LLC 29,719,640 23.1 Markets Act 2000.
City of London Investment Management Company 23,192,396 18.1 Resolutions relating to the following items of special business Royal Skandia 6,089,708 5.0 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Sarasin & Partners LLP 5,232,073 4.3 AGM : JPMorgan Asset Management i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Holdings Inc. 4,697,689 3.9 pre-emption rights resolutions 13 and 14 On 9th July 2015, Lazard Asset Management LLC disclosed The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to that their holding was 30,838,703 shares 24.0% and on issue up to 6,422,418 new Ordinary shares for cash up to an 11th August 2015, City of London Investment Management aggregate nominal amount of 1,605,604 such amount being Company disclosed that their holding was 23,114,924 shares equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital 26 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
