16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 5 Investment Managers Report Results Over your Companys financial year, emerging markets as a whole appreciated modestly: our benchmark index ended the year 3.2% higher than at the outset, in sterling terms.
But this subdued result masks a very eventful year, during which your portfolios performance diverged sharply from the index, in both directions.
It is pleasing therefore that by the end of the year to June 2015 we ended on the positive side, with the return from net assets at 7.4% in sterling, and the return to shareholders, which represents the change in the share price with the dividend reinvested, at 6.6%, net of all costs.
As you can see from the table on the next page, the difference between the index return and your portfolios return derived both from asset allocation being invested more in the right countries and stock selection being invested in the right stocks within countries : but I would remind readers that we base all our investment decisions on our views about individual companies and this is really how all successes and failures are generated.
The year that passed There has been no shortage of things to think about in the last year.
Just over a year ago, investors were wondering how long it would be before the USA raised interest rates: that it still has not happened hints at some of the uncertainties that, if anything, have grown over the last twelve months.
During the summer of 2014 we saw an escalation of the conflict in Ukraine and the consequent worsening of Russias relations with the West: in the autumn, the oil price dropped sharply, almost halving between September and the year end: other commodities followed suit.
The Chinese government began to ease monetary policy, catching markets by surprise: the domestic Chinese equity market surged in response, rising 60% between March and June this year, stoked by a stampede of individual investors and a boom in margin lending: meanwhile, the Chinese economy seemed to be slowing noticeably and experiencing real deflationary pressures.
Eventually Chinese stocks succumbed, losing all their gains in a sharp fall that lasted through June and July this year in spite of increasingly clumsy efforts by the authorities to support the stock market.
To add further confusion to the mix, the Chinese government appeared, for two days in August this year, to allow the exchange rate to float more freely.
This led to a modest 4% change decline in the renminbi dollar exchange rate, but created much greater uncertainty about policy priorities.
Throughout all this, the US economy looked relatively robust and the US dollar continued to strengthen against most other currencies: the Japanese yen slid significantly, as did the euro, in part because of Greeces continued economic problems: significant weakness was observed also in many emerging market currencies, especially those, like the Brazilian real and the Russian rouble, that have a large dependence on commodity exports.
Both the strength of the dollar and the fall in commodity prices acted as deflationary influences on the American economy, which made it easier for the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates at historic lows.
But very low interest rates produce other, maybe unintended consequences: not surprisingly, if you make debt very cheap, people use more of it: so a policy designed to deal with a build up of debt and avoid a depression produces more debt.
Low interest rates may well have been appropriate for the developed world, but that does JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5 16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 6 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued not mean that they should apply everywhere and the last year has seen markets Performance attribution for the year force policy choices on some emerging countries that, for a while, appeared to be ended 30th June 2015 having their cake and eating it by experiencing historically low interest rates and % % relatively stable currencies at the same time.
The extent of recent volatility, especially Contributions to total returns in currencies, suggests to me that markets are now attempting to correct imbalances and mispricing regardless of governments policy priorities.
If emerging markets do Benchmark 3.2 not raise interest rates, their currencies will depreciate: even if the US does not raise Asset allocation 2.9 interest rates, the relative strength of its economy will make its currency appreciate, Stock selection 1.9 a trend that will be extended if US rates ever do rise.
All of this means that we reach Gearing cash 0.5 the end of your Companys financial year with plenty of uncertainty and this has led Investment Manager to declines in markets in the most recent weeks.
It would be a mistake, though, to contribution 5.3 become more pessimistic at the same time: stocks are getting cheaper and Portfolio return 8.5 opportunities are forming.
Management fee Other expenses 1.1 The portfolio Return on net assets 7.4 Throughout the last year your Companys portfolio has performed in ways that have Return to Ordinary been quite different to the overall index.
After a couple of negative months at the shareholders 6.6 start of the financial year, the portfolio recovered by over 10% relative to the Source: Xamin Datastream Morningstar.
benchmark between September 2014 and March 2015: it then underperformed All figures are on a total return basis.
sharply in April before recovering in May and June to end the twelve months in positive territory.
Put like that, it sounds as if performance has been extremely Performance attribution analyses how volatile, though in fact the portfolio rose less than the benchmark in April and fell the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
I would make two observations about this pattern of performance.
First, we are active managers intent on pursuing returns as a primary objective, A glossary of terms and definitions is rather than worrying about replicating the index: therefore divergences in provided on page 70. performance are inevitable and will sometimes be on the negative side.
This is never welcome, but it is unavoidable.
Second, the degree to which performance will diverge from the index is a function of how we do as investors, but is also dependent on the way that markets behave: in a year in which markets are more volatile, our relative performance is likely also to vary more widely.
The biggest swings in performance this year have been driven by China: the portfolio underperformed when Chinese stocks rose strongly, but benefitted from their reversal: over the course of the year as a whole, it was our investments in India which made the largest contribution.
Although I began this commentary with observations on currencies and other macroeconomic factors, this is not what I concentrate on most of the time.
In fact, quite the opposite is true.
I take decisions about the shares of individual companies.
None of them exist in an economic vacuum, so of course I must be aware of the context within which they carry out their business, but my ideal investment is one whose results in the long term are idiosyncratic: that is to say, driven much more by what the company does rather than by the environment around it.
A look at the leading positive contributors to the portfolios results during the past year shows some good examples of this in practice.
We have several clusters of investments in the portfolio in industries where we hope to have found the kind of company-specific trends referred to above.
One of these is IT services: the portfolio has held investments in two large established Indian firms, 6 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 7 Tata Consultancy and Infosys, for some time.
This year we complemented these with three new holdings in more specialist firms, EPAM Systems, Luxoft and Globant, the first two based in Eastern Europe and the latter in Argentina, which carry out high end, sophisticated software development for leading Western clients, including very well-known internet giants.
As the ability to gather, analyse and understand data becomes ever more crucial to businesses, many are having to re-engineer their whole operation to cope with the change: this is not a matter of building an internal system in isolation, but of connecting it at the same time to the customers own experience via digital communication, as well as developing data analytics which allow firms to understand better their customers behaviour and preferences.
Firms that can build complex systems to do this have a very large potential market to address.
More prosaically, we own banks in India and South Africa which, even though they do what all banks do, taking deposits and making loans, have been gaining market share rapidly: in part because they started small and in part because they are disrupting established incumbents by using technology to achieve lower costs and passing those savings to the customer.
These investments are not new to the portfolio this year, but like the IT developers mentioned above, these banks Capitec and Indusind were among the leading contributors to portfolio performance during the last year.
And finally, we have seen several examples of firms whose superior skill in execution appears to be paying off even more as conditions become tougher.
There is nothing to link Lojas Renner, a Brazilian fashion retailer, with AIA, a pan-Asian insurance company, except for the fact that in challenging markets, they are extending their lead over competitors, growing market share at a time when others are struggling: Renner has seen its sales expand when others are contracting, while AIA has been increasing its market share strongly in China, a market that still represents a very big opportunity for a business that already has a large regional presence across Asia.
These are the kind of outcomes that we like to see in the portfolios investments.
The year ahead It is never dull in emerging markets: everyday, there is something that one could react to as an investor.
In spite of this, I try not to make too many decisions: I do not start the day expecting to change the portfolio, but try instead to concentrate on the decisions which the market forces on my attention by moving share prices in an extreme way.
I suspect that over the next year, there will be more of these.
Much will depend on what happens in China, where the authorities are probably fighting a secular transition to lower economic growth as if it were a cyclical slowdown.
Real, far-reaching reforms will have to involve a redrawing of the states role in the commercial sector and an acceptance of the primacy of market forces in determining outcomes, rather than government policy.
That remains a very large step and not one that can be achieved without some disruption: perhaps because of that, the government seems to be moving tentatively and sometimes in contradictory ways, hoping perhaps that the cycle will recover and the difficult decisions will not be necessary: I suspect they will be disappointed.
If I am right, however, China could become a very interesting investment destination indeed and a place where we JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 7 16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 8 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued could have much more money invested on your behalf than we have today.
This is made all the more likely by the gradual opening of the A share market, hitherto accessible only to domestic investors, to foreign capital.
The kinds of companies that we like to own private enterprises motivated by the creation of value for shareholders should be easier to find there than in the H share market of companies listed in Hong Kong, which is dominated by very large firms in industries essentially owned by the state, like banking, energy and telecommunications.
So we are devoting increased resources to researching Chinese companies in a variety of industries, from healthcare to manufacturing, hopeful that if the current sell-off continues, good Chinese companies will be available at bargain prices.
In general, prospects for emerging markets look quite challenging at the moment, though history teaches us that when pessimism abounds and valuations have fallen, one should in fact become more positive rather than the reverse.
We know what kinds of businesses we are looking for and we also know that share prices do not decline without a reason: so the essential task is to identify those companies whose long term opportunity and competitiveness is not really affected at all by short term developments, even if the market thinks the opposite.
Many of these are in the portfolio already and if their share prices decline, you should expect to see us increase our investment in them: confidence and conviction should come first in the things you know the best.
I might close this commentary by repeating something that remains right at the centre of our approach to investment: more than anything, it is about businesses and their managers and our readiness to let companies generate returns for us through their activities over the long term.
This can lead us to destinations we had not necessarily anticipated: I did not start this past year with any view about Belarus, or at least, certainly not with any view that would have enticed me to invest there: and I did not form any such view as the year progressed either.
That is even truer of the Ukraine, a country that has been in the news for all the wrong reasons.
Yet during the year, I invested almost fifteen million pounds in two companies whose principal operations are based in these two countries, so far with good results.
That amount is more than a tenth of all the purchases made for your portfolio during the year.
Of course, it helps that both these companies are export businesses, not tied to their domestic economies: but only by looking at the companies, their capabilities and their prospects, could I have made these decisions.
With the support of a large team of analysts and portfolio managers, I hope to find more of these kinds of opportunities for your portfolio in the year ahead.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 28th September 2015 8 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
