Directors report The Directors present their report and the Groups audited LR 9.8.
4R financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The following table is disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
The information required to be disclosed, where applicable to the Principal activities and results Company, can be located in the Annual Report and Accounts at The Companys principal activity is to act as a holding company the references set out below: for a group of investment management companies.
Our business Information Location model based on investment performance, growing value and Interest capitalised Not applicable effective distribution is explained in the Strategic report.
The Group Shareholder waiver of dividends Notes to Accounts 4.3 operates principally in the United Kingdom and has branches of Shareholder waiver of future dividends Notes to Accounts 4.3 Jupiter Asset Management Limited operating overseas, together with three trading subsidiaries.
Agreements with controlling Not applicable shareholders The Company is incorporated with Company Number 6150195 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable and is domiciled in England and Wales.
shareholder Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report Other information, which forms part of this Directors report, can and notes to the be found in the following sections of the Annual Report and are Accounts 1.5 deemed to form part of this report: Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable Commentary on the development and performance in the year Waiver of future emoluments by a Not applicable ended 31 December 2015, and likely future developments in the Director Groups business, is included in the Strategic report.
Significant contracts Governance report Description of the Groups financial risk management objectives Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for Not applicable and policies, and its exposure to risks arising from its use of cash financial instruments, are set out in Note 5.3 to the Accounts.
Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for Not applicable cash in relation to major subsidiary Information concerning Directors contractual arrangements and Participation by parent of a placing by Not applicable entitlements under share-based remuneration arrangements is a listed subsidiary given in the Remuneration report.
Publication of unaudited financial Historical Summary The Groups environmental performance data including the information absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2015 can be found in the Corporate Responsibility report.
All the information cross-referenced above is incorporated by Information concerning the involvement of employees in the reference into this Directors report.
business is also given in the Corporate Responsibility report.
Compliance Statement DTR 7.2 This statement has been provided by the Chairman in her Disclosure required under the Listing Rules and the introduction to the Governance section and is deemed to form Disclosure and Transparency Rules part of this Directors report.
11R Information which is the required content of the Management Internal control and risk management systems DTR 7.2.
5 report can be found in the Strategic report and in this Directors A description of the Companys financial reporting processes and report.
the main features of its internal control and risk management processes can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee report.
Structure of capital and voting rights DTR 7.2.
6 As at 31 December 2015 and 22 February 2016, there were 457,699,916 fully paid ordinary shares of 2p, amounting to 9,153,998.
Each share in issue is listed on the Official List maintained by the FCA in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority.
There were no changes to the share capital during the year.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry the right to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
The holders of ordinary shares have the right to participate in dividends and other distributions according to their respective rights and interests in the profits of the Company and a return of capital on a winding-up of the Company.
Full details regarding the exercise of voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on 18 May 2016, are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, the appointment of a proxy to vote at a general meeting must be received not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
72 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information None of the ordinary shares carries any special rights with regard In accordance with the Codes requirements, all Directors offer to control of the Company.
themselves for election or re-election at the AGM in 2016, with the exception of Philip Johnson who will not be standing for reShares held in employee benefit trusts election.
Under the rules of the Jupiter Share Incentive Plan the SIP, which was introduced in 2013, eligible employees are entitled to In addition to any powers under the Companies Act 2006 the acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
The SIP shares are held Act to remove Directors from office, the Company may, by in trust for participants by Yorkshire Building Society the SIP passing an ordinary resolution, remove any Director from the Trustee.
Voting rights are exercised by the SIP Trustee on receipt Board before the expiration of his or her period in office.
If a participant does not submit an Company may, subject to the Articles of Association, appoint by instruction to the SIP Trustee, no vote is registered.
In addition, the ordinary resolution another person who is willing to be a Director SIP Trustees do not vote on any unallocated shares held in trust.
The Companys Articles of Association may be As at 22 February 2016, the SIP Trustee held 0.1 per cent.
of the amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Directors are advised of their statutory duty to avoid conflicts RBC cees Trustee Limited, as trustee of the Jupiter Employee of interest with those of the Company.
All actual and potential Benefit Trust the EBT Trustee, holds ordinary shares in trust for conflicts are brought to the Board.
The operation of the the benefit of the Groups employees.
Where the EBT Trustee has Companys policy on conflicts of interest is described in the allocated shares held in the trust in respect of specific awards Governance section.
granted under the Jupiter Employee Share Plan, the holders of such awards may recommend to the EBT Trustee as to how it The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary should exercise voting rights relating to such shares.
To the extent shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set that a participant does not make such recommendations, no vote out in detail in the Companys Articles of Association, which are is registered.
In addition, the EBT Trustee does not vote on any made available for inspection by the Companys shareholders at unallocated shares held in the trust.
As at 22 February 2016, the the AGM.
EBT Trustee held 1.79 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital.
Substantial share interests As at 31 December 2015 and 19 February 2016, the Company had Board of Directors received notifications from the following shareholders of their On 1 March, Polly Williams joined the Board as a non-executive direct or indirect shareholding of three per cent.
or more in the Director and Matteo Perruccio resigned on 15 April.
On 1 May, Companys issued share capital.
This information is disclosed Bridget Macaskill was also appointed to the Board as a nonpursuant to the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency executive Director.
Biographies for Polly Williams and Bridget Rules.
Macaskill are set out in the Governance section.
Number of shares as at The Directors who served during the year are as follows: 31 December Percentage Name 2015 Interest % Liz Airey Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 33,011,484 7.21 Edward Bonham Carter BlackRock Inc 28,824,707 6.30 Jonathon Bond Invesco Ltd 25,094,810 5.48 John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson M&G Investment Management Ltd 20,001,554 4.37 Jon Little Legal & General Investment Bridget Macaskill from 1 May Management Ltd 19,997,857 4.37 Matteo Dante Perruccio to 15 April Silchester International Investors LLP 17,203,767 3.76 Maarten Slendebroek Marathon Asset Management LLP 15,963,769 3.49 Lorraine Trainer Polly Williams from 1 March Number of shares as at 19 February Percentage Directors and Directors interests Name 2016 Interest % The Directors interests in the Companys shares are set out in the Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 34,306,311 7.50 Remuneration report.
Invesco Ltd 23,967,241 5.24 BlackRock Inc 23,275,006 5.08 Statement of Directors Responsibilities This statement, which is included later in this section, is deemed to Silchester International Investors LLP 22,542,108 4.93 form part of this Directors report.
M&G Investment Management Ltd 20,438,747 4.47 Legal & General Investment Appointment and replacement of Directors Management Ltd 19,775,780 4.32 The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors may Marathon Asset Management LLP 16,243,000 3.55 be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
If appointed by the Board, a Director holds office only until the next AGM.
The Articles of Association have detailed provisions regarding the retirement of Directors by rotation.
73 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report continued CREST Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, a special The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement resolution will also be proposed at the AGM to empower the system for stocks and shares traded on the London Stock Directors to allot equity securities for cash without first offering Exchange.
them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, until 30 June 2017 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017.
The Restrictions on transfer of shares Pre-Emption Group Statement of Principles the Statement of At the time of the Companys Listing in 2010, certain employees Principles was revised in March 2015 to allow authority for an who beneficially owned approximately 35 per cent.
of the issue of shares for cash otherwise than in connection with a Companys issued share capital at that time agreed to restrictions pre-emptive offer to be increased from 5 per cent.
on the sale and transfer of their ordinary shares during the three of the Companys total issued share capital provided that the years following Listing.
By 31 December 2014 the relevant shares Company confirms that it intends to use the additional 5 per cent.
All of the authority only in connection with an acquisition or specified remaining restricted shares were released in October 2015 and as capital investment.
If granted, this authority will be limited to the at 31 December 2015, none of the issued share capital was subject allotment of equity securities, up to an aggregate nominal amount to any restrictions.
of the Companys issued share capital as at 22 February 2016.
The Directors currently have no Employees intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for Companys employee share schemes and any share dividend employment from disabled persons, where a disabled person can alternatives.
adequately fulfil the jobs requirements.
Where existing employees become disabled, the Groups policy, wherever practicable, is to Authority to purchase shares provide continuing employment under normal terms and At the AGM in 2015, shareholders approved a resolution conditions and to provide training, career development and authorising the Company to make purchases of its own shares up promotion to disabled employees wherever possible.
to a maximum of 45,769,991 ordinary shares.
As at 22 February 2016, the Directors have not used this authority.
A special Further details of the Companys employment procedures and resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the Companys practices are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section.
limited authority to purchase its own ordinary shares.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 45,769,991 ordinary shares Dividends approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital As set out in last years Annual Report, the Board has changed its as at 22 February 2016 and will set out the minimum and approach to dividends for 2015 onwards to enable prompt maximum prices which the Company may pay for any such payment alongside potential future special dividends, with the purchase.
If approved, this authority will expire on 30 June 2017, or, expectation that payment of both interim and special dividends if earlier, at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017. can be made in early April.
Accordingly, the Directors have not recommended a final dividend but have approved a second Independent auditors and audit information interim dividend in respect of 2015 of 10.6p per ordinary share PwC were re-appointed as External Auditors following a tender 2014: 9.5p per ordinary share.
Payment of this dividend is not conducted in 2014.
In accordance with the FRCs subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM.
The Directors recommendations as set out in the Code, the Audit will be have also declared a special dividend of 10.9p per ordinary share retendered within 10 years of that appointment.
Both dividends will be paid on 8 April 2016, to shareholders on the register at the close of business Going concern on 11 March 2016.
The Strategic report discusses the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, Authority to allot shares performance and position.
In addition, it sets out the Groups An ordinary resolution was passed at the AGM on 15 April 2015, financial position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing authorising the Directors to allot new ordinary shares up to an facilities.
The financial risk management note to the financial aggregate nominal amount of 6,102,664.
The Directors intend to statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes seek shareholders approval for the renewal of this authority at for managing capital and its financial risk management objectives, the AGM, to allot and grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares together with details of financial instruments and exposure to up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,102,664, representing credit and liquidity risk.
approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital as at 22 February 2016, of which an aggregate nominal value of The Group has access to the financial resources required to run 3,051,332 representing approximately one-third of the the business efficiently and has a strong gross cash position.
The Companys issued share capital may only be allotted pursuant to Groups forecasts and projections, which are subject to rigorous a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
If approved, this authority will sensitivity analysis, show that the Group will be able to operate expire on 30 June 2017 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the AGM within its available resources.
As a consequence, the Directors in 2017. consider it appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern basis.
74 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Statement of Viability Political donations In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the The Group made no political donations or contributions during the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group year 2014: nil.
over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
Details of the assessment can be found in the Annual General Meeting Financial Review section of the Strategic Report.
The AGM will take place on 18 May 2016.
All shareholders are invited to attend and will have the opportunity to put questions to Change of control the Board.
The Notice of the AGM will be circulated to all The Company does not have agreements with any Director or shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and the employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or details of the resolutions to be proposed will be set out in that employment resulting from a change of control following a Notice.
This document will be available on the Companys website takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share at www.
schemes may cause options and awards granted under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
By order of the Board Directors indemnities The Companys Articles of Association permit the provision of Adrian Creedy indemnities to the Directors.
In accordance with the Articles of Company Secretary Association, the Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in favour of each Director which is a qualifying third-party indemnity 26 February 2016 provision under the Act pursuant to which the Director has been granted the right to indemnification as permitted under the Act.
These arrangements were in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this report and applied to the current and previous Directors.
In addition, during the year the Company has maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance cover for Directors.
Directors Service Agreements Each executive Director has a written service agreement, which may be terminated by either party on not less than six months notice in writing.
Nonexecutive Directors Letters of Appointment The letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors are issued for an initial period of three years, which may be renewed for further terms as appropriate.
The role and responsibilities of the Director are clearly set out and include the duties of a Director provided in the Act.
It is made clear that these duties do not include any management function but an indication that the Director is expected to support and challenge management and help in the development of the Groups strategy.
Three months notice in writing is required to be served by either party to terminate the appointment.
The non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Meeting.
75 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
