Our markets Our markets have long-term growth dynamics A number of powerful trends are driving demand for our mutual funds and will continue to do so for the long term.
Populations are growing and ageing Populations around the world are both increasing and ageing.
According to the United Nations: Jupiter By 2030, the number of people aged 60 or over worldwide will have increased from 901m to more than 1.4bn, meaning that one Well positioned to person in six will be over 60, compared with one in eight now.
capitalise on growing Virtually all countries are expected to see substantial growth in their populations of older people.
While this ageing process is demand already advanced in Europe and North America, the fastest growth in older populations will be in developing regions.
of the worlds population will live in countries where more than one fifth of people are over 60 and one in four will live in a country where more than 30 per cent.
In the past, many individuals have relied on governments or employers to provide their pensions.
However, both are stepping back from this, deterred by rising costs and the impact on their balance sheets.
Individuals are increasingly having to take control of their financial futures and provide for their own retirements using defined contribution pension schemes.
Governments still have an important role to play by ensuring the right mechanisms are in place to encourage people to save and to protect them through regulation.
Developing economies are getting richer In addition to ageing populations, emerging economies are seeing rising wealth.
The wealth of high net worth individuals in Asia has already overtaken that of Europe and is close to US levels.
This is increasing the global demand for accesible savings products.
Clients are demanding different products There are also shifts in the types of products people are demanding.
In general, there is a move from traditional insurance products towards transparent products such as mutual funds.
Within the mutual fund category, there have been sizeable outflows from traditional style box funds ie long-only, single-geography equity and fixed income funds, and significant inflows into highperformance outcome-orientated active strategies of the type Jupiter increasingly offers.
Exchange traded and index funds, which Jupiter does not provide, have also seen strong inflows.
United Kingdom International 2013 2015 net sales 2013 2015 net sales 72bn 343bn Outcome-orientated Outcome-orientated active strategies active strategies 45bn 13bn Traditional style box Traditional style box 27bn 118bn ETF Index Funds ETF Index Funds Source: Simfund 6 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information United Kingdom International An attractive mutual fund market Substantial opportunities for growth The UK mutual fund industry has 0.9 trillion of assets under Continental Europe is a sizeable market, with assets in European management.
As the chart below shows, flows into mutual funds mutual funds known as UCITS currently totalling 8.2 trillion.
Fixed tend to be robust across the market cycle, with a consistent income funds are more popular than in the UK and flows have a demand for equity products.
greater tendency to follow the market cycle.
Mutual funds in the UK are mainly distributed through fund Foreign fund managers have effectively penetrated local markets, platforms and intermediaries such as wealth managers, helped by the introduction of UCITS passporting.
This allows fund stockbrokers and independent financial advisers IFAs, with only a management companies to run funds on a cross-border basis, very small level of direct sales.
Fund platforms allow investors to buy without needing a presence in each country where funds are from numerous providers in one place and now account for 64 per domiciled.
Jupiter has a UCITS passport, allowing us to act as the cent.
of fund sales, up from 39 per cent.
in 2010. management company for our Luxembourg-based SICAV range.
The UK is also a key location for global financial institutions.
The The main distribution channels in continental Europe are retail and high net worth market in which they operate is resilient and growing private banks, followed by IFAs and insurance wrappers, platforms long term.
We estimate that the pool of investible assets managed and direct selling.
In France, Spain and Switzerland, open in the UK is in excess of 5.5 trillion, with a large proportion of these architecture has developed mainly via funds of funds, while in Italy funds channelled through decision-making centres in London.
and Germany, IFAs are taking a larger proportion of sales with guided architecture a growing trend.
Net flows were positive across The UK government encourages individuals to invest by providing the full year at 600 billion, with inflows into all main asset classes tax-efficient vehicles, in the form of pension funds and Individual with multi-asset, European equity and flexible total return bond Savings Accounts ISAs.
ISAs currently allow individuals to invest funds proving particularly popular.
15,240 a year in cash, funds, bonds or shares, with any resulting income or capital gains being tax free.
Individuals can make Asia is one of the worlds fastest growing fund markets, with total tax-free contributions to their pension schemes within annual and mutual fund assets of nearly 2 trillion.
Distribution in Hong Kong is lifetime limits.
Recent reforms, which give individuals more freedom retail-orientated through banks, while Singapore is dominated by over how they use their pension pots, are creating demand for private banks.
Global financial institutions have a significant products that provide income, as an alternative to annuities.
In the presence in the region, enabling mutual fund providers such as 2015 Budget, the UK government announced a consultation on tax Jupiter to leverage relationships developed in other markets.
reliefs, which could lead to a new framework combining ISA and pension saving.
Although product preferences in Asia vary by country, Asian and emerging market equity funds tend to be popular, as are bond The UK market had a slow start to the year due to market funds.
Holding periods tend to be shorter than in the UK and uncertainty, the effects of the government-sponsored pension funds Europe.
Despite this, net retail sales bounced back in the final three quarters of the year with investors favouring equity products, particularly European funds and those with an income focus.
Across the full year, net retail sales were 18 billion and funds under management of authorised investment funds hit an all-time high of over 870bn.
Domestic AUM bn International AUM bn 1,000 Equities CAGR 13.9% p. a.
Figures exclude money market funds.
7 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
