Our business model Creating value for all our stakeholders Investment Effective 1 2 outperformance distribution Investment outperformance Assets under Client assets management Effective distribution Our primary responsibility is to our clients Growing value for clients Client assets Investment performance We primarily manage mutual funds, for clients ranging from Our ability to deliver investment outperformance comes from our individuals to pension funds.
We aim to build strong, long-lasting distinct culture.
By organising our fund managers into strategy relationships by providing excellent customer service and by teams, we enable them to share ideas and information, while outperforming relevant market benchmarks after fees.
Our leaving our fund managers free to follow their convictions and performance has established us as one of the leading fund invest where they see the best returns.
groups in the UK retail market.
Effective distribution Clients who entrust their savings to our management include not We create products that can deliver superior returns to clients over just individual investors, but also the distributors, intermediaries, the medium to long-term, avoiding those where we have no platforms, consultants and discretionary advisors on whom they competitive advantage.
The breadth of our product range means place reliance.
Creating value for all these clients is core to our that clients can choose products that meet their needs and suit business model.
We invest in our brand, in marketing our products and in our sales and client relationship teams, so we can Our responsibility to our clients is enshrined in our corporate win new clients and leverage our relationships with existing clients in values, which are described in more detail in the Jupiter at a new markets.
Assets under management By consistently providing value and strong service to our clients, we retain the assets entrusted to us and attract new assets, underpinning our revenue growth.
8 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Efficient Value 3 4 operations creation 1.
10% Available Net revenue Fixed costs profit 4.
29% Growing value for shareholders Sharing the rewards of growth Net revenue We are committed to using available profit to benefit all our Net revenues are the fees we earn, less payments to our distributors stakeholders, each and every year.
Distribution or deployment of for their services to clients.
Fees are typically based on a available profit is determined principally through the development percentage of assets, although we can earn initial charges and of compensation strategies for staff and dividend policy.
Although some funds earn performance fees for above-target returns.
the Board retains the flexibility to make changes to how available Attracting inflows across the cycle has allowed us to grow our profit is used, our current distribution policy splits rewards as follows: revenues significantly ahead of the market.
Staff incentives Fixed costs Variable compensation awards to reward and incentivise staff are Fixed costs comprise salaries and the costs of running our generally made within the mid to high 20 per cent.
range of operating platform and support infrastructure.
These costs include available profit and include social security taxes payable by the IT systems, rent, administration and brand investment.
In a stable profit environment, we would expect this to settle operating platform and focus on efficiency, including the use of at around 28 per cent.
Paying incentives out of available profits outsourced providers, allow us to grow revenues faster than our aligns employees interests with those of our shareholders.
Corporation tax Available profit We use the actual UK tax rate, currently 20 per cent.
to estimate Deducting fixed costs from net revenues leaves us with available the charge for tax on our profits, as this is not expected to be profit for distributing to our stakeholders.
Our high conversion rate materially different to the Groups effective rate.
As compensation of available profits to cash ensures we have the money to do so, costs are tax deductible, this leads to 14 per cent.
of available profit while maintaining a strong and sustainable balance sheet.
Ordinary dividend payments to shareholders Around half of available profit is paid to shareholders as ordinary and special dividends.
Under our progressive dividend policy, we target an ordinary payout ratio of 50 per cent.
Special dividend payments to shareholders We pay special dividends out of available profits not required for other purposes.
Retained for investment and growth This is retained cash of up to 10 per cent.
of available profit, which we use to fund the strategic initiatives we expect to drive our growth.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
