The risks to our strategy Managing risk while growing our business The Board determines the Groups risk appetite and the tolerance levels we must operate within.
In doing so, the Board shows its awareness of the risks that may materially affect the Group and, where appropriate, that it has taken steps to mitigate them.
The Board has ultimate At least once a year, the Board formally considers its risk appetite, taking into account our strategic plans, the wider business responsibility for our risk environment and the current and future condition of our business and operations.
The Groups risk appetite is both informed and strategy challenged by any materialised risk, either within Jupiter or the wider marketplace.
The Board considers its risk appetite in four core categories.
These are based on our capacity to bear financial losses and the related opportunity costs, our ability to provide liquidity, our need to maintain a positive regulatory culture and provide the best service for clients, and our view of counterparty or credit risk.
We maintain a number of tolerances, which inform the Board about the Groups position in relation to its risk appetite and allow us to take action if this appetite appears likely to be exceeded.
Conduct risks are risks that could affect our clients.
The framework ensures these risks receive a high degree of attention, reflecting their importance to the Board.
Potential issues identified through our conduct risk framework are considered throughout the risk assessment process, to ensure they remain under regular and consistent review.
To enhance its risk oversight, the Board consolidated our risk functions at the end of 2014 and implemented an Enterprise-wide Risk Management ERM framework.
This framework, which has been augmented throughout 2015, encompasses all areas of risk to which the Group or its funds may be exposed.
It provides a methodology for clearly defining key information about the Groups risks and escalating them through our governance structure, to provide the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board with the required level of oversight.
A core objective of this work has been to give specific individuals accountability for particular risks.
We have therefore ensured that risks have a clearly defined owner or owners at a senior level, supported by our committee and governance structure.
The Board reviewed the ERM framework in detail in December 2015.
A core focus for 2016 will be to ensure that we continue to fully embed risk considerations throughout the Group, through ongoing communication and education for all staff.
12 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Investment 1 outperformance Risk Sustained underperformance Failure to retain key staff There is a risk that our clients will not meet their We are a people business and our people are investment objectives, due to weak financial key to successfully executing our strategy.
markets or poor performance by our fund managers.
Potential impact Weak financial markets or poor performance by The departure of a high-profile fund manager our fund managers may lead to our products or member of our management team could being uncompetitive or otherwise unattractive to lead to a significant level of redemptions from new or existing clients, resulting in both outflows our funds, failure to deliver our strategy or and the related decline in revenues and a failure to run our business efficiently, resulting in failure to attract new business in line with our a material impact on our revenues and or strategy.
Mitigation Controls Jupiter maintains a diversified range of flexible We believe that high levels of employee investment products, designed to deliver value engagement and equity ownership drive to our clients irrespective of market conditions.
Our corporate values Our investment process seeks to meet encourage employees to take personal investment targets within clearly stated risk responsibility for their work and to strive to parameters.
We also endeavour to provide an attractive working environment, which has been significantly enhanced with our move to new business premises in 2015.
Our Investment Risk team works closely with We maintain a competitive remuneration portfolio managers to challenge fund risk structure and use deferred remuneration and profiles and to further develop our capabilities in share-based payments to align our employees this area.
This challenge process is formally long-term interests with the Group.
We also reported to and overseen by our Portfolio develop, monitor and maintain succession plans Review Committee, which meets quarterly.
We believe this environment increases our ability to attract and retain talent.
2015 impact As described in the our Strategic Performance Our 2015 employee survey showed an section, 68 per cent.
of our mutual fund AUM engagement level above the financial services achieved above median returns over the key industry benchmark.
We also undertook a three-year investment performance period.
number of initiatives throughout the year to ensure we maintain engagement and a healthy level of staff retention.
These included launching a Mentoring Programme and Learning Curriculum, introducing a Corporate Fitness programme to support our employees in working in a better, faster and more agile way, and establishing an employee representative group to ensure strong communication between our leadership team and employees.
13 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The risks to our strategy Managing risk, growing performance Effective 2 distribution Risk Regulatory noncompliance Distribution and product trends A significant regulatory investigation or action These risks reflect potential changes in our fee against the Group could affect our reputation, structures, in the terms we can agree with our clients trust in us and our ability to do third-party distributors, or in clients appetite for business in our target markets.
Potential impact Regulatory censure and the related negative Our ability to generate fund inflows may be publicity could damage our clients confidence jeopardised by fundamental changes in in us and affect our ability to generate new distribution patterns or by a sustained market business.
appetite for products we do not offer.
Mitigation Controls We maintain a robust compliance culture and We continually analyse our markets, to ensure require all relevant employees to undertake we maintain a diverse product suite that training on regulatory matters.
Our Compliance appeals to existing and potential clients.
departments monitoring programme ensures we adhere to regulatory controls.
Our risk governance structure and Our well-defined product development process whistleblowing policy are designed to escalate enables us to deliver new products or any regulatory issues to senior management in enhancements, so we can target client groups in an open and timely way, ensuring the maximum a timely and efficient way.
appropriate regulatory protection for clients.
2015 impact 2015 saw continued enhancements to our Our strong position in the UK provides a stable control framework, to support our management and profitable base from which we can grow of conduct risk.
We spent considerable time internationally.
In recent years, we have assessing the impact of changes to processes increasingly complemented our UK business with and controls from the pending introduction of overseas growth, as we exploit existing the MiFID II, UCITS V and Solvency II Directives.
relationships with large fund distributors in new We also took steps to reduce our regulatory risk countries and create products that appeal to by ceasing, where possible, to hold client money clients in multiple countries.
following the 2014 sale of our private client contracts.
14 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Efficient 3 operations Operational error, business continuity Failure of thirdparty supplier Counterparty failure incident or fraud The failure of a provider we rely on for The failure of a trading or depositary We could suffer from a material error in key business processing may lead to our counterparty with which we have a executing a key business process, a lack failing to deliver the required service to relationship could have an adverse effect of availability of our key systems or our clients or shareholders or not fulfilling on our business.
business premises, or a successful fraud our regulatory obligations.
against us or our clients.
A significant error, successful fraud or Our relationships with key stakeholders A counterparty failure could mean that breach of a client agreement may result may be jeopardised if we provide we lose or cannot access material in additional costs to redress the issue.
inadequate service, resulting in the loss of amounts of Jupiters or our clients funds.
The unavailability of our key systems or clients or regulatory or financial censure.
business premises could mean we are unable to act on behalf of our clients.
We have efficient and well-controlled We subject all third parties who provide The security of our clients assets is our processes and maintain a comprehensive us with critical services to a high level of primary consideration when we evaluate Enterprise-wide Risk Management ongoing oversight, giving us assurance potential counterparties.
We aim to framework, as described in detail in that they meet our required standard.
diversify our exposures across different the Governance review.
institutions and actively monitor their creditworthiness using key risk indicators, including market data and credit agency ratings.
We have continuity and business Jupiter has formal guidelines for managing We place deposits according to agreed resumption planning in place, to support and overseeing all third-party limits, which we amend when necessary.
all of our key activities.
We support remote relationships, ensuring they receive a level We obtain diversification by using money working, including core system access for of scrutiny that reflects their potential risk market funds, which provide a high all our key staff if they cannot travel to our to our business.
degree of liquidity as well as transparency offices.
If our normal business systems or of the credit quality of the underlying premises become unavailable, we have holdings in the funds.
alternative premises, including a dedicated office suite equipped with all of our key business systems.
In 2015, we worked to enhance Our outsourced fund administrator Our Counterparty Review Group oversees management oversight by developing our experienced a significant systems failure the robustness of all counterparties to suite of key risk indicators and reports, on one day in March 2015.
Jupiter which we or our funds may be exposed.
which inform the status of our key risks anticipated the consequences of the We receive, and where appropriate and controls.
During 2015, no items failure, and in most cases took action that respond to, detailed updates regarding individually or collectively breached the reduced the impact to clients.
We continue the stability of relevant institutions from the Boards risk appetite.
to maintain oversight of our key third Groups credit analysts.
parties through our established Supplier Management framework, engaging with them to ensure a high degree of resilience.
15 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
