Liz Airey Chairman Appointed Non-executive Director in May 2010 Chairman in September 2014 Committees Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee from May 2010 to March 2015 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience 1.
Liz brings a wealth of relevant financial skills and experience in financial governance and executive leadership.
Her previous roles have included Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension Fund 2008-2014, non-executive Chairman of JP Morgan European Smaller Companies Trust PLC 2006-2011 and non-executive Chairman of Zetex plc 2003-2007, a formerly listed manufacturer of specialist semi-conductors.
In 1999, she was appointed a non-executive Director of AMEC plc, and served as Senior Independent Director 2004-2009.
From 1990, Liz was Finance Director of Monument Oil and Gas plc, a post she held until the sale of the company to Lasmo plc in 1999.
Liz is currently a Senior Independent Director of Tate & Lyle PLC.
In 2005, she was appointed a non-executive Director of Dunedin Enterprise Investment Trust PLC and subsequently became Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Liz is also a member of the Corporate Governance Committee of the ICAEW and carries out mentoring work for Bird & Co Group.
Maarten Slendebroek Chief Executive Officer Appointed Distribution and Strategy Director in September 2012 Chief Executive Officer in March 2014 5.
Committees None Skills and experience Maarten has more than 25 years of asset management and financial services experience.
Before joining Jupiter in 2012 as Head of Distribution and Strategy, Maarten spent 18 years at BlackRock and its predecessor companies.
He was a member of the global operating committee and European executive committee at BlackRock.
His last two roles were Head of Solutions EMEA and Head of International Retail.
Earlier in his career, Maarten gained extensive experience as a sell side European equity analyst.
Edward Bonham Carter Vice Chairman Appointed Group Chief Executive in 2007 Vice Chairman in March 2014 Committees None Skills and experience With over 30 years experience in the investment market and 20 years working at Jupiter, including seven years as CEO, Edward has extensive knowledge of the fund management business.
36 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Edward joined Jupiter in 1994 as a UK fund Skills and experience setting up and running the in-house fund raising manager, after working at Schroders 1982-1986 Lorraine brings substantial experience in human team.
He was resources leadership, in the areas of cultural For a number of years, Jonathon was a appointed Chief Investment Officer in 1999 and development, team performance and reward, non-executive Director of Celtel, the first Joint Chief Executive in May 2000.
He became both from her executive career and her work on pan-African mobile company.
Jonathon Group CEO in 2007 and led Jupiter through its director development.
previously worked as a founding Director of management buyout that year and its subsequent In her executive career, Lorraine held a number of HSBC Private Equity in India 1994-2000, Electra IPO in June 2010.
Edward relinquished his role as HR leadership roles in international organisations, Private Equity Partners in London and Paris CEO in March 2014, on Maarten Slendebroeks focusing on performance and development.
His role as Vice Chairman focuses These included Citibank NA, the London Stock on engaging with the Groups key stakeholders, Other current roles Exchange and Coutts, part of the NatWest Group.
including clients, prospective clients and industry Jonathon is Executive Chairman of the Skagen Her previous roles have included non-executive bodies.
The Skagen Group is a Director of Aegis Group plc 2005-2013, and family-owned group of companies operating in Other current roles non-executive Director of Colt Group S. A. the UK, Europe and the USA, which includes On 1 January 2014, Edward joined the Board of Other current roles green cleaning specialists Ecover and Method Land Securities Group plc as a non-executive In addition to her Board work, Lorraine works in among its portfolio.
Director and member of the Remuneration the area of director development at and around Committee.
Edward is also a director of The board level for a variety of international groups.
Polly Williams She is a non-executive Director of Essentra plc Independent non-executive Director and Sonae SGPS S. A.
John ChatfeildRoberts Appointed Executive Director, Jupiter Merlin 7.
Jon Little Non-executive Director in March 2015 Independent Funds Team Head of Independent non-executive Director Strategy Committees Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee from Appointed Appointed March 2015 Non-executive Director in September 2011 Executive Director in June 2007 Skills and experience Committees Committees Polly has a wealth of relevant experience, Member of the Audit and Risk Committee from None September 2011 to October 2015 including roles with particular responsibility for audit and risk oversight.
Previously, Polly was a Skills and experience Skills and experience Partner with KPMG, with responsibility for the John has many years experience in investment Jon has extensive experience of the asset Group Audit of HSBC Group plc.
Her previous management and is a Fellow of the Chartered management industry on an international scale, non-executive directorships include Worldspreads Institute for Securities and Investment.
His earlier through roles with a number of global institutions, Group plc.
career in fund management was at Lazard and has considerable experience in running asset Brothers Asset Management 1995-2001 and Other current roles management businesses in the UK and overseas.
He held a Polly is a non-executive Director of TSB Banking Short Service Commission in the British Army in From 2000 until 2010, he was Vice Chairman of Group plc, where she is Chairman of the Audit the 1980s.
BNY Mellon Asset Management and, as part of Committee and a Member of the Risk and that role, he held a number of positions including Remuneration Committees.
She is also a John was Chief Investment Officer at Jupiter from Chairman of Dreyfus one of the USs oldest non-executive Director of Daiwa Capital Markets February 2010 to September 2015. mutual fund companies and Chairman of Insight Europe Limited and XP Power Limited.
He was also a Director of other asset as a trustee of the Guide Dogs for the Blind 5.
Philip Johnson managers in the group, including Newton, Walter Association and is Chairman of the Trustees Chief Financial Officer Scott, Alcentra and Pareto Partners.
From for the Westminster Almshouses Foundation.
1997-2000, Jon was at JP Morgan Investment Appointed Management, where he was Vice President and 10.
Bridget Macaskill Chief Financial Officer in October 2009 Head of Distribution responsible for International Independent non-executive Director Funds.
From 1991 to 1997 he was at Fidelity Committees Investments, latterly as Director of UK Business Appointed None Development.
Non-executive Director in May 2015 Skills and experience Other current roles Committees With over 20 years in the financial services Jon is a Partner in Northill Capital, a private Member of the Remuneration Committee industry, Philip has significant UK financial and investment business backed by one of Europes reporting experience.
Jon is also a Director of Alpha Skills and experience Strategic PLC.
Bridget brings substantive knowledge and deep Philip started his career at Coopers & Lybrand, understanding of the investment management where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
He industry and extensive experience at board level.
Jonathon Bond left in 1996 to work in Prudential Plcs group head Independent non-executive Director office, before transferring to M&G in 2000.
He Previously Bridget has served as a non-executive spent eight years at M&G, the last five as Group Director of Prudential plc, where she was Appointed Finance Director, after which he joined Marshall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a Non-executive Director in July 2014 Wace LLP as Finance Director in 2008.
Philip is member of the Nomination Committee.
She has responsible for finance, information technology, also served on the boards of J. Sainsbury plc, Committees investment operations, risk and investor relations.
Scottish & Newcastle plc and Hillsdown, as a Member of the Audit and Risk Committee non-executive Director.
Member of the Nomination Committee 6.
Lorraine Trainer Member of the Remuneration Committee from Other current roles February 2015 Senior Independent Director Bridget is currently President and Chief Executive Skills and experience Officer of First Eagle Investment Management LLC Appointed Prior to joining the Skagen Group, Jonathon and a non-executive Director of Close Brothers Non-executive Director in May 2010 spent 25 years in the private equity industry, Group plc.
Senior Independent Director in September 2014 with a particular focus on raising standards of Committees governance and performance.
He was a Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Founding Partner of Actis LLP, the emerging Member of the Nomination Committee markets specialist alternatives fund manager, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee where he spent over ten years.
During that time he was a member of the Supervisory Board, 37 Investment and Executive Committees, as well as Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Matters reserved to the Board No individual or group of individuals dominates the Board or its The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision making.
The non-executive Directors constructively decision, which it reviews and updates annually, to incorporate challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring corporate governance changes and developments within the strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Company.
The Board requires all Directors to devote sufficient time to their The key issues reserved for its decision are: duties and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
The establishing the Groups commercial objectives and strategy: terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors require a approving the dividend policy: commitment to the business of up to 30 days a year and the Committee chairmen are expected to commit up to 10 further overseeing financial reporting, including approving the annual days a year.
report and interim fianncial statements: setting the annual budgets: The Chairman met with the non-executive Directors three times during the year, without the executive Directors being present.
approving significant capital projects, expenditure and A meeting is scheduled once a year when the Senior Independent borrowings: Director meets the non-executive Directors with neither the deciding major acquisitions, disposals and investments: Chairman nor executive Directors being present.
Non-executive Directors also regularly meet with senior management.
overseeing the Groups operations and management, and maintaining an effective system of internal controls and risk Operation of the Board management: and The Board has a rolling agenda which ensures that the key issues ensuring adequate succession planning, including agreeing set out above, including items relating to strategy, finance, board and other senior appointments and the appointment or operations, corporate governance and compliance, are removal of the Company Secretary.
appropriately reviewed at its meetings.
Six scheduled Board meetings took place during the year, with an additional meeting The Board delegates other matters to the Chief Executive Officer.
off site in May for a full days discussion of strategy issues.
The focus of the Strategy Day was on Jupiters operating platform and The Board Members how it might be developed over time.
Progress on action points Maarten Slendebroek was appointed CEO in March 2014.
His role, agreed at previous Strategy Days on fund management and and that of the Chairman, Liz Airey, are separated and there is a distribution was also reviewed.
A summary of the agenda items clear division of responsibilities between these roles, which is for the scheduled Board meetings and details of attendance by documented and examined annually by the Board.
The Chairman Directors are set out on the following page.
is primarily responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive Officer is A comprehensive set of papers is circulated approximately one responsible for implementing the strategy that the Board has week before Board and Committee meetings.
These include agreed and for the day to day management of the Groups regular business progress reports, budgets, financial statements business.
Adrian Creedy the Company Secretary manages information flows to the Board, in consultation At the beginning of 2015, the Board comprised: Liz Airey with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
He facilitates the Chairman, Edward Bonham Carter Vice Chairman, Jonathon induction of new Directors and assists with their personal Bond independent non-executive Director, John Chatfeilddevelopment as required.
He also ensures Board procedures are Roberts Executive Director, Philip Johnson Chief Financial complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are Officer, Jon Little independent non-executive Director, Matteo followed.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman on Dante Perruccio independent non-executive Director, Maarten corporate governance matters.
Slendebroek Chief Executive Officer and Lorraine Trainer Senior Independent Director.
Two new non-executive Directors joined Effectiveness the Board in 2015, namely Polly Williams on 1 March and Bridget Macaskill on 1 May.
Matteo Dante Perruccio stepped down at the Induction and development Annual General Meeting on 15 April.
It was announced in New Directors are given a full, formal and tailored induction to the November that Philip Johnson will step down from his role of Chief business, including meetings with senior management and Financial Officer and leave Jupiter in May 2016.
The Chairman, working with the Company Secretary, is arrangements are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
responsible for ensuring that training programmes are provided to Directors either directly or by the Company through legal and Board balance and independence regulatory updates.
Non-executive Directors also have access to The Board now has ten members, comprising the Chairman, four external programmes.
Jupiter expects Directors to identify their executive Directors and five non-executive Directors.
The Board own training needs and to ensure they are adequately informed considers each of its non-executive Directors Jonathon Bond, about Jupiters business and their responsibilities as a Director.
The Jon Little, Bridget Macaskill, Lorraine Trainer, and Polly Williams - to Chairman regularly reviews and agrees training and development be independent in both character and judgement and free of any needs with each Director.
relationship which could materially interfere with exercising their independent judgement.
The Board considered the Chairman to Directors have access to independent professional advice at the be independent within the terms of the Code at her appointment.
Companys expense, where they judge this necessary to discharge The biographies of all Directors are set out earlier in this section.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretarys advice and services.
38 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Board agendas in 2015 February x2 April July October December Approval of the Corporate structure Review of interim Marketing review Budget and plan Annual Report and New premises and Accounts and Corporate The Board evaluation Accounts and final office move dividend responsibility and report dividend Feedback from major Development of the values Risk appetite and Compliance with the shareholders corporate strategy, Product review Enterprise Risk Code Share dealing code following off-site New premises and Framework Fund manager review strategy discussion office move Talent management structure and Regulation and Trading update and succession performance compliance, including Stewardship Code Investment operations ICAAP review review Risk review Board effectiveness Corporate values and review Employee Opinion Survey Interim results Attendance record table The following table details the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during 2015 and the attendance record of each Director: Number of Meetings held in 2015 Board 6 Audit and Risk 6 Remuneration 4 Nomination 3 Liz Airey 1 Jonathon Bond 2 Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson Jon Little 3 Bridget Macaskill 4 Matteo Perruccio 5 Maarten Slendebroek Lorraine Trainer Polly Williams 6 attended scheduled meeting not able to attend scheduled meeting 1 Liz Airey stepped down as the Chairman and as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee with effect from 1 March 2015 2 Jonathon Bond was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 11 February 2015 3 J on Little stepped down as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee with effect from 9 October 2015.
Jon was unable to attend one Board meeting due to illness and one Audit and Risk Committee meeting as a result of other business commitments 4 Bridget Macaskill was appointed to the Board and Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2015 5 Matteo Perruccio retired from the Board on 15 April 2015 6 Polly Williams was appointed to the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 March 2015 Conflicts of interest Board and Board Committee evaluations The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to The Boards effectiveness, composition and operation are consider and authorise situations where a Director has an actual evaluated annually.
Every three years, the evaluation is facilitated or potential conflict of interest in relation to the Group.
The Board externally, the last one having been completed in 2014 with the has a formal system to record conflicts and, if appropriate, to assistance of Independent Audit Limited.
Details of some of the authorise them.
Conflicts of interest are included as an agenda actions completed in 2015 following that evaluation are set out in item at each Board meeting.
When authorising conflicts or the Nomination Committee report.
In 2015, the Board and Board potential conflicts of interest, the Director concerned may not take Committees undertook internal evaluations, details of which are part in the Boards decision making.
Non-conflicted Directors are provided in the Committee reports.
required to act in a way they consider would be in the best interests of the Company and most likely to promote its success.
As part of the Board effectiveness review, and following These procedures on conflicts of interest have been followed conversations between the Chairman and each individual throughout the year, are overseen by the Nomination Committee Director, the Nomination Committee reviewed the performance of and are considered to have operated effectively.
all Directors except the Chairman, whose performance review was led by the Senior Independent Director, without the Chairman being present.
The Committee has recommended to the Board 39 that all Directors with the exception of Philip Johnson who is stepping down, should be proposed by the Board for election or re-election as appropriate, at the forthcoming AGM.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Succession planning Operational Reviewing the Risk Committees heat map The Nomination Committee is responsible for both executive and methodology and overseeing the roles of various committees in non-executive Director succession planning and recommends new overseeing risk within the business.
When making Board appointments, the Financial Receiving regular reports on the Groups financial Board seeks to ensure that there is a diverse range of skills, position, its progress against budget and ongoing forecast of its backgrounds and experience, including industry experience.
Through these regular updates, as well as the annual information is included in the Nomination Committee report.
ICAAP process, the Board regularly reviews the Goups balance sheet levels and capital requirements.
The Audit and Risk Director election and reelection Committee assists the Board in this area, reviewing the half-year All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the and annual results and the Annual Report, before Companys Articles of Association and the Code to be elected by recommending these to the Board for approval.
The Audit and shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Risk Committee regularly receives reports in relation to the key Board.
Accordingly, Bridget Macaskill is seeking election and her aspects of the financial reporting process.
Reports are also biographical details can be found earlier in this section.
issued on financial controls by Internal and External Audit.
Also in accordance with the Code, all serving Directors with the Financial Reviewing an annual report from the Money exception of Philip Johnson, will seek re-election at the 2016 AGM.
The Laundering Reporting Officer on the Groups anti-money Chairman believes that each individual Director continues to perform laundering and fraud prevention financial crime measures.
effectively, demonstrating commitment to their roles and, that their respective skills complement each other to enhance the Boards The Board is of the view that the ongoing process for identifying, overall operation.
Full details of the skills and experience of all evaluating and managing the principal risks to achieving the Directors can be found in their biographies earlier in this section.
Groups strategic objectives works effectively.
The process was in place for the year ended 31 December 2015 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is Accountability regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with the guidance, The statement of Directors responsibility for preparing the Annual Internal Controls: Revised Guidance for Directors.
Report and Accounts is set out at the end of this Governance section.
Within this, the Directors have included a statement that Supplier oversight and significant contracts the Annual Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced and Throughout the year, Jupiter had two significant outsourced understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
relationships with third-party organisations: International Financial To help the Board discharge its responsibilities in this area, the Data Services IFDS, and HSBC Securities Services HSBC.
On Board obtained the advice of its Audit and Risk Committee, which 9 December, as part of JUTM taking on Management Company advised on the key considerations to comply with best practice responsibilities for the SICAV fund range, an additional outsourced and the Codes requirements.
Following the Committees advice, relationship was established with JP Morgan Luxembourg the Board considered whether: JPML.
the business model and strategy were clearly described: IFDS provides a number of services in support of the unit trust the assessment of performance was balanced: fund range, including dealing and registration processing, distribution of income, record keeping and responding to KPIs were used consistently: customer enquiries.
HSBC provides fund accounting services and the language used was concise, with good linkages to different passive hedging services in support of the unit trust range.
JPML parts of the document: and provides a number of services in support of the SICAVs, including fund accounting, dealing and registration processing, distribution an appropriate forward-looking orientation was adopted.
of income, record keeping and responding to customer enquiries.
The Directors report on viability and the going concern basis of These organisations activities are defined in service level accounting, which the Directors have determined to be agreements and they are closely monitored to ensure that service appropriate, can be found in the Strategic report which also delivery standards are met and that appropriate action is taken in describes the Groups performance during the year.
the event any issues do arise.
Jupiters Supplier Management function oversees a suite of agreed key performance indicators Internal control and risk management and IFDS, HSBC and JPML are subject to regular monitoring reviews by Jupiters assurance functions.
There are regular site Internal control visits and reviews of the relevant controls assurance reports and, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control in addition, Jupiters internal audit function undertook a dedicated and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only review of the service provided by IFDS, the findings of which were a reasonable assurance against material financial misstatement or reported to the Audit and Risk Committee in November.
loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
Assurance process The Board, assisted by the Audit and Risk Committee, periodically The Groups control environment is reviewed during the course of assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls.
This review each year by one or more of the three assurance functions covered all material controls including the following compliance, Compliance, Operational Risk and Internal Audit.
Assurance operational and financial aspects: reports are provided to senior management, the Board and the Compliance Reviewing the method by which the Executive Audit and Risk Committee as appropriate.
Committee gains assurance that the business operates within the risk appetite set by the Board and examining the whole of the Each year Jupiter commissions the external auditors to test the 40 Groups regulatory control environment.
integrity of aspects of the Group-wide control environment.
The Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information results of this testing, including any exceptions identified, are made Depending on the risk category, the Risk Committee or the available to the Groups institutional and investment company Balance Sheet Management Committee will monitor these risks.
If clients as Jupiter has adopted the International Standard on the latter has any concerns, those concerns will also then be Assurance Engagement ISAE 3402, together with AAF 01 06 as considered by the Risk Committee.
recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales in the November 2010 technical release of Risk management process AAF 01 06.
The departmental risk self-assessment process is the foundation of the Groups risk framework.
Each functional business area Risk management framework completes a risk assessment every four months which, when taken The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk strategy in conjunction with the ongoing monthly control performance and for determining an appropriate risk appetite, as well as the assessments, is felt to be adequate for capturing any ongoing tolerance levels within which the Group must operate.
By defining and emerging risks to the business.
these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of, and, where appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks that The departmental risk self-assessments are conducted by the may have a material impact on the Group.
heads of each functional area and are facilitated by the Operational Risk team.
This involves all material risks being To assist with its oversight of risk, the Executive Committee has reviewed against agreed key risk indicators and tolerances with formed an executive Risk Committee chaired by the Chief the risk owners.
The Risk owners also consider any relevant Financial Officer.
All members of the Executive Committee attend operational losses that have occurred, as well as any current the Risk Committee, together with the Director of Compliance and system, process or staffing changes within the department, as well Head of Risk.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing as considering the integrity of existing processes and controls.
regulatory, capital and liquidity risks within a coherent and Where processes or controls are seen to be insufficiently robust, manageable structure.
line management is required to define improvements to the operating environment to ensure they pose a minimal or Approach to risk acceptable level of risk to the Group.
The Board determines the appropriate approach to risks within which the Group must operate.
Risk tolerances are the Groups Identified risks that have a sufficiently high likelihood of potential actual boundaries and limits, through which the business monitors impact on the Group are reflected in the firms high-level risk map, and, if appropriate, escalates concerns to the Board.
Risks and the to ensure they receive an appropriately high level of senior Groups attitude to them are considered and monitored in the management and Board attention.
The Board is expected to take following categories: action where these risks are deemed to be outside the Groups risk tolerance.
Strategic risk The Groups risk management assurance programme is closely The risk that the Group is unable to meet its strategic linked with its compliance monitoring programme.
Any breaches 1 objectives, as a result of matters inherent in the nature found by the Compliance department are logged into the of its business or the markets in which it operates.
in-house error database and allocated to a failed control and the Operational risk associated risk category.
The business therefore considers any The risk of loss caused by weaknesses or failures in breaches as part of the risk and control assessment process.
2 the Groups systems and controls, related to people, systems or processes.
These include risks arising from Management, with the assistance of the Finance function, is failing to properly manage key outsourced responsible for maintaining appropriate financial records and relationships and cyber security.
processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations and Balance sheet risk distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
The risk that the Group may be unable to meet its 3 financial obligations or lack of sufficient capital to Management reviews the consolidation and financial statements operate as a going concern.
to ensure that the Groups financial position and results are Counterparty credit risk appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the Board and The risk of loss caused by the corporate failure of one published where appropriate.
All financial information published 4 of the trade, prime brokerage or treasury by the Group is subject to the approval of the Board, on the counterparties to which the Group may be exposed, recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee.
or of a custodial institution with which the Group has a relationship.
Monitoring functions The Groups monitoring functions comprise the Compliance and Regulatory reputational risk Internal Audit departments.
The risk of censure because of the Groups failure to 5 meet its regulatory obligations, which may lead to The Compliance department oversees compliance by the Group reputational damage, a monetary fine or, ultimately, with the relevant regulatory rules.
The Group maintains the withdrawal of its authorisation to carry on business.
comprehensive procedures and compliance manuals, covering all Conduct risk business operations.
The Groups Compliance department also The risk of our failing to deliver positive outcomes for maintains detailed monitoring programmes for all regulated 6 our clients.
activities, to monitor the perceived regulatory risk within the business.
The findings of the monitoring programmes are circulated in full to the relevant Directors and executive summaries 41 are provided to the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Officer.
During 2015, they held over 100 such meetings.
The Company also holds briefings following the The Internal Audit function is currently outsourced to EY and is announcement of the interim and year-end financial results.
focused on ensuring that operations comply with the Groups Presentations to analysts and investors are simultaneously posted policies and procedures, including in relation to efficient on the Companys website.
All directors are invited to attend these operations, financial reporting, fraud, safeguarding assets and presentations.
compliance with laws and regulations.
The internal audit team is independent of business operations and has a reporting line to As part of the process of ensuring that good channels of the Audit and Risk Committee.
In addition, the Group periodically communication are in place, and in order to maintain an uses external parties to review counterparty relationships.
This understanding of the view of the major shareholders about the includes reviewing legal documentation as well as testing the Company and its strategy, meetings are arranged with the operations of external service providers.
Chairman following which, a full briefing is provided to the Board.
10 such meetings took place in 2015.
The topics covered at the Further details of the Internal Audit function can be found in the Chairmans meetings with shareholders included: Audit and Risk Committee report.
investment strategy and performance: executive talent management and succession: Remuneration relocation of the London office: Executive Directors remuneration is structured to promote the long-term success of the business, with variable remuneration paid corporate culture and gender diversity at Jupiter: and to executive Directors based on stretching performance conditions executive remuneration.
which are aligned with the strategy of the business.
No executive Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
Further Lorraine Trainer, who is both Senior Independent Director and the information on Jupiters remuneration policy and executive Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, attended three of Director remuneration outcomes for 2015 is set out in the these meetings to discuss the Remuneration Policy, talent Remuneration report.
The Chairman reports to the Board on her meetings with shareholders.
Feedback Corporate values and culture from the Companys brokers and investors is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
Jupiter has longstanding corporate values that have underpinned the success of the Company based on seeking long term Lorraine Trainer, in her capacity as Senior Independent Director is outperformance for clients.
As detailed in the Strategic report, in also available to meet shareholders on request, if they have 2015 we documented our values for the first time as we wanted to concerns that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve, ensure with the growth of the Company, both numerically and or for which such contact is not appropriate.
geographically, that our core values are understood and adhered to throughout the organisation.
The Board took a keen interest in Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to put their ensuring the successful articulation of the corporate values.
questions to the Directors and to the Chairmen of the Board Committees in person.
It is key that we preserve Jupiters culture, with a focus on high performance, individual responsibility and putting clients first as The Company communicates electronically with its shareholders the Company grows.
This culture has driven the success of Jupiter whenever possible and in order to reduce wasted resources and and helped retain and attract talented individuals.
The Board pollution associated with paper printing, shareholders are seeks to ensure that in all areas of the business this culture is encouraged to accept electronic access to the Notice of Meeting reflected and is a key lens through which the Board and its and Annual Report and Accounts which will be made available at Committees look at elements of Jupiters business activities.
least 20 clear days prior to the AGM on the Companys website at www.
People and talent management As a people business, the Board is focused on ensuring that it Key Investor Relations activities in 2015 understands how the Company develops existing talent and February 2015 brings new talent into the organisation.
2015 has seen Full year results presentation for 2014 considerable developments in talent management as detailed in the Strategic report.
The Nomination Committee has been March 2015 involved in the recruitment of the more senior hires in the Full year results London roadshow organisation, with the Remuneration Committee integrally involved April 2015 in ensuring that we have the right reward structure in place to Investor roadshow, Scotland enable the Company to retain and recruit talent.
On a quarterly AGM basis the Board receives an update on key people issues including June 2015 talent management.
Investor roadshow, USA July 2015 Relations with shareholders Half year results presentation Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and is September 2015 conducted to promote a common understanding of the Groups Half year results London roadshow objectives.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial 42 Officer monitor investor relations closely and maintain a regular dialogue with major shareholders, potential investors, fund Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
