Our strategic performance Another year of consistent delivery We achieved strong investment performance, continued net inflows and increased profits.
We also continued to diversify our capabilities in terms of product, client type and geography.
In doing so, we are building an increasingly resilient business, which will offer growth opportunities across a broader range of market conditions.
Our business model centres on organic growth on a scalable This was another platform.
While we invested further in our business, with key hires, marketing and brand building, enhancements to our operating year of consistent platform and the fit-out of our new London office, our scalability enabled us to maintain EBITDA margins above 50 per cent.
strategic delivery This in turn has created further value for shareholders.
We again delivered a high rate of operating profit to cash conversion, giving us the funds to pay an ordinary dividend of 14.6p per share, up 11 per cent.
in line with our progressive payout policy, and a further special dividend of 10.9p per share.
The pages that follow provide a detailed analysis of our performance against each of our strategic objectives, together with the KPIs against which we measure delivery.
16 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We have grouped our fund managers around 12 key investment strategies.
The head of each strategy defines its investment Investment philosophy and process, providing a framework for repeatable 1 outperformance performance.
This gives us clarity about the people we need for successful execution, the products we can offer to our clients and the channels required to distribute those products.
of our AUM performing of our recent key hires in response to the needs identified through KPIs above the median over three years defining these strategies.
As well as enabling us to build out our investment strategies, attracting new talent brings in the fresh thinking and different perspectives that are a crucial part of our 3 year performance investment culture.
percentage of our AUM above median % 2015 34 34 1st Quartile In February 2015, Stephen Mitchell joined as Head of Strategy, 2nd Quartile Global Equities, a new role that gives him responsibility for developing our global equity business for institutional and retail 2014 21 30 investors in the UK and international markets.
Stephen has three decades of investment experience and an investment style and 2013 28 41 process that closely fits our approach.
We also recruited Jason Pidcock, a highly-regarded fund manager, who joined in November 2015 to build an Asian income strategy for us.
This income-based, larger capitalisation investment strategy will complement our Commentary existing emerging market strategies, which are more growthOur focus on delivering investment outperformance after all fees orientated and multi-capitalisation.
ensures we meet our primary responsibility to our clients, as set out in our corporate values.
Clients typically see three years as the key Careful succession planning is important for continuity of period for measuring investment performance.
Steve Davies took sole responsibility for running our 2015, 27 of our mutual funds, representing 68 per cent.
of our 1.7bn UK Growth Fund in May 2015, when co-manager Ian mutual fund AUM, had delivered above-median performance over McVeigh moved to become our Head of Governance.
Steve joined three years 2014: 25 mutual funds, representing 51 per cent.
of the team as an analyst in 2007, becoming deputy manager in 2009 mutual fund AUM.
This was driven by continued strong and co-manager in early 2013.
This illustrates our ability to develop performance across our key strategies, notably European equities, fund managers from within our existing teams.
UK equities and Fixed Income, and better outcomes from previously weaker areas.
The one year numbers reflect this strong result, with Stephen Pearson, who had been our Head of Investments, 31 mutual funds, representing 84 per cent.
of mutual fund AUM replaced John Chatfeild-Roberts as Chief Investment Officer in 2014: 20 mutual funds, representing 46 per cent.
John has chosen to focus his time on our awardAUM delivering above median performance.
winning Merlin multi-manager portfolios, which are the largest of our investment strategies with assets of over 8.3bn.
He remains a The table below shows the three-year performance of our funds Director of Jupiter Fund Management plc.
with AUM greater than 1bn, showing the benefit of a diversified product range.
During the year, we continued to enhance our support for our fund managers, recruiting a number of deputy fund managers and analysts.
We also added a product specialist for our Merlin team, to Quartile over Three-year a three year performance help our communication with clients and free up fund manager Fund name AUM period after all fees time.
Merlin Income 3,904m 4 13% Dynamic Bond 3,748m 1 16% European 3,666m 1 60% Strategic Bond 2,636m 2 11% Merlin Growth 1,907m 1 32% European Growth 1,885m 1 74% Income Trust 1,880m 3 32% UK Growth 1,728m 1 53% Merlin Balanced 1,555m 2 26% UK Special Sits 1,293m 3 30% European Special Sits 1,101m 2 37% 17 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our strategic performance Another year of consistent delivery The table below breaks down our net flows by product type: Effective Net inflows outflows by 2 product m 2015 2014 distribution Mutual funds 2,099 1,415 Segregated mandates 230 488 2.1bn Private clients 5 KPIs Mutual fund net inflows Investment trusts 74 62 1,943 860 Mutual fund net inows m Market movements increased our AUM by 1.8bn during 2015.
As a 2015 2,099 result of these changes, our AUM stood at 35.7bn at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: 31.9bn.
2014 1,415 The table below analyses our AUM by product type: 2013 1,162 Assets under management by product bn 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Mutual funds 31.2 27.5 Segregated mandates 3.5 3.6 Investment trusts 1.0 0.8 Performance 35.7 31.9 We have built our distribution strategy around our clients, not countries or products.
As we expand our distribution, we use our During the year, we continued to enhance our investment offering existing relationships with large fund distributors to follow them into in sectors with accessible scale, where we believe we can add new geographical markets.
This ensures we are in the right places value through investment outperformance.
We launched the Global to service our clients and can tailor our service model and product Emerging Markets Unconstrained SICAV in March and in range to fit clearly identified groups.
We then add local distribution September, we launched our Enhanced Distribution Fund, aimed at and locally relevant products around these global networks.
This clients who want an alternative to a traditional annuity product.
We approach is reflected in our corporate values, which set out our intend to launch an Asian Income Fund in March 2016.
These are aim to build strong, long-lasting client relationships, develop important steps for us, as we transform our product range from creative solutions to meet their needs and provide clients with one primarily designed around our UK clients to one that also excellent service.
offers attractive options to our increasingly international distribution partners.
In 2015, we continued to build relationships with fund distributors in Europe, including savings banks, private banks, IFAs and fund of In addition, we continued to make our existing products available in fund providers, supported by additional German-speaking more countries, by creating share classes and currency hedged marketing resource in our London office.
We intend to establish a classes that meet the needs of local markets.
This was particularly presence in Milan during 2016, opening up opportunities for us in important in Asia in 2015, where we have considerably increased the substantial Italian market.
Our distribution in Asia has continued the number of funds available to clients since the start of the year.
to benefit from our ability to leverage client relationships across the world, with more than one third of our clients in the region being Building our brand is an important component of our distribution global banks.
In 2015, we added a further two people in Singapore strategy.
In the UK, we continued with press, outdoor and online and one in Hong Kong to support our growth.
advertising, and with sponsoring events.
We invested in our digital strategy, enhancing our analytics capabilities so we can assess the Turning performance into fund inflows drives our long-term growth.
effectiveness of our activities, and prepared to launch a new In 2015, our core mutual fund franchise achieved net flows of 2.1bn.
We also attended industry events and ran The build-out of our international network meant that overseas roadshows to promote our Merlin range and our UK Growth and clients provided half of our mutual fund gross inflows and the Indian funds.
majority of our net flow growth, with our top-performing flexible fixed income and European equity strategies proving particularly In Europe, we ran roadshows and visited clients across the region, attractive to clients.
These flows further increased our SICAV AUM supported by local language sales aids and brochures, and to 6.9bn at 31 December 2015 4.3bn at 31 December 2014, provided specific marketing support to some key distributors.
Asia, we ran a billboard advertising campaign in Hong Kong to raise awareness of Jupiter and to promote our Dynamic Bond and European Growth funds.
We also sponsored the Fund Forum and organised press interviews for our fund managers.
18 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We have brought together all the management company activities for our unit trusts, investment trusts and SICAVS into one entity.
This Efficient reduces complexity, duplication of effort and the delays that can 3 operations arise from dealing with several third parties.
Towards the end of the year, we also simplified the fee structure for our SICAV funds by introducing an aggregated operating expense fee.
the previous arrangement where our SICAV investors were subject KPIs EBITDA margin to variable operating expenses.
As a result, Jupiter has taken on the associated costs that were previously borne by the funds.
This change brings our SICAV fee structure into line with industry EBITDA margin % practice and gives clients a fixed basis point rate, standardised 2015 51 across similar funds and share classes within our SICAV range.
At the end of the first half of the year, we took possession of our 2014 51 new office space in The Zig Zag Building in Victoria, London, with our move taking place in December.
This resulted in double 2013 53 occupancy and move costs of 4m in the second half of the year, which will settle down into a steady increase in costs of 5m per annum from 2016.
The Zig Zag Building promises substantial improvements for our business.
As well as providing a high-quality working environment, the Zig Zag is arranged over fewer floors Performance than our previous building and includes breakout spaces and Managing our business efficiently and leveraging our scalable communal town hall areas, making it easier for our people to platform enables us to grow our profits faster than our revenues collaborate and exchange ideas a key part of our investment and AUM.
In 2015, we benefited from reduced headcount following culture.
New workstations and upgraded IT infrastructure support the sale of our private client business in 2014, offset by reinvestment our efficiency, including enhanced conferencing facilities and the of the savings in front office talent, improving our organisational ability for our people to work in multiple locations.
scalability and increasing our international distribution.
Overall, we maintained our record of delivering an EBITDA margin above 50 We are building on the impetus and energy generated by our new per cent.
offices to introduce new ways of working.
Our approach is principles-based and, together with our Corporate Values, it A key focus of the year was enhancing our operating platform describes the behaviours we want from our people, such as taking through further investment in our core systems.
This platform responsibility, showing leadership and adopting a collegiate enables us to take on new clients quickly and efficiently, to meet our approach.
The intention is to give our people a greater say in many clients service and product development demands, and to support aspects of their working day, so they can deliver effectively, make the development of our fund management capabilities.
their own decisions and contribute to our high performance culture.
We also made significant progress with supporting our growing Our Corporate Fitness agenda also aims to help our people work fixed income franchise.
We added new technology that enables in a better, faster and more agile way.
This encourages our people fixed income and multi-asset managers to further stress test their to focus on the output and impact of their work.
We have provided portfolios, helping us to manage growth in these franchises, and employees with a set of principles and specific guidance to help recruited investment risk and performance resources.
For the them manage their time and work life balance and to delegate Distribution team, we are automating factsheet production and effectively.
implemented a new customer relationship management system.
In 2016, we expect to deliver a full solution that will help our sales Our Board has undertaken a full review of the Groups ERM teams to agree terms of business with clients and provide improved framework in order to challenge and deepen their understanding reconciliation, reporting and oversight.
We have also created a of our key risks.
We have continued to develop our supplier central Client Operations team, bringing together our capabilities in management framework in order to ensure that we maintain close client reporting, fund data distribution and portfolio implementation oversight over our key providers, ensuring that our clients receive a and change.
19 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our strategic performance Another year of consistent delivery As a human capital business, we need to live by these values and ensure we maintain a high performance culture whilst consciously Value preserving qualities which have been intrinsic to our success to 4 creation date.
This requires us to: Have the right organisational culture and values 25.5p Broaden and strengthen our leadership capability KPIs Dividends per share Acquire and retain talented individuals within the broader team Ordinary Dividends per share p During 2015, we have taken a number of steps to embed these Special aspects more deeply within the organisation, facilitated by the 2015 14.6 10.9 Return of move to our new London offices towards the end of the year which private client proceeds created an opportunity to enhance our working environment and 2014 4.9 13.2 6.6 embed more effective working practices.
We have implemented an internal structure with a broader leadership team established in the 2013 12.6 year, comprising the Executive Committee, Management Committee, Investment Strategy Heads and Heads of Department.
The creation of the Management Committee allows the Executive Committee to focus more on the future strategy of the business wihilst the Management Committee focuses on the day to day running of the firm and execution of our organic growth strategy.
Creating value for all our stakeholders is integral to the successful execution of our business model.
This requires us to succeed in all Potential for continued growth our objectives delivering investment outperformance after fees on Looking forward, we see significant opportunities for high-value behalf of our clients, selling this outperformance to new and existing active managers such as Jupiter, especially in the growing retail clients via effective distribution, and capturing the rewards of this mutual fund markets around the world.
These markets have growth via efficient operations.
Commentary on our performance attractive long-term growth dynamics and we intend to access against these has been covered earlier in this section.
these opportunities in the future in the same disciplined manner we have demonstrated in the five years since Listing.
This means Jupiter is a human capital business and sustainable execution of choosing to grow organically in those areas where we have a high these objectives requires us to maximise the performance of the degree of confidence of adding value to our clients, while ensuring individuals within our organisation.
If we are successful in this, we we maintain the quality of our investment franchise and our people believe we can measure that success from a shareholder across the organisation.
perspective via the delivery of a sustainable, growing dividend and capital appreciation over time.
Distribution to shareholders Our business model shares the rewards of growth with our At Jupiter we believe our culture is unique and a core aspect of our shareholders and we measure success through the delivery of a success.
Our Corporate Values express this in a way that ensures progressive ordinary and growing stream of special dividends.
Our we focus on the different groups involved in our business: clients, progressive ordinary dividend policy targets an ordinary payout employees and society as a whole.
The values underpin both the ratio across the cycle of 50 per cent.
For 2015, our ordinary way in which we work with clients and how we work with each dividend totalled 14.6p per share, an increase of 11 per cent.
This other across the business.
In 2015, we documented these values for compares with an increase of 11 per cent.
in our underlying earnings the first time and engaged with people across the business to per share and reflects a payout ratio of 87 per cent.
ensure the values were consistently understood.
The Board intends to retain up to ten per cent.
of pre-variable Our values compensation earnings each year for investment in future growth.
Our primary responsibility is to our clients who entrust their In 2015, we used some of the amounts retained from 2014s results to savings to our management.
We aim to protect and grow their fund the fit-out of our new office in London as well as investing in assets and provide an excellent service.
The remaining balance is then available to return to shareholders through special dividends.
The Board has Every employee can make a difference to Jupiter.
We value therefore declared a special dividend of 10.9p per share 2014:11.5p, individual talent and independent thought and seek to give bringing total dividends for the year to 25.5p, an increase of 29 per freedom to employees to deliver.
We do this within a team cent.
on 2014 when excluding the capital component associated framework where respect, high standards and innovation are key with the return of the net proceeds received from the sale of the to our high performance culture.
We aim to make a positive contribution to society as managers of other peoples money.
We seek to do so by increasing the value of our clients savings, in the way we run money and by behaving in an ethical manner.
We believe that if we live by our values Jupiter will be a profitable and sustainable company which provides fair returns to clients, employees and shareholders.
20 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
