Strategic report 08 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Merger announcement This section should be read in conjunction with the Rule 2.7 announcement which may be accessed at www.
com What are the reasons for the Merger?
The Boards of Just Retirement and Partnership Assurance believe that the Merger the Merger will deliver significant strategic and financial benefits for the Combined Group.
What are the strategic benefits?
What are the financial benefits?
Scale to grow in attractive segments Synergy potential The Combined Groups larger capital base will enable a broader DB The combination of the two businesses is expected to create proposition and enhance the Combined Groups perceived strength thepotential for significant synergies supporting meaningful of covenant, opening up opportunities in the attractive defined earnings per share accretion for Just Retirement shareholders and 1 benefit fide-risking segment.
Partnership Assurance shareholders on a fully phased basis.
The Just Retirement Board expects the Merger to result in pre-tax cost Consumer champion savings of at least 40m per annum.
These synergies are expected The Merger will strengthen the competitive position of the to be implemented following completion of the Merger with the Combined Group in the UK retirement income market, expected to full run-rate being achieved in 2018 the third year following lead to improved customer outcomes compared to the products completion and are expected to require one-off integration costs currently offered by larger incumbent insurers.
The Just Retirement Directors also expect these synergies to have a positive impact on new business margin, Accelerate new product launches embedded value, economic capital and Solvency II capital ratios Combining the specialist management teams and expertise of over time.
Just Retirement and Partnership Assurance will also enhance the Combined Groups ability to develop and accelerate new product High quality cash generation launches in the evolving retirement income market.
This is of The Combined Group will have stronger combined capacity for critical importance given the greater expectation of new products cash generation, supported by Partnership Assurances more among customers following the freedom and choice introduced developed back book and improved operational efficiencies by the 2014 pension reforms.
delivered from the combined operating platform, supporting growth and dividend capacity.
Outstanding intellectual property The combination of Just Retirement and Partnership Assurances Enhanced capital position mortality datasets and underwriting expertise will facilitate The Combined Groups stronger capital position will be enhanced improved risk selection and greater reserving accuracy, leading through the intended equity capital raise of approximately 150m, to better value solutions for customers across the entire product providing the financial flexibility to pursue future growth initiatives range.
1 Following the intended capital raise and excluding any non-recurring items.
More efficient distribution In both the UK defined benefit fide-risking segment and retirement income market, the streamlining of sales functions will lead to a more efficient distribution model for the Combined Group.
Overseas expansion will be facilitated through combined international expertise.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 09 This transaction represents a unique opportunity to accelerate the existing strategy of both businesses.
Our two businesses will be bigger, stronger and more efficient together, which we believe will allow us to deliver better returns to both policyholders and shareholders Tom Cross Brown | Chairman What do your major Who will lead the Is the Merger subject shareholders think?
Have they made any The Boards of Just Retirement and The proposed Merger requires shareholders commitments?
Partnership Assurance have agreed a in both Just Retirement and Partnership unified management team of the Assurance to vote in favour of the deal and The largest shareholders of both Just Combined Group under the leadership of regulatory approvals to be granted from Retirement and Partnership Assurance are Rodney Cook as Group Chief Executive the Prudential Regulation Authority fully supportive of the Merger and have Officer.
Reporting to Rodney Cook will be PRA, the Financial Conduct Authority given hard irrevocable undertakings to vote David Richardson as Deputy Group Chief FCA and the Competition and Markets in favour of the Merger.
The Boards of Just Executive Officer and Simon Thomas as Authority CMA.
The proposed Merger Retirement and Partnership Assurance Group Finance Director.
Chris Gibson-Smith is also subject to certain other customary unanimously intend to recommend that will be the Chairman of the Combined conditions.
shareholders vote in favour of the Merger.
Group while Tom Cross Brown will assume the role of Deputy Chairman.
When will the Where can I find more information?
You can access the Rule 2.7 announcement at www.
com by clicking on the Merger Announcement tab within the Investors menu.
Subject to CMA The proposed Merger is expected to become approval being received in October, shareholders will receive a circular soon afterwards effective in December 2015, subject to the containing further important information and convening the shareholder meeting.
satisfaction or waiver of the conditions outlined above.
