Governance 52 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of statements for Just Retirement Group plc Just Retirement the Code during the year and up to the date of the Directors Group for the year ended 30 June 2015.
Report, except with respect to the composition of the Board following the resignation of Les Owen with effect from the The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47 contains a description of the conclusion of the AGM on 25 November 2014.
The Code Groups business model and information relating to the recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, performance of the Groups business during the financial year, the should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the position of the Group at the end of the year, and likely future Board to be independent in character and judgement and free developments.
from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board considered that, following last years AGM, half of its members including the Results and dividend Chairman comprised of Non-Executive Directors independent in The Groups results for the year are set out in the Group the manner required by the Code but recognised that it would not Consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 87. comply with the Code guidance on Board effectiveness with respect to its composition.
However, the Board did not consider An interim dividend for the year of 1.1 pence per ordinary share such non-compliance to be detrimental to the interests of the was paid on 14 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at the Company or the shareholders as a whole on the basis of i the close of business on 17 April 2015 2014: nil pence per share.
existing Directors experience, judgement and character and ii TheDirectors recommend a final dividend for the year of 2.2 pence its intention to appoint an additional Independent Non-Executive per ordinary share to be paid on 7 December 2015 to shareholders Director.
On 15 May 2015 the Board appointed Steve Melcher as on the register at the close of business on 13 November 2015 the fourth Independent Non-Executive Director and so complied 2014: 2.2 pence per share.
with the Code provision for a balanced Board.
Post balance sheet event Directors insurance and indemnities On 11 August 2015, the Boards of Just Retirement Group and The Directors and officers of the Company benefit from an Partnership Assurance Group plc announced that they had reached indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association agreement on the terms of a recommended all-share Merger to against any liability they may incur in relation to the Companys create JRP Group plc.
The Merger announcement was an affairs, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 as advertisement and not a prospectus or  amended.
Each Director of the Company benefits from a deed of document.
It is proposed to publish in due course a Prospectus and indemnity in respect of the costs of defending claims against him Circular regarding the Merger for consideration by shareholders.
or her and third party liabilities the terms of which are in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
Such Further information is given in note 38 to the financial statements.
qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force at the date of this report.
Directors and Officers liability insurance cover Directors was maintained throughout the year at the Companys expense The present Directors of the Company are shown on pages and remains in force at the date of this report.
Directors interests Directors on the Board during the year and up to the date of Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are this report are as follows: shown on page 77 of the Remuneration Report.
Tom Cross Brown Keith Nicholson James Fraser is a partner at Permira Advisers LLP which advises Kate Avery certain funds that wholly own Avallux S.. r. l. the Companys Michael Deakin principal shareholder controlling 52.3% of the voting rights in the Les Owen resigned on 25 November 2014 Company.
Save as disclosed for James Fraser, there are no potential Steve Melcher appointed on 15 May 2015 conflicts of interest between any duties owed by the Directors to James Fraser the Company and their private interests or other duties.
No other Rodney Cook Director had any material interest in any significant contract with Simon Thomas the Company or with any Group undertaking during the year.
Shayne Deighton All the present Directors of the Company will be subject to Share capital re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Details of the Companys issued share capital are given in note 20 AGM on 23 November 2015. on pages 116 and 177.
At 16 September 2015 the Company had been notified of the Compliance with the UK Corporate following shareholdings of 3% or more of the Companys share capital: Governance Code The statements describing how the Company has applied the main Ordinary Ordinary principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the shareholding at shareholding at Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code are 30 June % of 16 September % of Shareholder 2015 capital 2015 capital set out in the Companys Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 65 which forms part of this Directors Report and is Avallux S.. r. l. 261,788,257 52.3 261,788,257 52.3 incorporated by reference.
Schroders plc 27,325,444 5.5 27,325,444 5.5 Kames Capital Plc 15,274,328 3.1 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 53 On 6 March 2015, Avallux S.. r. l. sold 50,085,735 ordinary shares The following reinsurance treaties may be immediately terminated in the Company through a secondary placing in the London stock by the third party if there is any material change in the ownership, market, reducing their shareholding from 311,873,992 to management or control of Just Retirement Limited, its parent or 261,788,257 ordinary shares and their interest in the voting rights ultimate parent in the case of the Achmea Re treaty, if there is any of the Company from 62.3% to 52.3%.
material change in the ownership, management or control of Just Retirement Limited.
If such termination occurs, the treaty is As at 30 June 2015, the Company held a valid authority from terminated in respect of new business and the reinsurer may shareholders to make market purchases of up to an aggregate of exercise an option either to continue the treaty in respect of 50,083,000 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys business already written or to require recapture of that business, issued ordinary share capital as of 17 September 2014.
The which has the effect of withdrawing the reinsurance in respect of Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares during the year.
past business subject to any repayment by Just Retirement Limited As at 30 June 2015, the Company also held valid authorities from not causing it to breach its PRA minimum capital requirements : shareholders to: The Hannover Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and i allot ordinary shares under a rights issue up to an aggregate Hannover Re dated 20 September 2012 and as amended on nominal value of 33,388,666 representing approximately 16 October 2013 and 22 December 2014 in relation to two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital as at Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL policies written from 1 July 2004 17September 2014: to 31 December 2015 and underwritten using the JR Merica ii allot ordinary shares under an open offer or in other situations underwriting system: up to an aggregate nominal value of 16,694,333 representing The RGA Lead treaty between Just Retirement Limited, approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital as RGA International acting as lead reinsurer and RGA Americas at 17 September 2014: and acting as following reinsurer and the RGA Following treaty iii allot ordinary shares for cash, otherwise than in connection between the same parties both treaties dated 19 June 2013 with a rights issue, up to an aggregate nominal value of and as amended on 26 September 2013 in relation to Just 2,504,000 representing approximately 5% of the issued Retirement Limiteds GIfL policies written from 1 July 2012 to ordinary share capital as at 17 September 2014.
31 December 2014 and underwritten using the JR Merica underwriting system: and These authorities will expire at the end of the AGM to be held on The Achmea Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and 23 November 2015 and resolutions to renew them will be put to Achmea Re dated 1 December 2005 and as subsequently shareholders at that meeting.
amended, most recently on 30 March 2013 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds GIfL policies written from 1 July 2004 to The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 30June 2012.
Companys Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at Company general meetings including the AGM, to appoint proxies and to An RBS Term Loan Facility of 55m between Just Retirement exercise voting rights.
Holdings Limited as the borrower, Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited as the guarantor, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as the original lender and Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura International Employees plc both as additional lenders dated 25 September 2012 and as Further information on employee communications, development subsequently amended on 9 May 2013 contains provisions for and diversity is given on pages 17, 26 and 27. prepayment at the option of the lenders on the occurrence of a change of control of the guarantor.
During the year 33,636 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 3,364 were allotted pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes.
Details of these share schemes are described in note 10 Financial instruments to the financial statements.
Derivatives are used to manage the Groups capital position which isaffected by a surplus of long-dated fixed interest assets when liabilities are measured on a realistic basis.
Details of these derivatives Change of control are contained in note 25 to the financial statements.
Disclosure with The Company is subject to change of control provisions in the respect to financial risk is included on pages 44 to 47 of the Strategic following significant agreements: Report and in note 33 to the financial statements.
The Relationship Agreement with Avallux S.. r. l. the Companys principal shareholder holding 52.3% of the issued ordinary share Political contributions capital dated 12 November 2013 will continue for so long as the No political contributions were made, or political expenditure Company is premium-listed on the London Stock Exchanges main incurred, by the Company and its subsidiaries during the year market and Avallux S.. r. l. is entitled to control the exercise of 15% 2014: nil.
or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
The Company Greenhouse gas emissions entered into the Relationship Agreement to ensure that it would Information about the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is given be able, at all times, to carry on its business independently of on page 42.
Avallux S.. r. l. and that all transactions and relationships between the Company and Avallux S.. r. l. would be at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
Under the Relationship Agreement, Avallux S.. r. l. is entitled to appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board of the Company.
Governance 54 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Directors report continued Going concern statement After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business and to meet their obligations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
In making this assessment the Directors have considered the key assumptions underlying the assumption of going concern, reviews of sensitivity analyses and possible management actions, the Groups latest business plan and consequences for projections of cash flow, liquidity and regulatory solvency, together with reviews of any expected changes associated with banking and other financing and reinsurance relationships.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director of the Company at the date of approval of this Directors Report has confirmed that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor The Companys Auditor has indicated its willingness to continue in office.
The Board has agreed, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, that a resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for the appointment of KPMG LLP as Auditor of the Company for the year ending 30 June 2016 and toauthorise the Boards Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the Auditor.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Auditor and the Auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Further details on the work of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 63 and 64 in the Corporate Governance Report.
Annual General Meeting The Companys 2015 AGM will be held at Reigate Town Hall, Castlefield Road, Reigate, Surrey RH2 0SH at noon on Monday 23 November 2015.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, and the Annual Report and Accounts, will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
The resolutions that will be proposed at the AGM are set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Chairmen of the Boards Committees will be present at the AGM to answer any questions put to them by shareholders.
By order of the Board: Martin Smith Group Company Secretary 16 September 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 55 Directors responsibilities Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report We confirm to the best of our knowledge that: and Group and Parent Company financial statements in The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS accordance with applicable law and regulations.
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that a whole: law they have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and performance of the business and the position of the IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation law, and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and risks and uncertainties that they face: and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair and business model of the Company.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the The Strategic Report contains certain forward-looking statements Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are providing additional information to shareholders to assess the required to: potential for the Companys strategies to succeed.
Such statements Properly select and apply accounting policies: are made by the Directors in good faith, based on the information Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner available to them up to the date of their approval of this report, that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable and should be treated with caution due to the inherent information: uncertainties underlying forward-looking information.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users to Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any understand the impact of particular transactions, other events person in relation to the Annual Report and Accounts except to and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
performance: and Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall going concern.
be determined in accordance with section 90A and schedule 10A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent By order of the Board: Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company, and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Rodney Cook Chief Executive Officer The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Simon Thomas Group Finance Director 16 September 2015
