Strategic report 22 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic objectives Just Retirements vision is to become the leading retirement brand, known and trusted for enriching our customers lives.
We intend to continue to influence and innovate through our customer-focused propositions, building on our proprietary IP and underwriting capabilities, and deploying our robust and capital efficient business model In this way we will deliver positive outcomes for our customers and will generate attractive shareholder returns and profitable growth Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved The Group generates value through our diversified streams of Just Retirement will continue its open and positive dialogue with New business revenue, which enable us to grow our business and ensure policy makers, regulators and consumer and industry groups, sales composition % efficient use of capital.
We believe that it is essential, not only ensuring that we are well-placed to understand and to shape One 100 to maintain and strengthen our leadership position in the the retirement income market.
We will continue to develop and 90 structurally attractive segments of the retirement income apply our experience and insights to stay ahead of other market Ensure our sustainable future market in which we already operate, but also to expand into participants and to strengthen our trusted brand and reputation.
80 markets where we can leverage our insights, capabilities and 70 Our strategic objectives are to be in a leadership position intellectual property.
We need to ensure that we are prepared We will also continue to build and deploy our IP to create 60 across the segments of the markets in which we operate, to to respond to emerging risks and opportunities, so that we competitive advantage, identifying risks and opportunities to 50 continue to diversify our portfolio, and to keep our eyes on can continue to develop our reputation as an innovator and respond with innovative and effective propositions for our 40 the future as to what may come and how it will impact our thought leader.
fide-risking and lifetime mortgage segments of the retirement 20 income market demonstrate strong growth prospects and we We will apply our strategic and customer insights to grow our 10 believe that we are well-placed to continue to strengthen our presence in the retirement income market in a sustainable 0 position in these markets.
In addition we believe that the 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 way, optimising returns for our shareholders.
pension reforms will continue to create demand for innovative n DB n Individual n LTM and flexible GIfL solutions.
We have a strong pipeline of prospective defined benefit fide-risking transactions and intend Note: Individual includes GIfL, to continue to diversify our propositions to individual customers Capped Drawdown and Care Plans through product development.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 23 Just Retirement has always been an innovator and a champion of Our forward-looking strategy is made up of four themes: customer choice and these values continue to underpin our Ensure our sustainable future: strategy.
We will continue to diversify our products and services, Increase our customer-centricity: and use our IP to address the highest value opportunities in the Drive efficiency and adaptability: and retirement income market to generate high quality returns for Build a winning organisation.
Our execution of this strategy to be a diversified, customer-centric, and innovative business has reinforced Just Retirement as an entrepreneurial company and positioned us for a return to growth following the impact of Budget 2014.
Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved The Group generates value through our diversified streams of Just Retirement will continue its open and positive dialogue with New business revenue, which enable us to grow our business and ensure policy makers, regulators and consumer and industry groups, sales composition % efficient use of capital.
Strategic report 24 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic objectives continued Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved Just Retirement has always set out to differentiate ourselves We will continue to develop our understanding of how customer Hierarchy of retirement income needs through our focus on enriching our customers lives.
We want needs and preferences are changing through investment in to ensure that we continue to be a leader in understanding research and customer insight programmes.
We have pioneered a Two and responding effectively to the needs of our customers, powerful and cost-effective simplified advice service for pension supporting their decision-making and delivering high providers to support customers at the critical point of converting Increase our Dreams quality experience.
their pension savings into retirement benefits, and intend to continue to invest in tools and services to support customer customer-centricity Gifts Our customer-centric approach ensured that, despite the decision-making.
We will also continue to engage with policy challenges created by the Budget 2014 pension reforms, makers and regulators to ensure that we drive forward the agenda Our strategic objectives are to make sure we understand and Freedom Income we were in a strong position as we were able to respond for customer support and protection, including through the respond to customers retirement needs in all the segments quickly in recognition of customer needs for flexible retirement expansion of the governments Pension Wise service and the in which we operate, to help consumers to understand their Just In Case Fund income solutions.
We have also focused on building customer development of the open market.
retirement choices, broaden our distribution reach and to be a understanding of their retirement choices, championing the market leader in delivering an excellent customer experience.
Essential Income The fundamental costs e. g. utility bills, use of plain English and ensuring that our propositions are Our customer insights and experience through our immediate household shopping and clothing clear and simple.
This is critically important as we compete in response to the Budget 2014 changes will allow us to continue By ensuring that customers are at the heart of what we do, Immediate Concerns and Debt the open market to show why our solutions are effective and to positively disrupt the guaranteed income for life segment of we will deliver positive customer outcomes and will continue Priority debts repaid e. g. mortgage arrears, credit cards and loans offer better value for customers.
We believe that our products and services will continue to to grow our business.
Model based on work by Mitch Antony result in Just Retirement being recognised as an established player in the market, particularly as increasing numbers of customers are provided with impartial support and guidance through the governments Pension Wise service and as customers are encouraged to seek competitive deals in the open market.
We will continue to broaden our multi-channel distribution strategy, including through our life and pension company partners, by delivering professional services as well as flexible products that serve the needs of our customers.
We will continue to invest in relationships with our established distributors and develop new distribution channels, leveraging our award-winning service proposition and leading digital sales and service solutions, including TOMAS.
Available Capital Available Income Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 25 Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved Just Retirement has always set out to differentiate ourselves We will continue to develop our understanding of how customer Hierarchy of retirement income needs through our focus on enriching our customers lives.
Available Capital Available Income Strategic report 26 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic objectives continued Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved Our unrivalled proprietary IP and our medical underwriting The Group plans to continue to invest in and develop our expertise has provided us with significant advantage, enabling proprietary IP and to use the flexibility of the operating model to Unrivalled us to underwrite effectively and drive profitable growth in the extend our product proposition.
We will continue to tailor our Three proprietary defined benefit fide-risking and individual segments of the products and services in the future to ensure that the continuing data retirement income market.
Continued investment into our IP needs of our customers are met.
We will also promote our DB Drive efficiency and capabilities, maintaining our scalable operating model, proposition to accelerate awareness amongst trustees and their and continuing to develop our trusted brand are essential to advisers of the benefits of the deep underwriting approach and adaptability ensure that we can meet current and future demand.
We have applied for permission to use an operating model needs to continuously evolve in response to internal model and the matching adjustment to calculate Our strategic objectives are to work to continuously Ability Experienced changes in the landscape so that we can continue to offer regulatory capital for Solvency II and to use transitional measures improve our cost efficiency, ensure our current and future to deliver medical Our IP IP to market team efficient and effective solutions for our customers.
This approach will support the developments align to our target operating model and effective operation of our capital-efficient business model.
continue to effectively manage our capital.
We will continue to identify and challenge areas of the business We will continue to invest in our specialist capabilities, where cost spend does not reflect value gained, and will and develop our operating model, to maximise our value.
Building on our cost savings Next programme over 2013 14, we will continue to manage our generation underwriting resource allocation effectively and in line with our longer-term system, priorities.
We will continue to develop our key capabilities, PrognoSys including through investments in our proprietary IP and underwriting capabilities and will ensure that our Solvency II compliance also builds understanding of capital management across our entire Group.
Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved Our people underpin the delivery of all aspects of our business We will ensure that our employees understand the Just performance.
We believe that we will continue to thrive as a Retirement values and that our behaviour reflects those values.
company by developing and supporting our people to be the We will continue to develop our high-quality performance review Four best that they can be, so that we can achieve more as a Group culture, providing the right environment to address our peoples and develop a flexible and strong organisation with employees experience, aspirations and development needs in line with the Build a winning enjoying a relevant and fulfilling career.
needs and ambitions of the Group.
organisation The depth of experience and expertise within the workforce We will use our strategic workforce planning programmes to has enabled us to capitalise on growth opportunities, and ensure that our people are in the best roles to strengthen our Our strategic objectives are to make sure we protect our deliver award-winning customer service.
Our values underpin Group as a whole, identifying and developing talent including respected brand, helping our employees to realise their the way the Groups employees do business, and has been a through our new leadership programmes.
We will continue to own potential, and in doing so our potential, and to have key driver of our trusted and respected brand reputation.
work together effectively, with clear and regular communications an organisation that is fit and ready for the future.
on our strategic direction, so that every employee can understand how their contributions can help achieve our aims.
We will build an organisation that embodies the values of Just Retirement, delivering quality service to our customers, developing and supporting our people to be the best that they can be, and being ready to meet anticipated future demands.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 27 Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved Our unrivalled proprietary IP and our medical underwriting The Group plans to continue to invest in and develop our expertise has provided us with significant advantage, enabling proprietary IP and to use the flexibility of the operating model to Unrivalled us to underwrite effectively and drive profitable growth in the extend our product proposition.
Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved Our values Our people underpin the delivery of all aspects of our business We will ensure that our employees understand the Just Specialist Individually specialist and collectively expert performance.
Being individually specialist and collectively expert in our company by developing and supporting our people to be the We will continue to develop our high-quality performance review Four field gives us the confidence to understand our customers financial needs and address their financial risks.
We are all best that they can be, so that we can achieve more as a Group culture, providing the right environment to address our peoples specialists in our own roles but together we become the and develop a flexible and strong organisation with employees experience, aspirations and development needs in line with the specialist retirement company.
Build a winning enjoying a relevant and fulfilling career.
Trusted Trusted to deliver on our promises because we operate with integrity and honesty organisation We operate with integrity and honesty, allowing our The depth of experience and expertise within the workforce We will use our strategic workforce planning programmes to customers to feel confident that they can trust us with has enabled us to capitalise on growth opportunities, and ensure that our people are in the best roles to strengthen our Our strategic objectives are to make sure we protect our theirmoney in retirement.
We work honestly with each other, we are approachable and always eager to help our deliver award-winning customer service.
Our values underpin Group as a whole, identifying and developing talent including respected brand, helping our employees to realise their customers, business partners and colleagues by delivering the way the Groups employees do business, and has been a through our new leadership programmes.
We will continue to own potential, and in doing so our potential, and to have onour promises.
key driver of our trusted and respected brand reputation.
Agile Nimble, sharp, proactive and flexible to our on our strategic direction, so that every employee can understand customersneeds We meet our customers current and future needs by how their contributions can help achieve our aims.
We will build an organisation that embodies the values of ensuring that our solutions are flexible and adaptable.
Just Retirement, delivering quality service to our customers, Weare confident and take measured risks to capture the right opportunities.
A swift and responsive approach developing and supporting our people to be the best that they provides the momentum that drives the Company forward.
can be, and being ready to meet anticipated future demands.
Rigorous Thorough and challenging to drive accuracy and continuous improvement We are thorough in our everyday practices and ensure that our focus on productivity does not impede quality.
We balance our agility with rigour by embracing a pragmatic, detailed approach to maintaining the highest standards.
Supportive Collaborating with our colleagues and customers to deliver aligned goals We promote and reward supportive behaviours to help create a great working environment and a positive Just Retirement experience by empathising with our colleagues and customers.
We instil teamwork and support our colleagues to deliver aligned goals.
