Governance 50 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Board of Directors Tom Cross Brown Rodney Cook Simon Thomas Shayne Deighton Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Group Chief Actuary Chairman 67 58 51 56 Tom Cross Brown has been Rodney Cook was appointed Simon Thomas was appointed Shayne Deighton was appointed Chairman of Just Retirement Chief Executive Officer in August Group Finance Director in August Group Chief Actuary in August Group plc since August 2013 and 2013 having been appointed as 2013 having been appointed as 2013 having been appointed as was a Non-Executive Director of the Chief Executive Officer of Just Group Finance Director of Just Group Chief Actuary of Just Just Retirement Holdings Limited Retirement Holdings Limited in Retirement Holdings Limited in Retirement Holdings Limited in from October 2006, and became July 2010.
He also acted as Chairman on its admission to AIM Managing Director, Life and Finance and Customer Services Chief Risk Officer until October in December 2006, until March Pensions of Liverpool Victoria Director at Canada Life Limited, 2012.
Rodney, a qualified actuary the UK subsidiary of Great West Group Financial Management Executive Officer of ABN AMRO and an FCA and PRA Approved Life.
Prior to this, Simon was Director at Aviva plc and UK Life Asset Management.
Prior to Person, has 37 years experience Head of Finance at HECM Limited Finance Director for Zurich joining ABN AMRO Asset in financial services, having led formerly Equitable Life and Financial Services.
He has also Management in 1997, he spent businesses in both the United spent ten years at Nationwide been a Partner at Ernst & Young 21 years at Lazard Brothers & Co. Kingdom and Australasia.
He Building Society, latterly as Group and Principal at Tillinghast, the latterly as Chief Executive Officer commenced his career with AMP, Financial Controller.
Shayne has of Lazard Brothers Asset which culminated in his over 14 years experience in the over 34 years experience in the Management from 1994 to 1997. appointment as Managing UK life assurance industry, and is insurance industry and is a Fellow He is currently a Non-Executive Director of Pearl in 1999.
This a Chartered Accountant and an of the Institute and Faculty of Director of Phoenix Group was followed by time at Zurich FCA and PRA Approved Person.
Actuaries and an FCA and PRA Holdings, Artemis Alpha Trust Plc Financial Services as Managing Simon is a member of the Market Approved Person.
Shayne is a and a non-executive member of Director of Sterling Assurance, Disclosure Committee and a Director of Just Retirement the Management Committee of Eagle Star Life and as Zurich Director of Just Retirement Limited and Just Retirement Artemis Investment Management Financial Services Customer Limited, Just Retirement Solutions Solutions Limited.
Tom is Chairman of the Solutions Director, before joining Limited and TOMAS Acquisitions Nominations and Market Prudential as Prulab Director.
Disclosure Committees and a Rodney is a member of the member of the Risk and Market Disclosure Committee, a Compliance and Remuneration Director of Just Retirement Committees.
He is also Chairman Limited and Just Retirement of Just Retirement Limited, as well Solutions Limited, and Chairman as a member of its Investment of TOMAS Acquisitions Limited.
Committee, and a Non-Executive Director of Just Retirement Solutions Limited.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 51 James Fraser Keith Nicholson Kate Avery Michael Deakin Steve Melcher Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Independent NonIndependent NonIndependent Non- 50 Director 65 Executive Director 55 Executive Director 62 Executive Director 66 James Fraser was Keith Nicholson was Kate Avery was appointed Michael Deakin was Steve Melcher was appointed as a Nonappointed as a Nonas a Non-Executive Director appointed as a Nonappointed as a NonExecutive Director in Executive Director in in October 2013.
She is a Executive Director in April Executive Director on 15 August 2013 and was a October 2013.
He is Non-Executive Director of 2014.
Steve has Non-Executive Director of Chairman of Liberty Newcastle Building Society actuary and has over 25 worked in financial services Just Retirement Holdings Speciality Markets and Visiting Alumni at years investment for over 40 years during Limited from 2009 until including the businesses Cranfield, having management experience.
which time he has held March 2014.
He is a of Liberty Managing previously been NonMichael joined Clerical posts at JP Morgan, Marsh Partner and the Head of Agency Limited and Liberty Executive Chairman of Medical in 1974 where he & McLennan and as CEO the Financial Services Mutual Insurance Europe Openwork until December was appointed Director of of Eagle Star, Allied Sector at Permira.
Prior to Limited and Deputy 2013.
She spent the first Investments in 1995 and in Dunbar and Sun Life of joining Permira in 2008, Chairman of The Equitable 18 years of her career at 2001 Chief Investment Canada UK.
He now has a James was Co-Head of the Life Assurance Society.
He Barclays, before assisting Officer of Clerical Medical portfolio of roles, including Global Financial Services was Deputy Chairman of Halifax in their Investments, later Insight as a Non-Executive Director practice at L. E. K. Wesleyan Assurance demutualisation and Investments.
Since retiring of Allianz Re in Dublin and Consulting where he spent Society until he resigned building their stockbroking from Insight in September as Chairman of Euler 21 years, 11 of which as a from its Board in business prior to joining 2003, he has previously Hermes Pension Fund.
He was a Legal & General in 1996. served as a non-executive is also an executive mentor Non-Executive Director of partner at KPMG where he She served on the Board of member of the Board of which takes him inside Tilney Bestinvest Group.
led their UK insurance Directors of Legal & the Pension Protection many different industries.
James is a Non-Executive practice until he retired General, where she was Fund and Chairman of its Steve is Chairman of the Director of Just Retirement from the firm in March responsible for the retail Investment Committee Risk and Compliance Limited and Just 2009.
Keith is Senior distribution division and from 2004 to 2010 and as Committee and a member Retirement Solutions Independent Director, subsequently the wealth a Board member of the of the Nominations and Limited.
Chairman of the Audit management division.
Kate London Pension Fund Audit Committees.
He is a Committee and a member is Chairman of the Authority from 2006 to Non-Executive Director of of the Risk and Remuneration Committee 2012 Deputy Chairman Just Retirement Limited Compliance Committee, and a member of the from 2009.
Michael is a and a member of its Remuneration, Audit and Risk and member of the Audit, Investment Committee.
Nominations and Market Compliance Committees.
Remuneration and Risk Disclosure Committees.
He She is also Chairman of and Compliance is also a Non-Executive Just Retirement Solutions Committees, a NonDirector of Just Retirement Limited and a NonExecutive Director of Just Limited and a member of Executive Director of Just Retirement Limited and its Investment Committee, Retirement Limited.
Chairman of its Investment and a Non-Executive Committee, and a Director of Just Retirement Non-Executive Director of Solutions Limited.
