Strategic report 18 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Our market Just Retirement competes in the retirement income market which benefits from significant potential for long-term structural growth The dynamics of the UK Increasing numbers retirement income market approaching retirement Individual retirement income market 18 The UK individual retirement income 16 market has evolved significantly following 14 the pension reforms first announced in the 12 UK 2014 Budget.
The removal of any population 10 aged 65 8 restriction on how individuals are able to and over 6 access their pension savings has disrupted millions 4 the regular pattern of customer behaviour.
2 Since the Budget, a significant proportion 0 of Just Retirements target customers have deferred accessing their pension savings, Year choosing instead to wait until the pension Source: ONS freedoms became available from April 2015.
This has resulted in our addressable approaching retirement but also the UK.
These schemes are becoming market reducing as fewer people purchased number of people that will be looking increasingly less attractive and more guaranteed income for life solutions.
for solutions in later life.
costly for employers to offer, and The assets held by those in later life are consequently defined contribution Just Retirement has commissioned also increasing.
People aged 65 and DC pension schemes have become extensive market research to determine over hold around one-third of UK total more prevalent in the UK.
In 2005, only the needs and preferences of our target personal wealth Source: HMRC.
As the 33% of approximately 1.1tn of total customers.
Our research findings are population ages, the value of these pension assets were held in DC consistent with other external reports assets continues to grow in both schemes.
By 2015, DC schemes are concluding that seven out of ten of retirees absolute terms and as a percentage of projected to account for 48% of 1.8tn continue to value a guaranteed income in national wealth.
In retirement, these total pension scheme assets Source: later life above other factors.
We expect customers typically need financial Towers Watson.
that the market will continue to evolve in products that convert their assets into response to the pension freedoms over the income.
In addition, more wealth is As well as these strong underlying drivers coming years, as new products and expected to flow into the retirement of the UK retirement income market, customer preferences emerge.
We expect that the assets held webelieve that the pension reforms will confident that people will continue to by people entering retirement will stimulate demand for innovative retirement secure a guaranteed income for life from continue to increase rapidly, with market income solutions, creating strong some or all of their pension savings to intelligence suggesting that the opportunities for the market to continue to ensure their regular expenditure is secured.
at-retirement market will reach develop.
External research suggests that Read how Just Retirement has responded approximately 671bn in 2023 from there will be significant growth in new to meet customer needs on page 48 of 356bn in 2013 Source: Spence retirement income products offering a thisreport.
This continues to represent a balance between guaranteed income and sizeable and rapidly growing market flexibility, with estimates that assets in It is too early to predict what the new opportunity for Just Retirement.
these new products will total 48bn by norm in consumer behaviour will be but The UK government has implemented a 2023 Source: Spence Johnson.
Just the underlying drivers of growth in the number of policies to progressively Retirement has always supported choice individual retirement income market reduce retirees reliance on the State and flexibility among customers.
In particular: Pension, including increasing the age at that the pension reforms are ultimately which an individual is entitled to receive likely to increase the overall size and depth The number of people aged 65 and a State Pension, promoting personal of the individual retirement income market.
over is forecast to increase from retirement savings through autoapproximately 11m in 2013 to over enrolment, and the creation of the Bulk defined benefit fide-risking 13.5m by 2023, and over 16.5m in National Employment Savings Trust Defined benefit pension schemes provide 2033 as illustrated by the chart NEST.
This means that individuals individuals with a predetermined monthly Source: ONS.
This trend is underpinned are likely to continue to look for other income in retirement based on their by the baby boomer generation sources of income in retirement.
earnings history, tenure of employment and reaching retirement as well as higher life Over the past ten years there has been a age.
Over the last decade the availability of expectancy for both men and women.
significant decline in the availability of these pension schemes has been in decline, This results in increases in not only those defined benefit pension schemes in the as they become less attractive and more 2013f 2014f 2015f 2016f 2017f 2018f 2019f 2020f 2021f 2022f 2023f 2024f 2025f 2026f 2027f 2028f 2029f 2030f 2031f 2032f 2033f Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 19 Retirement income market 20bn to 46bn 50 45 40 Total 35 retirement 30 income 25 market ows 20 bn 15 10 5 0 Year Source: Spence Johnson analysis costly for companies to offer.
Nonetheless, inhibited the development of flexible the UK still has one of the largest defined retirement income products, the reforms benefit markets in the world, with had an immediate impact on the individual aggregate liabilities of approximately GIfL market, with traditional GIfL sales 1.7tn across more than 6,000 pension falling by 42% from 11.9bn in calendar plans.
A growing number of pension year 2013 to 6.9bn in calendar year 2014 trustees are choosing to secure their Source: ABI.
However, external research members future pension payments by suggests considerable growth in the total conducting some form of fide-risking individual retirement income market in the transaction.
fide-risking transactions were UK in coming years as illustrated by the unaffected by the 2014 Budget and chart Source: Spence Johnson.
account for a significant proportion of the growth in the overall UK retirement income Prior to the pension reforms, people had market.
We estimate that total defined the right to use an open market option to benefit fide-risking sales will reach 25bn place their DC pension savings with any per annum by 2020 as illustrated by the product provider willing to accept these chart Source: Hymans Robertson, Oliver funds in exchange for an annuity product.
This enabled people to shop around the market to find the best deal.
The intention of the reforms is to give customers greater The sectors in which we operate, freedom and choice in how they use their our products and services pension savings and to encourage more Individual retirement income solutions people to shop around to find good Until 2014, individuals reaching retirement solutions among several types of products.
typically purchased an annuity to provide The publicity surrounding the pension aguaranteed income stream for life.
reforms and the widening availability ABIfigures show that around 85% of ofPension Wise, the governments retirement income product sales in 2013 Guaranteed Guidance service, should were annuities Source: ABI.
ensure that more people are aware of their options and enable Just Retirement to The pension reforms first announced in the reach a greater number of customers Budget 2014 had a significant impact on asaresult.
the individual UK retirement income market, disrupting the traditional pattern of consumer behaviour in how they used their DC pension savings to deliver benefits during retirement.
By creating greater freedom of access for participants in DC pension schemes to their pension savings and removing some of the constraints that 2014f 2015f 2016f 2017f 2018f 2019f 2020f 2021f 2022f 2023f Strategic report 20 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Our market continued underwritten pricing.
Just Retirement has fide ned bene t fide-risking market forecast recently entered this segment of the retirement income market, as we are able 25 to utilise our medical underwriting expertise effectively in this area.
20 Estimated size of 15 To date, we have generally targeted DB Market bn schemes with fewer than 300 lives and 10 assets under management below 200m, 5 offering Buy-In and Buy-Out solutions for defined benefit trustees.
We also 0 have the flexibility to top-slice larger schemes.
We were one of the first to Year introduce a deep underwriting approach Souce: Hymans Robertson, Oliver Wyman, KPMG, LCP and will be continuing to promote our DB proposition in order to increase awareness of this approach among trustees Just Retirement has been one of the and help people to achieve good and their advisers.
leading providers of GIfL, offering better outcomes.
rates than standard product providers Long-term care solutions to customers who, as a result of one or Overall our response to the Budget 2014 Long-term care insurance provides more pre-existing medical conditions or reforms ensures that our products and guaranteed income to contribute to lifestyle factors, are likely to have a reduced services for individual retirees are wellresidential care costs.
This is tax-free if paid life expectancy.
To date we have helped positioned in the market.
Our levels of directly to the care home.
Private long-term over 220,000 GIfL customers achieve a customer enquiries for guaranteed care spending reached 11.2bn in 2013. better income in their retirement than if income solutions for individuals have However, although long-term care they had taken a GIfL from standard increased since the pension reforms came spending is likely to increase with an product providers.
into effect in April 2015. ageing population and as a result of the pressures on State funding, market data In response to the Budget 2014 pension Defined benefit fide-risking suggests that sales of long-term care reforms and the increased demand for Defined benefit pension schemes are insurance remain relatively low.
innovative and flexible retirement income increasingly seeking opportunities for their products, we created a new Flexible liabilities to be taken over either fully or Just Retirement believes that the care Pension Plan offering customers access to partially.
This fide-risking can occur via either solutions segment of the retirement income the governments new flexi-access a Buy-In whereby a pension scheme pays a market has growth potential but, in light of drawdown regime.
We also launched single premium to purchase an income continued political uncertainty with the modern GIfL Solutions utilising the scope stream that matches its obligations to its recent deferral of the cap on care costs, the of the new legislation in April 2015. members, but retains legal responsibility for market for providers remains constrained.
We also expanded our existing range of those obligations or a Buy-Out whereby a Capped Drawdown solutions by launching pension scheme can purchase a series of Just Retirement launched its first Care Plans a one-year product, supporting those policies to replicate its obligations to some in August 2013 in conjunction with an customers wishing to defer their pension of its members, who become customers of exclusive five-year partnership with Saga.
in the period between the pension reforms the fide-risking provider.
We have subsequently expanded our being announced and coming into effect.
distribution to include other intermediaries.
On page 48 of this report you may read Until recently, providers of defined benefit how Just Retirements new solutions enable fide-risking solutions did not medically Lifetime mortgages people to mix and match guaranteed underwrite scheme members, even though LTM allow homeowners to realise some of income and flexible pensions solutions underwriting could potentially benefit both the equity value in their home without to get the best of both worlds.
In many cases, having to leave their property.
A cash medical underwriting permits insurers to advance is provided which is secured by a We recognise that individuals retirement offer the pension scheme trustees a lower mortgage over their property.
Typically this patterns are changing, as they may choose cost for the fide-risking solution.
Small advance with any interest is repayable on to work longer and receive different defined benefit pension schemes offer the the death of the owner or vacation of the sources of income in later life.
To support most scope for medical underwriting, as property due to a permanent move into a customers in their decision-making, we the average life expectancy of members is residential care facility.
LTM are primarily have created a new regulated retirement more likely to differ from the national used by retirees to supplement retirement advice service to provide valuable advice averages which determine non- 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015f 2016f 2017f 2018f 2019f 2020f Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 21 income and to settle any outstanding meeting a number of the UKs policy Just Retirement has been providing LTM indebtedness.
challenges in satisfying income and care since 2005 and is a leader and innovator in needs later in life.
Overall, we believe that this segment of the retirement income The LTM segment of the retirement income growth in the LTM segment will continue to market.
We were the first provider to market has significant growth potential, be driven by: launch a drawdown LTM, which provides both due to structural drivers and changing Changing attitudes towards retirement: additional flexibility to draw down cash as attitudes towards the use of housing equity Policy maker support: and when it is needed and thereby in retirement.
UK homeowners aged over Insufficient savings or high indebtedness reducing the interest cost to the customer 65 are currently estimated to own property among retirees: and compared to taking a single advance.
wealth of 807bn Source: Key Retirement The cost of paying for long-term care.
Solutions, but only approximately 14.6bn International retirement income LTM advances have been made in total In addition, as part of its review of markets during the period 2002 to end of June mortgages, the Financial Conduct Authority The South African retirement market 2015, providing significant headroom for has continued to highlight a material opportunity and solutions future growth Source: Equity Release challenge for many people who have South Africa has one of the five largest Council.
Nonetheless, the market has interest-only mortgages with insufficient immediate annuity markets in the world, grown significantly in recent years, as capacity to repay these loans.
Between with many structural similarities to the UK illustrated by the chart below showing that 2012 and 2020, 1.3m interest-only including legislative framework, products total equity release lending has more than mortgages valued at approximately 111bn and distribution.
Limited State social doubled between the first half of the 2010 will fall due for repayment Source: security, tax incentives for private calendar year and the equivalent period in previously Financial Services Authority.
Survey evidence suggests that However, just under half of these annuitisation or income drawdown are retirees want to maintain their lifestyle borrowers are expected to have a resulting in a fast-growing retirement rather than simply maximise their legacies, significant repayment shortfall.
This is likely market expected to grow significantly over and the Parliamentary Select Committee to lead to growth in solutions for new LTM the coming years.
acknowledged in March 2013 that housing products to support this segment.
equity has a significant role to play in Just Retirement South Africa has received authorisation to trade and is starting to roll Growth of equity release market out an individually underwritten 20082015 by quarter calendar year Guaranteed Income for Life Solution via EBC and financial intermediaries and plans 450 to launch additional products in the future.
