Strategic report 28 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Chief Executive Officers operating review New business sales amounted to 1,456m for the year ended 30 June 2015, including a five-fold increase in sales of Defined Benefit fide-risking Solutions There was plenty to get excited about in the year to June 2015, even before the recent announcement of our proposed Merger with Partnership Assurance Group The first year following the 2014 Budget was always going to be tough for companies offering retirement income, as consumers firstly deferred taking decisions about their retirement income and then began to take advantage of the greater pension freedom on offer to them.
I am therefore very proud that we have largely managed to offset lower individual sales by accelerating our growth in the defined benefit fide-risking segment.
As a result, DB is now comfortably our largest product.
Our DB pipeline continues to grow and we remain optimistic that medical underwriting will increasingly be seen as the right option for fide-risking by smaller schemes.
In April this year we launched our next generation Retirement Income products, allowing individual savers to take advantage of their new freedom to choose how much of their savings to convert into a guaranteed income for life and how much to keep invested.
The year also saw the second phase of the implementation of our state of the art TM medical underwriting platform, PrognoSys, which is now fully rolled-out for pricing as well as reserving.
We have also started writing business in South Africa.
In other words, there was plenty to get excited about in the year to June 2015, even before the recent announcement of our proposed Merger with Partnership Assurance Group.
This Merger will significantly accelerate our existing strategy and we believe will make us stronger together.
The rest of my review looks at the highlights of 2014 15 in more detail, but we are already working hard to ensure 2015 16 will be more exciting still once the proposed Merger gets underway.
Rodney Cook | Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 29 Financial highlights 2014 15 2013 14 Change m m % Underlying operating profit fell by 11% to 86.4m.
This was driven by the modest fall Defined Benefit fide-risking Solutions DB 608.9 92.1 561.1 in overall Retirement Income sales, and a Guaranteed Income for Life Solutions GIfL 478.0 1,106.2 56.8 fall in new business margin to 3.3% due to pricing pressure following the fall in Care Plans CP 12.1 2.2 450.0 individual sales after the 2014 Budget.
This Retirement Income sales 1,099.0 1,200.5 8.5 compares to a new business margin of Capped Drawdown contracts 48.7 73.7 33.9 4.4% in the prior year, which meant new business profit for the current year fell 31% Total Retirement sales 1,147.7 1,274.2 9.9 to 36.8m.
This was partly offset by 14% LTM loans advanced 308.1 476.4 35.3 growth in in-force profitability.
However, a widening of credit spreads, a fall in Total new business sales 1,455.8 1,750.6 16.8 expected house price inflation, and a reduction in long-term interest rates all had Retir ement Income premiums written are included in revenue within the Statement of comprehensive income a negative impact on the overall result for and Capped Drawdown sales and LTM advances are deposit accounted.
During the year the Group also incurred 19.4m of non-recurring costs 2013 14: 7.0m of non-recurring costs Retirement Income sales Just Retirements new drawdown product, and 5.4m of restructuring costs mainly Sales of DB and GIfL contracts make up the Just Retirement Flexible Pension Plan, relating to the development of new the majority of the Groups new business has generated its first sales already.
We are products in response to the pension Retirement Income sales.
Overall, new also very pleased to have further changes announced in the March 2014 business Retirement Income sales decreased strengthened our relationship with Phoenix Budget and Solvency II.
This meant that the by 8.5% to 1,099.0m 2013 14: Group and believe that the retirementGroup reported a loss before tax for the 1,200.5m.
focused simplified advice we offer to their year of 29.6m 2013 14: profit before tax retiring customers is the first of its kind to of 92.8m.
The Groups DB sales have performed very be launched in the market.
strongly, with a five-fold increase in DB Financial investments have increased to sales reported compared to the prior year Sales of Capped Drawdown reduced by 8.5bn 2013 14: 7.5bn.
5.0bn is invested in corporate bonds, gilts, 92.1m.
Capped Drawdown sales in the prior year and liquidity funds, and 3.5bn in LTM were boosted by demand from savers advances.
Of the corporate bond, gilt and This increase has largely offset the fall in wanting to defer their decision on whether liquidity fund portfolio, 21% is invested in GIfL sales which as expected were affected to buy a lifetime income until after the AAA grade investments and in gilts, and significantly by the Budget announcement implementation of the new Budget rules, 60% is invested in investments rated on 19 March 2014.
The primary changes and sales naturally fell off as the new Agrade or higher.
within the pension reforms announced in regime approached.
the 2014 Budget came into effect from LTM advances continue to provide the Group April 2015, ending a long period of with a high quality source of enhanced Lifetime mortgage loans uncertainty as consumers waited for clarity investment return and an appropriate match The Group targets an optimally capitalon the new pensions landscape and for for the Groups long-duration liabilities.
efficient ratio of LTM to combined sales insurance companies to develop or TheLTV ratio of the LTM portfolio is at 25% ofDB and GIfL contracts of around 25%.
However, in the prior year, LTM advances was above target, boosted by a 59.6m The Board of Just Retirement responded to The Group continues to hold significant wholesale transaction and strong retail these changes, not only by focusing on the liquid assets, and is comfortably able to demand.
We have deliberately managed continued growth of the DB product meet its obligations.
Cash and cash the ratio down in 2014 15, which meant offering, but also by developing new equivalents at 30 June 2015 were 313.7m LTM advances decreased by 35.3% to products both in the GIfL and drawdown 30 June 2014: 395.6m.
The LTM markets, launching these in the last quarter market continues to grow, and these assets of the financial year.
GIfL sales are proving European embedded value EEV provide a good match for the Groups more resilient than some commentators amounted to 1,019.3m at 30 June 2015 long-term liabilities, including DB schemes have suggested, with fourth quarter sales 30 June 2014: 959.1m.
New business where the profile of liabilities can be of a stable and further momentum in the first value generated during the year after tax longer duration than for GIfL contracts due quarter of our new financial year.
Strategic report 30 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Chief Executive Officers operating review continued Capital and dividends and we are optimistic that we can expand And finally...
The Groups capital position, measured the service to include other partners this In the last two years we have successfully under both the Pillar 1 and economic year.
We continue to explore opportunities completed our Initial Public Offering capital measures, remains strong and well for geographical diversification and IPO, addressed the 2014 Budget in excess of risk appetite.
The Group announced the launch of our South African changes, accelerated the growth in our DB economic capital ratio at 30 June 2015 was subsidiary earlier this year.
Progress with business to become our largest product, 176% 30 June 2014: 178%.
The Pillar 1 the development of new systems and and transformed our Retirement Income capital ratio was 166% 30 June 2014: processes to support Solvency II is on offering from an old style annuity into a 236% with the fall predominantly plan, we submitted our internal model diversified proposition offering guaranteed reflecting the shift into an asset mix more application on time and we continue to income for life and flexible drawdown.
appropriate to Solvency II rather than any engage actively with our regulators.
None of this would have been possible underlying deterioration.
without the hard work of my outstanding The proposed Merger with Partnership management team and employees.
In line with previously stated strategy, the Assurance Group represents a unique Ourproposed Merger with Partnership Group will explore, on an ongoing basis, a opportunity to accelerate our strategy in Assurance Group will accelerate the rate range of balance sheet options including the next financial year.
ofchange and it is only right for me to assessing the debt capital markets with a recognise the huge efforts the team has view to providing further financial strength already made and will be called on to make Current trading and outlook and supporting future growth.
The outlook for DB sales remains promising.
Growing numbers of trustees The Just Retirement Board announced on In this context I am particularly proud that continue to advise sponsoring companies 11 August 2015 that it had agreed the the quality of our service has not suffered, to fide-risk their balance sheets by terms of the Merger with Partnership and that we were awarded the Financial transferring DB liabilities to insurers such as Assurance to create JRP Group plc.
Adviser 5 Star Service award for the tenth Just Retirement.
A medically underwritten Inconjunction with the Merger, Just consecutive year for annuities and the approach can offer better value for money Retirement and Partnership Assurance seventh consecutive year for lifetime to schemes whose average life expectancy announced the intention to raise equity mortgages.
This is a fantastic and unique diverges from national averages, and we capital amounting, in aggregate, to achievement.
envisage that a medically underwritten approximately 150m.
Further details on approach will become standard practice for the exact quantum and structure of the The values of the Group remain smaller schemes.
We expect to achieve a Capital Raise will be provided at the time unchanged, and I am confident they run-rate of around 400m of DB premiums ofthe Capital Raise.
will help drive the business forward in the first half of 2015 16, although this and continue to create benefits for our business is inherently lumpy and I am particularly pleased that the Board has shareholders, employees and customers.
proposed a final dividend of 2.2p per share, making the total dividend for the year 3.3p.
The pension freedom reforms announced This is in line with the prior year, and the in the 2014 Budget and introduced in Board believes it to be a suitable and April 2015 have created uncertainty across prudent payment at this time.
the individual retirement income market, particularly in those channels where Business development regulated financial advice is provided.
Rodney Cook The Group has continued to develop its DB However, there are early signs of a Chief Executive Officer business and now does business with all pick-up in interest in GIfL products, and 16 September 2015 the major employee benefit consultants.
provided quotations requested translate We have also launched new modern into applications, we could see an Guaranteed Income for Life Solutions improvement in demand.
allowing retirees a wider choice of benefits, launched a Flexible Pension Plan, which The management team remains very when combined with GIfL provides a blend focused on business as usual, and is of guaranteed income and investment working hard to ensure that any exposure.
We believe we are the first uncertainty caused by the proposed Merger company to offer retirement-focused with Partnership Assurance Group does not simplified advice, initially via our recently affect our focus on a first class service for enhanced relationship with Phoenix Group, customers and intermediaries.
