Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 05 1,456m Just Retirement IPOs into FTSE 250 1,002m to accelerate further growth Total new Entered business sales Long-Term Care exceed 1bn segment JR Care Plan launched First PrognoSys Just Retirement DB sale launched completed reaches 100,000 Capped customers Drawdown 764m launched Modernised GIfL Just Retirement 298m positively disrupts market Just Retirement named by launching in The Sunday Times an enhanced 100 Best Companies annuity to Work For 2010-2014 Regulated Flexible Recent retirement Pension Distribution innovations advice Plan arm JRS launched Lifetime Mortgages Just Retirement has won ten launched consecutive Financial Adviser 5 Star Service awards in the Innovation, Life and Pensions category, six consecutive 5 Star Service diversi cation awards in the Mortgages D B category and been named and growth top slicing Company of the Year twice 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Just Retirement Group total new business sales Strategic report 06 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Addressing a year of change A Q&A with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer addressing the events of the past year, JustRetirements response and what the future holds for the Company Tom Cross Brown | Chairman Rodney Cook | Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 07 What has most impacted the How did Just Retirement What is the outlook performance of the business respond to the Budget?
The most significant event impacting Just We had to take some tough decisions The sales of individual Guaranteed Retirement and all of our competitors has about our cost base as a result of the Income for Life Solutions have changed undoubtedly been the pension reforms Budget announcement.
We concluded dramatically since the March 2014 Budget announced by the Chancellor of the that we should realign our costs to allow announcement, as many people have been Exchequer in his 2014 Budget speech for the fall in demand for individual deferring the decision of how to use their and the subsequent changes to legislation annuities.
Regrettably this included pension savings until the new rules and the and regulation.
The changes have had some redundancies.
new products were implemented in the a profound impact on the market and second quarter of 2015.
The next step was to develop new drivers for growth in the UK retirement products and services and accelerate the income market are robust and positive.
We welcome the long overdue reforms diversification of our business.
We rapidly to the retirement income market and the undertook the most ambitious consumer Demographic shifts and the move to increased flexibility people now have to research we have ever commissioned to defined contribution pension schemes use their pension savings.
Less welcome uncover the deep-rooted needs of people mean that there will be more people with was the dramatic reduction to our share approaching retirement and explored larger pension pots needing to secure price in reaction to the Chancellors howthey wanted to use the additional a retirement income.
We are well placed Budget statement.
flexibility granted by the new freedoms.
tobenefit from this position through This insight was instrumental in shaping ourstrong multi-channel distribution We have rapidly established ourselves as a thedevelopment of our new products and relationships, our market-leading service leading company in the defined benefit confirmed that a significant majority of and our new range of post-Budget segment, as we help pension scheme ourtarget customers want a guaranteed products and services.
trustees achieve better value by utilising income for life.
our innovative Defined Benefit fide-risking Our DB business has grown exceptionally Solutions.
Just Retirement has launched modern since we completed our first transaction Guaranteed Income for Life Solutions inNovember 2013 and there is significant Accelerating our diversification has incorporating additional benefits made headroom for continued growth in reinforced Just Retirement as an available by the governments rule changes.
entrepreneurial company and positioned We have launched the Just Retirement us for a return to growth.
Flexible Pension Plan using a marketIn both the Individual and defined benefit leading administration platform, which fide-risking segments, we are confident that will enable us to attract a new group of the individually underwritten share will You can read a full review of the business on page 28. customers.
In addition we have launched expand, enabling us to compete for a an innovative regulated advice service growing percentage of a growing segment.
targeted at middle Britain households who are seeking a personal recommendation of In addition, our Lifetime Mortgages and how to use their pension savings.
Care Plans are performing well in markets that have strong growth prospects.
Our swift response to the extraordinary Budget challenge underlines our agility, You can read more about our innovation credentials and the entrepreneurial market on page 18. spirit within our Company, which has recently celebrated its tenth anniversary.
From page 22 you can read more on our strategic response.
