01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 07.
Market Outlook 7 JLIFs investments are located in the UK, Canada, Finland, Spain and the Netherlands.
These regions support PPP as a method of infrastructure procurement, have a predictable pipeline of projects that are likely to reach the secondary market and are considered scally strong.
The Companys Investment Policy states that at least 50% of the Portfolio must remain in the UK, and therefore have cash ows denominated in Sterling.
The remaining 50% can be in foreign jurisdictions, subject to economic stability, and therefore cash ows from these projects will be denominated in foreign currencies.
Projected regional outlook by number of assets 3 Currently operating 52 Short term projected region 1-3 years Medium term projected region 3-5 years Long term projected region -5 years 4 At the year end, the UK comprised the largest region by value within the Portfolio, followed by North America currently Canada only and then Continental Europe.
Although this reects the global concentration of PPP projects historically, it no longer represents the pipeline of projects going forward.
JLIF aims to diversify the Portfolio over the medium term see map above further into Continental Europe and North America, and to potentially enter Australia and other scally strong countries as and when PPP assets become available.
Continental Europe, Australia and Canada have mature PPP markets, with a substantial number of projects and a material pipeline of activity over the coming years.
JLIF aims to enhance its existing presence in these regions whilst diversifying within Continental Europe.
JLIF is developing its presence in the USA and diversication into this region is a medium term aim.
7 JLIFs entry into Spain was a result of its acquisition of a 40% interest in the Barcelona Line 9 Section II Metro Stations project, an event that occurred after the balance sheet date.
JLIF Limited USA Canada Latin America United Kingdom Continental Europe Asia Pacic Australia
