Board of Directors All members of the JLIF Board have been in post since the Company was incorporated in August 2010, with the exception of Helen Green who was appointed in April 2014.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 15.
Paul Lester CBE, Chairman David MacLellan, Deputy Chairman Christopher Spencer and Senior Independent Director Paul Lester, a resident of the United Kingdom, Christopher Spencer, a resident of Guernsey, is currently non-executive Chairman of Greenergy qualied as a chartered accountant in London David MacLellan, a resident of the United International Ltd and Knight Square Holdings Ltd in 1975.
Following two years in Bermuda, Kingdom, is the founder and currently Chairman was Perverel.
In December 2015 he was appointed he moved to Guernsey.
Mr Spencer, who of RJD Partners, a midmarket private-equity Chairman Designate of Essentra Plc.
Mr Lester specialised in audit and duciary work, was business focussed on the services and leisure was chief executive of VT Group plc, the support Managing Partner Director of Pannell Kerr Forster sectors.
Previously, Mr MacLellan was an services company, from July 2002 until its Guernsey Limited from 1990 until his retirement executive director of Aberdeen Asset Managers acquisition by Babcock International in July 2010. in May 2000.
Mr Spencer is a member of the plc following its acquisition in 2000 of Murray AIC Offshore Committee, a past President of the Johnstone where he was latterly Chief Executive Mr Lester was group managing director of Guernsey Society of Chartered and Certied having joined the company in 1984.
Mr MacLellan Balfour Beatty plc, the international engineering, Accountants and a past Chairman of the Guernsey has served on the boards of a number of construction and services group, from 1997 to Branch of the Institute of Directors.
Mr Spencer companies and is currently chairman of 2002, and chief executive of Graseby plc from also sits on the board of Directors of Real Estate Havelock Europa plc and a non-executive director 1990 to 1997.
Mr Lester has also held senior Credit Investments Limited, JP Morgan Private of J&J Denholm Limited.
He is a past council management positions at Schlumberger and the Equity Limited, Ruffer Investment Company and member of the British Venture Capital Association Dowty Group plc.
SQN Asset Finance Income Fund Limited, each of and is a member of the Institute of Chartered which is listed on the London Stock Exchange, Accountants of Scotland.
Mr Lester is a former president of the Society of and Summit Germany Limited, which is listed on Maritime Industries, the BSA and the EEF.
the London Stock Exchanges Alternative Investment Market.
Helen Green Talmai Morgan Guido Van Berkel Helen Green, a resident of Guernsey, has been Talmai Morgan, a resident of Guernsey, Guido Van Berkel, a resident of Luxembourg, employed by Saffery Champness, a top 15 rm of qualied as a barrister in 1976.
He holds a MA in started his career in the financial industry more chartered accountants since 1984.
She qualied in Economics and Law from Cambridge University.
than 40 years ago and has held various senior 1987 and became a partner in the London ofce He moved to Guernsey in 1988 where he worked positions with Bank Sarasin, Rabobank, in 1997.
Since 2000 she has been based in the for Barings and then for the Bank of Bermuda.
Over the course Guernsey ofce where she is client liaison director From 1999 to 2004, he was Director of Fiduciary of his career, he has worked in The Netherlands, responsible for trust and company administration.
Services and Enforcement at the Guernsey Financial Jersey, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Scandinavia.
Mrs Green is a non-executive director of Acorn Services Commission Guernseys financial From 2001 until 2007 Mr Van Berkel was active on Income Fund Limited of which she has been regulatory agency where he was responsible the Executive Board of Bank Sarasin in Switzerland chairman since 2012, Henderson Diversied for the design and subsequent implementation and as such he acted as chairman of various Income Fund Limited and City Natural Resources of Guernseys law relating to the regulation of Sarasin entities across Europe and Asia.
Currently High Yield Trust Plc all of which are listed on duciaries, administration businesses and company Mr Van Berkel is an independent director in a the London Stock Exchanges Main Market and directors.
He was also particularly involved in the number of Luxembourg, British, Channel Islands Landore Resources Limited which is listed on activities of the Financial Action Task Force and and Dutch investment fund ranges and from the the London Stock Exchanges Alternative the Offshore Group of Banking Supervisors.
beginning of 2012 until mid-2015 was chairman of Investment Market.
For the last ten years, Mr Morgan has been BlackRock Luxembourg SA and BlackRock Fund the non-executive chairman or a non-executive Management Srl in Luxembourg as well as director of a number of publicly listed investment chairman of Blackrock Fund Netherlands BV.
He is presently Chairman of NB Private Equity Partners Limited, Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited and Global Fixed Income Realisation Limited.
He also sits on the board of BH Global Limited.
