Our established, three-part business model has supported a total return to shareholders since launch of 50.2% Business Model JLIFs shareholders invest in the Company seeking a stable yield and believing in the business plan and the ability of the Board and Investment Adviser to deliver this.
JLIFs business model has three main areas of focus as outlined below.
JLIF aims to deliver a stable yield to investors, to enhance the Portfolio by nding additional value within its existing investments and to develop new investments to allow JLIF to improve the longevity and value of the Company and to benefit from factors attributable to greater scale e. g. cost savings.
Deliver JLIF places significant emphasis on ensuring its Portfolio is able to deliver returns in line with the expectations of management and shareholders.
This means working closely with each project to deliver the returns expected at the time of investment.
Managing the existing Portfolio in this way delivers the base yield to return to shareholders.
JLIF has an active approach to management in cooperation with its partners.
Its management team, alongside experienced individuals, holds directorships on the boards of the projects.
This means a day-to-day direct link to the team at the project sites.
Not only does this allow swift response times and decision making, but also ensures consistency through acquisition to ownership and enables a smooth transition for its clients.
Enhance In addition to delivering the base yield from the Portfolio, JLIF aims to generate growth over and above that which arises from the simple unwind of the discount rate.
By drawing on its wealth of experience in infrastructure asset and fund management, JLIF aims to identify and deliver enhancements to cash ows at both a project and portfolio level.
JLIFs large Portfolio affords benets such as economies of scale and knowledge-share across the projects, which translates into efficiencies for its clients, partners and shareholders.
JLIFs team of infrastructure specialists has a substantial amount of experience in nding additional efficiencies.
The extra margins derived from these enhancements contribute to the performance of the Fund making JLIF an attractive investment as it maintains a relatively lower risk prole for the yield that it returns.
The portfolio management team works closely with the acquisition team to ensure that not only does the Company deliver the value that JLIF identies prior to acquisition but that this data and information is applied to the Portfolio to identify further value.
Similarly, the experience of the portfolio management team is used to good effect when identifying, pricing and negotiating new acquisitions.
deliver Develop JLIF seeks to create new acquisition opportunities both within the Portfolio and in the market.
JLIFs opportunities for growth come from four main avenues, the first two of which support JLIFs pipeline: 1 acquisition of additional stakes from co-shareholders: enhance develop 2 the two First Offer Agreements with John Laing Group: 3 non-competitive bidding opportunities arising from relationships with vendors developed over the medium and long term: and 4 the competitive secondary market.
In selecting opportunities and subsequently submitting an offer Actively generating long term for an asset or portfolio, JLIF robustly tests the deliverability of the sustainable value forecast future cash ows assumed in the valuation and ensures that its acquisitions add long term value to the Fund.
JLIF is prepared to decline transactions that cannot be acquired at a price that represents good value to its shareholders on the basis of the risk-weighted return.
