Strategic Report Objective The Companys objective is, through active management of its portfolio, to generate long term sustainable value through quality investments in low risk infrastructure projects.
This is measured by JLIFs yield and IRR objectives.
JLIF predominantly invests in equity and subordinated debt interests issued in respect of PPP projects, whose revenues are government-backed.
Sectors JLIF continues to invest in the traditional core PPP sectors in which it currently holds investments: however, it is also able to broaden its sector diversity to include rail projects.
JLIF is ensuring it is well positioned to take advantage of future opportunities including in respect of economic infrastructure, where this meets the Investment Policy.
JLIFs investment policy allows it to invest outside of projects that are strictly PPPs where they are considered to have a substantially similar risk prole and to display substantially similar characteristics, although this will most likely be as a consequence of acquiring a portfolio including such projects, rather than targeting such assets individually.
Geographies The geographic distribution of JLIFs portfolio reects the historic concentration of PPP transactions to date and the maturity and support of PPP as a procurement model.
JLIFs portfolio is currently predominantly invested in the UK, with exposure also to Canada and Continental Europe.
The Company hopes to further diversify its exposure to new geographies, particularly to Australia and the Americas.
Under the investment policy, JLIF has the ability to invest: up to 30% of the Portfolio in assets still in their construction phase: up to 10% of the Portfolio in projects that are not classied as PPP projects but exhibit a substantially similar risk prole and characteristics: up to 15% of the Portfolio in projects that are classied as having a demand-based payment mechanism: and up to 50% of the Portfolio in overseas jurisdictions, maintaining at least 50% invested in UK assets at all times.
Full details of the Investment Policy are set out on pages 18 to 19 of this Annual Report.
Forth Valley Royal Hospital Larbert United Kingdom This 860-bed acute hospital located in Larbert, Scotland, is hailed as one of the most advanced hospitals in Europe.
Innovative design and leading technology have been used to create the best possible environment for patients, staff and visitors.
