Investment Policy Single investment limit and diversity of clients and suppliers The following describes JLIFs When any new acquisition is made, JLIF will ensure that the investment policy.
investment or, in the event of an acquisition of a portfolio of investments, each investment in the portfolio acquired does General not have an acquisition value or, if it is an additional stake in an JLIFs investment policy is to invest predominantly in the equity and existing investment, the combined value of both the existing subordinated debt issued with respect to infrastructure projects stake and the additional stake acquired is not greater than 25% that are predominantly PPP projects.
The Company predominantly of JLIFs Total Assets at the time of investment.
In selecting new invests in projects that have completed construction and that are investments to acquire, JLIF will seek to ensure that its Portfolio in their operational phase.
Investment capital in projects that are comprises a range of public sector clients and supply chain under construction is limited to 30% of the Total Assets of the contractors, in order to avoid over-reliance on any single client Fund calculated at the time of investment.
JLIF predominantly invests in projects whose revenue streams: Gearing are public sector or government-backed: and JLIF intends to make prudent use of leverage held in JLIF Limited are predominantly availability-based where payments Partnership for nancing acquisitions of investments and working received by the Project Entities do not generally depend capital purposes.
Under the company articles, and in accordance on the level of use of the asset, other projects being with JLIFs Investment Policy, JLIFs outstanding borrowings, demand-based where payments received by the Project excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying Entities depend on the level of use of the project assets.
Project Entities, but including any financial guarantees to support A project is availability-based or demand-based for these subscription obligations, will be limited to 25% of JLIFs Total purposes if the Investment Adviser deems that 75% or more 14 Assets.
JLIF may borrow in currencies other than Sterling as of payments received by the relevant Project Entity does or part of its currency hedging strategy.
does not, as appropriate, generally depend on the level of use of the project asset.
Origination of investments Whilst it is envisaged that further acquisitions will be of operational All of the investments in the Portfolio have similar characteristics PPP projects with availability-based revenues, it may be possible to those set out above and further investment opportunities will that a limited number of projects in construction and or with only be pursued if they also satisfy these criteria.
demand based revenue mechanisms may be acquired.
It is expected that further investments will include investments Investment capital in projects whose revenue streams are that have been originated and developed by members of John predominantly demand-based is limited to 15% of the Total Assets Laing Group and may be acquired from them.
JLIF has of the Fund calculated at the time of investment.
For the purposes established procedures to deal with any potential conicts of of this restriction, the shadow toll mechanisms for the investments interest that may arise in relation to any acquisition of assets in the M40 and M6 M74 motorway projects are not regarded from John Laing Group.
These procedures include: as carrying demand risk due to their relative insensitivity to trafc movement.
complete segregation of JLCM, acting on behalf of JLIF, and the John Laing sell side team: In addition, the Company may invest up to 10% of its Total Assets a requirement to conduct asset due diligence through third calculated at the time of investment in infrastructure assets that party suppliers acting for JLIF, and for an opinion from an are not government-backed PPP assets but that have substantially independent expert on the Fair Market Value of the the same risk prole and characteristics as PPP assets.
Investment Capital to be obtained: and a requirement for JLIF board approval prior to submitting an Geographic focus offer to John Laing and prior to execution of the Sale and We believe that attractive opportunities for JLIF to enhance Purchase Agreement.
returns for shareholders are likely to arise in areas of the world JLIF will seek to acquire further investments going forward both where PPP is a practiced route for delivering infrastructure from John Laing and from the wider market.
The Company may, therefore, make investments in assets to acquire, JLCM will ensure that these projects have the European Union, other European countries, Canada, the similar characteristics to the projects in the current Portfolio and United States of America and the Asia Pacic region.
The Company will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating Any proposed acquisition of assets by JLIF from the John Laing on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where JLCM advises Group that fall within the overall investment parameters set by that contract structures and their enforceability are reliable, JLIF, including in relation to funding, will be subject to approval where to the extent applicable JLCM advises that public sector by the Directors, who are independent of John Laing.
or government-backed obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
JLIF will The relationship between JLIF and John Laing is governed by the ensure that over 50% of the Companys Total Assets, measured Rules, as dened in the Prospectus.
These require that any by value, will be in respect of projects based in the UK although arrangements between a Relevant Person as dened in the this will not require JLIF to dispose of Investment Capital in Rules and JLIF are at least as favourable to JLIF as would be any respect of non-UK projects if this limit is breached as a result of comparable arrangement effected on normal commercial terms changes in value of the Investment Portfolio.
negotiated at arms length between the Relevant Person and an independent party.
14 In a Trading Update published in February 2016, the Company announced its intention to seek shareholder approval, at the forthcoming AGM in May 2016, to increase the Companys gearing limit from 25% to 35% of its Total Assets.
Further details will follow in due course with the Companys notice of AGM.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 19.
JLIF has a contractual right of first offer in accordance with the Amendments to and compliance with the Investment Policy Amended Existing FOA and the New FOA for relevant Material changes to JLIFs Investment Policy may only be made Investment Capital in UK, European and Canadian in accordance with the approval of the shareholders by way of accommodation and roads and certain rail projects of which the ordinary resolution and for so long as the Ordinary Shares are John Laing Group wishes to dispose and that are consistent with listed on the ofcial list in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules.
It is envisaged that the John Laing Group The investment restrictions detailed above apply at the time of will periodically make available for sale further portfolios of the acquisition of Investment Capital.
In the ordinary course Investment Capital in infrastructure projects although there is no of business, JLIF will not be required to dispose of Investment guarantee that this will be the case.
Subject to due diligence and Capital and to rebalance its investment Portfolio as a result of agreement on price and transaction documentation, JLIF will a change in the respective valuations of Investment Capital.
seek to acquire those projects that t its Investment Policy.
Minor changes to the Investment Policy must be approved by JLIF will also seek out and review acquisition opportunities from the JLIF Board, taking into account advice from the Investment outside the John Laing Group that arise and will, where Adviser where appropriate.
appropriate, carry out the necessary due diligence.
If, in the opinion of JLCM, as Operator of JLIF Limited Partnership the Partnership, the risk characteristics, valuation and price of the Investment Capital in the project or portfolio of projects for sale is acceptable and is consistent with our Investment Policy, then subject to JLIF having funds an offer will be made without seeking the prior approval of the Board and, if successful, the Investment Capital in the relevant project or portfolio of projects will be acquired by JLIF, following approval by the Board.
Potential disposals of investments Whilst the Directors may elect to retain Investment Capital in the Portfolio and any other further investments made by JLIF over the long term, JLCM will regularly monitor the valuations of such projects and any secondary market opportunities to dispose of Investment Capital and report to the Directors accordingly.
The Directors only intend to dispose of Investments where upon the advice of JLCM they consider that it would be in the best interest of shareholders.
Proceeds from the disposal of investments may be reinvested or distributed at the discretion of the Directors.
Currency and hedging policy A portion of JLIFs underlying investments may be denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
For example, currently some of the Portfolio is denominated in Canadian Dollars and Euros.
However, any dividends or distributions in respect of the Ordinary Shares will be made in Sterling and the market prices and Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares will be reported in Sterling.
Currency hedging will only be carried out to seek to provide protection to the level of Sterling dividends and other distributions that JLIF aims to pay on the Ordinary Shares, and in order to reduce the risk of currency uctuations and the volatility of returns that may result from such currency exposure.
This may involve the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign currency assets, or forward foreign exchange contracts for up to three years to hedge the income from assets that are exposed to exchange rate risk against Sterling.
Interest rate hedging may also be carried out to seek to provide protection against increasing costs of servicing any debt drawn down by the Company to finance investments.
This may involve the use of interest rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
Currency and interest rate hedging transactions will only be undertaken for the purpose of efficient Portfolio management and these transactions will not be undertaken for speculative purposes.
