50 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors John Stewart Chairman Skills and experience: John was appointed Chairman of the company on 1 March 2010 and has extensive experience of financial services having been a member of the Court of the Bank of England until November 2015.
He was previously Chairman of Guide Dogs for the Blind, a director of the Telstra Corporation, a member of the Australian Federal Attorney Generals Business Government Advisory Group on National Security and a member of the Australian Prime Ministers Task Group on Emissions Trading.
Other former John Stewart Nigel Wilson Rudy Markham roles include: chief executive of Woolwich 19962000, deputy CEO of Barclays Chairman Group chief executive Vice chairman 20002003 and chief executive of National and senior independent Australia Bank 20042008. non-executive director External appointments: Southern Cross Stud LLP Committee membership: Nominations Committee Corporate Governance Committee Nigel Wilson Group chief executive Skills and experience: Nigel was appointed group chief executive in 2012 having joined as group chief financial officer in 2009.
Nigel was senior independent director SID of The Capita Group plc from 2009 until 2012, and was SID chairman of Halfords Group Plc Mark Gregory Mark Zinkula Carolyn Bradley from 2006 until 2011.
Chief financial officer Chief executive officer, LGIM Independent Previous appointments include: McKinsey & Co, non-executive director where clients included BP, Citibank, Cadbury, Santander, Kingsher, Courtaulds, Whitbread and Globe Investment Trust.
Group commercial director of Dixons Group Plc: managing director of Stanhope Properties Plc: chief executive, Corporate, Guinness Peat Aviation G. P. A. : and managing director, Viridian Capital.
Nigel was also deputy chief executive and chief financial officer at UBM.
Nigel was appointed to the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group in 2015.
Qualications include a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he was a Kennedy Scholar, and a recipient of the Alfred P Sloan research scholarship.
He also worked at the National Bureau of Economic Research NBER.
Nigel has won numerous athletics championships including the 800m British Masters.
He was also City AM Business Personality Richard Meddings Stuart Popham Olaf Swantee of the Year in 2014.
Independent Independent Independent non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director Rudy Markham Vice chairman and senior independent non-executive director Skills and experience: Rudy was appointed to the Board in October 2006.
Rudy is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He was awarded the CIMA Lifetime Contribution to Management Accounting Award in 2005.
Former roles include: chief financial officer, director of strategy and technology and treasurer of Unilever Plc: chair and CEO of Unilever Japan: and chair of Unilever Australia.
External appointments: AstraZeneca Plc Corbion N. V. supervisory board vice chairman Julia Wilson Lizabeth Zlatkus Geoffrey Timms United Parcel Service Inc Independent Independent Group general counsel non-executive director non-executive director and company secretary Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Risk Committee Corporate Governance Committee | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 51 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mark Gregory Richard Meddings Julia Wilson Chief financial officer Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mark was appointed group chief financial Richard was appointed to the Board in Julia was appointed to the Board in November officer on 1 July 2013.
She has significant corporate finance, chief executive officer, Savings and joined accountant and has over 30 years of banking tax and accounting experience.
She is the the Board in January 2009.
He joined and financial services experience, most group finance director of 3i Group plc, which Legal & General in 1998 and has held a recently having spent 12 years on the board includes responsibility for finance, investment variety of divisional finance director roles of Standard Chartered and almost eight years valuations and treasury.
She has been a and served as group financial controller, as finance director.
Previously, Richard was member of its board since 2008.
Previously, communications and resources director, group financial controller at Barclays and was she was the group director of corporate finance resources and international director and also chief operating officer for the Wealth at Cable & Wireless plc where she also held a UK service operations director.
From 2006, Management, Premium Retail and Life number of other finance-related roles.
Julia is a he was managing director, With-profits.
He has also served member of the ICAEW ACA and the Chartered Prior to joining Legal & General, he on the board of Woolwich as group finance Institute of Taxation.
worked in senior financial and business director and as a non-executive director at 3i External appointments: development roles at companies including where he was the senior independent director 3i Group plc Kingsher Plc and ASDA.
He is a qualied and chair of the audit committee.
Richard is Committee membership: chartered accountant.
also on the Board of Teach First, a charity Audit Committee Chair committed to ending educational inequality.
Nominations Committee External appointments: Risk Committee Mark Zinkula HM Treasury, non-executive director Corporate Governance Committee Chief executive officer, LGIM and chair of the audit committee Member of the Governing Council of the Skills and experience: Mark was appointed to the Board in International Chamber of Commerce, UK Lizabeth Zlatkus Deutsche Bank, chair of the audit committee September 2012, having been appointed Independent non-executive director chief executive officer of Legal & General Trustee of Teach First Skills and experience: Investment Management in March 2011.
Committee membership: Lizabeth was appointed to the Board in Prior to that, he was CEO of Legal & General Nominations Committee December 2013.
She spent the majority of Investment Management America LGIMA Remuneration Committee her career at The Hartford Financial Services since 2008 and played an integral part in the Risk Committee Chairman Group Hartford, serving as both chief establishment and successful expansion Audit Committee financial officer and chief risk officer of the of LGIMA.
Prior to joining LGIMA, Mark was Corporate Governance Committee rm.
In addition, she held a range of senior at Aegon Asset Management where he was operating roles including co-president of global head of xed income.
She served Stuart Popham External appointments: on various insurance industry committees Independent non-executive director The Investment Association Board member including as regulatory chair for the North Skills and experience: American Chief Risk Ofcers Council.
Outside Stuart was appointed to the Board on 1 July of her professional career, Lizabeth is actively Carolyn Bradley 2011.
Stuart has extensive legal knowledge and involved with various educational, health and Independent non-executive director business acumen.
He was previously the senior science organisations, and sits on several partner of Clifford Chance LLP from 20032011. non-profit boards.
She was previously selected Skills and experience: Carolyn was appointed to the Board in He is presently vice-chairman EMEA at Citigroup to be a member of the Presidents Committee and was from 2008 to 2012 chairman of on Employment of People with Disabilities, December 2014.
Carolyn has a strong consumer focused background having worked TheCityUK, a body created to promote due to her work with the disabled community.
During this time, External appointments: Carolyn held a range of senior positions in External appointments: Boston Private Financial Holdings various roles including chief operating officer, Citigroup, vice chairman of EMEA Banking Committee membership: Tesco.
com, marketing director, UK and, most Chairman of the Royal Institute of Nominations Committee recently, as group brand director.
International Affairs Chatham House Risk Committee External appointments: Council member at Birkbeck College, Audit Committee Marstons PLC, non-executive director University of London The Mentoring Foundation, Royal National Lifeboat Institution, non-executive director vice chairman Geoffrey Timms Trustee of Cancer Research UK Group general counsel and company secretary Committee membership: Committee membership: Nominations Committee Skills and experience: Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Geoffrey has been the Group General Counsel Remuneration Committee Risk Committee since 1999 and, in addition, the Group Company Secretary since 2008.
Prior to joining Legal & General, Geoffrey was a solicitor Olaf Swantee with Clifford Chance and then Clyde & Co.
Independent non-executive director Skills and experience: FURTHER READING Olaf was appointed to the Board in August 2014. www.
com Olaf has significant digital and technological media-centre nigels-blog experience and is the former chief executive officer of EE Ltd, the UKs largest mobile phone operator and broadband provider.
Previously, he was a member of the Orange executive board, heading the groups Europe division.
Before joining Orange, Olaf had 17 years experience in the IT industry in Europe and the United States, latterly serving as HewlettPackards EMEA senior vice president for enterprise sales and software.
He also held senior leadership, sales and marketing positions with Compaq and Digital Equipment Corporation in Europe and the United States.
Committee membership: Nominations Committee Audit Committee | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
