28 STRATEGIC REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY WITH A FOCUS ON FOUR KEY AREAS... HOUSING HEALTH INCOME IN BEING RETIREMENT AN ACTIVE INVESTOR | | L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15 29 STRATEGIC REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY Addressing the housing crisis Reducing poverty in retirement The housing market is dysfunctional.
Most people do not have any While the over 65s sit on over significant amounts of private 1.4 trillion of housing equity, retirement income and nances are many young people struggle to often lowest when money is needed afford the costs either to rent or for elderly care.
Thats why we work buy a home.
Housing is important with organisations that help the to us, not only because were a elderly such as the Elderly major supplier of housing related Accommodation Counsel and Age life and general insurance products, UK to improve outcomes for people a market-leading distributor of in retirement.
Were the UKs largest mortgages, and an increasingly pensions investment manager, important investor in house building.
a market leader in auto-enrolled pensions, having 1.8 million workplace savings customers and provide retirement income for one million people.
Our new Alongside the private Home Finance business helps sector, the government, boost income through the release of housing equity.
has a crucial role to play in building genuinely Raising standards in the boardroom affordable homes and As one of the largest investors on the UK stock market and a major global boosting overall supply investor, we want to make sure that CAMPBELL ROBB, CEO companies align their interests with Shelter, May 2015 those of their shareholders.
Our aim is to improve the performance of Weve invested our slow money companies in which we invest.
in housing projects, helping build We focus on all aspects of ESG homes to buy and to rent, in all Environmental, Social and sectors of the market, including Governance.
In 2015, we campaigned social and affordable housing.
on the issues of board diversity We also work closely with Shelter, especially female representation on who campaign on housing issues boards, executive pay, corporate and help people overcome the reporting, cyber security which is an misery of homelessness.
increasingly important concern and auditor independence.
Our corporate Improving the nations health governance team, led by Sacha In the UK, we have relationships Sadan, attended 545 meetings with a number of organisations to with 337 companies.
34.5% covered improve the health of the population.
environmental and or social topics Weve partnered with mental health and 45% of meetings were with charities, joining Lord Stevensons non-UK companies.
high-prole campaign and have MORE INFORMATION provided sponsorship for Alzheimers See our Corporate Governance report: Research UK to research causes and www.
com uk en capabilities corporatetreatment of the disease, including governance work on improving awareness of dementia.
Improving the nations health is important to us as we are the UKs largest provider of life insurance.
| | L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15 30 STRATEGIC REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY Diversity and Inclusion Improving financial education In addition to our four Were committed to ensuring we manage and celebrate all forms of diversity in our Many groups of consumers are key themes, weve business.
We want to see greater equality alienated from financial services of opportunity for colleagues to further focused on the companies, nding products and their careers.
We also want to ensure that our Board reects diversity of background services bewildering and confusing.
following key areas: and management skills.
Gender diversity As well as ensuring we engage with is one key issue, where were committed consumers and communicate in an to help talented women progress their careers through our 50 50 by 2020 understandable way, weve developed Helping vulnerable customers network.
This network raises awareness a programme of financial education.
of gender diversity and is a fairness test In 2015, we implemented a In 2015, a number of our employees to help us check our progress towards a vulnerable customers policy.
The more balanced workforce, particularly attended our Everyday Money key customer groups we identied for more senior roles in 2020. awareness programme in schools as being potentially vulnerable across England and Wales, helping included the recently bereaved, Female Male young people understand issues such the elderly, people with long-term Directors 3 8 as how tax works, how to borrow illness and disabilities and those Senior leaders 60 191 money and how to budget their experiencing financial desperation.
Our vulnerable customer committee Employee engagement helps plan our product and service Environmental sustainability In 2015, we built on great levels of design and feeds into employee engagement with employees.
We actively Were a services-based business encouraged dialogue through an ever wider training programmes.
As well as range of activities, including Nigel Wilsons using natural resources to run our training all our employees, we world tour, where he talked with employees business.
Our Group Environment partner with third sector bodies in all of our principal locations.
Committee is responsible for such as Age UK, the Samaritans We also started rolling out Yammer, an managing our views on climate and Alzheimers Research UK to enterprise social media tool, to encourage change and environmental impacts online collaboration between people at all increase employee knowledge.
We also upgraded a number of our across the group.
Our strategy is to HR systems for managers and individuals to build resilience and do more each make the administration of managing people year to use fewer natural resources.
simpler and to add value to performance management and reward conversations.
Our key commitments are to: Over 6,400 people in our businesses in the 1.
Reduce carbon dioxide emissions UK and US participated in our annual What 2.
Reduce waste Matters Employee Survey, with an overall response rate of 85%.
Reduce energy usage in The 2015, overall Employee Engagement Index fell from 78% in 2014 to 64% in 2015. our property investments This decrease in scores demonstrates that MORE INFORMATION organisational or location change can create uncertainty in our people.
com csr The group embarked on a programme of unprecedented change in 2015 to enable the organisation to keep costs manageable and optimise our location strategy.
In 2015, we built on our well-established My Money, My Life, My Health employee wellbeing programme, with major initiatives focusing on stress and mental health.
We encourage colleagues to lead a healthy and balanced lifestyle to counter stress, with exercise, such as encouraging stair-climbing in our ofces, playing an important role.
CASE STUDY research charity enables Human rights Improving awareness them to raise public Our respect for human rights is embedded of Alzheimers disease awareness of the in how we do business.
Were a signatory condition and provide Our work with to the UN Global Compact for all our reliable information Alzheimers Research worldwide operations and are committed about dementia.
We UK has highlighted the to upholding globally accepted human helped develop a new importance of treating rights principles website, Dementia dementia as a disease Explained, with input that aficts many from children and thousands of elderly families with experience people, rather than just of dementia and with the inevitable result 50% the guidance of dementia of ageing.
Our work with of households in the bottom half of Alzheimers Research UK income distribution do not have MORE DETAILS any home contents insurance.
org leading dementia Financial Inclusion Report, 2015.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 31 STRATEGIC REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY Tax matters TAXES BORNE COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY The diagrams below cover the amount and type of taxes borne by our UK business and the amount of taxes borne by our overseas businesses.
Further analysis of taxes borne and collected can be found in our CSR report online.
UK Overseas Overseas Grace Stevens UK PBT PBT Chief Tax officer 1,167m 188m Paying and collecting taxes is an important part of our role as a business and our contribution to society.
Taxes provide public revenues for Our total tax contribution for the UK is The overseas business is relatively small as governments to meet economic and 813m.
Total UK taxes borne were 314m.
compared to the UK business.
Our total tax UK profit taxes borne were 122m.
Non-UK social objectives and we are playing taxes borne were 63m.
profit taxes borne our part to achieve this.
Our total tax The bulk of our business and profit arise were 37m.
The UK tax expense attributable to equity Overseas profits totalled 188m.
The holders is 207m, resulting in an effective overseas tax expense attributable to Tax strategy and tax risk tax rate of 18%.
equity holders is 54m, resulting in an management effective tax rate of 29%.
We aim for our tax affairs to be profit taxes borne 122m USA 47m Ireland 0.4m transparent and sustainable in the Property and other taxes borne 87m Netherlands 45m Bermuda 0.3m long term.
Our tax policy is clear Irrecoverable VAT and premium taxes 58m France 41m about what we will and wont do.
Payroll taxes borne 47m Details on our tax strategy, governance and risk management as well as our business model and stakeholders can be found in our tax supplement Reconciliation of tax charge in income statement to UK tax paid per cash ow www.
com m reporting-centre supplements 300 Transparency and country-by- 7 22 250 112 country reporting CBCR 261 80 244 200 In recent times, we have seen increased pressure and scrutiny, 150 particularly from the media for governments to raise revenues, 100 and tackle tax avoidance and 50 evasion.
CBCR is a mandatory measure to be implemented 0 from next year to increase the Equity Accounting 2014 tax 2015 tax Withholding Total tax transparency of companies tax 3 holders adjustments instalments instalments tax paid per tax in including paid payable cash ow affairs.
We are committed to tax 2 2 income deferred in 2015 in 2016 statement transparency and fully support statement tax CBCR.
At Legal & General we Notes: already publish the profits earned 1.
Accounting adjustments include deferred tax which arises when there are timing differences between the inclusion of items in the income statement and in the tax return.
One example would be unrealised gains and taxes paid and borne in each and losses on investments which are included in the income statement annually but not taxed until investment country where we have business gains and losses are realised e. g. on disposal of the asset.
The UK corporation tax payment regime is on a quarterly cycle requiring us to make two tax payments during and will continue to do so.
the accounting period and two payments following the end of the accounting period.
Our UK entities incur withholding tax on investment income e. g. dividends, interest received from overseas.
FURTHER INFORMATION ON OUR TAX MATTERS www.
html | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
