6 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS IS EVOLVING OUR JOURNEY TAKES US TOWARDS BEING A GLOBAL ASSET MANAGER, WHILE REMAINING EXPERT IN MANAGING INSURANCE RISK Our story began 180 years price became even more attractive ago, when six lawyers founded to consumers.
We responded by Legal & General, insuring the lives building a new pensions autoThe biggest trend was of members of the legal profession.
enrolment business and because Five years later, wed built up of our scale we could offer savers the global growth of sufficient resources to loan some of the lowest charges in asset management.
20,000 to build the Stockton the market.
and Hartlepool Railway, making Our assets under Like many others, we re-examined our first infrastructure investment.
our international businesses, management grew In 1970, we set up our investment questioning the relative merits from 264 billion at management business.
An of European markets against the important focus for us has been high-scale demographics of the start of 2009 to investing the funds of corporate North America and Asia.
746 billion at the dened benefit pension schemes.
Our faith in asset management end of 2015.
We grew our traditional UK life and made Legal & General Investment pensions business in the next 40 Management the heart of the years, offering insurance, annuities, company.
Our global assets pensions and savings plans.
Our under management grew from international footprint expanded, 264 billion at the beginning of especially in the US and Europe.
We created two new UK listed insurers remained businesses, Legal & General Capital resilient during the late 2000s and Legal & General Retirement, financial crisis, with no one needing with complementary skills in a capital injection from the state.
Since 2009, we have built on our success, benefitting in the last three Were still changing.
The global years, from a strategy crafted to economic outlook and financial respond to five global macro trends.
markets are likely to remain uncertain for some time to come.
But the financial crisis meant Our challenge is to continue our world changed utterly.
our journey towards being an In addition, the online revolution asset manager.
We also need to saw consumers shying away from become a truly digital business.
Our survival depends on it.
Disposable income was squeezed, with little left for savings or insurance.
Offering the lowest | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 7 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS IS EVOLVING A NEW INTERNATIONAL FOCUS Were starting to deliver a new international strategy based upon managing assets in the worlds largest economies such as the US, China and Japan, and providing insurance cover in India.
Weve sold non-core businesses in France, Egypt and the Gulf.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT RETIREMENT LGR LGIM Weve built scale to become We are transforming the business a top 15 global asset manager.
from a focus mainly on UK annuities Weve integrated our market to diversify internationally.
Were leading pensions investment and well placed to exploit the huge auto-enrolment businesses.
Were potential in bulk annuities globally.
expanding internationally, exporting Weve launched a lifetime mortgage our skills to invest in some of the business to help the over 65s use worlds largest economies.
the 1.4 trillion tied up in equity in their homes.
CAPITAL LGC INSURANCE Launched in 2013, weve not only Were the UKs largest life insurance already started to achieve better provider and a significant player in risk-adjusted returns on our mortgage-related financial services.
balance sheet but have Were aiming to redene how demonstrated how financial people can protect their loved success can also be economically ones with market-leading useful by investing in society.
Weve invested into urban regeneration, housing, clean energy and alternative finance.
AMERICA LGA Our US business is one of the US top ten term life providers, with over one million customers.
Weve now added a new dimension by working with LGR to buy out liabilities from US dened benefit pension funds, using bulk annuities.
And by improving efficiencies, LGA is providing more stable financial returns.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
