32 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Q&A We started to transform the shape Mark Gregory, Legal & Generals of our business, making us tter for the future, with our strategy of bolt-on acquisitions and disposals.
group chief financial officer But we arent complacent: there are many further growth opportunities discusses this years highlights, for the group and we can make more progress in improving the including Solvency II, the new profitability of the Savings division.
You have announced a new dividend policy and his views dividend policy, how did the Board come to this decision?
on the companys future prospects.
Our existing dividend policy was time-dated.
We stated that we expected to reduce our net cash coverage of dividend towards returning two-thirds of our net Mark, what achievements were the success of our newly acquired cash to shareholders via dividends your personal highlights for 2015?
Home Finance business and Asian i. e. 1.5 x in 2015, should our mandate wins in LGIM, were signs of Solvency II surplus be no lower 2015 has been another challenging positive momentum in our newer than Solvency I. but great year for Legal & General, product offerings.
with increased net cash generation, Now we are in the Solvency II operating profit and return on equity.
We retained our market-leading regime, the Board has adopted There have been many achievements.
positions in LDI in the UK over 40% a progressive dividend policy, I would say that from a strategic market share, UK retail protection reecting the groups mediumperspective, writing our first US and 25% market share to Q3 2015 and term underlying business growth, European pensions risk transfer deals, 77 billion assets under management including net cash generation LGIM becoming the worlds 15th on Cofunds means its still the largest and operating earnings.
largest asset manager, with over $1.1 savings platform in the UK.
Clarity on Solvency II means its the trillion of assets under management right moment to announce our new at year end and the progress on our policy.
We view the primary method urban regeneration schemes in for rewarding our shareholders to Salford, Cardiff and Bracknell were be via the ordinary dividend and we significant steps forward.
Additionally think the new policy is a sustainable our auto-enrolment scheme wins, and way of continuing to do that whilst retaining sufficient cash to invest in growth opportunities for the group.
Legal & General announced its new capital-lite strategy for UK bulk annuities at the time of the Interims.
Could you tell us more about it?
Our response to the potential global dened benefit liabilities estimated to be in excess of $9 trillion and the increased regulatory capital requirements for annuities under Solvency II, meant we accelerated the implementation of our capital-lite model for the pension risk transfer business.
This means we take on Mark Gregory, our group chief financial less risk in respect of new business officer, on a visit to Salford, one of our urban regeneration schemes and the on our balance sheet, whilst seeking location for our MediaCity investment.
to optimise the return on capital we | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 33 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Q&A deploy in this market.
For each new In February 2016, you announced Solvency II Capital Surplus annuity contract we expect this to your intention to retire from the result in a higher proportion of profit group in January 2017.
Can you tell emerging in the year of sale.
5.5bn However, we expect less total profit Ive really enjoyed my time with 169% coverage ratio to emerge over the duration of the Legal & General and the company Figures are pre-accrual of proposed contract when compared to retaining final dividend for 2015 on a pro-forma basis.
By January 2017, all of the risk.
We will use direct I will have been here for 18 years investments and selective derisking and spent eight years on the Board actions to optimise returns from the Solvency II so whilst a difficult decision, I have long-term predictable run-off of our decided that next January is a good Solvency II is a risk-based 43.4 billion annuity back book.
time for me to be retiring from capital regime designed to the group.
calculate the amount of capital needed for a worst 1-in-200 year And nally, what challenges event i. e. the impact on our do you face in the coming year?
Now we have clarity business of scenarios like the Well, the equity and bond markets Great Depression, the recent on Solvency II, its are still proving to be volatile and that financial crisis or an epidemic the right moment to does give a reminder that there is still like the Spanish Flu outbreak ongoing market uncertainty.
But in 19191920. announce our new whilst no model can be completely In 2015, the PRA approved the dividend policy immunised, we believe our strategy usage of our internal model to creates a high degree of resilience.
calculate our Solvency II capital Legal & General has been Weve been very upfront about requirements for the regime decluttering non-core business some of the challenges facing us: which began on 1 January 2016. units in the last year.
What was like the trend in maturing UK DB Economic capital behind that?
schemes moving out of equity index funds: legacy product run Our corresponding economic We have been pursuing a off: and the new Solvency II capital capital surplus is 7.6bn with focused and disciplined approach regime.
However, we work hard at a coverage ratio of 230%.
to executing the groups strategy.
We have chosen to undertake the exit, closure or sale of a number of For example: weve been targeting Guide to symbols used in non-core or sub-scale businesses, Financial review pages 34 to 41 the derisking trend by DB pension Key performance such as closing our with-profits schemes being the only provider indicator KPI fund to new business and selling to offer the full range of pension our Irish, Egyptian, Gulf, French Key measure in the derisking strategies: we are remuneration of executives and German businesses.
expanding our LGIM operations in the US: were reducing our These operations were not going to dependence on the UK market be core to our group going forward with pension derisking transactions and we felt that other owners may in the US and Europe and have be more suitable, enabling us to developed our new capital-lite reduce the management time model for UK business.
Our strategy is clear and focused.
You raised 600 million of The challenge as always is to sub-debt in October, why was continue to execute it effectively.
Im proud of how well we respond to these challenges and have We have a long-term debt confidence in Legal & General strategy which is designed to going forward.
ensure we have an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The 600 million debt raised in 2015 was part of this long-term strategy.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
