8 STRATEGIC REPORT WHAT WE DO OUR BUSINESSES HAVE CLEAR STRATEGIES AND WORK TOGETHER TO CREATE SYNERGIES We have three asset gathering businesses 1.
Legal & General Investment Management Retirement Capital 746bn 43.4bn 0.9bn in assets under management in annuity assets in direct investments Were one of the worlds top We help businesses provide We aim to increase the returns 15 asset managers, managing certainty for their pensioners on our balance sheet.
Because investments for institutions and retirement income.
In the UK, we need to make very long-term individuals.
Were increasingly US and Europe, weve used investments to match liabilities, diversifying the business away derisking products to take on the we seek direct investments in from UK DB schemes towards responsibility of paying retirement assets such as urban regeneration, a more international focused income from DB pension schemes.
housing, clean energy and business and one that increasingly Our UK individual retirement alternative finance.
helps DC pension schemes, business helps people manage the including auto-enrolled schemes income from DC pension funds.
In as well as helping individual 2015, we also launched our lifetime investors.
mortgage business to help people boost retirement funds using the equity in their homes.
We have two risk businesses and a savings business 1.
Savings 2.0bn $1.2bn 77bn in gross written premiums in gross written premiums in platform assets Our Insurance business covers over We provide life insurance cover for Our Savings business owns the five million individuals through over one million US individuals and UKs largest digital investment individual life insurance, household work closely with LGR to provide platform, managing assets for insurance and general insurance bulk annuity derisking products for individual investors.
Increasingly, products as well as covering US pension schemes.
individual savers are also investing around two million people in group in products now managed outside protection schemes.
We own our Savings division, investing the UKs biggest mortgage club.
in LGIMs UK retail fund products.
In 2015 we distributed 46 billion of mortgage loans.
Insurance also looks after our Indian joint venture which insures five million people.
| | L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15 9 9 STRATEGIC REPORT WHAT WE DO Our three asset gathering businesses leverage our expertise in managing pensions risk, creating synergies by working together.
FIVE STEPS How our retirement and investment businesses work together to benefit our clients.
STEP ONE STEP TWO STEP THREE We help companies manage Liability driven investment We can take on the responsibility investments in dened benefit solutions LDI help pension for administering, managing and DB pension schemes.
schemes improve the balance paying pensions.
As the UKs largest investment Our LDI team work closely with manager for pension schemes, Were uniquely placed to partner our bulk annuity team to help the size and range of our funds with clients on their full fide-risking schemes transition from LDI to allow us to provide a tailored journey.
Weve invested heavily to buyout by moving liabilities off a investment approach.
We look develop our capabilities, building companys balance sheet.
We can to minimise funding level volatility up a market-leading team in the also offer longevity insurance that against a backdrop of low interest industry.
Were the UK LDI market covers pensioners living longer rates and increasing longevity.
leader with a market share of than anticipated.
STEP FOUR STEP FIVE We help companies establish Investing pensions assets to new dened contribution DC benefit shareholders, customers pension schemes.
Our market leading autoLGIM work with LGR to invest enrolment service offers some corporate pensions money, of the lowest charges through which include direct investments.
Were We aim to nd stable, long-term also building up our investment investments that enable us to management business for DC increase the risk adjusted schemes, both in the private returns on the groups principal sector and the public sector.
L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC | A C | AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15
