10 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET FORCES 12 Building a robust strategy A DIGITAL FUTURE FOR ALL WORKING TOGETHER WITH Weve aligned our GOVERNMENTS Friend or foe?
strategy and operating Ensuring changes in pension The second machine age is model to respond legislation improves peoples lives.
having a profound impact on financial services groups.
We believe government and the to global trends.
Without executing a strategy insurance industry should work In 2015, we developed tactical together to help people protect that has digital at its heart, responses to the immediate political companies could be shunned their health, families, homes and and economic realities which face by consumers and overtaken possessions and enjoy long and our business.
happy retirements, free from the by new competitors.
Weve seen huge structural changes where worry of financial hardship.
We also continued to focus our new digital companies have strategic plans upon our response The launch of the welfare state in changed the face of travel, music, to five long-term growth drivers.
the 1946 National Insurance Act retail and media and believe created a three-way partnership Global economic outlook that the same could happen where the financial burden is met to financial services.
Global investment markets were by the individual, the state and the volatile in the first two months of A digital future means less reliance insurance industry.
The recovery seen in the final on human resources, stimulating quarter of 2015, following the US growth in more creative roles, interest rate rise has been replaced but reducing the need for some by sharp falls in many global traditional roles.
We all want people to equity markets.
save more, to have more The outlook for global growth is money in their pension... less positive than predicted in 2015.
Legal & General In the UK, the Bank of England have we are just starting cut 2016 GDP growth forecasts to manages digital money on this process 2.2%, the same level as 2015. and engages digitally HM MINISTER FOR PENSIONS Important drivers have been: October 2015 NIGEL WILSON TCS Summit, October 2015 1.
The slow down and rebalancing Key to this partnership is encouraging of the Chinese economy people to have personal responsibility Companies that succeed will have 2.
Lower commodity prices, where digital platforms that allow for for their own financial security, either the oil price fell below $30 a barrel globalisation and high scale.
through their employer or by owning their own plans.
Strains in some of the larger be at the heart of the digital emerging market economies Weve worked closely with experience, with consumers government to build a robust 4.
The growing strength of the benefitting from a seamless service pensions auto-enrolment policy, US dollar across all distribution channels combining self-reliance with a soft and all digital devices.
Because of our automation can lead to reductions scale, weve been able to lower costs in unit costs and competitive to encourage increased pension consumer pricing.
While auto-enrolment has may be inevitable, as consumers driven growth in our corporate choose robo advice above pension business, the recent expensive face-to-face processes.
pensions freedom legislation has meant that weve had to reshape our individual retirement business, introducing new products and improving exibility.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 11 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET FORCES GROWTH DRIVERS 34 Five growth drivers continue to BUILDING A BUSINESS FIT ENSURING REGULATORS FOR THE FUTURE WORK FOR US ALL underpin our strategy How we have started to evolve Have regulatory reforms been Ageing populations how we focus our business.
In the UK, people are living longer and havent saved enough Our success has been built on Effective regulation in the markets for retirement.
Yet the over 65s have around organic growth, supplemented where we operate ensures trust 1.4 trillion of housing equity, which could be accessed to help to ll this savings gap.
by selective purchases of highand confidence and can be a Global private sector dened benefit performing bolt-on businesses positive force for business.
Weve liabilities are estimated to be in excess that offer synergies with our collaborated with legislators both of $9 trillion with an increasing demand for fide-risking solutions to ensure pensions existing businesses and can in the UK and Europe to ensure get paid on time and in full.
Decluttering customers interests come first.
Welfare reforms enables us to focus on highWe believe that regulation which The pressure on public nances means performing businesses.
does not support financial stability, we need to share the provision of welfare between the state, individuals and Our entry into the lifetime productive growth or household employers.
Filling the demand for the mortgage market in 2015, gave resilience needs to be reviewed.
private provision of pension and protection us a new Home Finance business Regulation can often still be in products means people can have more secure nances and lessen the pressure which ts perfectly with our analogue mode even though we on state funding.
existing ageing populations live in an ever more digital world.
Creating real assets macro trend, enhancing the new Becoming enforcers of existing Creating real assets provides us with post-retirement propositions regulation and reviewing opportunities to invest our long-term offered by Legal & General unintended consequences should slow money.
Were able to provide not only enhanced returns on our slow money, Retirement.
We restructured this be an important focus of resources.
but we can also help rebuild communities business in just nine months and through urban regeneration.
Weve been very encouraged by already have a 22% market share.
the Financial Advice Market Review Globalisation of asset markets Weve also used selective and its aim to try and ensure that We believe that asset markets around the world are becoming increasingly acquisitions to accelerate the growth more of the population can access homogenous, creating attractive of investment management in the the advice and guidance they opportunities to grow and internationalise US and our UK housing business.
want at a price they can afford.
our successful investment management capabilities.
Despite our investment Were also strong advocates of the In 2015 we sought to reduce costs management business being the 15th EUs Capital Markets Review, which largest globally, we have massive and management distractions across is designed to ensure that our sector opportunities for continued growth, the group by exiting low scale still only holding 1% of global assets.
can invest even more in productive businesses and non-strategic assets.
Its a Digital This contributed to operating cost Changes in digital customer engagement great start, although theres more savings of over 80 million in 2015. present both opportunities and challenges to achieve.
Consumers increasingly Weve sold non-core businesses want to use digital solutions in their daily lives.
Using digital capabilities to in France, Egypt and the Gulf and generate scale and efficiency can be no longer have our estate agency, the key to success.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
