242 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report The Directors report required under the Companies Act Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are set 2006 comprises this Directors report, and certain other out in the Notice of AGM.
disclosures in the Strategic Report including: Other than the above, the directors have no current An outline of important events that have occurred intention of issuing further share capital and no issue during the year pages 34 to 41 will be made which would effectively alter control of the company without prior approval of shareholders An indication of likely future developments in a general meeting.
pages 13 to 30 Articles of Association Interests in voting rights The companys Articles of Association may only be As at 1 March 2016, the company had been advised amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of of the following significant direct and indirect interests shareholders.
At the companys AGM to be held on 26 May in the issued share capital of the company: 2016, a resolution will be put to shareholders proposing Total amendments to the existing Articles of Association.
Number interest of ordinary % of in issued shares of 2.5p capital share capital Conicts of interest Schroders Plc 296,651,093 5.0 Indirect In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board The Capital Group has adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure Companies, Inc. 353,497,431 5.9 Indirect and authorisation if appropriate of conicts of interest, Invesco Limited 297,097,017 5.0 Indirect and these have been followed during 2015.
Using the voting rights gure announced to the London Stock Exchange on 1 March 2016 of 5,948,915,341 Powers of directors Dividend The directors may exercise all powers of the company subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the The company may, by ordinary resolution in a general companys Articles of Association.
meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend Share capital can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The directors propose a final dividend for the year ended As at 31 December 2015, the companys issued share 31 December 2015 of 9.95pence per ordinary share which, capital comprised 5,948,788,480 ordinary shares each with together with the interim dividend of 3.45pence per a nominal value of 2.5pence.
Details of the ordinary share ordinary share paid to shareholders on 17 September 2015, capital can be found in Note 39 to the Group Consolidated will make a total dividend for the year of 13.40pence Financial Statements.
Subject to shareholder approval at At the 2015 AGM, the company was granted authority the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 9 June 2016 by shareholders to purchase up to 594,243,900 to shareholders on the share register on 29 April 2016 ordinary shares, being 10% of the issued share capital provided that the Board of directors may cancel payment of the company as at 27 March 2015.
In the year to of the dividend at any time prior to payment, if it considers 31 December 2015, no shares were purchased by the it necessary to do so for regulatory capital purposes.
This authority will expire at this years AGM.
As such, a special resolution is proposed in the Notice of Related party transactions AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
Details of related party transactions are set out in Note 42 At the 2015 AGM, the directors were given the power to the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
to allot shares up to an amount of 49,520,325, being 33% Rights and obligations attaching to shares of the issued share capital of the company as at 27 March 2015.
This authority will also expire at this years AGM.
The rights and obligations relating to the companys As such, an ordinary resolution is proposed in the Notice of ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
A copy of the Articles of Association can be requested from the company secretary at the companys A further resolution is proposed, as set out in the Notice registered ofce.
of AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise the directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 10% Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and of the companys issued share capital as at 29 March 2016 vote at general meetings.
In a vote on a show of hands, every for cash without offering the shares first to existing member present in person or every proxy present, who has shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
been duly appointed by a member, will have one vote and on | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 243 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall Employee Share Plan Plan, eligible employees are entitled have one vote for every ordinary share held.
These rights to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in are subject to any special terms as to voting upon which trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited, which any shares may be issued or may at the relevant time be holds 0.35% of the issued share capital of the company as held and to any other provisions of the companys Articles at 8 March 2016.
Voting rights are exercised by the trustees of Association.
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the on receipt of the participants instructions.
If a participant Articles of Association, directors have the power to suspend does not submit an instruction to the trustees, no vote is voting rights and, in certain circumstances, the right to registered.
In addition, the trustees do not vote on any receive dividends in respect of shares where the holder unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under The company is not aware of any agreements between section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration Change of control of a transfer of an uncerticated share may be refused in There are no agreements between the company and its the circumstances set out in the uncerticated securities directors or employees for compensation providing for rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds four.
loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a purported redundancy or otherwise in the event of a takeover certicated share unless: bid, except for those relating to normal notice periods.
The a The instrument of transfer is duly stamped and is rules of the companys share plans contain provisions under left at the companys registered ofce or such other which options and awards to participants, including executive place as the Board may from time to time determine directors, may vest on a takeover or change of control of the accompanied by the certicate for the share to company or transfer of undertakings.
which it relates and such evidence as the Board may The company has a committed 1 billion bank syndicated reasonably require to show the right of the transfer credit facility which is terminable if revised terms cannot or to make the transfer: be agreed with the syndicate of banks in a 30-day period b The instrument of transfer is in respect of only one following a change of control.
As at 8 March 2016, class of share: and the company has no borrowings under this facility.
c The number of joint holders does not exceed four.
There are no change of control conditions in the terms of any of the companys outstanding debt securities.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, The terms of the companys agreements with its banking all or any of the rights attaching to an existing class of counter parties, under which derivative transactions shares may be varied from time to time either with the are undertaken, include the provision for termination consent in writing of the holders of not less than threeof transactions upon takeover merger if the resulting fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class merged entity has a credit rating materially weaker than excluding any treasury shares or with the sanction of a the company.
There are no other committed banking special resolution passed at a separate general meeting arrangements either drawn or undrawn that incorporate of the holders of those shares.
any change of control conditions.
Shares acquired through the employee share schemes rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue.
Use of financial instruments Barclays Wealth Trustees Guernsey Limited, as trustee Information on the groups risk management process of the Legal & General Employees Share Ownership Trust, is set out on pages 43 to 47.
More details on risk holds 0.3% of the issued share capital of the company management and the financial instruments used are as at 8 March 2016 in trust for the benefit of the executive set out in Notes 16 to 18 of the Group Consolidated directors, senior executives and employees of the group.
This includes shares held as nominee on behalf of Legal & General Share Scheme Trustees Limited, as trustee of Indemnities the Legal & General Employee Share Trust, which is in the The company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent permitted process of being wound up.
The voting rights in relation to by law, each of the directors against any liability incurred by these shares are exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may a director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course vote or abstain from voting, or accept or reject any offer of their ofce.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities as relating to shares, in any way it sees t, without incurring dened in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 have been any liability and without being required to give reasons for granted, to the extent permitted by law, to certain trustees its decision.
Under the rules of the Legal & General Group | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 244 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT of the companys pension schemes.
The indemnities were Methodology in force throughout 2015 and remain so.
Copies of the deeds We have reported on the emission sources required under of indemnity are available for inspection at the companys the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors registered office and will also be available at the AGM.
Political donations We have used the GHG reporting protocol for calculating our GHG emissions for 2013 and applied the emission No political donations were made during 2015. factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors Forward-looking statements for Company Reporting 2015.
The Directors report is prepared for the members of the Disability company and should not be relied upon by any other party Our policies support the employment, promotion or for any other purpose.
Where the Directors report includes and career development of disabled persons, as well forward-looking statements, these are made by the directors as supporting employees who become disabled during in good faith based on the information available to them at the the course of their employment.
We make reasonable time of their approval of this report.
Such statements should adjustments, as required under the Equality Act 2010, be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties for disabled employees, including seeking redeployment underlying such forward-looking statements.
in the event that reasonable adjustments are not possible.
Insurance We offer appropriate training, including training in relation to equality, and will make adjustments to this training The company has arranged appropriate directors and officers where required.
Independent auditors Greenhouse gas disclosures GHG The companys auditors have expressed their willingness Global GHG Emissions Data to continue in office and the Audit Committee has recommended their reappointment to the Board.
Jan Jan Jan tCO e Emissions from Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Resolutions to reappoint  LLP 2 Scope 1 & 2 electricity and gas as auditor to the company and to authorise the directors based on the scope of to determine their remuneration are proposed for the Legal & Generals UK CRC forthcoming AGM.
Energy Efficiency Scheme disclosed emissions, Overseas Directors interests property emissions 12,979.11 12,240.77 12,196.10 Scope 2 electricity sourced The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages from a renewable tariff 20,813.68 21,227.49 38,218.73 68 to 89 provides details of the interests of each director, Scope 3 Business travel including details of current incentive schemes and long includes road, rail & air travel for LGAS, France, Netherlands term incentive schemes, the interests of directors in the and USA 4,558.13 4567.40 3,746.77 share capital of the company and details of their share Total CO scope 1,2, 3 2 interests, as at 11 March 2016. based on the scope of Legal & Generals UK CRC Going concern statement Energy Efficiency Scheme disclosed emissions, Overseas After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable property emissions and reported travel emissions 38,350.92 38,035.66 54,161.60 expectation that the company, and the group, have Intensity ratio: kgCO e 2 adequate resources to continue their operations for a Emissions per policy 3.78 4.09 5.78 period of at least 12 months from the date of the approval Fugitive Emissions 571.24 768.73 877.60 of the financial statements.
Please note that the increase in overall CO e is a direct result of phase 2 of CRC scheme 2 Annual general meeting which has resulted in the inclusion of an additional 5 investment funds, on top of our original 4 investment funds.
The companys AGM will be held at 11am on Thursday, Please refer to our CSR report for further breakdown and analysis of emissions.
26 May 2016 at The Honourable Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London EC1Y 2BQ.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 245 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Statement of directors responsibilities The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and The directors are responsible for preparing the understandable Annual Report and Accounts, including the Directors and provides the information necessary for shareholders Remuneration Report and the financial statements to assess a companys performance, business model in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed statements for each financial year.
Under that law the in the Board of directors section confirm that, to the best of directors have prepared the group financial statements their knowledge: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the group financial statements, which have been the parent company financial statements in accordance prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, financial position and profit of the group: and comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosures Framework, and the strategic report includes a fair review of the applicable law.
Under company law, the directors must not development and performance of the business and approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied the position of the group, together with a description that they give a true and fair view of the state of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these each of the directors who held ofce at the date this report financial statements, the directors are required to: was approved confirms that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant them consistently: audit information of which the companys auditors make judgements and accounting estimates that are unaware: and are reasonable and prudent: b he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European taken as a director in order to make themselves aware Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards, of any relevant audit information and to establish that comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosures Framework, the companys auditors are aware of that information.
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the group and parent The Directors Report and Strategic Report were company financial statements respectively: and approved by the Board, and signed on their behalf.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern By order of the Board basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company G J Timms and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial Company secretary statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
