12 STRATEGIC REPORT CHALLENGING AND CHANGING MARKETS | | L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15 13 STRATEGIC REPORT CHALLENGING AND CHANGING MARKETS The global growth drivers that weve identified influence the strategic direction of our business.
As we continue to respond to these drivers, were continually evolving our business as we react to changing customer needs.
Our ambition is to challenge and change markets, assumptions and perceptions for the benefit of our customers, shareholders and society.
GROWTH DRIVERS Ageing populations Welfare reform Creating real assets Globalisation of Digital asset markets STRATEGIC AIMS Maintaining global Helping people Using slow money to Using our existing Achieving market leadership in achieve security become the UK leader skills and expertise leadership in digital pensions derisking affordably through in direct investments, to build a world provision of and providing a insurance and including housing and class international insurance, retail suite of products to workplace pensions.
asset management investments and maximise retirement business.
CHALLENGING AND CHANGING MARKETS Our businesses Our value for Were using our Were using Our digital work together to money and scale slow money to our investment strategy aims enable companies help drive down change the face expertise to to take the to manage their prices for our of UK towns strengthen our complexity pension liabilities customers and cities.
presence in out of financial by moving them as we aim to international services.
away from make markets markets.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS Launched lifetime 1.8m people in Direct investments International net Retail insurance mortgages workplace pension now 7.0bn across the flows of 9.5bn 79% straight schemes group through processing UK LDI share over Significant growth 40% and a US Number 1 in Regenerating in US index business Digital investment market leader UK life insurance Cardiff city centre platform with New mandates 77bn of assets Won National Grid Won John Lewis 50% Media City in Japan, Taiwan 12bn mandate pension scheme stake in Salford and Korea Re-platformed lifetime mortgage Provide investment Less than 10% of 200m regeneration Distribution business, creating management for people who joined and 1,000 new agreement with Meiji first fully responsive around 3,000 auto-enrolled homes in Bracknell Yusada in Japan website institutional clients schemes chose First wind energy deal to leave Wrote first pensions derisking deals in US and Netherlands | | L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 15 5 14 14 STRATEGIC REPORT AGEING POPULATIONS GIV VIIN NG G T TH HE E NE EW W W GEN NE ERA AT TIIO ON N O OF F P PE EN N NS SIIO O ON N N S S SA AV five ER RS S A BET TT TE ER F FU UTUR RE | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 15 STRATEGIC REPORT AGEING POPULATIONS Every generation deserves a prosperous retirement.
We need imagination and innovation to meet the challenges of ageing.
Investment management solutions Our investment management business specialises in providing solutions to the challenges posed by ageing populations.
This affects all global markets where populations are ageing, such as the US, parts of Asia and western Europe.
The Globalisation of asset markets section on pages 2425 describes how were expanding our investment management business internationally.
Our investment management business is the worlds 15th largest by 2014 asset values with 746 billion assets under management.
This is a diverse business, where in the UK were continuing to attract institutional pensions funds into both DB and DC schemes.
Weve almost doubled our eve developed innovative DC assets under management since solutions in the face of 2011, growing from 23.6 billion to change in the world of 46.1 billion at the end of 2015. pensions.
The number W of UK dened benefit One of our core strengths is DB pension schemes continues to managing index funds, where we decline, with companies struggling have assets under management to afford the costs of meeting their of 274 billion and are well placed pension liabilities.
We need to to benefit from the growing global make sure that the shift to dened trend towards a greater use of contribution DC schemes also gives index funds.
younger generations the scope to Our range of solutions for the build adequate levels of pension maturing UK DB market is expanding income.
In the UK, the governments and we expect demand for pooled pension freedoms mean people and delegated solutions to grow whove saved in DC schemes rapidly as many pension schemes need to plan their retirement seek these solutions.
driven investments LDI and multiasset business is now our biggest segment with 338 billion of assets and 27.9 billion of net ows in 2015.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT AGEING POPULATIONS Freedom for DC scheme members While LDI solutions help companies ensure that DB pensions are paid on time and in full, theres a growing need for people who have saved in DC schemes to plan their nances in retirement.
In 2015, we developed two new plans to supplement our traditional individual annuity business, which has declined in volumes by 74% since 2013.
Our new Fixed Term Retirement Plan and our Cash Out Retirement Plan give consumers increased choice about how to take the money theyve saved in DC schemes.
However, our experience has been that around 90% of people have taken their full savings in cash, with average payouts of 12,000.
CASE STUDY Ratios are lower in Were getting older Ageing populations countries with higher challenge governments birth rates: US 22 and need to save more, across the globe.
Increasing dependency Old age dependency for a longer old age ratios matter because ratios show the number younger people, usually of people above pension and the inevitable through taxation, have age for every 100 people to support pensions, of working age.
Key care costs healthcare and elderly inuences are birth care for retired people.
rates, longevity and The challenge is to create migration.
In Japan, The average annual cost of elderly an equitable balance with its rapidly ageing between taxes paid by social care is estimated to be population and low working people and state birth rate, 2014 World 29,250, increasing to 39,300 if benets.
Encouraging Bank data showed there nursing care is needed.
People are people to save for their are 42 Japanese people own retirements could forced to take difficult decisions aged over 64 supported lower the burden on by every 100 working whether to fund care costs from the state.
Western equity in the home or to hold back projections showed Europe also has high the planned state a large portion of pension capital ratios: 32 in Germany, Old age dependency ratio pension age increases 30 in France and 28 for later years.
could mean that the in Spain.
37.0 projected old age dependency ratio Turning the 1.4 trillion in housing will be 34.2 in 2051, equity into retirement income 31.0 instead of 49.2.
30.1 It was estimated in 2014 that people over 65 in the UK, were sitting on 1.4 trillion in equity in their own homes.
3.3 million homeowners aged over 55 have been looking to rightsize to smaller homes, freeing up 7.7 million spare bedrooms for younger people who are struggling 2014 2024 2039 to nd affordable homes to buy or rent.
Yet the UK is struggling Dependency ratios number of people to finance elderly care.
Since 2010, above state pension age supported by 100 working persons.
cuts in council-funded adult social Source: 2014-based National Population care have totalled 4.6bn, or 31% projections published by the Ofce of National Statistics.
in real terms of net budgets.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 17 STRATEGIC REPORT AGEING POPULATIONS We want to give elderly people the activity than 2014s record volumes.
However, expensive DB schemes choice of moving to a smaller last The new Solvency II capital regime still abound and were well placed time buyers home which can be more to help the public sector manage its led us to adopt a capital-lite suitable in later retirement or staying approach to writing bulk annuities DB liabilities and move employees in their own home freeing up some in the UK and we focused our into new schemes.
In November of their equity to pay for domiciliary attention on international markets, 2015, we increased our pooled care.
In 2015, our new Home Finance entering the US and European passive investment mandate for business completed 201 million in pension risk-transfer markets.
In a group of seven local government new mortgages for people who October 2015, we announced the pension schemes to 6.5 billion.
wanted to increase their retirement first pension risk-transfer deal with We now manage 40.2 billion for 54 funds.
The market is vibrant and the US subsidiary of Royal Philips local government pension schemes.
its possible that the total lifetime for approximately $450 million, SEE THE ONLINE FAST READ mortgage market could reach 5 and in December we completed a www.
Our future 200 million reinsurance deal with strategy involves diversifying our ASR Nederland NV, a Dutch insurer.
distribution channels and aiming to We extended our reputation for continue to give increased value to innovation in the UK, completing consumers through competitive in December 2015 the UKs largest interest rates and reduced early medically underwritten bulk annuity When we write pension repayment charges.
This derisking business and products to provide retirement buy-in deal covered around income, we have to estimate Innovation in corporate derisking 230 million in pension liabilities, how long people will live.
We call this longevity risk.
Were one of the few companies Longevity and credit, the risk who can provide a complete suite of default by the issuers of Cutting the public sector bonds used to back our annuity of derisking services for DB schemes, pensions gap liabilities, continue to be the comprising bulk annuities and most significant risks in our longevity insurance as well as The 2011 Hutton report highlighted retirement business and the largest on our group balance traditional fund management and the growing cost to the taxpayer sheet.
As well as our LDI solutions.
In 2015, the UK bulk of funding public sector pensions, capabilities to evaluate and which was estimated to be over annuity market saw a lower level of price for longevity, we actively use reinsurance to manage 1 trillion.
Our to move to a DC basis is being credit experts in LGIM manage steadily implemented by the state.
Creating a modern, In March 2015, we application to the issuing low-cost, high-pace were already seeing of the completed loan business.
1 million a week in to the customer.
applications as we kicked By September 2015, Launching our new off the task of rebuilding we were getting around Home Finance business the IT platform, changing 10 million in applications in just nine months.
the branding of the new every week, already Bernie Hickman, company in April 2015. making use of group managing director, By June 2015, we had synergies with our Legal & General already finished the in-house surveying team.
work to rebuild the IT We were also able to In February 2015, infrastructure, managing benefit from sharing we announced our to exceed our existing the expertise of other acquisition of New Life group standards and parts of Legal & General Home Finance Limited for creating the groups Retirement, economists 5 million, a successful first ever fully responsive and housing experts execution of our bolt-on website in November working in our investment acquisition strategy.
2015 to support the management business.
We also entered into direct marketing of a funding agreement lifetime mortgage to be the sole funder of products.
By developing new lifetime mortgages, a modern platform, we giving us an attractive 1.4 trillion were able to improve source of direct our service delivery in equity in over 65s housing in 2014 English investment assets performance time down Longitudinal Study of Ageing ELSA.
to back our annuity from 82 days to 24 days liabilities.
from the receipt of the | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 MANAGING THE RISKS 18 STRATEGIC REPORT WELFARE REFORM WELFARE REFORM CREATES OPPORTUNITIES FOR US he overall market size for DC pensions assets is projected to increase to over 1.7 trillion by 2030, T driven by auto-enrolment where statutory minimum contribution rates are increasing from 2% today to 8% in 2019.
The and fund management teams closer incorporation of Legal & Generals together.
We expect to add around Workplace Savings business into 240,000 new members to our LGIM enables us to bring our platform by the end of 2016, successful workplace savings boosting our UK DC customer base which stood at 1.8 million at the end of 2015.
Greater scale and focus on unit cost management are important in increasing profitability.
Were also making significant progress with SMEs, introducing a straight-through process, where Projected growth in DC assets Auto-enrolment is Automatic enrolment we can maintain our 50bps price 1,700bn reversing the decline has turned around the cap for the default fund, providing in pension saving decline in pension a highly efficient proposition for provision.
59% of all UK By March 2015, employees in March 2015 smaller companies.
over 5.2 million British were active members workers had been of a pension scheme, successfully autoAuto-enrolment the next stage compared with just 47% enrolled since the in 2012.
The pensions government began Auto-enrolment has been successful landscape is being its reforms in 2012. in increasing the number of completely transformed Thats more than as DB schemes decline individuals saving into a pension.
2.2 million workers in with the majority of pension schemes since Further areas which the government new pension savers 2014, and 4.2 million 787bn could consider to help people fund being enrolled into more than in 2013. dened contribution their own retirements include: The popularity of DC schemes.
Putting in place an automatic shown by the fact that is the growth in master the overall opt-out rate system for pension increases trusts as 94% of employers is around just one 277bn who chose a trust-based in ten.
Reconsidering the planned upper scheme opted for a master limit of 8% for contributions.
In 2015, Corporate Adviser recognised Legal We should follow the example & Generals expertise as of success in Australia, where 2014 2024 2030 an auto-enrolment employees will pay up to 12% provider with the award Source: Spence Johnson and Pensions Institute.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 19 STRATEGIC REPORT WELFARE REFORM Supporting the time in October 2015, to of our colleagues have to change campaign support World Mental been brave to share Paul Papadopoulos, on mental health.
Health Day, Nigel their own, very personal one of our own Wilson and Lord Dennis battles with mental Health is a big part employees, who Stevenson from the illness.
Were building shared his personal of our business and mental health charity a network of mental were 100% committed battle against MQ held a dinner at health and wellbeing depression with his to focusing on mental our London ofce champions offering peer health as part of our work colleagues to facilitate a more support to friends and health and wellbeing detailed discussion colleagues.
A huge on the challenges and stigma surrounds issues we all face.
FURTHER DETAIL mental health in the To support our pledge www.
Mental to the Time to Change group.
com media-centre illness affects 1 in 4 of campaign, we launched nigels-blog us in any one year.
Our the #Smallthings own research amongst campaign to encourage SMEs found that 1 in 7 employees to think business owners feel about the small things employee stress is an they could do to help increasing issue.
So one another and raise awareness about mental health.
Some Using the auto-enrolment model Driving change in UK insurance loss-adjusters in the heart of the to improve welfare and social care community.
We expect to pay out The vision for our UK Insurance a total of 15 million in ood and The success of auto enrolment has business is to give customers storm claims.
shown that people are prepared to access to a much fuller range of pay for a better financial future if it insurance products available In 2015, our Mortgage Club is made easy for them to do so and through their choice of distribution distributed 46 billion of mortgages, they receive tax incentives.
Reform channels and delivered digitally.
representing 20% of all mortgages of the national insurance NI taken out in the UK.
Our successful Our focus in 2015 was in improving system could mean that people surveying business celebrated a our customer experience, making could contribute towards the new deal with Santander bank in it easier for customers to apply, funding of better elderly care.
January 2015. communicate with us and If people are incentivised through make claims.
The success of the mortgage lower NI contributions to save into club is built around our excellent 2015 saw steady progress in digital an insured workplace fund to cover distribution partnerships, good delivery.
79% of life insurance potential care costs, then the state relationships with lenders and applicants are now accepted could reduce the current 17 billion our expertise in maintaining immediately without further cost of adult social care spent by good monitoring controls.
People entering SEE THE ONLINE FAST READ My Life system made customers care homes wouldnt need to deplete www.
com lives easier by requiring fewer 2015fastread so much of their housing assets and underwriting questions and giving could pass them on to their families.
clearer terms and conditions, In the same way, contributory while we were still able to apply sickness and disability benets robust risk assessment criteria.
Providing insurance products could be replaced by a system that that help people achieve Action to help ood victims security affordably means provides better benets for people we have to make assumptions and helps the government reduce The horrendous oods of December about how long people will borrowing costs.
2015 and January 2016 were live, how healthy they will be and events that could give devastating for many of our Reform of higher rate tax relief and a higher rate of claims than customers and challenging for our wed normally expect.
We price reduced NI contributions can help personal claims managers.
Our and underwrite our protection fund the phasing out of poor-value products to take account of solution in Carlisle was to base contributory benets for hard working these risks, using reinsurance members of our claims team in a to manage significant families, replacing them with local Community Centre all week, exposures.
Beveridge 2.0, a better system with working with surveyors and more support for average earners.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 MANAGING THE RISKS 20 20 STRATEGIC REPORT CREATING REAL ASSETS EASING THE INTERGENERATIONAL HOUSING CRISIS | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 21 STRATEGIC REPORT CREATING REAL ASSETS Building homes for Britain.
We need to build 250,000 new homes a year to keep up with demand.
Were committed to a homebuilding programme as one part of our direct investment programme, where we need to invest funds from our shareholder and policyholder capital to achieve a long-term financial return, sometimes for 30, 40 or 50 years.
This replaces the role previously provided by banks and This huge underinvestment goes back a long time.
Cities are not overbuilt, they are under-demolished NIGEL WILSON TCS presentation, October 2015 governments.
We focus on strategic direct investments using our surplus capital to enhance yields, delivering improved returns for shareholders.
he UK managed to We focus upon four sectors: build 131,000 new UK housing homes in the year up T to August 2015, the UK urban regeneration highest annual total Alternative finance since June 2009, but still a long way Clean energy behind building levels in the 1950s and 1960s.
Moving from NIMBY to PIMBY The government has announced The UK may need a complete re-think an intention to deliver 275,000 of attitudes to housing, urban affordable homes by the end of this regeneration and infrastructure Parliament.
Whether this can be developments in areas such as achieved depends upon getting the transport, where local planning right investment, an improvement decisions actively move away from in planning laws and the availability a not in my backyard attitude to of building materials and labour.
Planning | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 22 STRATEGIC REPORT CREATING REAL ASSETS laws are getting better, but weve still a long way to go.
We want to end the inequality of opportunity in the UK, where many developments focus on the afuent south of England to the detriment of our inner city areas, especially those in the north and west of Britain.
1 Our urban regeneration plan has 2 We need to build 250,000 new homes a year to keep up with demand.
MediaCityUK, where we own 50% of a 500 million in decades.
development, which includes accommodation KPMG SHELTER for the BBC and ITV.
April 2014, Building the homes we need report 2.
Carla, an owner of three restaurants in MediaCityUK.
been adopted by the governments 3.
A building project in Regeneration Investment Salford, where our urban Organisation RIO.
We committed regeneration scheme is creating 800 new homes 1.5 billion as part of a 15 billion and two million square fund over the next few years, feet of ofce space.
working alongside international investment partners.
We have nine key regeneration schemes across the UK.
In the north of England CASE STUDY MediaCityUK is the Regenerating Salford largest purpose-built there are projects in Salford, creative digital and In 2015 we announced Leeds Liverpool and Wakeeld.
technology community two new schemes in In the west of Britain were involved in Europe and is home Salford to supplement to the BBC and ITV.
in projects in Cardiff and Plymouth.
the regeneration of Secondly, we announced Salford Central which In the south of England, there the development of the is already breathing 3 are schemes in Canning Town, first custom-built private new life into the area.
rented sector scheme, Bracknell and Crowthorne.
We completed the building 90 homes on purchase of a 50% the border of Salford Our commitment to Cardiff interest in the Peel and Manchester.
Salford Groups MediaCityUK 2 million Central is a 650 million In Cardiff, were not only committed at Salford Quays.
investment, building square feet of ofces, including to providing local employment with space for the BBC, ITV and 800 new homes and University of Salford.
two million square feet 1,200 people located in our Cardiff of ofce space.
It ofce, but were also working with includes the expansion Cardiff City Council and a local of Salford Central Station as part of the Ordsall developer, Rightacres, to regenerate Chord investment by the city.
We contributed towards Network Rail.
the 400 million mixed-use WATCH THE VIDEO development, including a new www.
legalandgeneral Central Square, ofces, hotels group.
com 2015fastread and residential developments, together with a transport hub and a new headquarters for BBC Wales.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 23 STRATEGIC REPORT CREATING REAL ASSETS We need to regenerate of nine strategically regeneration of UK home building volumes cities, spreading wealth important regeneration Bracknell.
The scheme 354,130 evenly across the UK.
schemes that are is to regenerate Bracknell fast transforming town centre and provide By Laura Mason, and reshaping Britains new retail, leisure and director of direct landscape, bringing residential apartments, investments at Legal jobs and housing back within landscaped public & General Capital LGC.
into the centre of cities.
Through the 220,410 In 2013, we set up LGC Our aim is to replace Bracknell Regeneration to help actively invest capital previously made Partnership, a 50:50 the groups balance available by banks and joint venture between sheet and improve government.
We aim LGC and Schroder UK 144,990 shareholders quality to invest our long-term Real Estate Fund, we earnings by increasing capital sources to match announced an agreement our exposure to our long-term liabilities for a 20,000 square foot strategically important whilst wherever we can pre-let to Arcadia at its direct investments for investing into socially Northern Retail Quarter.
Weve now and economically useful invested over 7.0 billion projects for the UK.
FURTHER DETAIL in direct investments We partner with www.
legalandgeneral across the group, being market leaders to ensure capital.
com involved in over 2.4 we have access to the 1954 1984 2014 billion of regeneration most comprehensive Source: www.
uk government projects in the UK, up market intelligence  live-tables-onfrom 1 billion a year and skill sets.
We now have In 2015, as well as Table 241: permanent dwellings access to a portfolio completed, by tenure, United Kingdom, progressing our projects historical calendar year series.
in Salford, Leeds and Cardiff, we made a major breakthrough in the The northern powerhouse the border of Salford and Alternative finance Manchester.
Both developments In Leeds, our first RIO development Our 40% equity stake in Pemberton comprise one-, twoand threewas to acquire a 50% stake in Thorpe allows us to offer direct lending bedroom ats.
Park Leeds, a 160 million 200 acre through the Pemberton platform mixed-use business development.
The rent from the ats will provide to UK and European corporates, The joint venture with Scarborough an attractive long-term institutional providing much-needed loans and Group is set to create 13,000 local investment return.
Were investing private placements to mid-market jobs while potentially unlocking the with PGGM, a Dutch pension scheme, companies in the UK and Europe.
construction of 7,000 new homes in the development of private rental We achieved a major milestone in in the East Leeds area through the housing assets, which will be 2015 with the first Pemberton fund construction of the first section of managed by our Real Assets team.
We now have 500 million the East Leeds Orbital Road.
Providing long-term rental income invested in loans across Europe.
will create a good match of annuity SEE THE ONLINE FAST READ Lets build Britain and pension liabilities, as well as real www.
com 2015fastread economic growth for the UK, creating Our commitment to homebuilding much needed new housing.
includes all types of housing tenures.
We invest in the build to Investing in clean energy rent sector as well as building homes to buy for all age groups, In December 2015, we made a start Using slow money to become the UK leader in from first time buyers to last time in investing in clean energy by direct investments inherently buyers.
Were keen to see a greater investing in NTR Wind Management exposes us to property market, supply of affordable homes and Limited, a clean energy and asset lending and loan default risks.
We have over the years, social housing.
In Walthamstow, we management business, that has through Legal & General acquired an initial 25 million committed to building an onshore Property, built significant regeneration site to build and rent wind portfolio which could generate expertise in property markets.
Combined with our credit over 300 ats.
In Salford, we sufficient electricity to power up to capability, were able to assess partnered with English Cities Fund 170,000 homes and avoid more than the risks of each transaction for a 16 million scheme, part of the 300,000 tonnes of CO per annum and validate the quality of 2 the security that we take.
New Bailey development, which will across the UK and Ireland.
create a total of 90 homes located on | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 MANAGING THE RISKS 24 STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBALISATION OF ASSET MARKETS TAKING OUR INVESTMENT EXPERTISE TO THE WORLDS BIGGEST MARKETS 32% in the UK and just 4% in Japan.
The US is our most significant growth market.
We now have around 124 institutional clients compared to just 16 in 2011.
Total private global financial wealth is estimated to reach $210 trillion in 2019 with 63% in Asia uge opportunities exist and North America to export our expertise to continue to build our BCG GLOBAL WEALTH PERSPECTIVES June 2015 successful investment H management business internationally.
With total private Around $2.8 trillion of US defined wealth estimated to reach $210 benefit private sector liabilities trillion in 2019, weve barely started Our strong position in US LDI, to scratch the surface, managing with $8.7 billion of assets under just around 1% of global assets, management, includes managing despite being the worlds 15th largest assets on behalf of five of the top asset manager.
We have significant ten largest US corporate DB plans.
potential for further growth, Were now expanding our LDI especially in the US and Asia, despite distribution to provide a full recent market volatility.
Key growth spectrum of LDI solutions.
areas in international markets are A successful LDI business DC pensions, LDI, real assets and creates synergy benefits across fixed income.
Legal & Generals broader US pension derisking business.
Our US Taking our US business to investment management business a new level provides the investment Gross financial assets The US continues to be the worlds management capabilities for our US 56,456bn largest pensions market with an retirement business as it expands estimated $22 trillion of assets into the US, including our recently China 14,223bn in 2015.
Willis Towers Watsons announced $450 million bulk annuity Japan 12,063bn 2016 Global Pensions Asset contract with Royal Philips.
Management survey shows that UK 7,642bn the US has 60% of US pension Source: Allianz Global Wealth Report 2015 assets in DC funds compared to | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 25 STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBALISATION OF ASSET MARKETS trends.
In September 2015 we announced a co-operation agreement with Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company, Japans third largest insurance company.
We will provide global xed income investment management services to create products primarily for Japanese public and corporate pension funds.
Over 60s in China are projected to increase Our US investment management from 10.1% in 2000 to business is based in Chicago and has helped us increase our international 29.9% in 2050 assets under management to 122 billion at the end of 2015.
POPULATION DIVISION, DESA, UNITED NATIONS 61% Changing focus for Legal & General America LGA growth in AUM in the Chinese asset management industry to 6.7 trillion RMB US$1.1 trillion in the year ended 31.12.14 In 2015, LGA appointed Gene in a 2015 report by Fitch ratings.
Gilbertson as President and Chief Executive officer following his successful work in leading the management of a transformational US capital management programme, which has resulted in growing cash generation.
LGA has gross written premiums of $1.2 billion and has over Further diversication of our US entering the markets of Japan, one million policies.
LGAs strategy investment management business Korea and Taiwan.
is to capitalise on new opportunities saw us introducing new index Our Tier 1 strategy focuses on in the US protection and pension propositions in 2015 and winning segregated mandates, primarily risk transfer markets and support a first multi-billion dollar US index index and active xed income, for LGIMs US investment capabilities.
Additionally, we launched large Asian sovereign wealth funds a collective investment trust to SEE THE ONLINE FAST READ and other national institutions and target US clients.
com aims to leverage our existing 2015fastread capabilities in pensions, institutional Entering ourishing Asian markets investments and lifetime savings.
In Asian markets remain fundamentally Asia, the pensions industry has attractive despite recent turbulent huge potential for growth, with a We continue to invest in our conditions in Chinese equity markets rapidly ageing population and a system capabilities, business caused by weakening economic growing need for segregated processes and people to ensure growth rates.
Wealth in the Asiathat as we grow our business mandates for large Asian sovereign internationally we meet the Pacic regions represented around wealth funds.
In 2015, we achieved expectations of all our clients, one third of the worlds economy and four mandate wins across two new comply with regulation and global finance at the start of 2015. mitigate the risks of loss or clients totalling $1.4 billion.
reputational damage from Theres great potential as the regions operational failure and Our Tier 2 strategy focuses on share of global AUM is only around external events.
Our strategy has been to focus management capabilities on populous high-growth economies institutional, pensions and that have the lowest AUM penetration insurance, which are consistent rates.
In 2015 we took some first steps with market and demographic in Asia, by announcing that we were | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 MANAGING THE RISKS 26 STRATEGIC REPORT DIGITAL THE SECOND MACHINE AGE?
to consumer capabilities and build self-serve technology to create efficiencies.
Our key objectives are: Continue to build a market-leading direct business for Retail Protection by further developing our My life and Making life better facilities Position Legal & General America as the simple company with simpler products, developing a new customer website and driving simplicity in customer experience Continue to develop LGIMs ur digital vision direct to consumer retail is to automate investment business our businesses, increasing back-ofce Improve the ability of our efficiency, simplifying processes for Mature Savings customers O individual customers and corporate to self-service their partners and delivering better value product holdings products and propositions.
In addition, were now taking advantage of the new digital Digital objectives platforms weve developed for Were developing our key digital pensions auto-enrolment and objectives to improve our direct lifetime mortgages to drive new business.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 27 STRATEGIC REPORT DIGITAL We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them ALBERT EINSTEIN We need a strategy that is digital Weve started to develop our digital strategy in our Insurance and workplace pensions businesses.
However, we have only managed to make limited progress and theres still a long way to go.
Our strategy is to leverage our large scale businesses and drive automation to improve our 66% propositions for customers and of UK home insurance sales the value we derive from these were purchased online in an April 2015 survey.
Mintel, Home Insurance report, We are implementing new December 2015. processes where Insurance customers can benefit from slicker application and underwriting processes.
We also delivered a new general insurance digital Driving digital disruption individuals and families.
Our future platform in 2015, which was simpler, intention is to offer the under 45s Digital disruption has enabled more intuitive and more logical in life insurance, with premiums of brands like Uber, Airbnb and Netix helping consumers buy cover.
to ourish while traditional market Employers in our workplace players offering taxi services, hotel We aim to make insurance more schemes are benefitting from joined accommodation and DVD hire have accessible, giving a financial safety up administration processes while seen their market shares decline.
net to millions of people who are employees can manage their Were keen to use our scale to shake currently alienated from traditional investments using online pension up the investment and insurance financial services.
MediaCityUKs digital incubators SEE THE ONLINE FAST READ www.
com Micro insurance in India First Our purchase of 50% of 2015fastread In India were working with MediaCityUK in Salford, which is the government, who have an an overall 500 million investment outstanding digital programme project, has enabled us to play a encompassing mobile technology part in the development of new Our ambition is to develop our business to achieve market and retinal scanning.
We now insure digital businesses.
MediaCityUK is leadership in digital provision the lives of five million people, the largest purpose-built creative, of insurance, retail investments helping many lower income groups digital and technology community and pensions.
As we develop, we could be increasingly buy affordable cover for their in Europe, and the UKs first media exposed to new types of risk.
Its vision is to provide Were alive to cyber threats, a global centre of excellence for the risks that they present to Were hoping to extend the concept our customers data and the innovation and creation, and to of mass-market insurance to the potential for reputational be a broadcasting hub enabling damage and financial loss.
UK, where we want to enhance businesses to operate across We work closely with our IT financial resilience with low cost, business partners to manage all media.
digitally delivered protection for new threats as well as ensuring our broader IT infrastructure is appropriately scaled to support our growth plans.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 MANAGING THE RISKS
