Risk management Risk management Risk appetite is embedded within principles, policies, Risk management is at the heart of authorities and limits across the Group and continues to evolve our strategy to become the best to reflect external market developments and composition of the Group.
Performance is optimised by allowing business units to operate within approved risk appetite and limits.
Our mission is to support the Governance and control business in delivering sustainable The Groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control growth.
This is achieved through framework and a strong risk management culture which are the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management informed risk decision making and guide the way all employees approach their work, behave and superior risk and capital and make decisions.
management, supported by a Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the Board down to individuals through the management consistent risk-focused culture.
Senior executives are supported by a committeebased structure which is designed to ensure open challenge and support effective decision making.
The risk overview pages28 to 33 provides a summary of risk The Groups risk appetite, principles, policies, procedures, management within the Group.
It highlights the important role controls and reporting are regularly reviewed and updated of risk as a strategic differentiator, risk achievements in 2015 and where needed to ensure they remain fully in line with priorities for 2016 along with a brief overview of the Groups risk regulations, law, corporate governance and industry governance structure and the principal risks faced by the Group good-practice.
The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance This full risk management section provides a more in-depth structures relies upon a culture of transparency and openness picture of how risk is managed within the Group, detailing that is encouraged by both the Board and senior management.
the Groups emerging risks, approach to stress testing, risk Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement governance, committee structure, appetite for risk pages112 of senior management in Groupwide risk issues at Group to 119 and a full analysis of the primary risk drivers pages120 Executive Committee level, ensures that escalated issues to 169 the framework by which risks are identified, managed, are promptly addressed and remediation plans are initiated mitigated and monitored.
Each risk driver is described and managed using the Line management is directly accountable for identifying and following standard headings: definition, appetite, exposures, managing risks in their individual businesses, ensuring that measurement, mitigation and monitoring.
business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk and reward consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
Clear responsibilities and accountabilities for risk are defined across the Group through a Three Lines of Defence model THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK which ensures effective independent oversight and assurance The Group operates a prudent approach to risk with rigorous in respect of key decisions.
management controls to support sustainable business growth and minimise losses.
Through a strong and independent risk Risk decision making and reporting function Risk Division a robust control framework is maintained Taking risks which are well understood, consistent with strategy to identify and escalate emerging risks to support sustainable business growth within risk appetite and through good risk and with appropriate return is a key driver of shareholder value.
Risk analysis and reporting supports the identification of opportunities as well as risks.
Risk culture An aggregate view of the Groups overall risk profile, key The Board ensures that senior management implements risk risks and management actions, and performance against policies and risk appetites that either limit or, where appropriate, risk appetite, is reported to and discussed monthly at the prohibit activities, relationships and situations that could be Group Risk Committee and a subset at the Group Asset and detrimental to the Groups risk profile.
Liability Committee, with regular reporting to the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
As part of a conservative business model that embodies a risk culture founded on a prudent approach to managing Rigorous stress testing exercises are carried out to assess risk, the Group refreshed its Codes of Business and Personal the impact of a range of adverse scenarios with different probabilities and severities to inform strategic planning.
Responsibility in 2015 reinforcing its approach where colleagues are accountable for the risks they take and where the needs of The Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Board Risk customers are paramount.
Committee BRC of the aggregate risk profile and as a member of the Board, has direct access to the Chairman The focus remains on building and sustaining long-term and members of BRC.
relationships with customers cognisant of the economic climate.
Risk appetite Defined as the amount and type of risk that the Group isprepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
The Groups strategy operates in tandem with its high level risk appetite which is supported by more detailed metrics and limits.
An updated Risk Appetite Statement was approved by the Board in 2015.
This incorporated challenge and recommendations from the Board Risk Committee and is fully aligned with Group strategy.
112 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Table 1.1: Exposure to risk arising from the business activities of the Group The table below provides a high level guide to how the Groups business activities are reflected in its risk measures and balance sheet.
Details of the business activities for each division are provided in the Divisional Results on pages42 to 51.
Lloyds Banking Group Commercial Consumer Central 1 2 Retail Banking Run-off Items Insurance Total Finance Division bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Risk-weighted assets RWAs 3 Credit risk 48.8 83.4 17.6 10.0 12.7 172.5 3 Counterparty credit risk 9.1 0.6 9.7 Operational risk 17.1 6.3 2.5 0.2 26.1 Market risk 3.7 0.1 3.8 Total excluding threshold 65.9 102.5 20.1 10.2 13.4 212.1 4 Threshold 10.6 10.6 Total 65.9 102.5 20.1 10.2 24.0 222.7 1 Central items include assets held outside the main operating divisions, including exposures relating to Group Corporate Treasury which holds the Groups liquidity portfolio, and Group Operations.
2 As a separate regulated business, Insurance maintains its own regulatory solvency requirements, including appropriate management buffers, and reports directly to Insurance Board.
Insurance does not hold any RWAs, as its assets are removed from the Banking Groups regulatory capital calculations.
However, part of the Groups investment in Insurance is included in the calculation of Threshold RWAs, subject to the CRD IV rules, while the remainder is taken as a capital deduction.
3 Exposures relating to the default fund of a central counterparty and credit valuation adjustments are included in Credit Risk and Counterparty Credit Risk respectively for the purposes of thistable.
4 Threshold is presented on a fully loaded CRD IV basis.
Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the element of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of deducted from CET1 capital.
Significant investments primarily arise from the investment in the Groups Insurance business.
Principal risks The Groups principal risks are shown in the risk overview pages28 to 33.
The Groups emerging risks are shown overleaf.
Full analysis of the Groups risk drivers is on pages120 to 169.
