Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report independent Non-Executive Director, has notified the Board Corporate governance statement that he does not intend to seek re-election at the 2016 AGM.
The corporate governance report found on pages 56 to 81 together with this report of which it forms part, fulfils the Board composition changes requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement for the Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2015 purpose of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
up to the date of this report are shown in the table below: Joined the Board Retired from the Board Profit and dividends Carolyn Fairbairn 31 October 2015 The consolidated income statement shows a statutory profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2015 of Deborah 1 December 2015 1,644million 2014:1,762 million.
McWhinney The directors have recommended a final dividend, which is Stuart Sinclair 4 January 2016 subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, of 1.5 pence per share 2014: 0.75 pence per share totalling 1,070 million 2014: 535 million.
The directors have Directors indemnities also recommended a special dividend of 0.5 pence per share The Directors of the Company, including the former Director 2014:nil totalling 357 million 2014: nil.
The final and special who retired during the year have entered into individual deeds dividend will be paid on 17 May 2016. of indemnity with the Company which constituted qualifying The dividend in respect of 2014 of 0.75 pence per ordinary third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the share was paid to shareholders on 19 May 2015 and an interim Companies Act 2006.
The deeds indemnify the Directors to dividend for 2015 of 0.75 pence per ordinary share was paid the maximum extent permitted by law and remain in force for on 28 September 2015: these dividends totalled 1,070 million.
the duration of a Directors period of office.
The deeds were Further information on dividend is shown in note 46 on page in force during the whole of the financial year or from the date 241 and is incorporated by reference.
of appointment in respect of the Director appointed in 2015.
Inaddition, the Group had appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance cover in place throughout 2015.
Revisions Appointment and retirement of Directors are being made to the existing Deeds of Indemnity to take The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed account of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
by the Companys articles of association, the UK Corporate Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at Governance Code and the Companies Act 2006.
The the Companys registered office.
Companys articles of association may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
The Company has also granted a deed of indemnity through deed poll which constituted qualifying third party indemnity Deborah McWhinney and Stuart Sinclair have been appointed provisions to the Directors of the Groups subsidiary to the Board since the 2015 AGM and will therefore stand for companies, including to former Directors who retired during election at the forthcoming AGM.
In the interests of good the year and since the year end.
governance and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the other Directors will Qualifying pension scheme indemnities were also granted retire, and those wishing to serve again, will submit themselves to the Trustees of the Groups Pension Schemes.
for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Dyfrig John, an Information incorporated by reference The following additional information forms part of the Directors Report, and is incorporated by reference.
Content Pages Group results Summary of Group results 35 to 41 Ordinary dividends Ordinary dividends note to the accounts 241 Directors biographies Directors and their biographical details 56 to 57 Directors in 2015 Directors who served in 2015 56 to 57 Directors emoluments Directors emoluments and share interests 82 to 106 Internal control and financial Internal control and financial risk management systems in relation 168 riskmanagement to financial reporting Financial risk management objectives and policies in relation 112 to 169 and 249 to the use of financial instruments to 261 Information included in the Future developments 2 to 33 strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions additional information 27 Inclusion and diversity 26 Engaging colleagues additional information 22 Disclosures required under Significant contracts 244 to 246 Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Dividend waivers 241 Principal risks and uncertainties Funding and liquidity 32 and 153 to 159 Capital position 160 to 165 Share capital and control Share capital and restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights 237 to 238 note to the accounts Special rights with regard to the control of the Company 237 to 238 note to the accounts Post balance sheet events Events since the balance sheet date - note to the accounts 279 107 Governance Directors report continued Power of Directors in relation to shares Post balance sheet events The Board manages the business of the Company under the Other than as stated in note 56 which is incorporated into this powers set out in the articles of association, these powers report by reference, there have been no other material post include the Directors ability to issue or buy back shares.
The Directors were granted authorities to issue and allot shares and to buy back shares at the 2015 AGM.
Shareholders Going concern will be asked to renew these authorities at the 2016 AGM.
The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on successfully funding their respective balance The Company did not repurchase any of its shares during the year 2014: none.
sheets and maintaining adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable Substantial shareholders future, the Directors have considered a number of key Information provided to the Company by substantial dependencies which are set out in the risk management shareholders pursuant to the DTR is published via a section under principal risks and uncertainties: funding and Regulatory Information Service.
liquidity on page 32 and pages 153 to 159 and capital position As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified by on pages 160 to 165 and additionally have considered its substantial shareholders under Rule 5 of the DTR of the projections for the Groups capital and funding position.
following interests in the Companys shares: Accordingly, the Directors conclude that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing % of issued share capital with rights the accounts over the next 12 months.
to vote in all circumstances at Viability statement general 1 Interest in shares meetings The Directors have an obligation under the UK Corporate Governance Code to state whether they believe the Company The Solicitor for and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet the Affairs of Her 2 their liabilities as they fall due over a specified period determined Majestys Treasury 7,057,718,792 9.89% by the Directors, taking account of the current financial position 3 BlackRock, Inc. 3,668,756,765 5.14% and the principal risks of the Company and the Group.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a 1 Percentage provided was correct at the date of notification.
2 wide range of information, including the principal and emerging A direct holding.
3 The most recent notification provided by BlackRock, Inc. under Rule 5 of the DTR risks which could impact the performance of the Group, and the identifies i an indirect holding of 3,599,451,380 shares in the Company Groups operating plan which comprises detailed customer, representing 5.04 per cent of the voting rights in the Company, and ii a holding of financial, capital and funding projections together with an 69,305,385 in other financial instruments in respect of the Company representing assessment of relevant risk factors.
In 2015, particular focus was 0.09 per cent of the voting rights of the Company.
BlackRock, Inc. s holding most recently notified to the Company under Rule 5 of the DTR varies from the holding given to the implications arising from the continuing interest disclosed in BlackRock, Inc. s Schedule 13-G filing with the USSecurities and rate environment, the impact of regulatory change Exchange Commission dated 9 February 2016, which identifies beneficial requirements on investment plans, developing regulatory ownership of 4,847,496,882 shares in the Company representing 6.8percent of the issued share capital in the Company.
This variance is attributable to different requirements and changes to tax legislation.
notification and disclosure requirements between these regulatory regimes.
Group, divisional and business unit operating plans are produced and subject to regulatory and internal stress testing scenarios on No further notifications have been received under Rule 5 an annual basis.
The planning process takes account of the of the DTR as at the date of this report.
Groups business objectives, the risks taken to seek to meet those objectives and the controls in place to mitigate those risks to Change of control remain within the Groups overall risk appetite.
The Company is not party to any significant contracts that The Groups planning process comprises the following are subject to change of control provisions in the event of a key stages: takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing compensation for loss Each year, the Board revises the strategy, risk appetite and of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
objectives of the Group in the context of the operating environment and external market commitments.
This The Company is party to a deed of covenant with each of the information is used to produce Group and divisional targets four Lloyds Foundations the Foundations which hold limited used by divisional teams to support development of their voting shares in the Company the limited voting shares are operating plans.
further described in note 41 on pages 237 to 238.
Under the The financial projections, expected market and business terms of the deeds of covenant, the Company makes an annual payment to each of the Foundations.
In the event of changes, and future expected legal, accounting and regulatory changes are subject to rigorous review and a successful offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, each limited voting challenge from both divisional and Group executives.
Risk Division provide an independent assessment to the Board share would convert to an ordinary share under the terms of the Companys articles of association.
The payment obligation on alignment of the plan with Group strategy and Board risk appetite, highlighting key risks to delivery of the plan.
under the deeds of covenant would come to an end one year following the conversion of the limited voting shares.
The planning process is also underpinned by a robust stress testing framework to assess compliance with the Group risk Branches appetite.
Further information on stress testing and reverse stress testing is provided on page 115.
The stress testing The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial scenarios are designed to be severe but plausible: and take full services through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
account of the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the Research and development activities impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering the During the ordinary course of business the Group develops likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the new products and services within the business units.
Boards regular monitoring and review of risk and internal control systems, as discussed on page 70, is taken into account.
108 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The final operating plan, Risk Division assessment and the Intensity ratio results of the stress testing are presented to the Board for An intensity ratio of GHG gases per m of underlying income approval.
Once approved, the operating plan drives detailed has been selected.
divisional and Group targets for the following year.
The Directors have specifically assessed the prospects of Oct 2014 Oct 2013 Sept 2015 Sep 2014 the Company and the Group over the first three years of the current plan.
Thisperiod presents the Board with a reasonable GHG emissions per unit of degree of confidence given there is greater certainty over underlying income 22.3 24.0 expected events and macroeconomic assumptions during the earlier years of the plan, whilst still providing an appropriate Omissions longer-term outlook.
It is also well within the period covered by the Groups future projections of profitability, cash flows, Emissions associated with joint ventures and investments capital requirements and capital resources.
are not included in this disclosure as they fall outside the scopeofour operational boundary.
The Group does not have Information relevant to the assessment can be found in the any emissions associated with heat, steam or cooling and is following sections of the annual report and accounts: not aware of any other material sources of omissions from The Groups principal activities, business and operating our reporting.
models and strategic direction are described in the strategicreport: Engaging colleagues Emerging risks are disclosed on page 114: We provide colleagues with information on the Groups The principal risks, including the Groups objectives, policies performance and matters that concern their role, for example and processes for managing credit, capital, liquidity and changes in the economic or regulatory environment, funding, are provided in the Risk Management section on management changes and reward and remuneration.
pages 112 to 169: and Colleagues are regularly consulted and share their views twice The Groups approach to stress testing and reverse stress a year through our best bank for customers and building the testing, including both regulatory and internal stresses, best team colleague surveys.
More information on these is is described on page 115. available on page 22.
The results of these surveys were shared across the organisation, with over 4,000 line managers holding Based upon this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable survey results conversations with their teams to agree actions expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to to deliver our vision of becoming the best bank for customers.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Colleagues are offered share schemes as part of wider incentive over the next three years to 31 December 2018. arrangements, and to encourage their financial involvement.
Greenhouse gas emissions Inclusion and diversity The Group has voluntarily reported greenhouse gas emissions We aim to appoint the best person available into any role and environmental performance since 2009, and since 2013 and to attract talented people from diverse backgrounds.
this has been in line with the requirements of the Companies We encourage and give full and fair consideration to job Act 2006.
The full emissions, in tonnes of CO2 equivalent, are applications from people with a disability and are unbiased in reported in the strategic report on page 27. the way we assess, select, appoint, train and promote people.
Deloitte LLP has reviewed a selection of non-financial KPIs, We encourage job applications from those with a disability indicated by providing limited assurance using the and continue to run a work experience programme with International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE Remploy to support people with disabilities wanting to enter 3000 Revised.
Their full, independent assurance statement the workplace.
All colleagues, including disabled colleagues, is available online at www.
com are provided with training and development opportunities so RBdownloads that they can carry out their role to the best of their ability.
All line managers completed inclusion and diversity capability training in 2015, and an additional 200 colleagues were trained Methodology to deliver disability awareness sessions with customers.
The Group follows the principles of the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Our award-winning workplace adjustment programme, which Standard to calculate our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions from provides physical and non-physical adjustments to all our worldwide operations.
colleagues including disabled colleagues, carried out more than 6,300 adjustments in 2015, bringing the total to 28,000 The reporting period is 1October 2014 to 30September 2015, since the programme started in 2002.
We retained our Gold which is different to that of our Directors report January 2015 Standard in the Business Disability Forum Benchmark with December 2015.
This is in line with Regulations in that the a score of 98.
The Disability Standard establishes what majority of the emissions reporting year falls within the period best practice is across the business in terms of disability of the Directors report.
Emissions are reported based on an performance and recognises the adjustments the Group operational boundary.
The scope of reporting is in line with has made for employees, candidates and customers as the GHG Protocol and covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 part of the Group Disability Programme.
Reported Scope 1 emissions cover emissions generated from gas and oil used in buildings, emissions from UK company-owned vehicles used for business travel and emissions from the use of air conditioning and chiller refrigerant plant.
Reported Scope 2 emissions cover emissions generated from the use of electricity.
Reported Scope 3 emissions relate to business travel undertaken by colleagues and emissions associated with the extraction and distribution of each of our energy sources electricity, gas and oil.
A detailed definition of these emissions can be found in our 2015 Reporting Criteria online at www.
com RBdownloads 109 Governance Directors report continued Each of the current Directors, who are in office and whose Independent auditor and audit information names and functions are listed on pages 56 and 57 of Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or report confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no her knowledge: relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This position and profit or loss of the Company and Group: and confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance the management report contained in the strategic report with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. and the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of position of the Company and Group, together with a  LLP as auditor and authorising the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Audit Committee to set its remuneration will be proposed at theyface.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, Statement of directors responsibilities taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual the Companys position and performance, business model and report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial strategy.
The Directors have also separately reviewed and statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors On behalf of the Board have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group Malcolm Wood for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company Secretary Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies 24 February 2016 and then apply them consistently: make judgements and Lloyds Banking Group plc accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Registered in Scotland state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Company number SC95000 Union have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website at www.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
110 L Lllo oy yd ds B s Ba an nk kiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 RISK MANAGEMENT All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
The audited information is required to comply with the requirements of relevant International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Groups approach to risk 112 Emerging risks 114 Capital stress testing 115 How risk is managed in Lloyds Banking Group 116 Risk governance 118 Full analysis of risk drivers 120 Credit risk 121 Conduct risk 143 Market risk 144 Operational risk 151 Funding and liquidity risk 153 Capital risk 160 Regulatory and legal risk 166 Insurance risk 166 People risk 167 Financial reporting risk 168 Governance risk 169 Further information on risk management can be found: Risk overview 28 Note 53: Financial risk management 265 Other information for an analysis of where Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF recommendations are disclosed 298 Pillar 3 Report: www.
