Strategic report Our strategic approach OUR PURPOSE By becoming the best bank for customers we believe we can help HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER 15 Britain prosper and deliver superior and sustainable returns for our OUR AIM shareholders TO BECOME THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS WHILST DELIVERING SUPERIOR AND SUSTAINABLE Our strategy RETURNS FOR SHAREHOLDERS We are a leading financial services group focused on becoming the best bank for customers whilst delivering superior and sustainable returns for shareholders through a simple, low risk, OUR BUSINESS MODEL UK focused, retail and commercial banking business model.
SIMPLE, LOW RISK, UK FOCUSED, In 2011, we outlined our strategy to be the best bank for 18 customers and over the following three years the business RETAIL AND COMMERCIAL BANK was transformed with a reshaped, low risk portfolio, a strengthened balance sheet and a more efficient cost base.
This firm foundation enabled us to launch the next phase of OUR RESPONSIBLE 22 our strategy in 2014 which was focused on delivering value APPROACH TO BUSINESS and high quality experiences for customers alongside superior and sustainable financial performance within a prudent risk OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES and control framework.
We need to adapt to the changes in financial services brought about by technology, changing customer behaviour and Creating the best increasing regulatory requirements at a time when traditional customer experience competitors strategies converge and new entrants compete for customers.
This change is being achieved through three strategic priorities which run to 2017.
These priorities are: Becoming simpler Creating the best customer experience and more efficient Becoming simpler and more efficient Delivering sustainable growth Delivering The achievement of our strategy could not happen sustainable growth without the support of our colleagues.
We are therefore committed to building the best team to create a high performance organisation.
SUPPORTED BY OUR COLLEAGUES You can read more about each of these priorities and the Building the progress we made during 2015 on pages 20-21. best team Operating responsibly A sustainable and responsible approach to doing business is integral to everything we do.
It underpins our aim to become the best bank for customers and our purpose to help Britain prosper.
It is central to our strategy and business model.
Our Helping Britain Prosper Plan sets out our public targets to help Britains people, businesses and communities today, over and above our core business activities.
Doing business responsibly starts with our colleagues.
We must continue to build a culture in which they are empowered, inspired and rewarded to do the right thing for customers.
Our three Group Values: putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference together, provide inspiration and guidance.
To help us live up to these values, as individuals, as a business or as suppliers, we operate in line with our Codes of Responsibility.
We have an effective top-to-bottom governance structure, providing an environment in which colleagues are encouraged and supported to do the right thing and to work responsibly.
This governance structure includes our Group Board and Board-level Responsible Business Committee and cascades to every part of our business, through our Group Executive Committee and Group Customer First Committee.
Our focus on doing business responsibly is recognised by our continued presence in the FTSE4Good index, our position in the CDP Carbon Disclosure Project and Euronext Vigeo UK 20 Index, as well as our ranking in the Business in the Read more about our strategic priorities Community CR Index.
