Strategic report Market overview Market growth Given our UK focus, our financial Growth in the markets in which we operate has improved but performance is inextricably linked in aggregate remains much weaker than pre-crisis.
Mortgage volumes for house purchases rose 4.7 per cent to a post-crisis tothe performance of the UK high, and their value rose by 10.7 per cent, pushing growth in economy and its regulatory balances up from 1.6per cent in 2014 to 2.6 per cent in 2015, its strongest since 2008.
Growth in consumer unsecured borrowing and competitive environment balances rose from 4.1 per cent in 2014 to 6.0 per cent in 2015, the strongest since 2005.
Small and medium-sized companies SMEs have started to increase borrowing from banks again in 2015 for the first time since 2008, while companies deposits continued to grow rapidly, up 11.5 per cent in 2015 after an UK economic trends average of 9.3 per cent across 2013-14.
Consumer deposit Resilience in the face of a fragile growth fell back slightly from 4.3per cent in 2014 to 3.8percent in 2015, but this was mainly due to the governments launch of global economy pensioner bonds.
Initial estimates indicate that the UK economy grew by 2.2 per cent in 2015, close to its 25-year average, at a time Margin pressure when global growth slowed.
UK economic growth was the Competition and the delay in Bank Rate increases are keeping second strongest of the G7 countries, only marginally behind the US.
Eurozone growth improved during 2015, back to its banks margins under pressure.
The spread between average lending and deposit rates has held fairly flat in 2015 close to 25-year average, but at 1.5 per cent it remains significantly slower than the UK.
its pre-crisis level, having improved from the very low level of 2011-12 when wholesale funding costs were exceptionally high.
Leadership of global growth is shifting back to developed Lending rates have fallen to a record low in 2015, and whilst economies as they emerge from a period of private sector deposit rates have fallen during the year they are still higher debt reduction, government cuts and tax increases.
The than short term financial-market rates, opposite to pre-crisis.
slowdown in emerging markets as their credit cycle turns is Mortgage pricing has been particularly aggressive in 2015, pushing inflation down across the world as their currencies and with spreads on new loans over market funding costs falling commodity prices fall.
UK inflation has hovered close to zero around 50 basis points through the year.
throughout 2015, and as a result, consumers inflation-adjusted incomes have increased, ending a seven year period in which Low level impairment they had been broadly flat.
That has boosted consumer Improving indebtedness, along with the continued low interest spending growth to an eight year high in 2015, and helped push unemployment down to pre-crisis levels.
rate environment, is continuing to reduce impairments which are below expected through-the-cycle levels.
The share of Low inflation and risks from the slowdown in emerging markets highly indebted consumers has fallen further in 2015, and are complicating central banks setting of interest rates.
The consumers concerns over their level of debt and mortgage US increased rates in December 2015 for the first time since payments are back to pre-crisis lows.
Personal and corporate 2006, much later than had been expected at the start of the insolvency rates are low, both around half their 2009-10 peaks.
And the UK hasnt yet raised rates, contrary to consensus Rising property prices have also sharply reduced potential expectations at the start of 2015 of two increases during that losses from defaults on property lending.
Low interest rates, along with limited supply, have boosted property prices with UK house prices up 10 per cent Outlook for 2016 during 2015, surpassing their 2007 peak, and commercial property prices up 7.8 per cent.
Despite challenges from slowing emerging markets and rising US interest rates, the most likely outlook for the UK in 2016 is another year similar to 2015.
Consensus expectations are for gdp growth of 2.2 per cent, CPI inflation rising to 1.1 per cent by the end of the GROWTH IN OUR MARKETS year, house prices up 5 per cent, and another year without a rise yearly % change in UK market balances in Bank Rate.
As the recovery matures, borrowing is rising and domestic consumption will be the primary driver of economic Mortgages growth.
Lending has been subdued for five years and corporate and household balance sheets have strengthened, so that credit 2015 2.6 has room to grow without threatening macroeconomic stability.
2014 1.6 Low inflation will keep real household incomes growing, 2003-7 avg 11.9 sustaining economic growth despite headwinds from the elevated level of sterling, weak manufacturing activity, tightening benefit payments and uncertainty over the future of the UKs Consumer unsecured borrowing membership of the EU.
2015 6.0 There are, however, risks to those expectations, stemming from the deflationary impact of the slowdown in emerging markets, 2014 4.1 the associated recent volatility in financial markets that might 2003-7 avg 5.7 weaken consumer and business confidence: and the referendum on UK membership of the EU which, if the vote is to leave, may SME borrowing create a period of uncertainty and impact companies investment plans.
Crystallisation of any of these risks could impact the UK 2015 0.1 economy, which in turn would have a negative impact on the Groups income, funding costs and impairment charges.
2014 3.7 16 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our customers require different products and services at Regulation different stages of their lives, with younger people requiring The regulatory landscape in which we operate continues to help with planning and providing for retirement, while the evolve with the key areas of focus now protecting consumers older generation is becoming increasingly interested in and small business customers, ensuring competitive markets accessing their equity to support their retirement.
and strengthening the prudential framework.
Many customers are motivated by their desire to achieve Competition and conduct remain core elements of regulatory better value for money, not least in the current low interest rate reform and regulators continue to undertake reviews into environment, but security and reputation remain important certain products and markets.
For small business and personal factors.
Customers want clear and transparent products current account customers, the Competition and Markets delivered with good service and access to relevant, expert Authority CMA initiated a review in 2014 and has released advice when they need it.
a notice of possible remedies to improve transparency and We have seen an influx of new entrants to the market, with a the ease of switching having provisionally rejected structural variety of business models.
Many of these new entrants have remedies.
Other competition reviews progressing include the expertise and experience in digital product offerings, with FCAs review into the credit card market, whilst in the Insurance strong funding positions, credible brands, and in some cases business we have seen the introduction of a cap on corporate pre existing customer bases and branch networks.
The Payment Systems Regulator is separately non banks such as technology firms and supermarkets are reviewing indirect access and infrastructure provision.
From disrupting the banking industry.
aconduct perspective, the most significant development for us was the FCA decision to consult on a deadline for PPI As outlined above, there are some clear customer trends complaints, with the results expected in the first half of 2016. emerging, but we recognise that every customer, whether an We continue to work to ensure we provide appropriate and individual or an organisation, has particular needs and we must fairproducts with clear, simple and relevant terms.
Fundamentally, every customer Alongside its December 2015 Financial Stability Report, the has a choice and will select the provider that can most effectively fulfil their personal needs.
Bank of England issued its new capital framework, finalising its view on capital requirements for UK banks.
This framework Our strategy, which focuses on our multi-brand, multi-channel sets out the minimum requirements as well as the approach distribution model, simpler processes, customer-driven product forsetting capital buffers and the levels of debt required for range and expertise across insurance and banking, puts us in a resolution purposes.
The framework will be implemented on unique position to respond to these market conditions and meet atransitional basis, reaching an end-state by 2019.
Also in the needs of individual and corporate customers.
December 2015, the Bank of England approved Scottish Above all it recognises that we operate in a competitive market Widows Groups internal model for calculating its capital where additional challengers continue to emerge and the only requirements under the Solvency II regime.
We remain way of ensuring success is by focusing on the ever-changing comfortably in excess of minimum requirements on our key needs of our customers.
Read more about our strategic priorities capital ratios and are well positioned for implementation.
Theresilience of our capital position was demonstrated again in 2015 when we comfortably exceeded the threshold for the latest PRA stress test.
In addition, from October 2015 the Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR became the key ratio for Key opportunities the amount of cash and liquid assets a bank must hold, with the bank comfortably meeting its requirements.
Economic environment: significant progress in reducing the Groups risk profile and strengthening the balance Ring-fencing and resolution regulation continues to be relevant sheet along with strategic actions taken in the last few for all European banks under the EU Bank Recovery and years means we are better positioned to benefit from Resolution Directive and additionally for UK banks under the theUK economic recovery.
Financial Services Banking Reform Act.
Final legislation and Customer needs: our differentiated customer focused near-final rules have now been issued, enabling us to better plan strategy along with our comprehensive multi-channel for implementation.
Given our UK retail and commercial focused distribution network, and in particular our evolving digital business model, we continue to expect ring-fencing to be less capability, mean we are well positioned to address onerous for us to implement than many of our UK peers as we changing customer needs.
anticipate the vast majority of our business will sit within the ring-fence.
Regulatory environment: greater clarity emerging on regulatory requirements and our simple, low risk, UK There are a number of other regulatory changes that have been focused strategy places us in a strong position.
implemented or developed through 2015, several of which are Low cost position: this enables us to provide competitive relevant to our business, including the Fair and Effective Markets differentiation for the benefit of customers and shareholders.
Review, the Senior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR and changes to the individual and corporate pensions market.
Key challenges Overall however, we believe our simple, low risk, UK focused Economic environment: increased concerns on the strategy puts us in a strong position to adapt to the evolving globalgrowth outlook, the impact of continued low regulatory landscape.
interest rates and the impact of the EU referendum.
Regulatory environment: the level of regulatory change Customer drivers and competition remains high with continued focus on ring-fencing, In the competitive open markets in which we operate, customers resolution and conduct.
The SM&CR could potentially are benefiting from an increasing range of products and services have significant impact on the business.
from a growing choice of providers and via a range of channels.
Competition: an increasingly competitive market for The proportion of the UK population with access to the internet lending and deposits could further impact margins and has increased significantly over the past few years, as has the require us to innovate and evolve more quickly.
proportion of people accessing the internet via their mobile Digital transformation: the pace of change is significant phone.
This has changed customer behaviours and expectations and we will need to continue to invest to meet evolving in terms of how they shop for goods and undertake banking and customer needs.
these trends are expected to accelerate.
