Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CAPITAL STRESS TESTING Methodology The stress tests at all levels must comply with all regulatory Overview requirements, achieved through comprehensive construction Stress testing is recognised as a key risk management tool within of macroeconomic scenarios and a rigorous divisional, the Group by the Board, senior management, the businesses and functional and executive review and challenge process, the Risk and Finance functions.
Stress testing is fully embedded supported by analysis and insight into impacts on customers in the planning process of the Group as a key activity in medium and business drivers.
Senior management is actively involved in stress testing activities via a strict governance process.
The Chief Economists Office develops the internal macroeconomic scenarios used by the Group, based on key The Group uses scenario stress testing to: uncertainties for the Groups economic outlook.
A wide set Assess its strategic plans to adverse economic conditions of economic parameter assumptions is constructed, with and understand key vulnerabilities of the Group.
over 150metrics provided such as Gross Domestic Product, Base Rate, unemployment, property indices, insolvencies and Assess results against Board risk appetite to ensure the Group is managed within its risk parameters, allowing senior corporate failures to facilitate modelling of scenarios across the Group.
Where an external scenario is provided, as was the case management and the Board to adjust strategies if the plan does not meet risk appetite in a stressed scenario.
At the with the UK-wide concurrent Bank of England stress exercise, the Chief Economists Office broadens the externally supplied same time, the results of the stress tests will also inform the setting of risk appetite by assessing the underlying risks under parameters to the level of detail required by the Group.
The engagement of all required Risk and control areas is built Drive the development of potential actions and contingency into the preparation process, so that the appropriate analysis of plans to mitigate the impact of adverse scenarios.
each risk drivers impact upon the business plans is understood Stress testing also links directly to the Groups Recovery and documented.
The methodologies and modelling approach Planning process.
used for stress testing ensure that a clear link is shown between the macroeconomic scenarios, the business drivers for each area Support the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and the resultant stress testing outputs.
All material assumptions ICAAP by demonstrating capital adequacy, and meet the used in modelling are documented and justified, with a clearly requirements of regulatory stress tests that are used to inform communicated review and sign-off process.
Modelling is the setting of the Groups PRA buffer see Capital Risk on supported by expert judgement and is subject to the Group pages 160 to 165.
Meet the required standards and the information needs of internal and external stakeholders, including regulators.
Below is an overview of the principal output responsibilities by team: Regulatory stress tests Finance teams in the business prepare and review finance During 2015, the Group was subject to the UK-wide concurrent related stress testing results including, but not limited to, stress test run by the Bank of England.
As announced in income, margins, costs, lending and deposit volumes.
December, the Group comfortably exceeded the capital Credit risk and market risk teams prepare and review thresholds set by the regulator and was not required to take risk-related stress outputs, including, but not limited to, any action as a result of this test.
impairment charges, risk-weighted assets, expected loss and trading losses.
Internal stress tests The Group Corporate Treasury team reviews the stress outputs At least on an annual basis, the Group conducts a detailed and evaluates the impact upon the Groups Capital and macroeconomic stress test of the operating plan, which is Funding Plan.
supplemented with higher-level refreshes if necessary.
The exercise aims to highlight the key vulnerabilities of the Group to The Central Finance and Tax teams consolidate the Group position and assess the tax and regulatory capital impacts.
adverse changes in the economic environment, and to ensure that there are adequate financial resources in the event of a The Group Financial Risk team provides oversight of downturn.
The internal stress test includes different economic the Finance and Risk stress submissions as well as the scenarios, both in terms of severity and focus for example consolidated Group position and capital ratios, and produces exploring the impacts of both low and high interest rate analysis packs for the Groups senior committees.
Governance Reverse stress testing Clear accountabilities and responsibilities for stress testing Reverse stress testing is used to explore the vulnerabilities of are assigned to senior management and the Risk and Finance the Groups strategies and plans to extreme adverse events functions throughout the Group.
This is formalised through that would cause the business to fail, in order to facilitate the Group Business Planning and Stress Testing Policy and contingency planning.
The scenarios used are those that would Procedures, which are reviewed at least annually.
cause the Group to be unable to carry on its business activities.
The Group Financial Risk Committee GFRC, chaired by the Where reverse stress testing reveals plausible scenarios with an Chief Risk Officer and attended by the Chief Finance Officer and unacceptably high risk when considered against the Groups risk other senior Risk and Finance colleagues, is the Committee that appetite, the Group will adopt measures to prevent or mitigate has primary responsibility for overseeing the development and that risk, which are then reflected in strategic plans.
execution of the Groups stress tests.
Other stress testing activity The review and challenge of the detailed stress forecasts, the key assumptions behind these, and the methodology used The Groups stress testing programme also involves undertaking to translate the economic assumptions into stressed outputs assessment of operational risk scenarios, liquidity scenarios, are finalised by the divisional Finance Directors, appropriate market risk sensitivities and business specific scenarios see the Risk Directors and Managing Directors sign-off.
The outputs principal risks on pages 120 to 169 for further information on risk are then presented to GFRC, Group Risk Committee specific stress testing.
If required, ad hoc stress testing exercises Group Executive Committee and Board Risk Committee for are also undertaken to assess emerging risks, as well as in Group-level executive review and challenge, before being response to regulatory requests.
This wide ranging programme approved by the Board.
provides a comprehensive view of the potential impacts arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed and reflects the nature, scale and complexity of the Group.
