Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our purpose Helping Britain prosper People, businesses and communities Building digital skills are facing some challengingissues.
We are using our scale, reach and influence to help address these, through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan We have always understood that when people, businesses andcommunities across Britain prosper, so do we.
We help Britain prosper through our core products and services, but over and above these, through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan, which we launched in March 2014 and refreshed in 2015.
The Plan was created in consultation with our stakeholders and external experts to ensure it is relevant and focused.
It sets out clear targets to address social and economic issues prioritised by stakeholders which, as a bank, we are well placed to help address.
These include: the shortage of affordable homes: Part of our vision is to help Britain prosper by giving everyone supporting small businesses and the UKs manufacturing base: the chance to develop and improve their digital skills.
In 2015 helping people and organisations acquire the digital skills and we supported the UKs digital skills charity Go ON UKs launch capability they need: and tackling disadvantage in local of the Digital Inclusion Heatmap.
This was developed in communities in order that more people can share in the conjunction with a number of partners to help ensure UKs economic growth.
everyone in the UK has the basic digital skills they need.
TheHeatmap displays a measure of digital exclusion at a local Evolving the Prosper Plan level, providing policymakers and those working in the digital Were continually evolving the Plan to reflect changing social skills and inclusion sector with the insight to help drive and economic needs.
A wide range of different stakeholders engagement, action and funding where it is most needed.
including customers, colleagues, community partners, our charitable Foundations and opinion formers have directly colleagues helping people orindirectly contributed to this evolution.
As a result, the Plan andbusinesses improve their is simpler, more focused, more ambitious and increasingly 11,000 digital skills in 2015.
We are measured in terms of the positive outcomes it achieves, not ontrack to achieve our target onits reach.
Our ambition is to measure and audit the whole of 20,000 by the end of 2017 Plan on this basis, by 2017.
2016 Prosper Plan The 2016 Plan is focused on helping people, businesses and Supporting small communities to prosper, and has 24 metrics.
It includes four new targets: Number of high value manufacturing apprenticeships as a building firms result of our 1 million per year funding Number of customers helped to plan for later life through our retirement planning website Amount raised by colleagues and communities for our Charity of the Year Arrange and provide new funding support for social housing We recognise that a major challenge for the UK economy is the relatively low level of productivity.
Accordingly, in 2016 we are reviewing how we can help Britain become more productive and more globally competitive.
Britain doesnt stand still and our Plan needs to evolve to stay relevant.
Consequently, we are Lloyds Banking Group and the UK government launched refocusing our goals, targeting the Housing Growth Partnership in 2015 to diversify house where we can make the biggest building.
As a result, small house building firms are benefiting from a 100 million cash boost, recognising and supporting positive difference and setting their key role in keeping the UK building.
We have pledged 50million of the fund to provide smaller building firms with even more stretching and capital to allow them to recruit and train skilled workers and measurable targets.
We have also pledged 1million over four years to support the development of construction Sara Weller skills in London.
