Strategic report Our business model We have a differentiated, UK focused, retail and commercial OUR STRENGTHS banking business model By putting customers at the heart of everything we do, operating BUSINESS sustainably and responsibly and UK focus UNITS continuing to invest in our business strengths, we believe we will help Britain prosper and create value PRODUCTS for our shareholders Low risk Retail EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT OUR CUSTOMERS Our business model is influenced by external factors which continue Consumer to evolve, in particular: Finance MultiCustomer needs brand We are adapting to changing customer behaviour PRODUCTS such as the increased adoption of digital product offerings.
Economic and political environment Our focus on the UK means our future is inextricably linked to the health of the UK economy, which has continued to perform resiliently.
Regulatory environment MultiBUSINESS channel Although we are now seeing more clarity, the level of regulation UNITS whether it be focused on consumer protection, conduct, competition, capital or ring-fencing and resolution remains high.
Competitive environment The UK financial services market is one of the most competitive OUR worldwide and in such a dynamic market, we continue to differentiate STRENGTHS ourselves accordingly.
COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS THAT DIFFERENTIATE LLOYDS BANKING GROUP We have a number of strengths and capabilities that provide significant advantage and differentiation, driving value creation.
Maintaining this through continued investment is key to future success.
UK focus: Operating primarily in the UK means we are Multi-brand proposition: Offering our services through focusedon a single developed market that we truly a number of recognised brands enables us to address understand.
It also means we avoid the complexities the needs of different customer segments more effectively.
and costs of multi-jurisdictional operations.
Multi-channel approach: Operating in an integrated Simple, low cost operating model: Our simpler operating waythrough a range of distribution channels, including the model and focus on operational efficiency already provides largest branch network in the UK and a comprehensive digital a cost advantage which benefits both customers and proposition, ensures our customers can interact with us shareholders and will continue to be a key focus for the Group.
whenthey want and how they want.
Low risk business: Being a low risk bank is central to our Skilled and engaged people: Our colleagues provide real business model and to reducing earnings volatility.
We continue to build a responsible culture where it appetite is reflected through the low level of non-performing isclear what is expected of them.
Our Group Values of putting loans and non-core assets and our credit default swap spread, customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference which is amongst the best in the banking sector worldwide.
We invest in skills and training whileensuring alignment to our customer focused strategy Financial strength: Our balance sheet and funding position andcommitment to build the best team.
have both been transformed in recent years and they are amongst the strongest within the banking sector worldwide.
18 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Simple, low cost Financial strength Commercial Banking CREATING VALUE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES We are adapting to the changes brought about Outcomes for our stakeholders by technology, changing customer behaviour Customers: and increasing regulatory requirements in a Insurance Best bank for customers competitive market environment.
To achieve this, we are focusing on three strategic Doing the right thing for our customers by priorities whilst building the best team.
meeting their financial needs, helping them succeed, improving our service proposition and creating value for them, is fundamental Skilled and toour business model and the long-term Creating the best engaged sustainability of the business.
customer experience people Shareholders: Becoming simpler Superior and sustainable returns and more efficient The successful delivery of our business model and strategy should enable delivery of superior Delivering and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
sustainable growth SUPPORTED BY OUR COLLEAGUES Society: Helping Britain prosper Building the As the largest retail and commercial bank in best team theUK, helping Britain prosper is our central purpose.
We have a number of public targets inareas where we can make the biggest difference for people, businesses and Read more on page 20 or visit PRODUCTS www.
com Our product range is driven by the needs communities which are outlined in our 20 HelpingBritain Prosper Plan.
of our retail and commercial customers and informed through comprehensive customer analysis and insight.
Lending mortgages, credit cards, personal and business loans Deposit taking current accounts, savings accounts Insurance home insurance, motor insurance, protection Investment pensions and investment products Commercial financing term lending, debt capital markets, private equity Risk management interest rate hedging, currency, liquidity 19
