Risk management Risk management continued Group Chief Executive and Group Executive Committee HOW RISK IS MANAGED IN members GEC : LLOYDS BANKING GROUP Ensure that the Board Risk Appetite Statement is developed in The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF see risk collaboration with the Chief Risk Officer and is fully embedded overview, page29 is structured around the following nine in the business.
components which meet and align with the industry-accepted internal control framework issued by the Committee of Ensure resources and processes are in place to support the Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
TheRMF provides the Group with an effective mechanism for Are accountable for the integrity of the Board Risk Appetite developing and embedding risk policies and risk management Statement, including the timely identification and escalation strategies which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
of breaches and for developing mitigating actions.
It also seeks to facilitate effective communication on these Ensure risk appetite is fully embedded across strategy, matters across the Group.
planning, decision-making processes and remuneration.
Role of the Board and senior management key Monitor compliance with Board Risk Appetite.
responsibilities of the Board and senior management include: Group Chief Risk Officer: setting risk appetite and approval of the RMF: Develops the Board Risk Appetite Statement in collaboration approval of Groupwide risk principles and policies: with the Group Chief Executive and other GEC members.
the cascade of delegated authority for example to Board Obtains the Boards support and approval of the Board Risk sub-committees and the Group Chief Executive : and Appetite Statement.
effective oversight over risk management consistent with Oversees that the metrics are fully embedded by the business the risk appetite.
and reported on a monthly basis.
Risk appetite Ensures breaches are identified, escalated and appropriate mitigating action is taken by the business.
Risk appetite is defined within the Group as the amount and type of risk that the Group is prepared to seek, accept Risk appetite is embedded across the Group in the or tolerate.
following ways: Risk appetite is documented in a Board Risk Appetite Communication Board Risk Appetite metrics developed and Statement reviewed by the Board Risk Committee and agreed with business and operational teams.
In addition Board approved annually by the Board.
TheBoard Risk Appetite is Risk Appetite cascaded down into more detailed metrics and aligned to the Risk Appetite Framework, and in turn the RMF limits within Functional and Divisional sub-Board Risk Appetite and Group Risk Principles.
An updated Board Risk Appetite Statements along with additional supporting metrics which Statement was approved by the Board in 2015. should be used to drive local decision making and behaviours.
The Board metrics are supported by more detailed sub-Board Policies Group policies are aligned with Risk Appetite appetite functional risk metrics and sub-Board appetite Statement.
Reporting Performance against Board Risk Appetite metrics The Groups strategy operates in tandem with the Board Risk reported to Divisional, Functional, and Group Risk Committees Appetite and business planning is undertaken with a view to and the BRC and Board.
meeting the requirements of the Board Risk Appetite.
Performance Management Group and Divisional Scorecards Risk appetite is embedded within principles, policies, include adherence to risk appetite as a general measure authorities and limits across the Group and continues to evolve and include more detailed risk appetite measures which are to reflect external market developments and composition of pertinent for that area of the Group.
Key Decision Making Strategy operates in tandem with risk The Board Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the appetite and the Groups annual Operating Plan is developed development, implementation and maintenance of the Groups within the boundaries set by risk appetite.
overall risk management framework and its risk appetite, to Governance frameworks the Policy framework is founded on ensure they are in line with emerging regulatory, corporate Board-approved key principles for the overall management of governance and industry best practice.
risk in the organisation, which are aligned with Group strategy Accountabilities under the Risk Appetite Framework are and risk appetite and based on a current and comprehensive apportioned as follows: risk profile that identifies all material risks to the organisation.
The principles are underpinned by a hierarchy of policies which Board: define mandatory requirements for risk management and control Approves the type and level of risk the Group is prepared to which are consistently implemented across the Group.
The risk accept and the boundaries within which management must committee governance framework is outlined below.
operate when setting strategy and executing the business plan.
Three Lines of Defence model the RMF is implemented Holds the Group Chief Executive and other Senior through a Three Lines of Defence model which defines clear Executives accountable for the integrity of the Board Risk responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures effective Appetite Statement.
independent oversight and assurance activities take place Reviews and approves reporting against the Board Risk covering key decisions.
Business lines first line have primary responsibility for risk Ensure executive remuneration is aligned with risk decisions, identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling appetite adherence.
risks within their areas of accountability.
They are required to establish effective governance, and control frameworks for their business to be compliant with Group Policy requirements, to maintain appropriate risk management skills, mechanisms and toolkits, and to act within Group risk appetite parameters set and approved by the Board.
116 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk Division second line is a centralised function providing lead regulatory liaison on behalf of the Group including oversight and independent constructive challenge to the horizon scanning and regulatory development for their effectiveness of risk decisions taken by business management, risk type: and providing proactive advice and guidance, reviewing propose risk appetite and oversight of the associated challenging and reporting on the risk profile of the Group risk profile across the Group.
and ensuring that mitigating actions are appropriate.
Risk identification, measurement and control the Group Audit third line provides independent, objective process for risk identification, measurement and control is assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and integrated into the overall framework for risk governance.
Risk improve the organisations operations.
It helps the Group identification processes are forward looking to ensure emerging accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined risks are identified.
Risks are captured in comprehensive risk approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk logs registers, and measured using robust and consistent management, control and governance processes.
The measurement of risks provides independent assurance to the Audit Committee includes the application of stress testing and scenario analysis, and the Board that risks within the Group are recognised, and considers whether relevant controls are in place before monitored and managed within acceptable parameters.
Group Audit is fully independent of the Risk Division and Risk monitoring, aggregation and reporting identified the business, and seeks to ensure objective challenge to risks are logged and reported on a monthly basis or as the effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
frequently as necessary to the appropriate committee.
The Mandate of the Risk Division the objective of Risk Division extent of the risk is compared to the overall risk appetite as is to provide both proactive advice and constructive challenge well as specific limits or triggers.
When thresholds are breached, to the business.
It also has a key role in promoting the committee minutes are clear on the actions and timeframes implementation of a strategic approach to risk management required to resolve the breach and bring risk within given reflecting the risk appetite and RMF agreed by the Board tolerances.
There is a clear process for escalation of risks that encompasses: and risk events.
embedded effective risk management processes: All business areas complete a Control Effectiveness Review transparent focused risk monitoring and reporting: annually, reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls provision of expert and high quality advice and guidance to and putting in place a programme of enhancements where the Board, executives and management on strategic issues appropriate.
Executives from each business area and each GEC and horizon scanning including pending regulatory changes: member challenge and certify the accuracy of their assessment.
and This key process is overseen and independently challenged by Policy Owners, Risk Division and Group Audit, and reported to a constructive dialogue with the first line through provision the Board.
of advice, development of common methodologies, understanding, education, training, and development of Culture supporting the formal frameworks of the RMF is the newtools.
underlying culture, or shared behaviours and values, which sets out in clear terms what constitutes good behaviour and Risk Division, headed by the Chief Risk Officer, consists of good practice.
In order to effectively manage risk across the six risk directors and their specialist teams.
These teams organisation, the functions encompassed within the Three provide oversight and independent challenge to business Lines of Defence have a clear understanding of risk appetite, management and support senior management and the Board business strategy and an understanding of and commitment to with independent reporting on risks and opportunities.
Risk the role they play in delivering it.
A number of levers are used directors, responsible for each risk type, meet on a regular to reinforce the risk culture, including tone from the top, clear basis under the chairmanship of the Chief Risk Officer to review accountabilities, effective communication and challenge and and challenge the risk profile of the Group and to ensure that an appropriately aligned performance incentive and structure.
Resources and capabilities appropriate mechanisms are The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and leading in place to avoid over-reliance on key personnel or system an industry-wide recognised Risk function that adds value to the technical expertise within the Group.
Adequate resources are in Group by: place to serve customers both under normal working conditions providing a regular comprehensive view of the Groups risk and in times of stress, and monitoring procedures are in place profile, key risks both current and emerging, and management to ensure that the level of available resource can be increased actions: if required.
Colleagues undertake appropriate training to with input from the business areas and Risk Division ensure they have the skills and knowledge necessary to enable proposing Group risk appetite to the Board for approval, and them to deliver fair outcomes for customers, being mindful overseeing performance of the Group against risk appetite: of the Groups Conduct Strategy, Customer Treatment Policy Standards and Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
developing an effective RMF which meets regulatory requirements for approval by the Board, and overseeing There is ongoing investment in risk systems and models execution and compliance: and alongside the Groups investment in customer and product challenging management on emerging risks and providing systems and processes.
This drives improvements in risk data expert risk and control advice to help management maintain quality, aggregation and reporting leading to effective and an effective risk and control framework.
The Risk Directors: provide independent advice, oversight and challenge to the business: design, develop and maintain policies, specific functional risk type frameworks and guidance to ensure alignment with business imperatives and regulatory requirements: establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, culture, oversight and monitoring arrangements which ensure robust and efficient compliance with relevant risk-type risk appetites and policies: 117
