Governance Group Executive Committee BOARD MEMBERS Delivering our vision and managing a more agile organisation The depth of diverse experience and complementary skills within our management team strengthens our Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer ability to adjust to changing market Executive Director and Group Chief Executive Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer environments and to deliver our strategy to become the best bank for customers.
George joined the Board as an Antnio joined the Board in January 2011 Executive Director in May 2012. as an Executive Director and became Biographies of the Group Executive Group Chief Executive in March 2011.
Committee GEC members, and in the Full biography on page 57. case of the GroupAudit Director, GEC attendee, are provided opposite.
Juan Colombs Executive Director and Chief Risk Officer Juan joined the Group as Chief Risk Officer in January 2011 and joined the Board as an Executive Director in November 2013.
NON-BOARD MEMBERS 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 58 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Andrew Bester 04 Mary Hall 07 Antonio Lorenzo Chief Executive Officer, Commercial Banking Group Audit Director GEC attendee Interim Chief Executive, Scottish Widows and Interim Group Director, Insurance Andrew joined the Group in 2012 from Standard Mary joined the Group in 2014 from KPMG Canada Chartered Bank where he held a variety of senior where she was a senior Financial Services Audit Antonio joined the Group in 2011 as head of the Wealth roles including Global COO and, later, Chief Financial Partner having previously held various senior roles and International division and Group Corporate Officer of Consumer Banking.
Previously, Andrew including Canadian Industry Leader for Financial Development, leading the Groups strategic review worked at Xchanging Plc and Deutsche Bank.
Services, Canadian National Banking Sector Leader and subsequent programme of reducing non-core He trained as a Chartered Accountant.
and Chair of KPMGs Global New Banking Entrants assets and exiting international locations.
Mary is a Chartered Accountant with he assumed the role of Group Director, Consumer Andrew sits on the Board of the Global Financial over 25 years in the financial services industry.
Finance & Group Corporate Development, leading Markets Association and the Advisory Board of the the divisions growth strategy whilst completing the University of Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Since her appointment, Mary has defined a sale of TSB.
In October 2015 he was appointed Interim Leadership and is a member of The Prince of Waless transformational vision for Group Audit, providing Chief Executive, Scottish Widows and Group Director, UK Corporate Leaders Group.
Andrew is Executive independent and fresh perspectives.
Antonio is also Group Executive Sponsor for Sponsor for Inclusion & Diversity and the Groups primary reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Emerging Talent.
Committee and a secondary reporting line to the Antonio joined the Group from Santander, where Group Chief Executive.
Mary sits on the advisory he had worked in a number of different leadership Board of the Forward Institute in the UK.
He was part of the management team that completed the take-over of Abbey National and Bradford & Bingley: and was Chief Financial Officer of Santander UK.
Before Santander, Antonio spent over nine years at Arthur Andersen.
02 Karin Cook 05 Vim Maru 08 David Oldfield Group Director, Operations Group Director, Customer Products Group Director, Retail and Consumer Finance and Marketing Karin joined the Group in 2013 as Chief Operating David was appointed in June 2015 as Group Director Officer, Commercial Banking and became Group for the Retail Division responsible for the largest Vim joined the Group in 2011.
He has responsibility Director, Operations in 2015.
Karin joined from HSBC retailbanking network in the UK, serving around for Retail Customer Products and Group Marketing.
where she was Global Chief Operating Officer for 30million customers.
Additionally, in February 2016, Previously, Vim worked at Santander UK and Abbey Private Banking from 2010 to 2013 and Global Head David assumed responsibility for the Consumer National.
He was appointed to our GroupExecutive of OTC Derivative Operations for HSBC from 2004 Finance Division.
Committee in 2013 and is a Non-Executive Director of to 2010.
Prior to HSBC, Karin spent nine years at Scottish Widows and a VISA Europe Board Director.
David started his career with Lloyds Bank 31 years ago MorganStanley in London where she led a combined Vim holds an Economics degree from the on the graduate entrant programme and has held a Finance and Operations team for Equity Derivatives LondonSchool of Economics and is a member number of key leadership roles across all Divisions of after beginning her career at Goldman Sachs in Paris of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
the Group since that time.
Immediately prior to this in 1990, where she worked in Futures Operations.
role he was appointed to Group Executive Committee Karin is a Non-Executive Director of Scottish Widows in May 2014 as Group Director, Operations.
Ltd. She is also the Groups Executive Sponsor for David is a Non-Executive Director for Motability Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity.
Operations Plc and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
He is also Group Executive Sponsor forDisability.
03 Simon Davies 06 Miguel-ngel Rodrguez-Sola 09 Matthew Young Chief People, Legal and Strategy Officer Group Director, Digital Group Corporate Affairs Director Simon joined the Group in 2016 from Linklaters LLP Miguel joined the Group in 2011 before which he Matt joined the Group as Corporate Affairs Director where he was Firmwide Managing Partner, a position held a variety of executive positions in the UK, USA in 2011 as part of a new management team brought he held from January 2008.
Prior to this, Simon spent and Spain for Santander.
Prior to this, Miguel was in to bring the bank back to health following the 12 years in Asia, specialising in M&A and securities a Partner at McKinsey where he worked for over financial crisis and return it private ownership.
Prior to advice, serving terms in each of Hong Kong and 12years.
He assumed his current role in September Lloyds, he was Communications Director at Santander Tokyo and was Managing Partner for Asia from 2013 having previously held the position of Group during a period when the bank made a successful 2003-2007.
He is a Solicitor of the High Court of the Strategy Director and Commercial Director of the entry into the UK market following the acquisition and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, as well as Retail Division.
subsequent rebranding of Abbey National, Alliance a Solicitor of the Senior Courts of England and Wales.
Matt joined Miguel holds a Cum Laude degree in Business Santander from NatWest in 1999 where he held a Simon joined Linklaters in London in 1990, having Administration from the University of Barcelona and number of senior communications roles.
studied at Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
an MBA from IESE Business School.
He is a Board He is a trustee of the National Youth Theatre of member of Go ON UK.
Matt has a degree in Political Science and a Great Britain and a member of TheCityUK China postgraduate certificate in Education.
He is a Board Market Advisory Group.
member of the British Bankers Association, a member of the PR Guild, and a former trustee of the Prince of Wales sponsored charity, In Kind Direct.
