Governance Board of Directors 01 02 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 01 Lord Blackwell NG Ri Re RB Chairman Appointed: June 2012 Board, April 2014 Chairman Skills and experience: Lord Blackwell has deep 03 04 financial services knowledge as well as extensive insurance, banking, regulatory and public policy experience gained from senior positions in a wide range of industries.
His breadth of experience, credibility with key stakeholders and strong leadership qualities make him an effective Chairman.
He was previously the Chairman of Scottish Widows Group, a 05 06 former Senior Independent Director of Standard Life and also chaired their UK Life and Pensions Board.
His other former Non-Executive Directorships have included Halma plc, Dixons Group and SEGRO.
He was also a member of the Board of the Centre for Policy Studies, a Non-Executive Board Member of Ofcom and of the Office of Fair Trading, a Partner of 07 08 McKinsey & Co. and a Director of Group Development at NatWest Group.
He was Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit from 1995 to 1997 and was appointed a Life Peer in 1997.
External appointments: Chairman of Interserve plc until 29 February 2016.
09 10 02 Anita Frew NG A Ri Re RB Deputy Chairman and Independent Director Appointed: December 2010 Board, May 2014 Deputy Chairman Skills and experience: Anita has significant board, 11 financial and general management experience across a range of sectors, including banking, asset management, manufacturing and utilities.
Her extensive board level experience makes her an effective Deputy Chairman.
Anita was Chairman of Victrex plc, having previously been its Senior Independent Director.
She was also the Senior Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset 12 13 Management and IMI plc, an Executive Director of Abbott Mead Vickers, Director of Corporate Development at WPP Group and a Non-Executive Director of Northumbrian Water.
She has held various investment and marketing roles at Scottish Provident and the Royal Bank of Scotland.
External appointments: Chairman of Croda International 14 15 Plc and a Non-Executive Director of BHP Billiton.
03 Alan Dickinson NG A Ri Re Independent Director Appointed: September 2014 Skills and experience: Alan is a highly regarded retail KEY and commercial banker having spent 37 years with Member of Nomination & Governance Committee Member of Remuneration Committee NG Re the Royal Bank of Scotland, most notably as Chief Executive of RBS UK.
Alans strategic focus and core Member of Audit Committee Member of Responsible Business Committee RB A banking experience complements the balance of skills on our Board.
More recently, he was Chairman Member of Risk Committee Committee Chairman Ri of Brown, Shipley & Co. Limited, a Non-Executive Director of Nationwide Building Society and Chairman of its Risk Committee and a Non-Executive Director of Carpetright plc.
Board diversity: members and experience External appointments: Non-Executive Director of Willis Limited and Chairman of its Risk Committee, Banking Senior Independent Director of Urban & Civic plc 2015 10 3 54% and a Governor of Motability.
Financial services investment management 10 3 2014 85% Insurance 04 Simon Henry 8 3 2013 A Ri 31% Independent Director 8 3 2012 Government and regulatory Appointed: June 2014 46% Skills and experience: Simon has deep international Male Female Consumer marketing distribution experience in board level strategy and execution.
His 54% extensive knowledge of financial markets, treasury CEO CRO CFO and risk management and his qualification as an Audit Committee Financial Expert is of particular value in 77% our Board Risk and Audit Committees.
Core technology operations He was previously Shells Chief Financial Officer for 23% This information is provided as at 31 December 2015.
Exploration & Production and prior to that Head 56 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 of Group Investor Relations.
Authority and of Legal and General Plc as well as EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS External appointments: Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel.
an Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell plc with External appointments: Member of the BBC Trust, 12 Antnio Horta-Osrio responsibility for Shells Finance, IT, Strategy and Planning Chairman of the Britten-Pears Foundation and of the Executive Director and Group Chief Executive functions.
Chair of the European Round Table CFO Royal Northern College of Music.
Appointed: January 2011 Board, Taskforce, Member of the Main Committee of the 100 March 2011 Group Chief Executive Group of UK FTSE CFOs, the Advisory Panel of CIMA and of the Advisory Board of the Centre for European Reform.
09 Stuart Sinclair Ri Re Skills and experience: Antnio brings extensive Independent Director experience in, and understanding of, both retail Appointed: January 2016 and commercial banking.
This has been built over 05 Dyfrig John CBE Ri Re a period of more than 25 years, working both Skills and experience: Stuart has extensive experience Independent Director internationally as well as in the UK.
Antnios drive, in retail banking and insurance and also brings to the Appointed: January 2014 enthusiasm and commitment to customers, along Board wider experience in consumer finance and with his proven ability to build and lead strong Skills and experience: Dyfrig has spent his career in asset finance.
He is a former Non-Executive Director management teams, brings significant value to all banking, principally at HSBC where he worked for 37 of TSB Banking Group plc and TSB Bank plc.
Stuart stakeholders of Lloyds Banking Group.
During that time he held a number of senior was previously a Non-Executive Director of LV Group, worked for Goldman Sachs, Citibank and held various management and Board positions in the UK and President and Chief Operating Officer of Aspen senior management positions at Grupo Santander overseas including Chief Executive Officer of HSBC Insurance, held Chief Executive Officer roles at GE before becoming its Executive Vice President.
He has the knowledge and experience to Capitals Consumer Finance division both in the UK was a Non-Executive Director of Santander UK and provide valuable insight and contribute effectively and China, and Director of UK Retail Banking then subsequently Chief Executive.
He is also former Nonas a Non-Executive Director and Member of the Chief Executive Officer of Tesco Personal Finance Executive Director of the Court of the Bank of England Remuneration Committee and Risk Committee.
He at Royal Bank of Scotland.
He was also a Council and Governor of the London Business School.
was formerly Chairman of Principality Building Society Member of The Royal Institute for International Affairs.
External appointments: Non-Executive Director and a Board member of the Wales Millennium Centre.
His early career included Managing Consultant at of EXOR S. p. A. Fundao Champalimaud and External appointments: Member of the Welsh Rugby Braxton Associates and Partner at Mercer Managing Sociedade Francisco Manuel dos Santos in Portugal, Unions Audit Committee.
a member of the Board of Stichting INPAR and External appointments: Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Wallace Collection.
and Chair of the Risk Committees at Provident 06 Nick Luff Financial Plc, Vitality Life and Vitality Health.
Senior NG A Ri Independent Director at QBE Insurance Europe Independent Director 13 George Culmer Limited and Swinton Group Limited.
Appointed: March 2013 Executive Director and Skills and experience: Nick has significant financial Chief Financial Officer experience in the UK listed environment having Appointed: May 2012 Board 10 Anthony Watson CBE NG A Ri Re served in a number of senior finance positions within Senior Independent Director Skills and experience: George is a chartered a range of sectors.
His background and experience Appointed: April 2009 Board, accountant with extensive operational and financial enables him to fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chair May 2012 Senior Independent Director expertise including strategic and financial planning and, for SEC purposes, the role of Audit Committee and control.
He has worked in financial services in Financial Expert.
Nick was previously the Group Skills and experience: Tony is our Senior Independent the UK and overseas for over 20 years.
George was Finance Director of Centrica plc, Finance Director of Director and with over 40 years of experience in an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of The Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company the investment management industry and related RSA Insurance Group, the former Head of Capital and Chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess Cruises sectors, he is well placed to carry out this role.
His Management of Zurich Financial Services and Chief plc.
He previously served as a Non-Executive Director former positions include Chief Executive of Hermes Financial Officer of its UK operations as well as and was the Audit Committee Chair of QinetiQ Pensions Management and Chairman of the Asian holding various senior management positions at Groupplc.
Infrastructure Fund, MEPC, the Marks & Spencer Prudential.
He is a Non-Executive Director of External appointments: Executive Director and Chief Pension Trustees and of the Strategic Investment Scottish Widows.
Financial Officer of RELX Group.
He is also a former External appointments: None.
Member of the Financial Reporting Council, a Senior Independent Director of Hammerson 07 Deborah McWhinney and a Non-Executive Director of the Shareholder A Ri 14 Juan Colombs Independent Director Executive and Vodafone Group.
Executive Director and Chief Risk Officer Appointed: December 2015 External appointments: Senior Independent Director Appointed: January 2011 Chief Risk Officer, of Witan Investment Trust, Chairman of the Lincolns November 2013 Board Skills and experience: Deborah has an extensive Inn Investment Committee and a member of the executive background in managing technology, Norges Bank Investment Management Corporate Skills and experience: Juan has significant banking operations and new digital innovations across Governance Advisory Board.
and risk management experience, having spent 30 banking, payments and institutional investment.
She years working in these fields both internationally broadens the Boards diversity from a global market and in the UK.
Juan is responsible for developing perspective.
Deborah is a former Chief Executive 11 Sara Weller CBE the Groups risk framework, recommending its risk Ri Re RB Officer, Global Enterprise Payments and President, Independent Director appetite and ensuring that all risks generated by the Personal Banking and Wealth Management at Appointed: February 2012 business are measured, reviewed and monitored on Citibank.
She was previously President of Institutional an ongoing basis.
He was previously the Chief Risk Services at Charles Schwab Corporation and held Skills and experience: With a background in retail Officer and Executive Director of Santanders UK executive roles at Engage Media Services Group, Visa and associated sectors, including financial services, business.
Prior to this position, he held a number of International and Bank of America, where she held Sara brings a broad perspective to the Board.
senior risk, control and business management roles senior roles in Consumer Banking.
She is a strong advocate of customers and of the across the Corporate, Investment, Retail and Risk External appointments: Independent Director of application of new technology, both of which directly Divisions of the Santander Group.
He has served as Fluor Corporation and IHS Corporation, a Trustee support Lloyds Banking Groups strategy.
Sara has the Groups Chief Risk Officer and as a member of of the California Institute of Technology and of the considerable experience of boards at both executive the Group Executive Committee since January 2011.
Her previous appointments External appointments: Vice Chairman of the include Managing Director of Argos, various senior International Financial Risk Institute.
positions at J Sainsbury including Deputy Managing 08 Nick Prettejohn Director, Lead Non-Executive Director at the A Ri Independent Director and Department of Communities and Local Government, 15 Malcolm Wood a Non-Executive Director of Mitchells & Butler as well Chairman of Scottish Widows Group Company Secretary as a number of senior management roles for Abbey Appointed: June 2014 Appointed: November 2014 National and Mars Confectionery.
Skills and experience: Previously General Counsel Skills and experience: Nick has significant financial External appointments: Non-Executive Director of and Company Secretary of Standard Life after a services experience, particularly in insurance where United Utilities Group and Chair of their Remuneration career as a corporate lawyer in private practice he has served as Chief Executive of Lloyds of London Committee, a Governing Council Member of in London and Edinburgh.
He has a wealth of and Prudential UK and Europe as well as Chairman of Cambridge University, Chairman of the Planning experience in governance, policy and regulation.
He has the knowledge and experience Inspectorate and Board member at the Higher He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered to provide valuable insight and contribute effectively Education Funding Council.
Secretaries and Administrators and a Member of the as a Non-Executive Director and Member of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment Audit Committee and Risk Committee.
Non-Executive Director of the Prudential Regulation 57
