London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Complying with the provisions of the Code The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and business integrity in all of its activities.
Throughout the year, the Company has complied with all principles of the UK Governance Code the Code.
The Code sets out guidance in the form of main principles and more specific provisions for good governance in relation to Board leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Further information on the Code, its applicability, the principles and their provisions can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, at www.
This table forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 91 of the Directors Report.
Leadership ensures there is a clear management structure B.
Effectiveness with appropriately delegated responsibilities, A.
1 The Composition of the Board staffed by suitably experienced and qualified staff The Board is the principal decision-making forum There is a strong non-executive element on the for the Group and is responsible to shareholders ensures appropriate reporting and Board, and the Non-Executive Directors provide for achieving the Groups strategic objectives and communication systems are established deep corporate experience and knowledge which delivering sustainable growth in shareholder value.
across the Group they apply to their understanding of the Group Directors act in a way they consider will promote the and its strategy.
The Board has 9 Independent ensures key performance objectives are set long-term success of the Company, by constructively Non-Executive Directors.
In assessing each Directors for all operational departments: action plans challenging and supporting the development of the independence, the Board considered whether there and budgetary controls are established: and, Groups strategy, for the benefit of shareholders as are relationships or circumstances which are likely where necessary, corrective action is taken a whole, with regard to the interests of the Groups to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors to maximise the performance of the Group employees, the impact of the business on the judgement.
In evaluating Directors independence, community and environment and the interests of ensures the Groups strategy and values are the Board has taken into consideration the guidance other stakeholders.
The Board manages the overall effectively understood and applied by provided by the Code.
The Code requires a company control of the Groups affairs with reference to the management and staff to state its reasons if it determines that a Director formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
is independent in certain circumstances including ensures an appropriate Risk Management This schedule is available on the Companys website those where a Director indirectly has a material framework is in operation at www.
com  relationship with the Company as a group  ethics-andDirector of a body that has such relationship with A.
The Board views the brands and the Company, or has had in the last 3 years, and chairs the Board of the Company reputations of its subsidiaries as important assets where a Director has served on the Board for more of the Group.
Accordingly, protection of the brand forges an effective Board based on experience, than 9 years.
and reputation of the Group, including ensuring diversity, skills and competencies that subsidiaries continue to meet local legal Andrea Munari is Chief Executive Officer of BNP ensures, in collaboration with the Chief Executive, requirements, is also a key part of the Boards role.
Paribas in Italy and a member of BNP Paribas that the Board considers the strategic issues Executive Committee.
BNP Paribas is a customer of facing the Group in a timely manner and is Board Committees the Group.
Given the size of BNP Paribas, BNP Paribas presented with sound information and analysis The Company ensures that all committees are relationship with the Company and its subsidiaries appropriate to the decisions that it is asked provided with sufficient resources to undertake is not material to BNP Paribas.
The Board benefits to make their duties.
All committees have written terms of greatly from Mr Munaris current experience in reference which are available from the corporate acts as a sounding board for the Chief Executive financial markets and the Risk Committee also responsibility section on the Companys website and provides general advice relating to the benefits from Mr Munaris experience of risk at www.
com  and development of the management in a financial services company.
group  or on request from Groups business the Group Company Secretary.
Stuart Lewis is Chief Risk Officer of Deutsche Bank supports the commercial activities of the Group AG, which is a customer of the Group.
Deutsche by, inter alia, maintaining contact with the Groups A.
2 Division of Responsibilities Banks relationship with the Company and its key stakeholders and other industry participants The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct subsidiaries is not material to Deutsche Bank.
and separate with a clear division of responsibilities.
Additionally, given his role as Chief Risk Officer, A.
4 Non-Executive Directors The Chairman is responsible for the running and Mr Lewis does not work in an area of Deutsche Bank Non-Executive Directors are urged to challenge leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
which has customer relationships with the Group.
constructively and help develop proposals on strategy, The Chief Executive has delegated authority from, scrutinise the performance of management in and is responsible to, the Board for managing the meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor Groups business with the power for further delegation the reporting of performance.
They should satisfy in respect of matters which are necessary for the themselves on the integrity of financial information effective running and management of the business.
and that financial controls and systems of risk The current key responsibilities of both the Chairman management are robust and defensible.
On and Chief Executives are set out below: 25 March 2015 Mr Robert Webb QC was succeeded by Mr Paul Heiden as Senior Independent Director.
Chief Executive The responsibilities of the Senior Independent formulates the strategic direction of the Group Director include meeting major shareholders as an and periodically agrees this with the Board alternative contact to the Chairman, Chief Executive ensures proper financial and business control or Chief Financial Officer.
is exercised within the Group chairs the Group Executive Committee 62 Governance Complying with the provisions of the Code D. Remuneration B.
6 Evaluation The Board has a formal, rigorous and transparent The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its D. 1 The Level and Components procedure for the appointment of new Directors to effectiveness and acts on the results of the review.
The Board has established a Nomination During the year, the Board carried out an internal The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 7087 Committee which leads the process for Board review of its own effectiveness and that of its outlines the activities of the Remuneration Committee appointments and makes recommendations to the Committees and Directors and the results of that during 2015 and the implementation of the Board.
The Report from the Nomination Committee review are detailed on page 59 of the Corporate Remuneration Policy during 2015 including salary, on page 61, outlines the changes to the Board Governance Report, together with actions taken bonus and share awards and payments for loss of that took place during the year.
The Remuneration Policy was subject to a binding shareholder vote at the B.
7 Re-Election 2014 AGM and was passed with 95% support.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman Each Director is subject to election at the first AGM It is available on the Groups website at: www.
and the Board are set out at pages 5456.
The Board following their appointment.
In line with the Code, com investor-relations shareholder-services is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
There have been no changes and time commitments as Directors of the Company.
to the policy during the financial year and the Board C. Accountability believes that the Groups current Remuneration B.
4 Development Policy, remains appropriate and fit for purpose.
C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting Directors are encouraged to continually update their A statement of the Directors responsibilities skills and knowledge of the business, and briefings D. 2 Procedure regarding the financial statements, including the are regularly given at Board meetings on particular The Board has delegated responsibilities to the status of the Group and Company as a going concern parts of the business.
During the year, the Board Remuneration Committee including the remuneration is set out on page 91.
An explanation of the Groups attended a number of presentations outside Board of the Chairman and Executive Directors.
strategy and business model, together with relevant meetings including on Cyber Risk and the AIM risks and performance risks and performance market.
The Board also continued its practice of E. Relations with Shareholders metrics are set out on pages 815.
A further undertaking formal visits to its overseas businesses statement is provided on page 91 confirming that E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders so that the Directors can experience key aspects the Board considers that the Annual Report and The Company maintains an active shareholder of the Groups operations first hand.
Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and engagement programme, managed through the understandable and provides the information Groups Investor Relations IR function.
The IR Each new Director joining the Board is provided with necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and programme provides regular opportunity for contact an induction programme covering the key business Companys position, performance, business model with existing and potential shareholders, as well as areas of the Group and including meetings with and strategy.
sell-side analysts that produce investment research members of the Executive Committee, other senior relating to the Group.
IR activities include meetings, managers and external advisers.
Directors are C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control calls, presentations and information releases on a provided with key documents including those The Board has overall responsibility for the sponsorship regular basis throughout the year, based around the covering strategy, past Board papers, an overview of a strong risk culture across the Group and for Groups financial reporting calendar and following of the Business, and information on Directors determining the nature and extent of the principal major corporate events and news flow.
For more responsibilities including under the Listing Rules risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic detail on the Groups IR activities, please see page 59 and the Code.
Directors are encouraged to meet with objectives.
It approves the Risk Appetite each year of the Corporate Governance Report.
executives on an ongoing basis to better understand as part of the strategic business objectives, and each of the business areas together with the Groups ensures there is an ongoing process for identifying, E. 2 Constructive Use of General Meetings governance, financial and legal framework.
evaluating, and managing the principal risks faced The Groups AGM provides the opportunity for by the Company.
The Board has delegated a number all shareholders to meet the Directors and to put B.
5 Information and Support of responsibilities to the Risk Committee including questions to the Board.
Procedures for the AGM The Directors have full access to the advice and oversight of internal Risk Management processes.
are compliant with the Code, with voting by way services of the Group Company Secretary, who is The report from the Risk Committee can be found of a poll to ensure all shareholders views are taken responsible for advising the Board on corporate on pages 6869.
In accordance with paragraph into account.
Directors also have access C. 2.2 of the Code an explanation of how the Directors to independent professional advice if they judge it have assessed the prospects of the Company is necessary to fulfil their responsibilities as Directors.
included in the section headed Financial viability statement on page 90.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee Report on pages 6467 sets out details of the composition of the Committee, including the expertise of members, and outlines how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during 2015.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, including oversight of the Groups financial reporting processes and management of the external auditor.
