London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Market trends and our response There are many trends and developments that are shaping our industry and the way we operate.
Through its 3 core business activities: Capital Formation, 1.
Globalisation and growing global wealth Risk and Balance Sheet Management and Intellectual Property, Our customers are increasingly global and require global solutions for their the Group supports global economic growth by providing markets infrastructure needs.
Global wealth is increasing, and developing markets will infrastructure to facilitate effective, safe, and transparent have a much larger share of the worlds assets and savings pool.
global capital allocation, trading and investment decisions, and associated risk and capital management requirements.
Global assets under management AuM is forecast to grow by 6% per annum 1 between 20122020.
Developed markets in North America and Europe are Our customers range from the worlds largest financial institutions to individual expected to comprise the largest share of global wealth, but developing markets 1 investors.
Whatever their size, today they share exposure to a hugely dynamic will have an increasing share.
Many of our institutional customers are already markets landscape, which continues to drive changes in their needs and by global companies with operations in all major regions.
Capital allocation and extension the products and services that the Group can provide to them.
investment decisions are taken on a cross-border basis, and naturally the infrastructure that customers require needs to be on a similar cross-border basis.
There continues to be substantial change in global markets, driven in particular by actions resulting from the global financial crisis in 2008.
The broader industry 1 Global AuM projection by region for 2020 including buy-side and sell-side participants, clearing houses, custodians, US$ tn markets infrastructure and financial technology providers have all had to North America 102 reassess their strategies, business models and risk frameworks.
We see the Europe 9 drivers of this change being the impact of trends in: 16 Asia Pacic Rest of world 64 3 28 1.
Globalisation and growing global wealth 8 20 2.
Customer balance sheet and capital constraints 2012 2020 5.
Regulatory changes IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG We have operations in multiple countries and regions to service the global needs of our customers.
We are building a global, inter-connected sales force with commonality in our approach and interactions with customers.
We are deliberately growing our physical presence in areas which have, or are expected to have, the most material needs for markets infrastructure e. g. the US, China.
Source: PwC Asset Management 2020: A Brave New World.
12 Strategic Report Market trends and our response 2.
Changing investment behaviours As our products, services and geographic presence have increased, our position Investors search for yield in a low returns environment is leading to a relative in the industry landscape has evolved from being a national exchange operator shift towards low cost passive and smart beta investment products, away from to a global markets infrastructure operator.
Markets infrastructure needs to be global, efficient scalable and innovative to The demand for returns in a low growth environment is continuing to drive an 1 meet the needs of our customers.
Accordingly, we have seen and also selectively increase in global AuM, which is forecast to grow by 6% per annum.
to 2020. participated in the ongoing industry consolidation trend as a route to achieve our As a result, the mix of investment styles is shifting towards low cost investment vision, and execute against our strategic growth plans.
products such as ETFs and other tracker type products.
The global ETF market 2 has seen growth in AuM of 21% per annum from 200515 and is expected to 2 In 2015, there has been a slew of acquisitions across the sector in trading, maintain double-digit growth through 2016. information services, post trade and technology.
It is expected that the customer benefits of being serviced by infrastructure providers having scale, scope and 1 Global AuM by Investment Style reach will continue to drive consolidation in the industry in 2016 and beyond.
Active US$64tn US$102tn Global equity AuM Global equity AuM Passive IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG Other 10% 13% In this context, the Group is focused on organic execution and operation of CAGR: 6% 11% our existing businesses, while seeking to deliver new innovative initiatives.
Passive 22% As the financial infrastructure industry continues to consolidate, we will CAGR: 15% 79% 65% assess both organic and inorganic opportunities that may arise.
2012 2020 2 Global ETP AuM US$ bn 2,959 2,744 2,355 1,923 1,506 1,463 1,139 851 772 598 428 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG We are well positioned to capture investment trends through our FTSE Russell business focusing on equity, fixed income, smart beta, and ETF benchmarking.
We have a low cost, scalable model with global presence and sales capability.
Our index data subscription revenue model is exposed to the growth in the absolute size of AuM managed by active managers, as they seek to benchmark performance: while our passive fund licence revenue model is exposed to the faster growing AuM passive management trend, which is forecast to grow 1 at 15% per annum through to 2020.
Source: BlackRock Global ETP Landscape December 2015.
13 CAGR 21% London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Market trends and our response continued 4.
Customer balance sheet and capital constraints 5.
Regulatory changes Significant regulatory driven change continues to affect customer balance sheets Significant regulatory driven change continues to affect customer balance sheets and the profitability of traditional business models.
and the profitability of traditional business models.
Post financial crisis, the focus by regulators, governments, and market Regulatory change continues to have a material impact on the global financial participants to decrease levels of systemic risk has led to a number of new markets in which we operate.
The regulation emerging since the global financial regulations designed to increase bank balance sheet capital buffers, increase crisis has predominantly been focused on increasing prudential requirements, levels of CCP clearing, introduce transparency and provide mechanisms of risk management and investor protections, along with greater market transparency.
safety catches, to help prevent future financial crises.
Regulatory developments along these themes impact the services we provide across the value chain and the activities of our customers.
In this section, This has led to a reduction in the returns on invested capital within the traditional we highlight the major regulatory initiatives that are shaping our business business models that our customers have operated.
In particular, the OTC Fixed and the broader market.
We also describe the impacts expected in our main Income, Currencies & Commodities FICC divisions of banks and trading firms business segments.
face increasingly onerous balance sheet requirements.
As a result, they continue to search for ways to upgrade their operations to improve their profitability and We set out below the key regulatory initiatives, and include more detail in capital efficiency, increase risk management and governance processes, cut a table at the back of this report pages 152153 that organises these regulatory costs, and optimise collateral, all while dealing with reduced liquidity.
Their own developments by each business area.
end customers buy side institutions are experiencing similar change trends.
Key legislation: We expect further deleveraging from the bank dealer community to impact Markets in Financial Instruments Directive Regulation MiFID II MiFIR their FICC businesses in particular this may lead to a new lower level of liquidity MiFID II MiFIR represents the widest ranging of the EU legislative initiatives, and market volumes in the traditional and historically OTC swaps, bond and in terms of its impact on the Group and its customers.
Its scope in relation to LSEG repo markets.
includes rules relating to investor protection, market transparency and trading structures, market data provision and publication, trading market microstructure, transaction reporting, the new SME Growth Market regime, open access provisions, IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG clearing houses and benchmarks providers.
The Groups customers will have to Trading and post trade ensure they are MiFID compliant by the implementation date, which is scheduled The drive for balance sheet efficiency may lead to permanent retrenchment for January 2018. of dealer banks FICC businesses impacting market volumes, and directly negatively impacting our Capital Markets business.
IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG In parallel, we expect increased demand for our capital efficiency driven Although technical standards are still to be agreed, the Group believes that solutions e. g. CCP clearing, portfolio compression, collateral management and the provisions are broadly either neutral or positive for the Capital Markets post trade processing services, such as LCH, CC&G, globeSettle, Monte Titoli, businesses, with Open Access potentially providing opportunities across and UnaVista.
all Group segments see section following on page 15 on Open Access.
Investment management lifecycle In our Information Services segment, UnaVista may benefit from increased Increased benchmarking solutions create direct opportunities for our FTSE trade reporting opportunities while provisions creating a consolidated tape Russell business which will continue to provide greater transparency and for distribution of some real time data may mean change to our business efficiency to our clients.
and revenue model in due course.
Technology As our broad customer base seeks to reduce costs, there may be long term opportunities for our technology businesses to provide outsourced solutions.
14 Strategic Report Market trends and our response Capital Markets Union CMU European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR CMU is a plan by the EU Commission that aims to create deeper and more EMIR, which came into force in 2012, sets out a pan-European regulatory regime integrated European capital markets.
The CMU Action Plan sets out work streams for CCPs and Trade Repositories and reporting and risk management requirements designed to unlock investment from the EU and the rest of the world, improve for derivative counterparties.
Of particular relevance to LSEGs CCPs, the first financing for EU companies and investment projects, make the financial system central clearing requirements will commence from mid 2016.
The Commission more stable, deepen market integration and enhance competition.
LSEG is closely is also expected to publish a legislative proposal for CCP recovery and resolution following initiatives to modernise the EU Prospectus Directive, reviews on the rules by the end of 2016.
During 2015, the Commission led an industry review of functioning of the corporate bond market, measures to increase securitisation, the EMIR rules and is expected to issue a final report by end Q1 2016, confirming as well as the Commissions review of national barriers to the free movement the areas where further legislation will be developed.
of capital and initiatives to support SME growth markets.
The Commission aims to implement measures resulting from all Action Plan initiatives by 2019.
IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG Introduction of clearing requirements should benefit LCHs OTC derivatives The Commission also aims to increase retail participation in capital markets, clearing services.
globeSettle, the Groups new Luxembourg-based Securities through CMU initiatives to remove barriers to retail investment and creating Settlement System SSS, has the opportunity to benefit from providing a policy framework to create simple and competitive personal pensions.
settlement and custody services linked to management of collateral at CCPs.
LSEG awaits publication of the CCP recovery and resolution proposals.
IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG These initiatives may increase activity across our Primary and Secondary Open Access Markets, and may lead to more activity in our post trade businesses.
Open Access refers to provisions within MiFID II that change the way some clearing houses, trading venues and index benchmark providers will need to Proposal for EU Prospectus Regulation provide their products.
Changes, which will apply when MiFID II comes into effect, New prospectus legislation is designed to provide all types of issuers with disclosure require access to be provided to all potential users of trading, clearing and indices, rules tailored to their specific needs, reducing administrative burdens and capital on a non-discriminatory basis.
raising costs while making the prospectus a more relevant information tool for potential investors.
The primary legislation is expected to be adopted by the IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG Council and Parliament in 2016 2017.
Open Access is a principle that underpins our strategy and business model see pages 1617, 11 and does not present disruption to the way we currently IMPLICATIONS FOR LSEG operate.
Our clearing services already accept trades for clearing that originate The modernised prospectus regime could increase issuance and trading from venues outside of the Group, some of our trading venues already provide activity in all of our Capital Markets operations.
choice of clearing through alternative CCPs outside of the Group, and FTSE Russell provides index licences to a number of exchange businesses that are competitors to our trading venues.
Open Access increases competition across a range of services, and potentially provides the Groups relevant businesses with opportunity to launch new products and attract new trading and clearing flows.
