London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Board of Directors Board structure as at 31 December 2015 The Board comprised: Chairman, who was independent on appointment 1 Senior Independent Director Donald Brydon CBE Xavier R Rolet KBE 8 other independent Non-Executive Directors Chairman of the Group and the Group Chief Executive Officer age 56 and 1 Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee age 70 Appointed to the Board in March 2009 and appointed Appointed to the Board in June 2015 and appointed Chief Executive Officer in May 2009 3 Executive Directors Chairman in July 2015 Key areas of experience: Corporate finance, investment Key areas of experience: Industry and finance, governance, banking, securities trading, investment management, mergers chairing major companies, pensions.
Donald is currently Chairman of The Sage Group plc and the Xavier has a proven track record as a senior Executive in the Medical Research Council.
global equity trading sector and brings significant experience to the Board gained working in the senior management teams Donald brings to the Board his wealth of experience gained of Global Investment Banks.
on the boards of a number of listed companies across a wide range of sectors, as well as his significant knowledge and Past experience: Xavier was a senior Executive at Lehman understanding of the Finance and Insurance industries, gained Brothers from 2000 to 2009 and, latterly, Chief Executive Officer from his time as Chairman and Chief Executive of both BZW of Lehman Brothers in France from July 2007 to January 2009.
Investment Management Ltd and AXA Investment Managers SA.
Prior to Lehman Brothers, he held senior positions at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson from 1997 to 2000, Credit Suisse First Boston Past experience: Donald has also held the post of Chairman at: from 1994 to 1996 and Goldman Sachs from 1984 to 1994.
Smiths Group plc, the London Metal Exchange, Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, Amersham plc, AXA Framlington Ltd and Royal Mail Other current appointments: Xavier is a member of HM plc and is a former Director of Aberdeen UK Tracker Trust plc, Treasurys Financial Services Trade and Investment Board, Allied Domecq plc, AXA UK plc and Scottish Power plc.
a member of the Columbia Business School Board of Overseers, Other current appointments: Donald is currently Chairman a member of the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group of the charity Chance to Shine and Chairman of the Science and a member of the Governor of the Bank of Englands Financial Museum Foundation.
He is an Honorary Fellow FSCI Hon of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment and a Knight of the French Order of the Legion of Honour.
David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi Group Chief Financial Officer age 61 Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana S. p. A Appointed to the Board in July 2012 and Director of Capital Markets age 54 Key areas of experience: Accounting, corporate finance, Appointed to the Board in June 2010 mergers and acquisitions, strategy, treasury management.
Non-Executive Director Changes Key areas of experience: Capital markets, corporate finance, David brings significant international financial management equity and fixed income trading.
Chris Gibson-Smith resigned as expertise to the Board.
Raffaele brings significant experience in capital markets and Non-Executive Director and Chairman Past experience: Prior to being appointed Chief Financial Officer equity trading to the Group.
He has worked for Borsa Italiana of London Stock Exchange Group, David was Chief Financial of the Board on 1 July 2015 S. p. A. for the past 18 years and is Borsas current Chief Executive Officer of NASDAQ OMX from 2001 to 2009 and Senior Adviser Officer.
Raffaele also holds a number of other internal senior to the NASDAQ CEO from 2011 to 2012.
Other senior roles David Baroness Joanna Shields OBE resigned positions within the Group including: the Vice Chairmanship has held have included: Chief Financial Officer at the Long Island of Monte Titoli, MTS and CC&G.
on 19 May 2015 Power Authority of New York and Deputy Treasurer of the State Past experience: Prior to joining Borsa, Raffaele was Head of of Connecticut.
Massimo Tononi resigned on 7 August 2015 Trading for Italian Fixed Income at Credit Suisse First Boston.
Raffaele was also a member of Credit Suisses proprietary trading Robert Webb resigned on 29 April 2015 group in London as well as representing Credit Suisse First Boston on the Board of MTS S. p. A.
Prior to joining Credit Suisse, he was Head of Trading for the fixed income and derivatives divisions at Cimo S. p. A in Milan.
Other current appointments: Raffaele is a Venture partner of the Advisory Committee of Texas Atlantic Capital.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Group Executive Committee Chairman 54 Governance Board of Directors Jacques Aigrain Baroness Sharon Bowles Sherry Coutu CBE Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Independent Non-Executive Director age 62 Independent Non-Executive Director age 52 the Remuneration Committee appointed December 2015 Appointed to the Board in August 2014 Appointed to the Board in January 2014 age 61 Key areas of experience: Financial services regulation, Key areas of experience: Technology, corporate finance, Appointed to the Board in May 2013 corporate governance, economic affairs, EU Law and regulation, corporate governance, start-up companies, strategy.
Key areas of experience: Client management, corporate innovative technology, licensing and intellectual property law Sherry has wide-ranging experience as an executive in the finance, corporate governance, post trade and clearing, and practice.
technology sector and has been involved with a number of investment management, mergers and acquisitions, strategy.
Sharon is a qualified patent attorney with over 30 years technology start-ups.
She is also the author of The Scale-Up Jacques brings significant expertise and knowledge of experience within the licensing and intellectual property fields.
Report on UK Economic Growth which was commissioned by the global post trade and clearing and investment management She founded the European Patent and Trademark firm, Bowles UK Government and is exploring national and city dashboards to the Board.
He also holds a PhD in Economics from the Horton in 1981 where she was a partner.
to be able to measure the degree to which Local Enterprise University of Paris Sorbonne.
Partnerships LEPs can track the economic impact of their Sharon also brings extensive European and political experience to start-up and scale-up policies over time.
Past experience: Jacques was Chairman of LCH.
Clearnet the Board from her time as a member of the European Parliament.
He has also been a Director Past experience: Sherry served on the Advisory Boards of Past experience: She was a member of the European Parliament of Resolution Ltd, a Supervisory Board member of Deutsche Linkedin.
com and was an investor and a Director from 2005 to 2014 serving on the Economic and Monetary affairs Lufthansa AG as well as a Director of the Qatar Financial Center of New Energy Finance.
She was also a Non-Executive and Committee which she chaired from 2009 to 2014, and the Authority and he was Chief Executive Officer of Swiss Re from Senior Independent Director of RM plc and Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee.
Prior to this, Jacques spent 20 years, with J. P. Remuneration Committee, Sherry was a Trustee of NESTA, Other current appointments: Sharon is a member of the Morgan Chase, working in the New York, London and Paris offices.
the National Endowment for Science, Technology and Arts.
Systemic Risk Council, a Non-Executive Director of Prime Sherry founded Interactive Investor International and served Other current appointments: Jacques is currently a Partner Collateralised Securities ASBL and a Strategic Advisor to as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman from 1995 to 2001. at Warburg Pincus LLP, a Supervisory Board member of Lyondell Afore Consulting.
Basell NV and a Non-Executive Director of WPP Plc.
He is Other current appointments: Sherry currently serves as an also a Non-Executive Director of Swiss International Airlines external Non-Executive Director of the University of Cambridge.
a subsidiary of Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Acutronic AG.
Sherry is also Chair of the charity Founders4Schools, The Scale-Up Institute and Non-Executive Director of Zoopla Property Group plc, Cambridge Temperature Concepts, Cambridge Assessments, Cambridge University Press, Raspberry PI, and Artfinder.
Paul Heiden Stuart Lewis Andrea Munari Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director age 50 Independent Non-Executive Director age 53 and Chairman of the Audit Committee age 59 Appointed to the Board in June 2013 Appointed to the Board in October 2007 Appointed to the Board in June 2010 Key areas of experience: Credit risk, banking, corporate Key areas of experience: Capital markets, clearing, Key areas of experience: Corporate finance and accounting, finance, governance.
technology and engineering, corporate governance and risk, Stuart brings to the Board wide knowledge and experience of risk Andrea brings significant experience in capital markets, equity commercial manufacturing and supply chain.
He is currently Chief Risk Officer and a Member trading and risk management to the Group.
Andrea is currently Paul is a chartered accountant and provides the Board and the of the Management Board at Deutsche Bank AG, where he has Chief Executive Officer and General Manager of BNL, a Member Audit Committee with relevant financial expertise, gained previously held a number of senior roles.
of the BNP Paribas Executive Committee and Head of BNP through a long career of senior finance and management roles Paribas Group in Italy.
Past experience: From 1992 to 1996, Stuart worked at Credit across a wide range of business sectors.
Suisse Financial Products in credit risk management and, from Past experience: Andrea was previously Chief Executive Officer Past experience: Paul was previously Chairman of Talaris Topco 1990 to 1991, at Continental Illinois National Bank.
of Credito Fondiario S. p. A. from January 2014 to November 2015 Limited, Non-Executive Director of United Utilities Group plc and and General Manager of Banca IMI from March 2006 to December Other current appointments: Stuart is currently Chair of the Chief Executive Officer of FKI plc.
Paul was an Executive Director 2013.
Other senior roles he has held have included: Managing International Financial Risk Institute IFRI and on the Board of of Rolls-Royce plc from 1997 to 1999 and Group Finance Director Director of Morgan Stanley Fixed Income Division and Chief Trustees for the Global Association of Risk Professionals GARP.
He has also had previous senior finance Executive Officer and General Manager of Banca Caboto now roles at Hanson plc and Mercury Communications and was Banca IMI, Director of MTS S. p. A. and Director of TLX S. p. A. a Non-Executive Director of Bunzl plc and Filtrona plc.
Other current appointments: From January 2016, Chairman Other current appointments: Paul is a Non-Executive Director of Findomestic Banca S. p. A. the consumer credit company of of Meggitt plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Intelligent Energy BNP Paribas Group in Italy.
Holdings plc and A-Gas Orb Limited.
55 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Board of Directors continued Stephen OConnor Mary Schapiro Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director age 60 and Chairman of the Risk Committee age 54 Appointed to the Board in July 2015 Appointed to the Board in June 2013 Key areas of experience: Market regulation, corporate finance, Key areas of experience: Risk, capital markets, clearing, corporate governance and risk, securities.
Mary brings expertise in market regulation and US markets Stephen brings international expertise in clearing and to the Board.
counterparty risk management to the Board.
He has worked Past experience: Mary has held a number of senior regulatory extensively with global regulators in the area of financial positions including: the Chair of the US Securities and Exchange services market reform.
Commission, CEO and Chair of the Financial Industry Regulatory Past experience: Stephen was Chairman of the International Authority FINRA and its predecessor the National Association Swaps and Derivatives Association from 2011 to 2014 having of Securities Dealers Regulation Inc. NASDR, Chair of the been appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2009.
Stephen FINRA Educational Foundation, and the Chair of the US also worked at Morgan Stanley in London and New York for Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.
25 years, where he was a member of the Fixed Income Mary is a former Director of Kraft Foods, Duke Energy Corp Management Committee and held a number of senior roles and Cinergy Corp. She was also Managing Director, Governance including Global Head of Counterparty Portfolio Management and Markets, Promontory Financial Group LLC.
and Global Head of OTC Client Clearing.
Other current appointments: Mary is a Non-Executive Stephen was a member of the High Level Stakeholder Group Board Director of the General Electric Co. Vice-Chairman for the UK Governments review of the Future of Computer of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board SASB Trading in Financial Markets and served as Vice-Chairman of and Vice-Chairman, Advisory Board at Promontory Financial the Financial Stability Boards Market Participants Group on Group.
She also serves as an advisory board member at Financial Benchmark Reform.
He was a Non-Executive Director SpruceView Capital and Hudson Executive Capital and of OTC DerivNet Ltd from 2001 to 2013 and was Chairman from is a trustee of MITRE Corporation.
Other current appointments: Stephen is a member of the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC Global Markets Advisory Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Board Risk Committee of GE Capital International Holdings Ltd and serves as Chairman of Quantile Technologies Ltd.
Professor Lex Hoogduin David Nish Non-Executive Director age 59 Independent Non-Executive Director age 55 Appointed to the Board in December 2015 Appointed to the Board in December 2015 Key areas of experience: Clearing and settlements systems, Key areas of experience: Strategy, finance, corporate economic policy and research, financial stability and financial governance and risk, consumer and market regulation, markets, statistics and payment.
Lex brings significant expertise and knowledge of economics David provides significant FTSE 100 expertise to the Board and the operation of financial markets to the Board.
He is also from his experience on a number of other boards, including currently Chairman of the Group subsidiary, LCH.
Clearnet in the Investment Management and Insurance sectors from Group Limited.
his time at Standard Life Plc.
Past experience: Lex previously served as Executive Director Past experience: David was the Chief Executive Officer of at fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB from January 2009 until July Standard Life Plc from January 2010 to September 2015 having 2011, where his responsibilities included economic policy and joined the company as Group Finance Director in November research, financial stability, financial markets, statistics and 2006.
A chartered accountant, David was also previously Group payment, clearing and settlement systems.
He has also held a Finance Director of Scottish Power plc and he is a former Partner number of economic advisory positions as Chief Economist at at Price Waterhouse.
Robeco, Managing Director of the IRIS research institute and Previously, David has been a Non-Executive Director of Northern advisor to the first president of the ECB.
Lex holds a Masters Foods plc, Thus plc, HDFC Life India and was Deputy Chairman degree in Economics from the University of Groningen, the of the Association of British Insurers.
Netherlands and received his PhD degree in Economics in 1991.
Other current appointments: David is a Non-Executive Director COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY Other current appointments: Lex is a part-time professor of of Vodafone Group Plc, the UK Green Investment Bank Plc and, Audit Nomination complexity and uncertainty in financial markets and financial from 31 March 2016, Zurich Insurance Group.
He is also a institutions at the University of Groningen, the Netherlands.
Remuneration Risk member of the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
