Strategic Report Information Services Information Services Revenues KEY SUMMARY Revenues for the year increased by 42% to 517.4 million 2014: 363.7 million, m with first full year contribution from Russell Indexes and good growth from 517.4 UnaVista and SEDOL.
On an organic constant currency basis, revenues increased by 5% 2014: 363.7m FTSE Russell launched as a single global brand with integrated client facing teams FTSE Russell signed licensing agreements with US derivatives exchanges CME and CBOE Real time data revenues declined by 2% on lower UK user numbers Other Information Service revenue increased by 4% Introduction Our Information Services division meets the needs of financial market participants for timely, reliable and accurate market information.
We offer a wide range of services, including global indexes, real time pricing data, product identification, reporting and reconciliation services.
Information Services is a key area of strategic focus and it is an area where we are diversifying on a global basis, primarily through FTSE Russell, which was formed by the integration of FTSE and Russell Indexes following our 2014 acquisition of Frank Russell Company.
FTSE Russell is now an index leader globally providing innovative benchmarking, analytics and data solutions.
FTSE Russell With our product identification, reporting and reconciliation and news services, Indexes offered through UnaVista, SEDOL and Regulatory News Service RNS, we meet Real time data our clients need for enhanced and secure information services.
Other information In November 2015 we presented an Information Services investors event focusing on the strategy, opportunities and developments, including an update on the progress of the FTSE Russell integration.
We highlighted the growth opportunities in the US, the largest global investment market: opportunities in FURTHER INFORMATION China where managed assets are expected to grow more than fivefold between To aid comparison purposes, revenues and KPIs are all on a 12 month calendar 2014 and 2020: Smart Beta Indexes where assets benchmarked are growing year basis 12 month revenues 2014 unaudited.
Market trends and our response at 36% per annum: and Fixed Income which accounts for 41% of Institutional for Information Services can be found on page 12.
Profitability of each segment funds assets under management and where clients are looking for alternative can be found in the Financial Review on page 38.
A glossary of terms can be found indexing options.
The event presentation and videos are available on our website: on pages 150151. www.
Note: Total revenues excludes Proquote which was sold in Q4 2015.
31 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Information Services continued FTSE Russell FTSE Russell is a leading provider of smart beta indexes with around US$140 billion FTSE Russell is a global index leader that provides innovative benchmarking, of assets benchmarked.
Smart beta sits between active and passive investment analytics and data solutions for investors worldwide with around US$10 trillion, and is one of the fastest growing products using benchmarks, growing at a CAGR or a quarter of global equity assets benchmarked to its indexes.
It calculates of 36% over 3 years source: Morningstar.
FTSE Russell are pioneers in smart thousands of indexes that measure and benchmark markets and asset classes beta strategies, with indexes dating back to 2005.
During the year FTSE Russell in 72 countries.
FTSE Russells customers include asset managers both active launched several smart beta or factor indexes including expansion of the FTSE and passive, consultants, asset owners, sell-side firms and a range of other users.
Russell Global Factor Index Series, a suite of benchmarks designed to achieve FTSE Russell is a leading provider of indexes for the global Exchange Traded Fund controlled exposure to single or multi factor characteristics such as Quality, ETF market.
At the end of 2015, a total of US$381 billion was invested globally Value, Momentum, Volatility, Size and Yield.
Various combinations of these series in ETFs benchmarked to FTSE Russell indexes 2014: US$369 billion.
were adopted as funds benchmarks, as well as implementations in forms of ETF products.
Further, JP Morgan and Invesco PowerShares signed agreements to The FTSE Russell brand was officially launched during the year with a combined use FTSE Russell smart beta indices for ETF launches demonstrating the synergies front office model implemented globally.
Integration work is on track to deliver of a combined FTSE Russell.
the target annual run-rate cost synergies of US$78 million 51 million by end of year 3, and annual run-rate revenue benefits of US$30 million 19 million and FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets, a majority owned joint venture, signed US$48 million 31 million by end of year 3 and 5, respectively.
The separation of a letter of intent with State Bank of India, Indias largest bank, to launch a new Russell Investment Management will be substantially completed by end Q1 2016. index FTSE SBI Bond Index tracking Indian fixed income securities.
It will be the first FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets product dedicated to Indian fixed In July, the combined FTSE Russell confirmed compliance with International income securities and provides a strong platform and strategic alliance to further Organization of Securities Commissions IOSCO Principles for Financial presence in India.
Demand is growing for fixed income indexes, as clients look for Benchmarks.
The principles aim to promote the reliability of benchmarks alternative indexing options, greater product innovation and transparent pricing addressing issues surrounding governance: the quality of benchmark design from multiple sources.
In H1 2016 FTSE Russell plans to launch a new Global Fixed and methodology: and the accountability of the benchmark administrator.
Underscoring the Groups open access model, in February, CBOE entered a Total revenue for the year for the combined FTSE Russell business increased licensing agreement to develop and list options based on FTSE and Russell 77% to 348.9 million 2014: 196.8 million.
A similar agreement was signed with CME Group in August, allowing them to offer futures on FTSE Russell indexes.
Real Time Data Our Real Time Data service provides the primary reference data for UK and In May 2015, FTSE Russell announced the launch of 2 transitional FTSE Emerging Italian markets, with real time, tick by tick data used by traders, brokers and Markets China A Inclusion Indexes, to be used by institutional investors choosing fund managers around the globe.
Revenue from Real Time Data declined by to include China A Shares in their global portfolios, prior to A Shares becoming 2% to 82.2 million 2014: 84.3 million.
eligible for inclusion in the widely followed FTSE Global Equities Index Series.
Professional terminal usage figures for 2015 was unchanged across the Group with a total of 207,000 terminals 2014: 207,000 with LSE at 75,000 2014: 76,000 and Italy at 132,000 2014: 131,000.
Redistribution and non-display revenue streams increased as the number of market participants and innovative use of real time data continues to grow.
Going forward we will be looking into new opportunities in the real time data landscape and will continue to enhance the content delivery and scope of data, which forms part of our strategy to stabilise and reconfigure the business model for future growth.
ETF assets under management benchmarked LSE and Borsa Italiana terminals to FTSE Russell Indexes thousands year end LSE terminals US$ bn year end Borsa Italiana terminals 381 228 369 224 211 207 207 135 139 131 131 132 186 93 85 80 76 75 71 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 32 Strategic Report Information Services Other Information Services Our Regulatory News Service RNS in the UK is a leading high-quality service UnaVista is the Groups hosted platform for all matching, validation and for UK and Italian regulatory news announcements and global press releases.
It offers a range of business solutions for regulatory RNS helps companies and their intermediaries to fulfil their regulatory disclosure reporting, trade confirmations, reconciliations and reference data.
In 2015, obligations in the most effective and time-efficient way.
During 2015, over UnaVista continued to grow its user base with over 3,000 companies from 325,000 2014: 280,000 announcements were processed by RNS, covering the around the world using the platform.
majority of UK company announcements.
RNS operates as a Primary Information Provider and is regulated by the FCA.
SEDOL is our global, multi-asset class numbering system, providing reference data and unique identification codes for global equity, derivatives and fixed September saw the sale of Proquote, a UK based market data vendor and income securities.
The SEDOL Masterfile Service database provides clients with retail trading provider, to IRESS.
Proquote was seen as a non-core element access to reference data on over 5 million live securities.
In an extension to its of the forward looking strategy for the enlarged Information Services division.
duties as a national numbering agency, London Stock Exchange was sponsored The financial details of the sale were not disclosed.
For more information on by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA to be a Local Operating Unit LOU the disposal please see financial note 10, on page 118. for the global allocation of the new Legal Entity Identifier LEI, which uniquely identifies every legal entity or structure, in any jurisdiction, which is party to Total Other Information Services revenue for calendar year 2015 increased a financial transaction.
The LEI is mandatory for a number of global regulations 4% to 86.3 million 2014: 82.6 million.
and UnaVistas technology is being used to allocate and maintain the codes.
Since launch in mid 2013, we have become the third largest LOU globally and have allocated around 40,000 2014: 24,000 LEIs across 6 continents.
UnaVista signed a number of partnership agreements globally: it was selected by Maroclear, the Moroccan CSD, to provide the technology to implement a trade repository service, becoming the first African CSD to do so.
In September, a partnership agreement was signed between UnaVista and The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation DTCC to provide clients access to a MiFIR reporting service through UnaVistas Approved Reporting Mechanism ARM.
This partnership reflects the Groups commitment to open access.
This follows an agreement with SIX, which operates the Swiss exchanges and post trade operations, who selected UnaVista as a partner to provide its reporting technology for its Swiss derivative trade repository solution: expected to go live in 2016.
3 awards were won by UnaVista at the 12th Compliance Register Platinum Awards, winning for the second year running the award for Best Solution Provider EMIR and Regulatory Reporting, additionally winning Most Innovative Technology Solution Provider and Best Customer Support Team.
