London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Directors Report The Directors of the Company are pleased to present their Annual Corporate Governance Statement Report to shareholders, together with the financial statements for The Companys Corporate Governance Report and the reports of the Nomination, the year ended 31 December 2015 with comparatives for the 9 Audit and Risk Committees are set out on pages 5769 and are, together with the month period ended 31 December 2014 the Period ended 2014. information on share rights set out above, incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
The following sections of the Annual Report are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference: Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association adopted by special resolution passed on The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report 14 July 2010 may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting including the Financial Review can be found on pages 253 of the shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions Board of Directors on pages 5456 relating to the appointment and removal of Directors.
Results Substantial Shareholders The Group made a profit before taxation from continuing operations, before As at 4 March 2016 the Company had been notified of the following interests amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items for the year, amounting to more than 3% in the issued share capital of the Company in of 516.4 million Period ended 2014: 356.2 million.
After taking into account accordance with DTR 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules: amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, the Qatar Investment Authority 10.3% profit of the Group before taxation for the year from continuing operations was Blackrock, Inc 6.9% 336.1 million Period ended 2014: 182.1 million.
Profit after taxation from Invesco Limited 6.0% continuing operations for the year was 288.0 million Period ended 2014: 131.0 million.
Veritas Asset Management LLP 3.0% Authority to Purchase Shares During the year the Group classified certain of its businesses as discontinued The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 34,700,000 of operations.
The discontinued profit before taxation, before amortisation of purchased its ordinary shares representing less than 10% of the issued share capital of the intangible assets and non-recurring items for the year, was 124.9 million Period Company as at the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the ended 2014: 12.1 million.
After taking into account amortisation of purchased Companys last AGM granted at the Companys last AGM, expires on the date intangible assets and non-recurring items, the profit of the discontinued operations of the forthcoming AGM.
Although the latter authority was not used by the for the year was 97.6 million Period ended 2014: 8.9 million.
Profit after taxation Company, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority to purchase from discontinued operations for the year was 69.1 million Period ended 2014: shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Authority to Issue Shares Dividends Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without prejudice to The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 25.2 pence any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be Period ended 2014: 12.8 pence per share which is expected to be paid on issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution 1 June 2016 to shareholders on the register on 6 May 2016.
Together with the determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as the Board interim dividend of 10.8 pence Period ended 2014: 9.7 pence per share paid shall determine.
in September 2015, this produces a total dividend for the period of 36.0 pence Period ended 2014: 22.5 pence per share estimated to amount to 125.2 million Authority to Allot Shares Period ended 2014: 78.0 million.
The authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to allot shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 8,008,000 representing Share capital approximately 33.3% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest As at 31 December 2015, the Company had 348,376,066 ordinary shares 79 practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM in issue with a nominal value of 6 86 pence each, representing 100% of or, in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders by way of the total issued share capital.
During the year, the Company issued 1,419,602 a rights issue, up to a maximum nominal amount of 16,016,000 representing new ordinary shares, to settle employee share scheme awards.
approximately 66.6% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM, Share rights expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to give The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out a similar authority to allot shares at the forthcoming AGM.
in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
Directors interests Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2015, No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting, either in person or according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 2006, are by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or her unless all monies presently set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 83.
No company in the payable by him or her in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition, Group was, during or at the end of the year, party to any contract of significance no shareholder shall be entitled to vote, either in person or by proxy, if he or in which any Director was materially interested.
she has been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning interests in those shares and has failed to supply the Company Directors indemnity with the requisite information.
Details of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in force during the course of the year ended Other than restrictions considered to be standard for a UK listed company 31 December 2015 can be found on page 59. there are no limitations on the holding or transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, both of which are governed and regulated by the Companys Articles of Association and applicable legislation and regulation.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
88 Governance Directors Report Employees Political Donations and Expenditure Information on the Companys wider responsibilities in relation to employees During the year the Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU including the Companys approach to human rights and diversity is given organisations, or incur any political expenditure.
on page 37 and information on the Groups share schemes is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 77.
The Company provides an induction It remains the Companys policy not to make political donations or to incur political programme for new employees, including training on health and safety, and expenditure: however, the application of the relevant provisions of the Companies a range of development programmes for all staff to develop their skills and Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, the Board is seeking knowledge.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently breach from persons with a disability where the candidates particular aptitudes and these provisions as a result of the breadth of its business activities, although the abilities are consistent with and adequately meeting the requirements of the Board has no intention of using this authority.
As with previous years the Board role.
The Group encourages and assists employees with a disability with training, is proposing that shareholders pass a resolution at the forthcoming AGM to career development and promotion opportunities, and where existing employees authorise the Group to: become disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment and training make political donations to political parties and independent election wherever possible.
Where changes to working practices or structure affect staff, candidates not exceeding 100,000 in total staff are consulted and given the appropriate support.
All employees are provided with information on matters of concern to them in their work, through regular make political donations to political organisations other than political parties briefing meetings and internal publications.
To inform employees of the economic not exceeding 100,000 in total and financial factors affecting our business, regular updates are posted on our incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total intranet and engagement events are hosted, such as Townhall style meetings with members of our Executive Committee, providing a briefing of specific areas provided that in any event the aggregate amount of any such donations of the business.
and expenditure made or incurred by the Group shall not exceed 100,000.
Environment Notwithstanding the Companys policy not to make political donations, As a Group, we are committed to using resources in ways that ensure the the Company has continued to support an employee-operated Political Action long-term sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive Committee PAC that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible Frank impact on the environment.
The Groups primary greenhouse gas GHG Russell Company employees.
PACs are a common feature of the US political emissions arise from energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres system and are governed by the Federal Election Campaign Act.
around the world, from staff travel, and indirectly from our supply chain.
The PAC is not controlled by the Company or Frank Russell Company.
Decisions on During the reporting period, we achieved a 14% reduction in our overall Carbon the amounts and recipients of contributions are made by participating employees Emissions per Full Time Employee, and are making strong progress towards exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political contributions.
During the year, a total of US$79,500 was donated to political organisations by the Frank Russell Company employee operated PAC.
We continue to take an active approach to emissions management, with our global Environmental Management Group measuring GHG impacts across our Events since the balance sheet date property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
We report beyond On 23 February 2016 the Group confirmed that detailed discussions about the mandatory reporting guidelines to include Scope 3 emissions.
Performance a potential merger of equals was under way with Deutsche Brse.
is reported quarterly via our Intranet, and annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project, Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, FTSE4Good and on our website: The potential merger would be structured as an all-share merger of equals www.
Under the terms of the potential merger, LSEG shareholders would be entitled to receive 0.4421 new shares in exchange for each Global 2015 GHG Emissions LSEG share and Deutsche Brse shareholders would be entitled to receive one new share in exchange for each Deutsche Brse share.
Based on this exchange ratio, tCO e Tonnes of the parties anticipate that Deutsche Brse shareholders would hold 54.4%, and 2 carbon dioxide equivalent 2015 2014 % Change LSEG shareholders would hold 45.6% of the enlarged issued and to be issued share Total Group Carbon Footprint 31,777 31,702 0.24% capital of the combined group.
The combined group would have a unitary board 2 per m 0.388 0.371 4.63% composed of equal numbers of LSEG and Deutsche Brse Directors.
per FTE 7.17 8.34 -13.99% 1 per m Revenue 22.40 24.54 -8.70% Discussions between the parties remain ongoing and any transaction would be 2 subject to regulatory approval, Group shareholder approval and Deutsche Brse Scope 1 1,173 1,284 -8.64% 3 shareholders acceptance, as well as other customary conditions.
Scope 2 22,716 23,362 -2.77% Scope 3 6,336 5,305 19.43% Significant agreements Scope 3 Electricity Transmission The following are significant agreements to which the Company is a party that and Distribution 1,552 1,751 -11.36% take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following 1.
Revenue excludes Russell Investments, as Russell consumption is also excluded from figures.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, Fugitive Emissions and Fleet Vehicles.
Russell US Investment Management business 3.
Purchase of electricity by the Group for its own use the Group does not purchase heat, Pursuant to applicable US legislation and contractual terms reflecting such steam or cooling.
Note: Total Group Footprint and Scope 2 use market-based Scope 2 emissions factors.
legislation, a change of control of the Company would constitute a deemed assignment of certain investment advisory contracts of the Russell US In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental investment advisor entities.
Consent from the applicable investment advisory targets for the next financial year that include energy, water, waste and travel.
clients would be required in order for such contracts to continue in effect More information on these as well as full details of emissions and reporting or, in the case of the Russell US mutual funds, for replacement contracts methodology can be found in our CR report.
to take effect 89 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Directors Report continued SwapClear Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors LCH.
Clearnet, along with a number of investment banks, is party to an In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors agreement for the clearing of OTC interest rate swaps in relation to the confirm, in the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors Report SwapClear business.
Such arrangements contain certain provisions that entitle is approved as listed on page 91, that: the banks to terminate the agreement on a change of control of the Company so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Facility Agreement the Companys auditors are unaware The Company as borrower has entered into 2 syndicated, committed, he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director revolving facility agreements dated 25 June 2014 and 9 November 2015 in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information respectively which provide an aggregate 1.2 billion of flexible financing and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information capacity.
The facilities are partially drawn and sized to provide comfortable Financial viability statement headroom to the Group.
The terms of the above agreements are consistent In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors confirm that they and appropriate for an investment grade borrower including change of control have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet provisions which, if triggered, allow the Facility Agent, upon instructions from its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next 3 years.
A period of 3 years has been the majority lenders, to cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans chosen for the purpose of this viability statement, in line with the Groups Business under the agreement, together with accrued interest and all other amounts plan.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current accrued, due and payable position and prospects, the 2016 3 year business plan, the Groups risk appetite and Notes the expected impact of a selected group of severe but plausible downside scenarios.
The Company has issued 2 sterling Notes to the wholesale fixed income market due in 2016 and 2019.
Both Notes contain a redemption upon change of control The business plan makes certain assumptions about the performance of the provision which, if triggered by the combination of a change of control and, core revenue streams and segments, using existing product lines as well as within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating downgrade to non-investment assumptions on take up of new product lines, assumptions on appropriate levels grade, allows Note holders to exercise their option to require the Issuer to of investment to support expected performance, known inorganic activity, redeem the Notes and pay any accrued and unpaid interest due the ability to refinance debt as required, and expected returns to shareholders.
Retail Bond Issue The plan is stress tested using a selected group of severe but plausible downside The Company has issued sterling denominated retail bonds, under its scenarios as determined relevant by the Group Risk Committee, over the full 1,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme, which are due in 2021.
Impacts on the performance of core revenue streams and The retail bonds contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, allow segments are modelled through business inputs, with appropriate mitigating the holder of these bonds to have the option to require the Issuer to repay factors also considered.
early or to purchase the bonds of that holder at their face value together with the accrued interest The impact on the Groups cash-flows, liquidity headroom, and debt covenants Employee Share Plans are detailed throughout the 3 year period in each scenario.
No scenario over the The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences 3 year period leads to a breach in Group covenants or an inability to meet the of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
Groups obligations through insufficient headroom.
Further, a reverse stress test Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and participants will has been completed, to evaluate the financial impacts required to breach the become entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain Group Risk Committees risk appetite.
circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to defer vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for equivalent rights over the Going concern acquiring companys shares The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position and its objectives and policies Employee Benefit Trust in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are set out in As at 31 December 2015, the trustee of the London Stock Exchange Employee the Strategic Report on pages 4653.
The Directors statement in relation to going Benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held 462,378 shares under concern are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 91. the terms of the trust for the benefit of employees and former employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The trust is a discretionary trust and the shares Future developments are held to meet employees entitlements under the Companys share plans.
The Executive Management team monitors future development and market trends Employees have no voting rights in relation to the shares while they are held affecting the Group and its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis.
Details of these in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise the voting rights attaching to developments and trends and the potential implications for the Group can be found the shares or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired by employees through the in the Market trends and our response section of the Annual Report pages 1215.
Companys employee share plans rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be Branches outside the UK proposed at the AGM.
Certain of the Companys subsidiaries have established branches in a number of different countries in which they operate.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 3 March 2016 and signed on Financial Risk Management its behalf pages 253.
The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups Financial Risk By Order of the Board Management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant Lisa Condron disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on page 51 of this Annual Report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements, on pages 108112 of this Annual Report, and in each case are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
