London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Our wider responsibility The Group fulfils vital economic and social roles in enabling Our Approach to CR companies to access funds for growth and development.
In December 2015, the Group Board approved an updated Corporate As such, integrity and trust remain at the core of what we do.
Our CR strategy aims to deliver twin goals which, in turn, underlie our business strategy: Below, we summarise our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR and highlight some of the main developments over the To play an essential role in sustainable global economic growth past year.
We have also produced a separate detailed 2015 To ensure our behaviour and actions are consistent with long-term CR report, which can be downloaded at www.
Our CR strategy is defined by a series of 6 focus areas shown below and is executed through 4 established pillars: our markets, our services, our people and our communities.
Executive Committee members lead working groups made up of cross-Group colleagues, focused on developing specific targets and action plans in each of the 4 pillars.
As part of a materiality assessment, we have applied this framework to direct our CR approach to identify the most relevant and important issues for the Group.
Through the Groups CR focus across 2015, we have seen significant progress in a number of areas.
Our external CR ratings have remained in the top quartile when ranked against peers.
Further details can be found in our CR report.
CORE FOCUS AREAS LSEG CR Impact Framework OUR MARKETS OUR SERVICES OUR PEOPLE OUR COMMUNITIES 1.
Sustain We will help more companies We will provide investors with the We will employ and invest in the We will support communities improve the sustainability of their information and tools to engage with development of a highly diverse worldwide, helping less advantaged business and the transparency and invest in sustainable companies global workforce to deliver on our young people develop business skills of their reporting sustainable vision and taking care of the environment 2.
Manage risk We will help SMEs raise capital We will manage risks and improve and fund investments to create efficiency of trading and clearing employment worldwide through our markets Environment Global 2015 GHG Emissions As a Group, we are committed to using resources in ways that ensure the tCO e Tonnes of long-term sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive 2 carbon dioxide equivalent 2015 2014 % Change impact on the environment.
The Groups primary greenhouse gas GHG Total Group Carbon Footprint 31,777 31,702 0.24% emissions arise from energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres 2 per m 0.388 0.371 4.63% around the world, from staff travel, and indirectly from our supply chain.
per FTE 7.17 8.34 -13.99% 1 During the reporting period, we achieved a 14% reduction in our overall Carbon per m Revenue 22.40 24.54 -8.70% 2 Emissions per FTE, and are making strong progress towards our 2020 targets.
Scope 1 1,173 1,284 -8.64% 3 This significant reduction is attributed to FTSE employees moving from Canary Scope 2 22,716 23,362 -2.77% Wharf to Paternoster Square offices, as well as the inclusion of Russell Indexes Scope 3 6,336 5,305 19.43% operations, which have a low carbon footprint.
Scope 3 Electricity Transmission and Distribution 1,552 1,751 -11.36% We continue to take an active approach to emissions management, with our 1.
Revenue excludes Russell Investments, as Russell consumption is also excluded from figures.
global Environmental Management Group measuring GHG impacts across our 2.
C ombustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
We report beyond Fugitive Emissions and Fleet Vehicles.
P urchase of electricity by the Group for its own use the Group does not purchase heat, the mandatory reporting guidelines to include Scope 3 emissions.
is reported quarterly via our Intranet, and annually to the Carbon Disclosure Note: Total Group Footprint and Scope 2 use market-based Scope 2 emissions factors.
Project, Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, FTSE4Good and on our website: www.
36 Strategic Report Our wider responsibility In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental Community targets for the next financial year that include energy, water, waste and travel.
Our activities benefit communities worldwide.
We engage with governments, More information on these as well as full details of emissions and reporting inter-governmental agencies and regulators to promote ESG environmental, methodology can be found in our CR report.
social and corporate governance disclosure and sustainable practices.
We work to support local communities and the environment where we have Social a significant presence.
People Our people are at the heart of what we do and drive the success of our business.
The Group established the London Stock Exchange Group Foundation in 2010 Attracting, developing and retaining the skills we need to deliver on our strategy which provides a single channel for the Groups charitable giving and a focal point is a key imperative for the Group.
We are dedicated to unifying our growing for staff engagement with local charities.
See the Our Communities section of the company and supporting our employees development in an environment built Group CR report for further information.
Across 2015, LSEG Foundations approach on partnership, integrity, innovation and excellence.
and positioning was reviewed to further align it with the overall Group CR strategy, while recognising the global reach of LSEGs business model.
Work has been To inform employees of the economic and financial factors affecting our business, completed to incorporate FTSE and LCH.
Clearnets charitable giving programmes regular updates are posted on our intranet and engagement events are hosted, onto LSEG Foundation and integrating Russell Indexes as part of FTSE Russell.
such as Townhall style meetings with members of our Executive Committee, providing a briefing on specific areas of the business.
For 2015, the Group donated 2,154,000 including Frank Russell Companys donations.
This was a 7% increase compared to the pro-rated amount for 2014.
This year, we launched The Learning Exchange, our first Group-wide online The donations for 2015 are equivalent to 479 per employee including Russell, platform to support the development of employees.
Over 3,000 colleagues 24% higher than the pro-rated benchmark calculated by the London have accessed the online learning materials to date.
Benchmarking Group, which showed that the average amount donated per employee by leading corporate donors was 387 in 2015.
Diversity Equal Opportunities We value diversity as a driver for development and innovation.
Our operations Governance span 6 continents, with offices in Australia, Canada, France, Hong Kong, We remain committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and India, Italy, Japan, Russia, Sri Lanka, the UK and the US.
We have employees business integrity.
In the past year, we have complied with all the UK Corporate of 55 different nationalities, reflecting both the international scale of our business Governance Codes provisions and the Board will continue to ensure that we and the diversity of our customer base.
5 nationalities are represented on our adhere to good governance principles and practices.
Our approach to good Executive Committee.
corporate governance is detailed on pages 6263.
In early 2015, we launched the Women Inspired Network WIN, a Group-wide Given the increased size and scope of our businesses, we face a wide and network aimed at nurturing female talent within all levels of our organisation, expanding universe of risks.
In particular, our presence in post trade services developing their careers.
WIN has been launched in London, Milan, Paris provides direct and indirect exposure to financial market volatility.
technology risks such as cyber threats, systems resilience and technological innovation, and political, regulatory and macro-economic risks, which include the Gender Diversity impact of our competitors actions.
Pursuing our growth strategy in this dynamic environment requires best-in-class risk management.
Our governance and risk Female Male management structures have evolved to meet this need see pages 57 and 44 for further details.
LSEG plc Board 3 11 1 3 LSEG Subsidiary Boards 21 181 2 3 The UN Sustainable Stock Exchange SSE Initiative Executive Committee and Leadership Teams 15 65 The SSE Initiative aims to explore how exchanges can work together with investors, All other staff 1,741 3,424 regulators and companies to enhance corporate transparency and ultimately Total 1,756 3,489 performance on ESG issues and to encourage responsible long-term approaches 1.
Mix of employees and Non-Executive Directors.
Currently over 40 exchanges from around the world are partner 2.
Executive Committee and Leadership Teams in LSEG and LCH.
exchanges to the SSE Initiative.
In June 2014, LSEG announced that it would 3.
T he LSEG Subsidiary Board members and the Executive Committee and Leadership Teams partner with the SSE Initiative.
Disclosure levels to which we adhere to as a Group together comprise the Senior Managers for the purposes of 414C 10 b Companies Act 2006.
Note: Figures as of year end 31 December 2015. are listed in our CR report.
Human Rights In September, the London Stock Exchange hosted the launch of the SSE The Group prides itself on its high standards of social responsibility.
We respect Initiatives Model Guidance on ESG Reporting.
This was a product of 9 months and seek to adhere to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human of development directed by the SSE Model Guidance Advisory Group which was Rights, together with the International Labour Organization Conventions and chaired by the Groups ESG Director at FTSE Russell.
The objective of the Model Recommendations within our working environment in each location where we Guidance is to provide exchanges with a globally consistent base to start from operate.
The Group strongly supports these conventions which aim to abolish as they work to create their own, locally customised, voluntary guidance to help forced labour and child labour and promote freedom of association and equality.
their issuers meet investors need for ESG information.
Human rights considerations are also included in our Supplier Code of Conduct and Group Code of Conduct.
Looking Ahead As our business expands and diversifies, we continue to review our approach Moreover, the Group has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery.
For 2016, we have identified objectives in each of our 6 focus committed to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business dealings and areas.
These are set out in the Looking Ahead section of our CR report.
relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our own business.
