London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Executive management team The Executive Committee manages the business on a day-to-day basis.
The team meets regularly to review a wide range of business matters, including financial performance, development of strategy, setting performance targets, reviewing projects and other initiatives.
There are 2 new appointments to the Executive Xavier R Rolet KBE Raffaele Jerusalmi Committee.
Chris Corrado joined as Group Chief Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana Operating Officer and Chief Information Officer in and Director of Capital Markets November 2015, replacing Antoine Shagoury who left the Group.
Catherine Johnson, Global General Counsel, joined the committee with effect from early 2016.
Alexander Justham also left during the year, with the position as Chief Executive Officer of London Stock Exchange plc taken on by Nikhil Rathi.
For further information on Xavier Rolet, David Warren and Raffaele Jerusalmi, who are also members of the Board of Directors, see their biographies on pages 5456.
David Warren Group Chief Financial Officer 18 Strategic Report Executive management team Suneel Bakhshi Len Brennan Chris Corrado Chief Executive Officer, LCH.
Chief Executive Officer of Russell Investments and Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Joined in February 2014 from Citigroup with over Group Director of Buyside Solutions.
Joined in November 2015 30 years of experience in trading, banking and risk Executive Committee in December 2014 following from MSCI where he was responsible for management.
Most recently, he was President and the completion of the acquisition of Frank Russell technology, data services and programme CEO, Citigroup Global Markets, Japan.
He has more than 30 years of experience management.
He has over 30 years of global he held several senior risk, banking and markets in financial services, including President and CEO experience in managing technology platforms roles, including Sales and Trading in CEMEA, of Rainier Investment Management, and at Russell, and transformational change in the financial Fixed Income Derivatives Trading for Europe and latterly as CEO.
He has also worked for high Derivatives in Japan.
growth technology companies including eBay, AT&T Wireless and Asurion.
Diane Ct Serge Harry Catherine Johnson Group Chief Risk Officer.
Appointed Chief Risk Chairman of globeSettle and LSEG Country Head for Global General Counsel.
Officer and joined the Executive Committee in France, Benelux and Germany.
He was previously She advises the Board and senior executives on June 2013.
Diane was previously Aviva Plcs Chief Chairman and CEO of BlueNext, a global carbon key legal matters and strategic initiatives, and Finance Operations Officer.
Prior to this, Diane held credits trading exchange, Head of Strategy at NYSE previously was head of the Groups Regulatory the position of Avivas Chief Audit Officer.
Diane has Euronext, and CFO of Euronext from 2000 to 2007.
Qualified as a lawyer at Herbert many years experience holding senior positions Smith in 1993. within Aviva and other leading organisations, including Standard Life Assurance.
David Lester Mark Makepeace Nikhil Rathi Chief Strategy Officer.
Group Director of Information Services and Chief Chief Executive Officer of London Stock Exchange He has over 23 years experience in financial markets Executive Officer of FTSE Russell.
He was a founding plc and Director of International Development.
including with Thomson Financial, Accenture Director of FTSE Group in 1995 and joined LSEG Appointed in May 2014 as Director of International and KPMG.
Mark has over 20 years experience of Development, he joined from the UK Treasury, where developing successful joint ventures and has forged he held a number of senior positions, including alliances with stock exchanges, academics and Director of the Financial Services Group, representing leading industry groups.
the UK Governments financial services interests internationally, and Private Secretary to the UK Prime Minister for 3 years from 2005 to 2008.
