London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Technology Services Revenues Introduction Technology Services provide the Group and customers including banks, m specialist trading firms and other capital market venues with resilient, high-speed, 80.6 low latency trading platforms, post trade platforms, real time market data and infrastructure products and services.
2014: 66.0m Exchange Technology Our cash equity and retail bond markets run on the latest version of the KEY SUMMARY Millennium Exchange trading platform.
This consistency has helped reduce Revenues for the year increased by 22% to 80.6 million 2014: 66.0 million our cost base and increased the opportunities for customers to benefit from enhanced functionality and further expansion of our co-location services.
A range of key worldwide technology deliveries and agreements were As a consequence of technology upgrades, we are able to modernise and completed with financial sector firms from Canada, India, Morocco, develop at lower costs.
Peru and South Africa Exactpro Systems, the new subsidiary acquired in 2015, specialises in In January 2016, we launched LSEG Business Services Limited, our Shared functional and non-functional testing of systems that process wholesale Service Company SSC, providing a range of technology services Group-wide.
financial products across multiple asset classes The principal motivation behind this move is to improve service, resiliency, efficiency and effectiveness.
SSC is part of our ongoing process to provide Shared Service Company launched, providing a range of technology uniformity across all LSEG companies as we grow and expand our activities.
services Group-wide It will enable us to support best practice and allow for continuous improvement LSEGs internal trading surveillance system has been significantly in our Technology Services.
upgraded in preparation for MiFID II In 2016, we will continue with the integration of FTSE Russell platforms and commence a multi-year technology transformation at LCH.
Clearnet, starting with migration of the cash equity clearing platforms to MillenniumIT technology.
The Group is participating with other leading financial institutions and large technology firms in working groups looking at the opportunities that blockchain may be able to deliver to the Groups venues and clients.
Blockchain is a distributed ledger amongst a network of independent computers, which could facilitate peer to peer exchanges of information, payments or assets.
Other areas of potential development include cognitive technologies which could enable systems through analytics and surveillance to detect issues and rectify them without manual intervention.
The acquisition of Exactpro in the year adds to the capabilities of Millennium IT and GATElab to accelerate current and future implementations.
FURTHER INFORMATION Through our Millennium Exchange technology, our UK cash equity and Turquoise To aid comparison purposes, revenues and KPIs are all on a 12 month calendar platforms continue to exhibit excellent technical performance.
Since September year basis 12 month revenues 2014 unaudited.
Market trends and our response 2015, following a significant hardware upgrade, cash equities round-trip latency for Technology Services can be found on page 12.
Profitability of each segment on London Stock Exchange, has had an average of 91 microseconds.
Turquoise can be found in the Financial Review on page 38.
A glossary of terms can be found average latency for the year was 102 microseconds.
Both platforms were again on pages 150151. available for 100% uptime during the year 2014: 100%.
Trading system latency milliseconds 11.0 6.0 5.0 3.7 3.0 1.41 0.091 0.102 TradElect TradElect TradElect TradElect TradElect TradElect Millennium Millennium Jun 07 Release 2 Release 3 Release 4 Release 4.1 Mar 10 Exchange Exchange Oct 07 Sep 08 May 09 Jul 09 equity Turquoise 34 Strategic Report Technology Services Our Group Ticker Plant GTP project which delivers a high-speed technology GATElab platform that provides a single, normalised real time market data protocol GATElab, our Italian and UK-based technology company, is a provider of trading for broadcast of market data from across the Group, regardless of asset class, and post-trading solutions to the global financial community.
Fully MiFID trading platform or geography went live in February 2016. compliant, the products and services GATElab offers to buy-side, sell-side and hedge fund partners includes: multi-asset class electronic trading platforms: Monte Titoli and its clients completed the migration onto the TARGET2-Securities ultra-low latency pre-trade risk market adapters: smart order routing for equities T2S platform in August.
T2S is a centralised settlement platform designed by the and bonds: and post trade deal capture and cross-asset margining.
European Central Bank ECB aiming to provide CSDs across the European Union with a harmonised settlement service.
This year, GATElab was named as an accredited software vendor for the Moscow Exchange MOEX.
The high frequency trading gateway module, GATElab hftpath, MillenniumIT is now available to all MOEX customers wishing to trade securities, derivatives The Group acquired MillenniumIT in 2009.
It provides advanced, market leading and foreign exchange on the exchange.
capital market software solutions as well as enterprise sales and IT infrastructure services to over 40 organisations and exchanges around the world.
The Groups BTS trading station, a multi-asset and multi-market front end trading and quoting solution, powered by GATElab, in February launched a A wide range of solutions are offered by MillenniumIT, such as Millennium new connection to Turquoise.
BTS now provides a single point of connectivity Exchange, the flagship multi-asset trading platform.
All of the Groups cash to the Groups markets, and also allows access to partner market Oslo Brs.
equity and retail bond markets run on the latest version of Millennium Exchange.
Exactpro 2015 Highlights Exactpro Systems was acquired by LSEG in May 2015.
Fully owned by LSEG, A range of key worldwide technology deliveries and agreements were the new subsidiary specialises in functional and non-functional testing of systems completed, with financial sectors firms from Canada, India, Morocco, that process wholesale financial products across many asset classes, particularly Peru and South Africa, with Argentina planned to follow in early 2016, market infrastructure such as trading systems, risk management, market demonstrating Millenniums increasing global reach surveillance, securities data distribution and post-trade infrastructures.
These services are offered to exchanges, investment banks, brokers and other financial Aequitas NEO Exchange Canada and Bolsa fide Valores fide Lima Peru both sector organisations worldwide.
were delivered MillenniumIT capital market solutions which have gone live Oslo Brs, Norways national stock exchange, has extended its contract Exactpro Systems increases the capabilities to further improve the efficiency to continue using Millenniums trading platform.
The exchange migrated and effectiveness of clients software while providing an industry-leading support to Millennium in 2012 for businesses across the Group.
LSEGs internal trading surveillance system has been significantly upgraded The Group has had a customer relationship with Exactpro Systems since 2010 and will be in accordance with MiFID II regulation ahead of its proposed and together will build on Exactpros track record for transparency and reliability.
Turquoise in December, started to migrate to MillenniumIT Surveillance, as used by London Stock Exchange, and will replace an Global Business Development outsourced system Global Business Development GBD promotes LSEGs services and solutions to market infrastructures globally, supporting the Groups business divisions Looking forward, MillenniumIT will be instrumental in LSEGs strategy to to generate new revenues.
Clearnets multiple post trade platforms.
In 2016, MillenniumIT is working on the go-live of a Post Trade platform for the Singapore During the year, GBD expanded the Groups product suite with both ELITE Stock Exchange SGX, and is extending its Order Routing system for Hong Kong and UnaVista in Morocco, leveraging on the existing business partnership Exchanges & Clearing Ltd HKEX and trading and surveillance systems for Indias to support the development and growth of the Moroccan capital market as National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange NCDEX.
GBD continues to identify and lay the foundations for new business opportunities across the full exchange business chain with existing and prospective clients.
