Strategic Report What we do: Our business model Our business model Our business model, with its unique features, enables us to pursue the most attractive opportunities globally to build innovative and profitable businesses, delivering superior customer choice and service.
Our business activities fall into 3 interconnected categories.
The model below shows how our businesses link together: CAPITAL FORMATION CAPITAL MARKETS Primary Markets, Secondary Markets PRIMARY MARKETS CAPITAL RAISING Our central function is to bring together companies seeking capital with investors from around the world.
SECONDARY MARKETS TRADING Our markets and systems provide all market participants with efficient, deep and liquid access to financial securities for the purpose of risk transfer and capital allocation.
RISK AND BALANCE POST TRADE SERVICES Clearing, custody, settlement and asset services SHEET MANAGEMENT The Group offers a full range of post trade services, providing Risk and Balance Sheet Management solutions to a range of customers.
Services: Central counterparty CCP clearing services Custody and settlement Collateral management and asset services INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFORMATION SERVICES Indexes, real time pricing data, product identication, reporting and reconciliation services We provide a wide range of information and data products, including indexes and benchmarks, real time pricing and data, product identication reporting and reconciliation services.
TECHNOLOGY SERVICES Global markets infrastructure technology solutions All of our businesses depend on technology that is secure, stable and performs to high levels of accuracy and throughput.
MillenniumIT, GATElab and Exactpro are developers of exible, low cost, high performance trading, market surveillance and post trade systems Note: as well as network connectivity, hosting, and quality assurance Arrows indicate valuable testing services.
interconnected relationships between business categories.
Unique features of our business model: We believe that 2 key features of our business model will position us to deliver increased value to our customers and shareholders, and differentiate us amongst competitors in the financial markets infrastructure industry: Open Access and customer partnership.
Open Access Customer partnership model Open Access is the principle which lies at the heart of free and fair markets, We believe that aligning our strategy, services and products to the interests and underpins the approach to the European Union single market philosophy of our customers supports long term value creation, enabling innovation We believe customers should have the choice in where they place their in products which can be rapidly adopted.
In some businesses, we are joint business.
In particular, we support non-discriminatory access to trading owners with our customers and clearing infrastructures, which provides greater market efficiencies We provide access to all of our markets and products for a wide range of users Example: Many of our operating companies are governed in partnership with our customers Example: who have varying minority shareholder interests in each e. g. LCH.
Clearnet, FTSE Russell licences its indexes to other exchange operators, such as CME Turquoise, MTS, CurveGlobal.
and CBOE, enabling them to list derivatives products based on our indexes.
Clearnet provides CCP clearing services to venues such as Nasdaq Nasdaq Nordic and NLX and Euronext.
