London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 What we do ABOUT OUR GROUP HOW WE ADD VALUE London Stock Exchange Group LSEG is a diversified global markets infrastructure Our Capital Markets, Information Services and Post Trade operations are business that operates on an open access model, offering choice and partnership connected to an increasingly international range of issuers, traders and investors, to customers across all of its businesses.
The Group can trace its history back creating a valuable network that provides deep liquidity, forms the basis of trading to 1698. and investing decisions, and provides market efficiencies to support capital allocation and risk management.
Our business activities fall into 3 categories: We provide a range of connected market services on an open access basis, Capital Formation which offers our customers the choice of using our services without imposing Risk and Balance Sheet Management or restricting usage.
Intellectual Property We have proven expertise in operating transparent, efficient and well governed market infrastructure in highly regulated capital markets, providing market Capital Formation services that are trusted, independent, and resilient.
The Group operates a broad range of international equity, ETF, bond and derivatives markets, including London Stock Exchange: Borsa Italiana: MTS a leading European fixed income market : and Turquoise a pan-European equities MTF.
Through its platforms, LSEG offers market participants, including retail investors, institutions and SMEs, unrivalled access to Europes capital markets.
The Group also plays a vital economic and social role, enabling companies to access funds for growth and development.
Risk and Balance Sheet Management Risk and Balance Sheet Management services is a significant and increasingly important part of the Groups operations.
In addition to a majority ownership of LCH.
Clearnet a leading global multi asset CCP, LSEG owns CC&G an Italian based multi asset CCP : Monte Titoli an Italian based leading European custody and settlement business : and globeSettle a newly established Central Securities Depository based in Luxembourg.
Intellectual Property Through FTSE Russell, the Group is a global leader in financial indexing, benchmarking and analytic solutions with approximately US$10 trillion in assets benchmarked to its indexes.
The Group also provides customers with an extensive range of real time and reference data products as well as reporting, reconciliation and confirmation services, including SEDOL, UnaVista and RNS.
The Group is a leading developer and operator of high performance technology solutions, including trading, market surveillance and post trade systems for over 40 organisations and exchanges including the Groups own markets.
Additional services include network connectivity, hosting, and quality assurance testing.
Our Group technology companies include MillenniumIT, GATElab and Exactpro.
Headquartered in London, with significant operations in North America, Italy, France and Sri Lanka, the Group employs approximately 5,550 people.
RUSSELL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Like any industry, global markets infrastructure has its own unique language.
On 8 October 2015, LSEG announced that it had agreed the proposed sale For that reason, we have included a glossary on pages 150151. of Russell Investment Management, subject to customary closing adjustments and other required approvals.
As this business is non-core, it has been excluded from the business model, which shows the Groups ongoing operations.
