M AN AH L S CI E N CE A P P L I E D T O F I N A N CE Established in 1987, Man AHL is a leading quantitative investment manager with funds under management of $16.9 billion.
A pioneer in systematic trading, AHL offers alternative and traditional strategies to a predominantly institutional client base, in a variety of funds and customisable managed accounts.
Headquartered in London, AHL employs over 115 investment professionals in six locations and benefits from a unique collaboration with the University of Oxford.
Tim Wong Chairman, AHL Sandy Rattray Chief Executive Officer, AHL 18 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 18 24 02 2016 18:02 STRATEGIC REPORT DIVERSIFICATION AND Our bodies are kept alive by complex algorithms STRATEGIES OVERVIEW INSTITUTIONALISATION in hospital intensive care wards.
So it would be AHL broadly offers four types of investment Over the course of 2015, AHL continued the remarkable if systematic investing were not to programme: transition to being a diversified quantitative increase significantly.
Momentum: AHLs institutional manager, whilst maintaining an emphasis on flagship programme, AHL Alpha, uses momentum.
The AHL business has become There will of course be the naysayers, and it sophisticated algorithms to identify more diversified by product for example remains the case that some types of information trends.
The original investment strategy the AHL Dimension and AHL Evolution are hard to process corporate bond covenants of AHL, trend following has been able to Programmes now comprise around 50% of for example.
But the idea that humans can profit in both rising and falling markets total AHL assets between them, and net flows forecast and adapt to regime change while and exhibits low correlation to other asset in AHL Dimension accounted for around 90% of systematic strategies cannot is untrue on classes, notably equities.
In addition to total net flows for Man AHL in 2015. several levels.
Humans have generally proven futures and forwards instruments that quite poor at adapting to regime change, and are typically traded by trend-following In addition, AHLs shift to becoming a largely machine learning in particular can pick up very managers, AHL specialises in trading, institutional fund manager has occurred at the rapidly on new environments.
Much of our through the AHL Evolution Programme, same time as our increasing development of research efforts are in this area today, and we a range of non-traditional markets that new strategies: 74% of our clients are institutional are excited about the future for AHL and for the are highly liquid, typically OTC, and investors today.
We have found that many opportunity to serve our clients.
are not widely traded by peers.
These institutional investors around the world value a include interest-rate swaps, credit and rigorous systematic approach.
In particular, the FUM by strategy power derivatives, for example, which fact that we are more transparent than most have been highly resilient to choppy other styles of investing has been important to market conditions that resulted from these clients.
With no emotion involved in the unprecedented levels of central bank investing process, the mood or even presence intervention in the years immediately of any particular individual at AHL has rather little following the Credit Crisis.
In 2015 AHL day to day impact on performance.
broadened its trend-following offering further through the AHL Evolution Frontier GROWTH Programme, which leverages operational We are very positive on the future of systematic and execution strengths in order to investing.
We live in a world where the amount access less liquid markets.
of available data is increasing at an incredible Multi-strategy: AHLs flagship multirate an oft quoted study suggests that 90% of strategy programme, AHL Dimension, the worlds data is less than two years old.
Only $16.9bn comprises a broad mix of high-conviction computer-driven processes are able to harness systematic models, spanning technical, this amount of data and make sense of it.
We $bn fundamental, and momentum styles.
also live in a world where you are increasingly It utilises a wide universe of highly Traditional trend following 6.7 likely to be flown in an aeroplane by computer, liquid markets covering the major asset Non-traditional trend following 5.2 where your car will contain an enormous classes of equity, FX, fixed income Multi-strategy 3.0 amount of computer code and will in the next and commodities, and incorporates few years very likely become self-driving.
Sector based, Alpha capture, other 2.0 an allocation to the AHL Evolution programme.
Because of the range of strategies employed, multi-strategy programmes are designed to perform in a wide variety of market environments.
Sector-based: These strategies allow Performance across AHL funds Annualised net returns investors to access specialised, sector or theme specific investment strategies Fund inception date 1yr 3yr 5yr Inception across equity, currency and volatility AHL Alpha 17.10.95 1.5% 7.1% 3.6% 12.5% markets.
AHL Diversified 26.03.96 -2.7% 8.1% 3.0% 13.2% Alpha capture: These strategies use AHL Evolution 26.09.05 3.2% 13.2% 14.7% 14.8% quantitative techniques to capture the AHL Dimension 03.07.06 6.9% 8.5% 4.3% 6.3% best ideas from leading equity brokers HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index 31.12.89 -1% 3.6% 2.3% 10.1% to construct long only portfolios.
Source: Man database AHL Alpha AHL Strategies PCC ltd: Class Y AHL Alpha USD from 25 Sept 2012 to 30 Sept 2013, AHL Alpha plc prior.
AHL Alpha Cayman Limited from 30 Sept 13.
The track record has been adjusted to reflect the proposed fee structure of the AHL Alpha Programme 1% management fee, 20% performance fee.
AHL Diversified Man AHL Diversified Guernsey USD from 29 Oct 2012, Man AHL Diversified plc prior.
AHL Evolution AHL Cayman SPC Class A1 USD Shares from 30 11 12 linked to AHL Investment Strategies SPC: Class E AHL Evolution USD Notes from 30 11 11 and prior to this AHL Strategies PCC Ltd: Class G AHL Evolution USD Shares.
AHL returns are shown on a month end to month end basis to be directly comparable to competitors.
Hence returns use estimates and will differ from the officially reported figures that are based on finals.
AHL Dimension is represented by AHL Strategies PCC Limited: Class B AHL Dimension USD Shares from 3 July 2006 to 31 May 2014, and by AHL Dimension Cayman Ltd USD Shares from 1 June 2014.
Performance is net of all fees.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 19 23978 Man AR15.
indb 19 24 02 2016 18:02 M AN GL G G R E AT M I N DS, T H I N K I N G D I F F E R E N T LY 2015 was an important year for Man GLG as we celebrated our 20 year anniversary.
GLG was originally established in 1995 and has evolved over the past two decades to become a leading discretionary fund manager that offers a comprehensive range of alternative and traditional strategies.
From the beginning, GLG was defined by its entrepreneurial spirit and culture of excellence.
We have built on this culture over the last 20 years, continuing to attract exceptional talent and broaden our range of expertise, whilst remaining completely focused on delivering performance to our clients.
Mark Jones Co-Chief Executive Officer, GLG Teun Johnston Co-Chief Executive Officer, GLG 20 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 20 24 02 2016 18:02 STRATEGIC REPORT FOCUS AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS continue to broaden the range of investment STRATEGIES OVERVIEW We believe that success in discretionary fund strategies managed within our flagship GLG manages a diverse range of alternative management is largely determined by the European Long Short fund.
and traditional investment strategies that calibre of investment professionals managing focus on equities and credit as well as multiour investment strategies and the strength of Early 2015 also proved to be significant in terms asset investment strategies.
We continually strive of merger activity, with the completion of the Equities: GLGs equities business to strengthen our business and recently have acquisition of US CLO manager Silvermine comprises a range of alternative and long focused on: Capital Management in January, and the only strategies with investment expertise 1.
Broadening our long only offering acquisition of the investment management covering each of the major regions 2.
Improving our alternative product mix business of NewSmith LLP.
The Silvermine and specialist sectors.
Developing our structured credit capability transaction provides GLG with increased investment approaches and styles are expertise in US credit markets and expands pursued by the various investment teams.
Our focus has been to add high calibre the firms North American presence.
From a Credit: GLGs alternative and long only investment teams within our long only business similar perspective, the NewSmith deal helps credit strategies span the credit spectrum in order to diversify our client offering.
Within to strengthen GLGs equities platform, while and capital structure.
Our alternative equities, we hired a UK focused value team enhancing our footprint in the Japanese market.
credit strategy incorporates a diverse and a European focused growth team during range of approaches and asset classes 2013 2014 while adding an Emerging Markets PRIORITIES FOR 2016 including relative value, distressed debt, strategy in late 2015.
Our European growth and Our key focus will continue to be on delivering event driven, capital structure arbitrage UK value funds have both achieved first quartile strong performance.
We will also aim to and convertible bond arbitrage strategies.
rankings since launch and have gained traction broaden our product range as compelling Our long only credit strategies include in the marketplace.
By contrast the Total opportunities arise.
investing in corporate bonds, convertible Return strategy which was launched in 2013 bonds and asset-backed securities with a underperformed and as a result was closed in One such example is the development of our range of approaches applied to each.
Emerging Markets Fixed Income business.
Multi-asset: GLGs Multi-asset strategies We recently announced the hiring of Guillermo consist of alternative and long only In terms of our alternative equities strategies, Osses, a highly experienced and successful strategies.
Our multi-asset strategies we recently hired teams focusing on EventEmerging Markets Fixed Income portfolio comprise a variety of investment Driven investing and European Mid-Cap, both manager.
Guillermo joined GLG in early 2016 approaches and styles.
of which are areas we believe have high alpha and will be based in New York.
In early 2015, we also employed a launch a series of Emerging Market Fixed highly experienced team that seeks to capitalise Income strategies managed by Guillermo and on US distressed opportunities.
Additionally, we his team in H2 2016.
FUM by strategy GLG track record 1 April 1997 to 31 December 2015 600 GLG Alternative Strategies MSCI World Net Total Return Index 1 Dollar-Weighted Composite hedged to USD monthly return GLG Long Only Dollar Citigroup World Government 2 Weighted Composite Bond Index 500 400 300 $30.5bn 200 $bn Equity alternative 5.7 Equity long only 12.5 100 Credit and convertibles alternative 9.7 Credit and convertibles long only 1.7 Multi strategy alternative 0.9 0 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Source: Man database, Bloomberg and MSCI.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past or projected performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance.
Returns may increase or decrease as a result of currency fluctuations.
Please note that the HFRI index performance over the past 4 months is subject to change.
World stocks: MSCI World Net Total Return Index hedged to USD.
1 Represented by the GLG Alternative Strategies Dollar-Weighted Composite.
GLG alternative strategy dollar-weighted average returns are calculated as the composite performance of the alternative strategy funds and funds that have closed, in addition to managed accounts managed in accordance with alternative strategies, weighted by the sum of the prior month-end AUM.
2 Represented by the GLG Long Only Dollar-Weighted Composite.
GLG long only dollar-weighted average returns are calculated as the composite performance of the long only strategy funds and funds that have closed, in addition to managed accounts managed in accordance with long only strategies, weighted by the sum of the prior month-end AUM.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 21 23978 Man AR15.
indb 21 24 02 2016 18:02 M A N FR M D Y N A MI C A ND O N - G O I N G PA R T NE R S HI P S Man FRM is a global alternative investment specialist, with a predominantly institutional client base.
Established in 1991, FRM joined forces with Man Group in 2012.
We provide an open architecture, full service hedge fund offering, with customised and advisory solutions, commingled strategies, a leading, technologically innovative managed account platform and Clarus, a sophisticated online reporting tool.
With 52 investment professionals based in London, New York, Tokyo, Guernsey and Pfffikon Switzerland, FRM manages $12.3 billion.
Our multi-manager solutions include multi-strategy and customised portfolios.
Keith Haydon Chief Investment Officer, FRM Michelle McCloskey President, FRM 22 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 22 24 02 2016 18:03 STRATEGIC REPORT A BROADER OFFERING INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS FOCUS FOR 2016 Since linking with Man Group, FRM has In 2015, FRM worked with a range of new and 2016 is a special landmark FRM is celebrating broadened its capabilities in risk management, existing clients to design bespoke investment its 25th anniversary of advising and serving research and hedge fund solutions provision, portfolios and develop innovative approaches to hedge fund investors.
It also coincides with the while leveraging the benefits of a global fee levels.
An example of this is our developing coming of age of our business in North America investment platform.
In 2014, FRM successfully relationship with the UKs Local Government where we have enjoyed renewed success in enhanced its presence in the North American Pension Scheme.
We have pioneered an partnering with institutional clients to provide market after joining forces with Pine Grove Asset approach that provides each local plan with managed account solutions and advisory Management LLC, a US-based credit-focused a bespoke investment solution customised services for their hedge fund allocations.
Pine Grove elevated FRMs for its pension needs, but which allows all the suite of investment offerings, including SECschemes that join the platform to benefit from As a leading hedge fund investor, we have registered US 40 Act funds and complementary improved fee levels created by the effects of developed a number of in-house solutions multi-manager hedge fund products.
We expect further progress to address the challenges faced in our own with this initiative and others in the coming year.
In recent years, the greatest demand In the second quarter of 2015, FRM built on has been to foster sufficient levels of risk to its involvement in the US market by assuming generate the return profiles that our clients need ALTERNATIVE BETA responsibility for several multi-strategy and to meet their obligations.
Recently, FRM has worked with clients to boost strategy-focused alternative funds previously run portfolio risk efficiency and generate return by Merrill Lynch Alternative Investments.
This Drawing on the resources of one of the worlds streams that do not depend on ever rising has considerably expanded both FRMs range pre-eminent investment groups, FRM offers a asset prices.
We term this approach alternative of funds and its appeal to US investors.
Working comprehensive suite of innovative hedge fund beta, and in 2015 this evolved into a standwith the wealth management network of Bank of solutions to help investors generate better alone investment solution.
This development America Merrill Lynch, FRM is able to offer US 40 risk-adjusted returns.
Our capabilities, including demonstrates both the expansion of FRMs Act and other funds, and grow our business in a multi-format range of liquid alternative capabilities as well as the synergy benefits that the worlds largest investment market.
investment options and proprietary risk institutional investors can leverage from Mans management software tools, are set to develop group-wide expertise.
At the end of 2015 we further in 2016.
MANAGED ACCOUNTS managed around $680 million in alternative beta FRM operates one of the leading buy-side allocations and we are encouraged by the level We work with clients globally to share ideas managed account platforms with FUM of $8.9 of client interest this product is attracting.
and source the best hedge fund investment billion invested across portfolio and customised We believe that institutional investors appetite for solutions for the challenges they face.
For each customised the risk reward opportunities offered by hedge commitment to this will shape our focus in 2016 managed account client, FRM creates a unique, funds continues to grow.
FRMs commitment to and beyond.
customised managed account solution that performance and client service is expected to draws on our suite of risk, operational and help our business progress in 2016. administrative services.
In 2015, this specialist hedge fund service attracted additional globally recognised institutional investors.
We expect FRM Diversified II performance further client success in 2016 as institutional 600 investors combine expanding the scope of their FRM Diversied II investment universe with a determination to Citigroup World Government Bond Index benefit from best-in-class levels of transparency, MSCI World Net Total Return Index risk management and operational control 500 through FRMs managed account solutions.
400 FUM by strategy 300 200 100 0 $12.3bn 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Source: Man database $bn FRM Diversified II: To highlight the performance and risks associated with FRM Diversified II Fund SPC - Class A USD the fund prior to Jan 2004, FRM has created the FRM Diversified II pro forma using the following methodology: i for Diversified FoHFs 5.0 the period Jan 1998 to Dec 2003, by using the returns of Absolute Alpha Fund PCC Limited Diversified Series Share Thematic FoHFs 1.5 Cell AA Diversified - USD adjusted for fees and or currency, where applicable.
For the period Jan 2004 to Feb 2004, the returns of the funds master portfolio have been used, adjusted for fees and or currency, where applicable.
Post Segregated funds 3.0 Feb 2004, the funds actual performance has been used, which may differ from the calculated performance of the Infrastructure managed accounts 2.8 track record.
There have been occasions where the 12-months performance to date of FRM Diversified II has differed materially from that of AA Diversified.
Strategy and holdings data relates to the composition of the master portfolio.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23 23978 Man AR15.
indb 23 24 02 2016 18:03 M A N N U M E R IC F U N D AM E N T AL L Y - D R IV E N Man Numerics quantitative approach to investing is disciplined and analytical, yet reflective and collegial.
Numerics goal is to maximise the total dollars of excess return in clients portfolios while taking a prudent level of risk.
With 29 investment professionals based in Boston, Numeric manages $19.0 billion across a range of long only and long short, fundamentally based strategies.
Mike Even President & Chief Executive Officer, Numeric Shanta Puchtler Chief Investment Officer Director of Research, Numeric 24 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 24 24 02 2016 18:03 STRATEGIC REPORT INITIATIVES Organisationally, the Numeric team has had STRATEGIES OVERVIEW From the point of acquisition by Man Group in a productive year focusing on research, Numerics fundamentally-driven systematic September 2014 to the end of 2015, Numerics exploring collaboration opportunities with Man investment process seeks to outperform assets grew by 25% to a total of $19 billion Group, and hiring and training new people.
the market by buying inexpensive stocks driven by strong performance and sales into Additionally, key research staff from Numeric with improving fundamentals and catalysts both long only and alternatives strategies.
have had the opportunity to spend time working for growth.
The firm generates alpha in London with their new colleagues, providing by outperforming regional and global During 2015 sales totalled $4.4 billion and since an opportunity for the sharing of ideas and benchmarks in the US, Europe, Japan and acquisition have been $6.5 billion.
Emerging Markets, and by delivering returns half of 2015, Numeric started to benefit from from its long short market neutral strategies.
working with Man Groups distribution network, LOOKING AHEAD Numeric manages assets for institutional generating approximately $2 billion of sales.
Numeric has expanded across a broad range of clients globally, including corporate Performance remains strong with over 90% geographies and hedge fund styles to meet the and public pension plans, foundations, of Numerics current quantitative strategies expectations and aspirations of our investors endowments, and sovereign funds.
outperforming their selected benchmark over and our people.
Long only: Numeric has been managing one, three and five years.
quantitative long only equity strategies Looking forward, our business plans will remain since our first US large cap strategy During 2015, Numeric launched several new key focused on building strategic relationships was launched in 1989.
The investment strategies, including UCITS funds, leveraging with key institutional clients including private philosophy and models we use are based Man Groups resources and expertise and and public pension plans, endowments and on our long-standing beliefs in valuation offering investors in the European market foundations, and funds of funds.
Our core and information flow signals.
We now access to two of the firms core strategies for principles have been in place since the firms manage strategies utilising this same the first time.
The UCITS funds include the founding in 1989 and our business plan remains investment philosophy in US, non-US, Man Numeric Emerging Markets Equity, Man the same: namely, we strive to add value regional, and global equities across Numeric Alternative Market Neutral Equity, to our clients portfolios above their stated various styles and market capitalisations.
Man Numeric US Large Cap Equity, and Man benchmarks using our proprietary quantitative Our disciplined portfolio construction Numeric Global Equity funds.
We also launched investment process and commitment to process is designed to identify alpha the Man Numeric International Small Cap research initiatives.
and control sector and stock-specific Offshore and the Man Numeric International exposure.
In addition, Numerics research efforts will focus Alternative: Numeric has managed on identifying new asset classes and regions market neutral strategies since 1990 The integration activities have allowed Numeric to exploit market inefficiencies.
It will continue with the launch of a US market neutral to benefit from Man Groups infrastructure, to innovate and grow without sacrificing either strategy.
We currently manage market technology, globalisation of compliance efforts capacity or its focus on alpha generation.
neutral strategies in US, non-US, regional, and some of its distribution capabilities to and global equities.
Our market neutral further support our strategies.
strategies are benchmarked to the US Treasury Bill Rate and are designed to benefit from both long and short positions.
The portfolios are designed to be dollar and sector neutral.
Numeric net asset weighted alpha FUM by strategy 2.8% 3.0% 2014 2015 Source: Man database.
Numerics net asset $19.0bn weighted alpha for the years to 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 is calculated using the asset weighted average of the performance relative to the $bn benchmark for all non-restricted strategy composites representing approximately two-thirds of Numerics Alternatives 1.3 FUM available net of the highest management fees and, Global long only 10.8 as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
Emerging markets long only 2.1 US large cap long only 2.9 US small cap long only 1.9 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 25 23978 Man AR15.
