B O A R D OF D IR E C T OR S Jon Aisbitt Richard Berliand Phillip Colebatch John Cryan Andrew Horton Matthew Lester Lord Livingston of Parkhead Emmanuel Roman Chairman of the Board and Chairman of Independent non-executive director Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director and Chief Executive Officer the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Chairman designate Committee Committee Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Jon was appointed to the Board as a Richard was appointed to the Board Phillip was appointed to the Board as John was appointed to the Board as a Andrew was appointed to the Board Matthew was appointed to the Board Ian was appointed to the Board as a Emmanuel Manny was appointed non-executive director in August 2003 as a non-executive director in January a non-executive director in September non-executive director in January 2015. as a non-executive director in August as a non-executive director in May 2011. non-executive director and Chairman to the Board in May 2011.
He was and was appointed non-executive 2016.
He was appointed as Chairman 2013. designate in January 2016. appointed President of Man Group Chairman in September 2007. of the Remuneration Committee in in August 2012 and Chief Executive 2008 and Senior Independent Director Officer in February 2013. in August 2013.
Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Prior to joining the Board, Jon was Richard held a number of senior roles at Before joining the Board, Phillip was John is Co-CEO of Deutsche Bank AG.
Andrew has served on the Board of Matthew is Chief Finance Officer of Ian served as Minister of State for Trade Manny joined Man as Chief Operating a Partner and Managing Director in J. P. Morgan over a 23 year career at the a member of the Executive Board of He previously held a number of senior Beazley plc since 2003, first as Group Royal Mail plc.
He was Group Finance and Investment from 2013 to 2015.
Prior Officer in October 2010 following the the Investment Banking Division of bank, including Global Head of Prime Credit Suisse Group, first as Chief roles at UBS AG over a career spanning Finance Director and since 2008, as Director of ICAP from 2006 to 2010 to this, he was Group Chief Executive acquisition of GLG.
He joined GLG in Goldman Sachs based in New York, Services, Global Head of Cash Equities Financial Officer and then as CEO of more than 25 years with the banking Chief Executive Officer.
Prior to his time and prior to that held a range of senior Officer of BT Group Plc, having 2005 as Co-Chief Executive Officer London and Sydney.
and Chairman of J. P. Morgans Market Credit Suisse Asset Management.
group, during which time he served at Beazley, Andrew held a number of finance roles at Diageo, including previously served as Chief Executive after 18 years with Goldman Sachs Structure practice.
Phillip was subsequently a member as Group Chief Financial Officer and financial positions within ING, NatWest Group Financial Controller and Group Officer of BT Retail and as Group Chief where he was Co-Head of Worldwide of the Executive Board of Swiss Chairman and CEO of UBS AG EMEA.
Before joining BT, he Global Securities and Co-Head of the Reinsurance Company.
Following his time at UBS, John was was Chief Financial Officer of Dixons European Securities Division.
president of Temasek Internationals Group plc.
Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Jon has over 20 years experience Richard has a wealth of experience Phillip has extensive strategic, financial, John has extensive knowledge of Andrew has over 25 years of broad Matthew has substantial financial With almost two decades of board Manny has a strong and varied in international corporate finance.
He in the financial services sector operational and markets experience international financial markets gained financial services experience with management and regulatory level FTSE 100 experience, Ian investment management background has significant technical knowledge gained through a number of senior gained through his various senior from experience at leading global significant exposure to operating at expertise.
He also has significant brings extensive knowledge and and extensive trading, operational and of capital markets and the complex executive roles.
He also brings positions in global financial institutions.
financial institutions and brings Board level.
Given Andrews banking, listed company experience acquired understanding of successfully growing business management experience.
regulatory backdrop in which they extensive experience from a diverse significant knowledge of the regulatory financial markets and insurance through his role at ICAP and through a complex international business and Since his appointment as CEO, operate.
Since being appointed as range of international non-executive environment in which Man Group background, he is well placed to the flotation of Royal Mail plc on the navigating regulatory environments Manny has led the Company in Chairman of Man Group, Jon has positions, providing him with a valuable operates.
contribute to Man Groups strategic London Stock Exchange.
He has a strong diversifying its product range and navigated the Company and the understanding of the current regulatory development, risk management experience, coupled with his role track record of innovative leadership increasing its international presence Board through significant change and environment.
Andrews as Chairman of Man Groups Audit that will be invaluable to the Board and through disciplined acquisitions.
He has encouraged the development international experience has also and Risk Committee, allows him to executive team.
also has overseen the restructure of of the Groups strategy through the allowed him to provide valuable input provide substantial insight into the the Companys cost base.
Details of introduction of new and diversified to Man Groups increased international Groups financial reporting and risk Mannys achievements during 2015 can investment styles.
Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Jon is Deputy Chairman of New Richard is Deputy Chairman of Andrew is Chief Executive Officer of Matthew is Chief Finance Officer of Phillip is a non-executive director of John is Co-CEO of Deutsche Bank AG.
Ian is a serving member of the House of Manny is a trustee of the Hedge Fund Forests Company Holdings Limited Beazley plc.
He is also on the main Deutsche Brse AG in Frankfurt and Lend Lease Corporation and is on Lords.
He is Deputy Chairman of Dixons Standards Board Limited and a nonAfrican sustainable forestry and Committee of the Hundred Group of a non-executive director of Rothesay the Boards of Trustees of the LGT Carphone plc and a non-executive executive director of Penguin Random timber processing and a nonFinance Directors where he chairs Life Limited.
He is also Chairman of Group Foundation and the Prince of director of Celtic plc and Belmond Ltd. House Limited.
executive director of Pro Bono Bio plc the Investor Relations and Markets ITRS Global Holdings Limited, a nonLichtenstein Foundation.
executive director of Mako Europe Ltd Committee.
and a member of the CFTC Global Markets Advisory Committee in Washington D. C. Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Jon is Chairman of the Nomination Richard is a member of the Phillip is Chairman of the Remuneration John is a member of the Nomination Andrew is a member of the Audit and Matthew is Chairman of the Audit and Ian is a member of the Audit and Risk Manny regularly attends Audit and Risk Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
Risk Committee and the Nomination Risk Committee and a member of the Committee, Remuneration Committee Committee, Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee.
Following & Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee.
and Nomination Committee meetings Audit and Risk Committee meetings by the Board search for an appropriate Committee.
Following the Board search by invitation.
He is Chairman of the invitation.
director to succeed Phillip Colebatch for an appropriate director to succeed Executive Committee.
as Chairman of the Remuneration Phillip as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, it is intended that Richard Committee, it is intended that Richard will assume this role following the Berliand will assume this role following Companys 2016 AGM.
46 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 46 24 02 2016 18:03 G O V E RN A NC E Jon Aisbitt Richard Berliand Phillip Colebatch John Cryan Andrew Horton Matthew Lester Lord Livingston of Parkhead Emmanuel Roman Chairman of the Board and Chairman of Independent non-executive director Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director and Chief Executive Officer the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Chairman designate Committee Committee Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Jon was appointed to the Board as a Richard was appointed to the Board Phillip was appointed to the Board as John was appointed to the Board as a Andrew was appointed to the Board Matthew was appointed to the Board Ian was appointed to the Board as a Emmanuel Manny was appointed non-executive director in August 2003 as a non-executive director in January a non-executive director in September non-executive director in January 2015. as a non-executive director in August as a non-executive director in May 2011. non-executive director and Chairman to the Board in May 2011.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 47 23978 Man AR15.
indb 47 24 02 2016 18:03 B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S C O NTI N U E D Dev Sanyal Nina Shapiro Jonathan Sorrell Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Chief Financial Officer Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Dev was appointed to the Board as a Nina was appointed to the Board as a Jonathan was appointed to the Board non-executive director in December non-executive director in October 2011. as Chief Financial Officer in June 2012.
Background and career Background and career Background and career Dev has held a number of senior Nina held several senior management Jonathan joined Man in August 2011 financial and line management positions and operating roles at the World Bank as Head of Strategy and Corporate with BP in a global career spanning and has led numerous investments Finance.
Prior to this, he spent 13 years 25 years.
Positions include Group in emerging markets.
From 2000 at Goldman Sachs, where he worked in Treasurer, Chairman of BP Investment to 2011, Nina was a member of the the Investment Management, Securities Management, Business Chief Management Group and was Vice and Investment Banking Divisions, Executive, Executive Vice President, President, Finance, and Treasurer of latterly leading investments in a broad Strategy and Integration and member of the International Finance Corporation range of hedge fund firms.
the World Banks private sector arm.
In that role she managed liquid asset investment and capital market fundraising.
Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Areas of expertise Dev has extensive knowledge of capital With extensive experience in Jonathans experience of financial markets, asset and risk management, international financial markets and markets, particularly his extensive trading and foreign exchange gained in-depth knowledge of investment in knowledge of the hedge fund industry from his role as BP Group Treasurer emerging markets, Nina has particular and strong background in strategy and Chairman of BP Investment insight into financial policy and market and execution, has supported the Management Ltd.
He also has broad development.
This perspective helps to development of Mans strategy, international experience and wide support Man Group in its international including M&A activity that has ranging operational expertise in senior expansion.
strengthened Mans footprint in the executive roles and is, therefore, able US.
He has also brought clear focus on to contribute to the development and financial efficiency through the delivery execution of Man Groups business of challenging cost saving initiatives strategy and global relationships.
and the restructuring of Man Groups balance sheet.
Details of Jonathans achievements during 2015 can be found on page 72.
Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles Dev currently serves at BP as Chief Nina is a director of Zyfin an originator Jonathan is a director of Nephila Executive, Alternative Energy, of ETFs for emerging markets and Holdings Limited.
Executive Vice President, Regions Mountain Partners an accelerator with responsibility for Europe and Asia for early technology ventures.
She regions and a member of the Group also is on the Advisory Boards of Executive Committee.
He is also a Zurich Insurance Groups Investment member of the Accenture Global Management Advisory Council, the Energy Board, a member of the Board New Silk Route PE Fund and the of Advisors of The Fletcher School of Carbon Trust.
Law and Diplomacy and Vice Chairman of the Centre for China in the World Economy at Tsinghua University.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Dev is a member of the Audit and Nina is a member of the Remuneration Jonathan regularly attends Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee and the Nomination Risk Committee meetings by invitation Committee.
and attends Remuneration Committee meetings for certain items of business.
He is also a member of the Executive Committee.
48 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
