STRATEGIC REPORT M A N G R OU P S L I T E R A R Y S P O N S O R S H IP S A Brief History of Seven Killings, by Marlon James, Man Booker Prize winner 2015.
Man Group has sponsored the Man Booker The 2015 Man Booker International Prize Man Group sponsors two Prize for Fiction since 2002.
Launched in was awarded to Hungarian author Lszl major literary prizes the 1969, the prize receives worldwide recognition Krasznahorkai.
On announcing the winner, and aims to promote excellence in fiction by Chair of judges Marina Warner commented: annual Man Booker Prize awarding the best full-length novel published in the English language that year.
2014 saw the Lszl Krasznahorkai is a visionary writer for Fiction and the recently expansion of the prize to include entries from of extraordinary intensity and vocal range evolved Man Booker writers of all nationalities, writing originally in who captures the texture of present day English and published in the UK.
existence in scenes that are terrifying, International Prize.
strange, appallingly comic, and often Winning the Man Booker Prize is considered the shatteringly beautiful.
ultimate accolade by many writers.
As former prize-winner Graham Swift commented: The 2015 prize highlighted the growing importance of quality fiction in translation, Prizes dont make writers and writers with eight out of ten of the finalists having dont write to win prizes, but in the nearbeen originally published in a language other glut of literary awards now on offer its than English.
the one which, if were completely honest, we most covet.
Sponsorship of the prizes underscores Man Groups charitable focus on literacy and Jamaican-born writer Marlon James won education as well as the firms commitment the 2015 Man Booker Prize for Fiction with to excellence and entrepreneurship.
Together his novel A Brief History of Seven Killings, a with the wider charitable activities of the 686-page epic with over 75 characters and Booker Prize Foundation, the prizes play a very voices.
Through a myriad of voices, the book important role in promoting literary excellence retells the near mythic assassination attempt of on a global scale that the firm is honoured Bob Marley, to create a rich, polyphonic study to support.
of violence, politics and the musical legacy of Kingston of the 1970s.
It moves at a terrific pace and will come to be seen as a classic of our times, said Michael Wood, Chair of judges.
James was presented with the Prize by HRH The Duchess of Cornwall and Man Groups Chief Executive Officer, Emmanuel Roman, on 13 October 2015, at Londons Guildhall.
Man Group is also the sponsor of the Man Booker International Prize, which, from 2016, will be awarded annually on the basis of a single book, translated into English and published in the UK, rather than as previously every two years for a body of work.
Both novels and collections of short stories will now be eligible 2015 shortlist.
Jamie Airey for the prize.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 43 23978 Man AR15.
