S TR ATE G I C F R A M E W O R K Markets remain volatile, creating a challenging and uncertain environment in which to operate.
Against this backdrop, we continue to focus on the areas we can control and on creating a diversified business with multiple options for growth, leaving us better positioned to deal with different market conditions.
Strategic priorities Risks Man Group identifies its principal risks across the firm and 1 Performance assesses their likely impact.
We measure and monitor the Generating superior risk adjusted returns size of our risks, and implement controls and transactions for our clients to reduce and hedge exposures in order to ensure that they stay within our risk appetite framework.
Related strategic priority Investment underperformance risk 2 1 Distribution This is the key risk Man Group has to accept if it is to undertake its business.
Ensuring distribution effectiveness Regulatory risk 1 2 3 4 Man Group is licensed in 13 jurisdictions, which results in it being subject to a matrix of regulations.
3 Growth Balance sheet market risk 1 3 4 The risk of Man Group losing capital due to a Developing options for growth across decline in the value of the seeding book and or the our investment businesses Group having insufficient liquidity resources to meet its obligations in volatile market conditions.
Operational risk 1 2 3 4 Resulting from human error, inadequate or failed 4 Operating efficiency and internal processes and systems or from external events.
capital discipline Information security risk 1 2 3 4 Operating as efficiently as possible, The risk of loss resulting from cyber-crime, malicious disruption to our networks or from both from a cost and a balance sheet the theft, misplacing, interception, corruption or perspective deletion of information.
Discretionary trading risk 1 See pages 15 to 16 for how we performed against our strategic The risk that investment managers either p riorities intentionally or unintentionally fail to execute and or book trades correctly, or fail to adhere to investment mandates or regulatory rules.
Credit counterparty risk 1 2 3 4 A counterparty with which the funds or Man Group have financial transactions fails to deliver back investor or shareholder assets.
Legal risk 1 2 3 4 The global nature of Man Groups business, with corporate and fund entities located in multiple jurisdictions and a diverse investor base make it subject to a wide range of laws and regulations.
Reputational risk 1 2 3 4 The risk that an incident or negative publicity undermines our reputation as a leading alternative investment manager.
Key staff retention risk 1 2 3 4 The risk that a key person to the business leaves or is unable to perform their role.
See pages 34 to 37 for our full risk profile 14 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 14 24 02 2016 18:02 STRATEGIC REPORT Key performance indicators KPIs Remuneration Our four financial KPIs as listed below illustrate and Executive director remuneration is directly linked to strategy measure the relationship between the investment and performance, with particular emphasis on matching experience of our fund investors, our financial performance rewards to results over the long term.
and the creation of shareholder value over time.
Linked to strategy See pages 71 Investment performance of Net FUM flows for the period to 74 of the A substantial portion of executive director key funds against relevant as a percentage of opening Directors remuneration is linked to success in implementing benchmarks FUM Target 0%10% remuneration the Companys strategy.
report for more information AHL not met Progress against the Groups strategic priorities FRM met and Group key performance indicators KPIs GLG met provide key metrics for determining the short-term 0.4% annual cash bonus and the long-term deferred Numeric met bonus.
Related strategic priority Related strategic priority Performance related See pages 71 1 1 2 3 to 74 of the The variable components of total remuneration are Directors linked to performance, and the long-term deferred remuneration bonus is awarded in shares further aligning report for more interests with shareholders.
information Adjusted management fee Adjusted management fee High pay requires high performance.
Achieving the EBITDA margin Target EPS growth Target 0%20% 25%40% plus RPI maximum pay requires sustained high performance over several years.
Long-term shareholder alignment See pages 64 to 66 and pages The structure of pay is designed to reflect the 73 to 74 of long-term nature of the Groups business.
The 27.2% 1.0% the Directors long-term deferred bonus is awarded in shares with remuneration the vesting period set at three to five years after report for more Related strategic priority Related strategic priority information each three-year performance period, creating a six to eight-year period in total during which executive 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 reward is fully aligned with shareholder interests.
Shareholder engagement See pages 65 and 70 of The Remuneration Committee actively seeks the Directors to understand shareholder preferences and be remuneration transparent in explaining its policy and practice.
report for more During 2015 the Remuneration Committee information Chairman met personally with a number of major shareholders and certain shareholder voting bodies to obtain feedback on the Remuneration policy and See pages 26 and 27 for full key performance indicators to respond to any areas of interest or concern.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 15 23978 Man AR15.
