24 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance continued Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited management of the Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
financial statements for the year ended 31st January JPMF is required to ensure that a depositary is 2015. appointed to the Company.
The Company therefore has appointed BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK A number of disclosures previously incorporated in Limited BNY as its depositary.
BNY has delegated the Directors Report are now included in the its safekeeping function to the custodian, JPMorgan Strategic Report.
These include: Structure of the Chase Bank, N. A. however, BNY remains responsible Company: Investment Objective: Investment Policies for the oversight of the custody of the Companys and Risk Management: Investment Restrictions and assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
Guidelines: Performance: Total Return, Revenue and Dividends: KPIs: Share Capital: Principal Risks: Gender The AIFMD requires certain information to be made Representation: Employee, Social, Community and available to investors in AIFs before they invest and Human Rights Issues and Future Developments.
requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of each AIF.
Investor Management of the Company Disclosure Documents, which set out information on JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF is employed as the Companys investment strategy and policies, Manager and Company Secretary to the Company leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, under a contract terminable on six months notice, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder without penalty.
If the Company wishes to terminate information are available on the Companys website the contract on shorter notice, the balance of at www.
There have been no remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
material changes other than those reflected in these financial statements to this information requiring JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also provides disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to banking, dealing and custodian services to the the London Stock Exchange through a primary Company.
As an authorised AIFM, JPMF The Board has thoroughly reviewed the performance will make the requisite disclosures on remuneration of JPMF in the course of the year.
The review covered levels and polices to the FCA at the appropriate time.
the performance of the Manager, its management processes, investment style, resources and risk Management Fee controls and the quality of support that the Company The management fee is charged at the rate of 0.5% of receives from JPMF including the marketing support the value of the Companys market capitalisation and provided.
The Board is of the opinion that the is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
If the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the best Company invests in funds managed or advised by interests of shareholders as a whole.
Such a review is JPMF, or any of its associated companies that charge carried out on an annual basis.
an underlying fee, they are excluded from the calculation and therefore attract no fee.
The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the performance of, and contractual relationship with, Going Concern the Manager on an annual basis.
No separate The Directors believe that having considered the Management Engagement Committee has been Companys investment objective see page 18, risk established because all Directors are considered to be management policies see page 20, capital independent of the Manager and, given the nature of management policies and procedures see page 62, the Companys business, it is felt that all Directors the nature of the portfolio and expenditure should take part in the review process.
projections, that the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive suitable management arrangements in place to AIFMD continue in operational existence for the foreseeable JPMF, an affiliate of JPMAM, has been appointed as future.
For these reasons, they consider that there is the Companys alternative investment fund manager reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going AIFM.
JPMF has been approved as an AIFM by the concern basis in preparing the accounts.
For the purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative Directors investment fund AIF.
The Directors of the Company during the year and The Company entered into a new investment subsequent to the year end, are detailed on pages 22 management agreement with JPMF on 1st July 2014. and 23.
JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25 Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings may be  LLP have expressed their found in the Directors Remuneration Report on willingness to continue in office as Auditors to the pages 32 and 33.
Company and resolutions proposing their re-appointment and authorising the Directors to No Director reported an interest in the Companys determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will debentures during the year.
be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all Directors will retire at the Companys Section 992 Companies Act 2006 forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being The following disclosures are made in accordance eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment by with Section 992 Companies Act 2006. shareholders.
Capital Structure The Nomination Committee and the Chairman, The Companys capital structure is summarised on having considered their qualifications, performance the inside front cover of this report.
and contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that each Director proposed for re-election Voting Rights in the Companys shares continues to be effective and demonstrates As at 25th March 2015 being the latest business day commitment to the role and the Board recommends prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys to shareholders that they be re-elected.
issued share capital consists of 96,839,260 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total Director Indemnification and Insurance voting rights of the Company are 96,839,260.
The As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, debenture stock does not carry any voting rights.
the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
This was in Information about environmental matters, and social place throughout the financial year and also as at the and community issues is set out on pages 30 and 31. date of approval of these financial statements.
The Company has no employees.
An insurance policy is maintained by the Company Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights which indemnifies the Directors of the Company At the year end and the date of this report, the against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of following had declared a notifiable interest in the their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or Companys voting rights: dishonest actions.
Number of Disclosure of Information to Auditors Shareholders voting rights % In the case of each of the persons who are Directors AXA Investment of the Company at the time when this report was Managers UK Ltd 11,687,779 11.92 approved: Brewin Dolphin Ltd 10,004,284 10.18 a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is Rathbone Investment no relevant audit information as defined in the Management Ltd 8,806,840 8.98 Companies Act of which the Companys Auditors 1 Chase Nominees Ltd 6,539,944 6.67 are unaware: and Quilter & Co Ltd 5,105,223 5.21 b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that Investec Wealth & he she ought to have taken as a Director in order Investment Ltd 5,104,175 5.20 to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit 1 information as defined and to establish that the Held on behalf of J. P. Morgan Investment Account, ISA and SIPP participants.
Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The above confirmation is given and should be Miscellaneous Information interpreted in accordance with the provisions of The rules concerning the appointment and Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006. replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Independent Auditors Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Further to a review of audit services conducted during Association of the Company and the Companies Act.
the year, details of which are set out on page 29,
