Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the audited Depositary financial statements of the Company for the year to 30 April 2015.
In accordance with the AIFMD, the Company appointed BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited as its Depositary with Corporate Governance effect from 1 July 2014.
The Depositary Agreement replaced the The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 20 to 22 custody agreement with the Bank of New York Mellon SA NV.
The and forms part of this Report.
Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership and Manager and Company Secretaries maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring the In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage Directive AIFMD, the Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & requirements.
The Depositary has delegated the custody function Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV the Custodian.
its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM with effect from 1 July 2014.
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited was also appointed Directors Company Secretaries with effect from the same date.
The Information about the Directors who were in office during the year investment management agreement with Baillie Gifford & Co has and up to the date the financial statements were signed, including been terminated and the Company has entered into a new their relevant experience, can be found on page 17. agreement with Baillie Gifford & Co Limited.
The management fee Mr Jeremy Tigue, having been appointed to the Board with effect and notice period are unchanged under these new arrangements.
from 30 September 2014, is required to seek election by Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors believe services to Baillie Gifford & Co: therefore the Companys portfolio that the Board will benefit from his extensive experience of the continues to be managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. management of investment trusts and recommend his election to The Investment Management Agreement sets out the matters shareholders.
Further information on Jeremy Tigue is provided on over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the page 17. policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance the Board.
The Investment Management Agreement is terminable Code, all other Directors are retiring at the Annual General Meeting on not less than six months notice.
Compensation fees would and are offering themselves for re-election.
Following formal only be payable in respect of the notice period if termination were performance evaluation, the Chairman confirms that the Board to occur sooner.
The annual management fee payable is 0.45% of considers that their performance continues to be effective and total assets less current liabilities, calculated and payable that they remain committed to the Company.
recommends their re-election to shareholders.
The function of the Management Engagement Committee is fulfilled by those members of the Board who are also members of Directors Indemnity and Insurance the Audit Committee Qualifying Directors.
The Board reviews The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of investment performance and monitors the arrangements for the each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise provision of investment management and secretarial services to to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or the Company on a continuous basis.
As explained in the breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in Chairmans Statement, in order to address the Companys respect of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal underperformance in recent years, the Board agreed to move the fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings management of the portfolio to Baillie Giffords Global Alpha in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by strategy which has a well established process and strong the Company in which judgement is given against him her.
A formal evaluation of the Managers by the addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent Qualifying Directors is conducted annually.
The Qualifying that it is recovered from another person.
The Company also Directors annual evaluation considered, amongst others, the maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
following topics: the recent change in portfolio management Conflicts of Interest arrangements outlined in the Chairmans Statement, the quality of Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the policy guidance and explanations: the investment strategy and Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, performance: administrative competence: the quality and taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if coverage of papers: the marketing efforts undertaken by the considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one Managers: communication with shareholders: and the service year.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were level provided by, and relationship with, the Managers generally.
no actual direct or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted Following the most recent evaluation in April 2015, the Qualifying with the interests of the Company.
Directors are in agreement that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as AIFM and the delegation of Dividends investment management services to Baillie Gifford & Co on the The Board recommends a final dividend of 3.45p per ordinary terms agreed, is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
share which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total of 3.95p for the year.
If approved, the recommended final dividend The Qualifying Directors consider that maintaining a low ongoing on the ordinary shares will be paid on 7 August 2015 to charge ratio is in the best interest of shareholders.
The Qualifying shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 July Directors continue to give careful consideration to the basis of the 2015.
The ex-dividend date is 9 July 2015.
Registrar offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan see page 52 and the final date for elections for this dividend is 17 July 2015.
18 Annual Report 2015 Governance Report i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London Share Capital Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business Capital Structure days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and The Companys capital structure consists of 213,963,859 ordinary ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the shares of 5p each at 30 April 2015.
There are no restrictions highest current independent bid on the London Stock concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares Exchange.
and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 5p Dividends per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed not have any warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is drawn final dividend requires shareholder approval.
to Resolution 12 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 49.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so Capital entitlement would result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion shareholders generally.
Articles of Association Voting The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote for every share held.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware found on page 50. there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps Major Interests in the Companys Shares that they might reasonably be expected to have taken as The Company has received notifications of the following interests in Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at 30 April 2015. information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are Since the year end, Investec Wealth & Investment Limiteds aware of that information.
interest in the voting rights of the Company fell below 3%.
There have been no other changes to the major interests in the Post Balance Sheet Events Companys shares intimated up to 12 June 2015.
The Directors confirm that there have been no post-Balance Sheet events up to 16 June 2015.
Ordinary 5p shares held at Independent Auditors Name 30 April 2015 % of issue Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 7,801,765 3.6 independent Auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Purchase of Own Shares Annual General Meeting.
During the year to 30 April 2015 the Company bought back Greenhouse Gas Emissions 13,924,000 ordinary shares nominal value 696,000, representing All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The 6.1% of the called up share capital at 30 April 2014 on the London Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total consideration for these from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other shares was 55,091,000.
As at 12 June 2015, the Company had emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 not bought back any shares since the year end.
The principal Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. reason for share buy-backs is to enhance net asset value per share for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount to Bribery Act the prevailing net asset value.
The shares were purchased at a price The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is after allowing for costs below the net asset value per share and committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
subsequently cancelled, thereby reducing the issued share capital The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have see note 13 on page 42. policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual Recommendation General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% The Directors unanimously recommend you vote in favour of the of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as it is of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General their view that the resolutions are in the best interests of Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending shareholders as a whole.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the By order of the Board exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: JGD Ferguson Chairman 16 June 2015 The Monks Investment Trust PLC 19
