Governance Report Directors and Management JJ Tigue Directors Jeremy Tigue was appointed a Director on 30 September 2014 JGD Ferguson and became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 May 2015.
James Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2002 and became Mr Tigue was fund manager of Foreign & Colonial Investment Chairman in 2005.
He is chairman of Value & Income Trust plc, Trust PLC from 1997 to June 2014.
He is currently chairman of The Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Trust Plc, The North BACIT Limited Battle Against Cancer Investment Trust and is a American Income Trust PLC, Amati Global Investors Limited and director of Graphite Enterprise Trust PLC, The Mercantile Northern 3 VCT Plc.
He is a director of The Independent Investment Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust PLC.
Investment Trust PLC and Audax Properties PLC.
He joined He was a director of the Association of Investment Companies Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming chairman and chief executive in from 2003 to 2013.
He is a former deputy chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
All the Directors, with the exception of Mr DCP McDougall, are members of the Audit Committee.
Mr JJ Tigue succeeded CC Ferguson Mr JGD Ferguson as Chairman of the Audit Committee on Carol Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2003.
Chartered Accountant, she began her investment career with Ivory Managers and Secretaries & Sime, an Edinburgh fund management group.
Thereafter, she moved to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, becoming a partner in The Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly 1984.
Her most recent position was as Finance Director for owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as its Alternative Timney Fowler, a textiles company.
She is chairman of BlackRock Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretary.
Greater Europe Investment Trust plc and Invesco Asia Trust plc and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management senior independent director and chairman of the audit committee services to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co is an of Vernalis plc.
She is a director of Standard Life UK Smaller investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Companies Trust PLC, the Chartered Accountants Compensation Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment Scheme and is a former chairman of the Association of management since 1908.
Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust managers in the UK and currently manage seven investment trusts.
Baillie EM Harley Gifford also manages unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Edward Harley was appointed a Director in 2003.
He joined Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of Cazenove & Co in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He has pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the considerable experience of overseas markets, having worked in UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of New York and latterly with responsibility for the firms business in Baillie Gifford total around 125 billion as at 12 June 2015.
Based Latin America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is currently a director at in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned investment Cazenove Capital Management.
He is involved with the charitable management firms in the UK, with 40 partners and a staff of sector both as a trustee and as a member of investment around 820. committees and is chairman of the Acceptance in Lieu Panel.
With effect from 27 March 2015 the manager of Monks portfolio DCP McDougall is Charles Plowden and the deputy managers are Spencer Adair Douglas McDougall was appointed a Director in 1999 and is the and Malcolm MacColl.
Charles, Spencer and Malcolm are all Senior Independent Director.
He is chairman of The Scottish Partners at Baillie Gifford and have been working together since Investment Trust plc, The Independent Investment Trust PLC and 2005.
Charles is one of Baillie Giffords two joint senior partners.
The European Investment Trust plc.
He is a director of Herald Baillie Gifford & Co and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited are both Investment Trust plc and Pacific Horizon Investment Trust PLC.
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
From 1969 to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior partner and chief investment officer.
He is a former chairman of the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Fund Managers Association and the Association of Investment Companies.
KS Sternberg Karl Sternberg was appointed a Director in 2013.
He worked for Morgan Grenfell Asset Management owned by Deutsche Bank from 1992 to 2005 in a variety of roles, ultimately as the chief investment officer of Deutsche Asset Management Limited.
He left that role to establish Oxford Investment Partners, an investment management company for a group of Oxford colleges, where he was chief executive officer until 2013.
He is chairman of JPMorgan Income & Growth Investment Trust PLC and is a director of Island House Investments LLP, Herald Investment Trust plc, Lowland Investment Company PLC and Clipstone Logistics REIT plc.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 17
