Strategic Report The Managers Core Investment Beliefs We believe the following features of Monks provide a sustainable Long Term Perspective basis for adding value for shareholders.
Long term holdings mean that company fundamentals are given time to drive returns.
Active Management We prefer companies that are managed with a long term We invest in attractive companies using a bottom-up mindset, rather than those that prioritise the management of investment process.
Macroeconomic forecasts are of little market expectations.
interest to us and do not influence the selection of stocks.
We believe our approach helps us focus on what is important High active share provides the potential for adding value.
during the inevitable periods of underperformance.
We ignore the structure of the index for example the location Short term portfolio results are random.
of a companys HQ and therefore its domicile are less relevant to us than where it generates sales and profits.
As longer term shareholders we are able to have greater influence on environmental, social and governance matters.
Large swathes of the market are unattractive and of no interest to us.
Dedicated Team with Clear Decision-making Process As index agnostic global investors we can go anywhere and Senior and experienced team drawing on the full resources of only invest in the best ideas.
As the portfolio is very different from the index, we expect Alignment of interests the investment team responsible for portfolio returns to vary sometimes substantially and often Monks all own shares in the Company.
Portfolio Construction Committed Growth Investors Stocks are held in three broad holding sizes as set out on In the long run, share prices follow fundamentals: growth pages 6 and 7. drives returns.
This allows us to back our judgement in those stocks for which We aim to produce a portfolio of stocks with above average we have greater conviction, and to embrace the asymmetry of growth this in turn underpins the ability of Monks to add returns through incubator positions in higher risk return stocks.
Asymmetry of returns: some of our smaller positions will We have a differentiated approach to growth, focusing on the struggle and their share prices will fall: those that are successful type of growth that we expect a company to deliver.
The latter should outweigh the former.
holdings fall into one of four growth categories as set out on Low Cost pages 6 and 7.
Savers should not be penalised by high management fees.
The use of these four growth categories ensures a diversity of Low turnover and trading costs benefit shareholders.
growth drivers within a disciplined framework.
Global growth from different perspectives.
Active share, a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, is the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its comparative index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the percentage of the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative index.
An active share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index and an active share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the index.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 03
