Strategic Report Managers Report As detailed in the Chairmans Statement on page 2, responsibility for managing the portfolio was moved to Charles Plowden, supported by Spencer Adair and Malcolm MacColl, at the end of March 2015.
The portfolio was subsequently realigned to reflect their favoured stocks.
The report that now follows, written by the new portfolio managers, introduces their investment process and portfolio.
How We Invest Our investment approach has three features which together underpin our ability to outperform: a differentiated, active portfolio: a diversified range of growth stocks: and a patient approach.
The discipline of applying these features consistently is the key.
Taking each in turn: Active: To deliver superior returns, a portfolio must be distinctive.
We select stocks purely on their fundamental attractions, unconstrained by the shackles of the index.
The result is a unique, truly differentiated portfolio.
At the year end some 93% of Monks equity portfolio differed from its comparative index as measured AIA Capitalising on the Asia savings opportunity.
by Active Share, which is defined in the Glossary on page 55.
Growth: We choose to harness the powers of growth and long-term compounding.
We believe that stock prices are ultimately driven by company fundamentals and that higher than the consumer goods business, Colgate-Palmolive, the payment average growth will ultimately be reflected in price processor, MasterCard, and the global lift and escalator outperformance.
We target businesses with the ability to manufacturer, Schindler.
We expect our Stalwarts to produce compound their earnings and cash flows by at least 10% per earnings and cash flow growth of around 10% per annum over annum over a five year period more than twice the markets the long term.
These are the types of long-duration businesses long-term average.
We buy these stocks when this growth is not where the market fails to appreciate the benefit of compounding, fully reflected in their prices.
as they may appear unexciting relative to more rapid or cyclical growth stocks.
Patience: We allow compounding to do its work and accept that, in the real world, progress is rarely smooth.
We hold stocks for as Rapid growth: Stocks in this category are typically earlier stage long as our investment cases stand and ignore short-term noise.
businesses growing quickly by developing new markets, often This is reflected in low portfolio turnover: in the ten years that we applying innovative technologies and taking market share from have together managed global equities our average holding incumbents.
An example is Schibsted, a Norwegian media stock period has been more than five years.
This has enabled long-term which is quickly diversifying away from traditional print media fundamentals to drive portfolio returns, whilst also minimising towards the fast growing on-line classified sector.
examples include the financial groups AIA Asian life insurance and savings and HDFC Indian mortgage lending that operate in Diversified Sources of Growth emerging economies and which should capitalise on rising levels We classify our stocks into four growth categories: Stalwarts, of disposable consumer incomes.
We set the bar high for these Rapid, Cyclical and Latent, as detailed on pages 6 and 7.
This businesses, expecting long-term earnings growth of 1525% per structure is how we think about the portfolio on a day-to-day annum.
Our rapid growth stocks are often examples of where our basis and is therefore how we will frame our reporting.
We have a long-term perspective allows us to look beyond optically high near clear view of the inefficiencies we are exploiting within each term valuations and to focus on the scale of the ultimate growth category and the reasons we expect these to outperform.
These provide us with a valuable means of monitoring the Cyclical growth: Stocks in this category have strong secular operating performance of our investments.
Importantly, the growth prospects, but are also subject to the influence of framework also encourages diversity: you are not dependent on macroeconomic or capital cycles, and sometimes both.
Here we one flavour of growth.
look for businesses which are adaptable and management teams We have included a short description of each growth category at that we trust to allocate capital skilfully.
Examples of holdings the top of the columns on pages 6 and 7.
Looking at each in a which have displayed these attributes over recent years include little more detail: the cruise line operator, Royal Caribbean, the Taiwanese semiconductor manufacturer, TSMC, and the Swedish based Growth stalwarts: These stocks have durable franchises and we bank, Svenska Handelsbanken.
We expect stocks in this segment expect them to deliver robust profits largely independent of the to increase their earnings by 1015% per annum over a full economic backdrop.
Within this area we are often drawn to business cycle.
These businesses most commonly become businesses where the competitive advantages include dominant mispriced due to the markets lack of patience and tendency to local scale, customer loyalty and strong brands.
Examples include extrapolate near term trading conditions.
We take advantage of this short-termism and capitalise on the myopic view of others.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
04 Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Latent growth: These are stocks with often unspectacular recent Thematic Exposures operating records.
The market expects them to shrink or produce very little growth, but our analysis has identified a company-specific catalyst which can allow above average growth to re-emerge.
An example is CRH, a building materials supplier, which has struggled Other for some years against a tough economic backdrop and over 2.4% Bonds and supply.
There appears to be little growth factored in to current Net Liquid market expectations.
However, we are excited about structural Assets US improvements within its underlying operations driven by 10.9% Re-emergence consolidation, most notably CRHs purchase of assets from 22.5% Lafarge Holcim.
These Latent stocks reflect our time horizon and willingness to embrace change in order to exploit inefficiencies.
Portfolio Construction and Position Sizing European and Economically Careful consideration is given to the holding size of individual Japanese Agnostic stocks.
We utilise three broad groups of stock weightings: high Healing 35.3% 14.2% conviction c. 2%, average sized c. 1%, and incubator c. 0.5%.
Current examples of high conviction holdings include the Asian Developing and developed market life insurer, Prudential, and the North Market Growth American online broker, TD Ameritrade.
Incubators are exciting 14.7% stocks, with a broad range of potential outcomes, where we see the risk reward skewed towards the upside.
These include the Japanese online advertising and media business, CyberAgent, and the biotechnology business, Seattle Genetics.
The equity portfolio segmented by these holding sizes can be seen on pages 6 and 7.
Idea Generation and Decision Making Diversification and Current Positioning We harness the full strength of Baillie Giffords c. 90 analysts to We strongly believe in the merits of managing a portfolio which is generate ideas.
They collectively cover all of the worlds major both distinct in nature and well diversified.
Whilst our growth equity markets searching for businesses with the potential to categories ensure a good degree of balance, we also consider the deliver superior long-term growth.
Recommendations flow to us forward-looking risks within the portfolio through regular analysis of via a proven process involving a monthly meeting of the Portfolio underlying thematic drivers.
This analysis allows us to look beyond Review Group, which comprises the three of us and a range of traditional parameters and to consider the real long-term risk other analysts from across Baillie Gifford.
All ideas are tested concentrations within the portfolio.
At present roughly 35% of the against three questions: how does the business compare Companys portfolio can be classified as economically agnostic, globally?
: where do we have insight on the stock?
: and will the where the primary driver of operating performance is not related to business bring diversity to the portfolio?.
Full responsibility for GDP growth.
Many of the stocks in this area are innovative decision-making rests with the three of us.
businesses creating new markets and attacking incumbent profit pools.
Approximately 23% of the portfolio is likely to be a beneficiary of the continued recovery of the United States, and 14% is exposed to potential healing within the European and Japanese economies.
A further 15% is thematically exposed to the long-term secular growth trends within developing markets, and Asia in particular.
The remaining 13% is predominantly comprised of bonds and net liquid assets.
Further detail and explanation of the thematic exposures is detailed at the top of page 8.
What Does the Future Hold?
We are excited about the stocks we have selected.
We believe they offer the prospect of above average growth which should translate over time into attractive returns.
This confidence comes from our understanding of their fundamentals and our patient investment approach.
There will be periods when fundamentals are not reflected in shareholder returns, such as when our growth style is out of favour.
However, we are confident that our process will create significant value for investors over the long term.
Charles Plowden Svenska Handelsbanken Trusted long term capital allocators.
Spencer Adair Image courtesy of Svenska Handelsbanken.
Malcolm MacColl The Monks Investment Trust PLC 05
