Corporate information Information about the Investment Manager Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited The Manager has its headquarters in Aberdeen and invests The Companys Manager is Aberdeen Asset Managers globally, operating from over 37 offices in 25 different Limited, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, countries.
Its investment teams are generally based in the whose group companies as at 31 December 2015 had markets or regions in which they invest: in the UK its main approximately 290.6bn of assets under management.
It investment centres are in London and Edinburgh.
manages assets on behalf of a wide range of clients including 93 investment companies and other closed-ended funds, which had combined total assets of over 15.7bn.
The Senior Investment Manager Bruce Stout and the Global Equity Team Bruce Stout and Aberdeens Global Equity team are responsible for managing Murray International Trust PLC.
The investment management team is responsible for the construction of global equity portfolios.
Bruce Stout is a senior investment manager on the Global equities team.
Bruce joined Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or acquired companies in 1987 and has held a number of roles including investment manager on the emerging markets team.
The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style which are then used as the investment universe.
If a stock no longer meets the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a sold within 30 days.
This process enables the investment sound structure.
The Manager has as its primary objective in manager to better reflect top down themes that emerge managing Murray International Trust PLC the delivery of from the global equity strategy and investment themes consistent outperformance against the benchmark based on meetings that take place monthly.
the concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been Risk Controls developed as detailed on page 7.
However, to meet the Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a different performance objectives mandated for specific funds, specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to there is built-in flexibility.
Key decisions are implemented ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their consistently across all funds and portfolio risk limits are set mandate.
As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio and closely monitored.
A continuous watch is kept over investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk critical factors that influence investment decisions, so that from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in when views change, action is taken swiftly and decisively to interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by strict reposition portfolios.
adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of Stock Selection forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the The investment management team, led by Bruce Stout, has portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call responsibility for portfolio construction across all regional deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Company is given in segments.
Working closely with the relevant underlying desks note 17 to the financial statements in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, Murray International Trust PLC 77
