Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Business Model The business of the Company is that of an investment trust The Companys investment objective and financial highlights and the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity are shown on pages 8 and 12.
A review of the Companys in the foreseeable future.
The aim of the Company is to activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to achieve a total return greater than its benchmark by 6 and the Investment Management Review on pages 15 to investing predominantly in equities worldwide.
The Chairmans Statement includes an analysis of the objective, the Manager will seek to increase the Companys business of the Company and its principal activities, likely revenues in order to maintain an above average dividend future developments of the business, the recommended yield.
dividend and details of any acquisition of its own shares by the Company.
Investment Process The Manager has its own investment process, which, in the case of the Company, is overseen by the Board.
The process is summarised below.
Murray International Trust PLC 7 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy continued announcement to inform the shareholders and the public of Investment Objective any change of its investment policy.
The aim of the Company is to achieve a total return greater than its benchmark by investing predominantly in equities Delivering the Investment Policy worldwide.
Within this objective the Manager seeks to increase the Companys revenues in order to maintain an Day-to-day management of the Companys assets has been above average dividend yield.
delegated to the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager invests in a diversified range of international Investment Policy companies in accordance with the investment objective.
Asset Allocation The portfolio manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio portfolio construction across all regional segments.
As can be of international equities and fixed income securities spread seen from the diagram on page 7, the Aberdeen across a range of industries and economies.
The Company's management team utilises a Global Equity Buy List which investment policy is flexible and it may, from time to time, is constructed by each of the specialist country management hold other securities including but not limited to indexteams.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations linked securities, convertible securities, preference shares, for each management team, which are then used by the unlisted securities, depositary receipts and other equityportfolio manager as the Companys investment universe.
The Company may invest in derivatives for Stock selection is the major source of added value.
the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The Companys investment policy does not impose any Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers geographical, sectoral or industrial constraints upon the portfolio construction, with stock diversification rather than Manager.
The Board has agreed guidelines which the formal controls guiding stock and sector weights.
Market Manager is required to work within from meeting to meeting.
capitalisation is not a primary concern.
It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment A detailed description of the investment process and risk companies including listed investment trusts at the time of controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 77.
The Company currently does not have any comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is investments in other investment companies.
disclosed on pages 22 to 28 including a description of the twenty largest investments, the portfolio of investments by Risk Diversification value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and The Manager actively monitors the Companys portfolio and distribution of equity investments.
attempts to mitigate risk primarily through diversification.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 47 investments by value in any single stock at the time of equity and 17 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by purchase.
the Board to hold between 45 and 150 stocks in the portfolio.
Gearing The Board considers that returns to shareholders can be Benchmark enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is responsible for the level of gearing in the Company and The Companys benchmark is a composite index comprising reviews the position on a regular basis.
Any borrowing, 40% of the FTSE World UK Index and 60% of the FTSE World except for short-term liquidity purposes, is used for ex-UK Index.
investment purposes or to fund the purchase of the Company's own shares.
Total gearing will not in normal Management circumstances exceed 30% of Net Assets with cash deposits The Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager is netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year end there Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML which is was net gearing of 17.4% calculated in accordance with AIC authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority guidance and particular care is taken to ensure that any Day to day management of the portfolio is delegated to bank covenants permit maximum flexibility of investment Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM.
are collectively referred to as the Investment Manager or the Manager.
Changes to Investment Policy Any material change to the investment policy will require the Website approval of the shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution murray-intl.
co. uk at a general meeting.
The Company will promptly issue an 8 Annual Report 2015 Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a number of financial performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objective and determine the progress of the Company in pursuing its investment policy.
The main KPIs identified by the Board in relation to the Company which are considered at each Board meeting are as follows: KPI Description The Board considers the Companys NAV total return figures to be the best indicator of Performance and NAV performance over time and these are therefore the main indicators of performance used by the Board.
A graph showing the total NAV return against the Benchmark is shown on page 13.
The Board measures performance against the Benchmark.
Graphs showing performance are Performance against shown on page 13.
The Board also monitors performance relative to competitor investment Benchmark trusts over a range of time periods, taking into consideration the differing investment policies and objectives employed by those companies.
The Board also monitors the price at which the Companys shares trade relative to the Share price on a total Benchmark on a total return basis over time.
A graph showing the total share price return return basis against the Benchmark is shown on page 13.
The discount premium relative to the NAV per share represented by the share price is closely monitored by the Board.
The objective is to avoid large fluctuations in the discount premium by Discount Premium to NAV the use of share buy backs or the issuance of new shares, subject to market conditions.
A graph showing the share price premium discount relative to the NAV is also shown on page 13.
The Boards aim is to seek to increase the Companys revenues over time in order to maintain Dividend an above average dividend yield.
Dividends paid over the past 10 years are set out on page 14.
The Boards aim is to ensure that gearing is kept within the Boards guidelines issued to the Gearing Investment Manager.
Risk Management There are a number of risks which, if realised, could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition, performance and prospects.
The Board has undertaken a robust review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Those principal risks are disclosed in the table below together with a description of the mitigating actions taken by the Board.
The principal risks associated with an investment in the Companys shares are published monthly on the Companys factsheet or they can be found in the pre-investment disclosure document published by the Manager, both of which are available on the Companys website.
Potential issues relating to the work of the Audit Committee are discussed in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 42 and 43 and further detail on financial risks and risk management is disclosed in note 17 to the financial statements.
Murray International Trust PLC 9 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy continued The Board reviews the risks and uncertainties faced by the Company in the form of a risk matrix regularly and a summary of the principal risks is set out below.
Description Mitigating Action The Board keeps the level of discount and or premium at which the Companys Investment strategy and objectives if the shares trade as well as the investment objective and policy under review and Companys investment objective becomes holds an annual strategy meeting where the Board reviews updates from the unattractive and the Company fails to adapt Investment Manager, investor relations reports and the Broker reports on the to changes in investor demand, the Company market.
In addition, the Board is updated at each Board meeting on the make may become unattractive to investors, up of and any movements in the shareholder register and the Directors attend leading to decreased demand for its shares meetings with shareholders.
Investment portfolio, investment The Board sets, and monitors, its investment restrictions and guidelines, and management investing outside of the receives regular Board reports which include performance reporting on the investment restrictions and guidelines set by implementation of the investment policy, the investment process and the Board could result in poor performance application of the guidelines.
The Investment Manager attends all Board and inability to meet the Companys meetings.
The Board also monitors the Companys share price relative to the objectives.
Financial obligations - the ability of the The Board sets a gearing limit and receives regular updates on the actual Company to meet its financial obligations, or gearing levels the Company has reached from the Investment Manager increasing the level of gearing, could result in together with the assets and liabilities of the Company and reviews these at the Company becoming over-geared or each Board meeting.
In addition, AFML, as alternative investment fund unable to take advantage of potential manager in conjunction with the Board, has set an overall leverage limit of opportunities and result in a loss of value to 2.0x on a commitment basis 2.5x on a gross notional basis and includes the Companys shares.
updates to its reports to the Board.
Financial and Regulatory the financial risks The financial risks associated with the Company include market risk, liquidity associated with the portfolio could result in risk and credit risk, all of which are mitigated in conjunction with the losses to the Company.
In addition, failure to Investment Manager.
Further details of the steps taken to mitigate the comply with relevant regulation including financial risks associated with the portfolio are set out in note 17 to the the Companies Act, the Financial Services financial statements.
The Board relies upon the Aberdeen Group to ensure the and Markets Act, the Alternative Investment Companys compliance with applicable regulations and from time to time Fund Managers Directive, Accounting employs external advisers to advise on specific concerns.
Standards and the FCAs Listing Rules, Disclosure and Prospectus Rules may have an impact on the Company.
Operational the Company is dependent on The Board receives reports from the Investment Manager on internal controls third parties for the provision of all systems and risk management at each Board meeting.
It receives assurances from all its and services in particular, those of Aberdeen significant service providers, as well as back to back assurance from the Asset Management and any control failures Investment Manager at least annually.
Further details of the internal controls and gaps in these systems and services could which are in place are set out in the Directors Report on page 37. result in a loss or damage to the Company.
10 Annual Report 2015 rating of the Companys shares.
The Companys financial Viability Statement contribution to the programmes is matched by the Aberdeen The Company does not have a formal fixed period strategic Group.
The Aberdeen Group Head of Brand reports quarterly plan but the Board formally considers risks and strategy at to the Board providing an analysis of the promotional least annually.
The Board considers the Company, with no activities as well as updates on the shareholder register and fixed life, to be a long term investment vehicle but, for the any changes in the make up of that register.
purposes of this viability statement, has decided that a period of five years is an appropriate period over which to Board Diversity report.
The Board considers that this period reflects a balance between looking out over a long term horizon and the The Board recognises the importance of having a range of inherent uncertainties of looking out further than five years.
skilled, experienced individuals with the right knowledge represented on the Board in order to allow the Board to fulfil In assessing the viability of the Company over the review its obligations.
The Board also recognises the benefits, and is period the Directors have focussed upon the following supportive, of the principle of diversity in its recruitment of factors: new Board members.
At 31 December 2015, there were four male Directors and two female Directors on the Board.
The principal risks detailed in the Strategic Report on page 10 Environmental, Social and Human Rights Issues The ongoing relevance of the Companys investment The Company has no employees as the Board has delegated objective in the current environment day to day management and administrative functions to The demand for the Companys shares evidenced by the Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited.
There are therefore no historical level of premium and or discount disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The The level of income generated by the Company Companys socially responsible investment policy is outlined The liquidity of the Companys portfolio below.
The maturity profile of the Companys 194 million loan facilities which mature between May 2016 and May 2020.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with Accordingly, taking into account the Companys current investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a position, the fact that the Companys investments are mostly socially responsible manner and has noted the Aberdeen liquid and the potential impact of its principal risks and Groups policy on social responsibility.
The Investment uncertainties, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors that the Company will be able to continue in operation and which may affect the performance or value of the to meet its liabilities as they fall due for a period of five years Companys investments as part of its investment process.
In from the date of this Report.
In making this assessment, the particular, the Investment Manager encourages companies in Board has considered that matters such as significant which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the economic or stock market volatility, a substantial reduction area of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can in the liquidity of the portfolio or changes in investor best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company sentiment could have an impact on its assessment of the management to encourage them, where necessary, to Companys prospects and viability in the future.
improve their policies in this area.
The Companys ultimate objective, however, is to deliver superior investment return Promoting the Company for its shareholders.
The Board recognises the importance of communicating the long-term attractions of your Company to prospective Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions investors both for improving liquidity and for enhancing the The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report value and rating of the Companys shares.
The Board from the operations of its business, nor does it have believes an effective way to achieve this is through responsibility for any other emissions producing sources subscription to and participation in the promotional under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and programme run by the Aberdeen Group on behalf of a Directors Reports Regulations 2013. number of investment companies under its management.
The Company also supports the Aberdeen Groups investor Kevin Carter relations programme which involves regional roadshows, Chairman promotional and public relations campaigns.
The purpose of 11 March 2016 these initiatives is both to communicate effectively with existing shareholders and to gain new shareholders with the aim of improving liquidity and enhancing the value and Murray International Trust PLC 11
