Governance Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Voting Rights statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Ordinary and B Ordinary shareholders are entitled to vote on all resolutions which are proposed at general meetings of the Results and Dividends Company.
The Ordinary shares carry a right to receive Details of the Companys results and proposed dividends are dividends and whenever a cash dividend is paid on the shown on pages 12 and 14 of this Report.
Ordinary shares, B Ordinary shareholders are entitled to a bonus issue of B Ordinary shares.
Each capitalisation issue is Investment Trust Status equivalent in asset value to the equivalent dividend being paid but excluding any tax credit thereon.
On a winding up, The Company is registered as a public limited company after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus registered in Scotland No.
SC006705 and has been assets will be paid to Ordinary and B Ordinary shareholders accepted by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in proportion to their shareholdings.
Shareholders attention subject to the Company continuing to meet the relevant is drawn to the Circular that accompanies this Annual Report eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax proposing changes to the rights of the B Ordinary shares and Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements of Part 2 Chapter 3 a final conversion opportunity in 2016.
Statutory Instrument 2011 2999 for all financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2012.
The Directors are Borrowings of the opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 December 2015 so as to enable it to During the year the Company agreed a new 50 million loan comply with the ongoing requirements for investment trust facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland which was drawn in status.
full in May 2015 and fixed for five years at an all-in rate of 2.4975%.
The new facility was used to repay a Yen 8.4 billion loan facility that matured in May 2015.
Individual Savings Accounts The Company has conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the Management and Secretarial Arrangements requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company will The Company has appointed Aberdeen Fund Managers continue to conduct its affairs in this manner.
"Limited ""AFML"", a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, as its alternative investment fund manager under the terms of an investment management Capital Structure, Issuance and Buybacks agreement dated 14 July 2014."
Under the terms of the The Companys capital structure is summarised in note 14 to agreement, the Company's portfolio is managed by Aberdeen the financial statements.
At 31 December 2015, there were by way of a group delegation agreement in place between 127,601,952 fully paid Ordinary shares of 25p each 2014 AFML and Aberdeen.
127,361,901 Ordinary shares in issue and 910,364 B Ordinary shares in issue 2014 975,063 representing Investment management services are provided to the 99.3% and 0.7% respectively of the total issued capital.
Company secretarial, accounting and the year end there were no Ordinary shares or B Ordinary administrative services have been delegated by AFML to shares held in treasury 2014 nil.
During the year 130,000 new Ordinary shares were issued for The Board considers the continued appointment of the cash at a premium to the prevailing NAV per share: 45,352 Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the new B Ordinary shares were issued by way of capitalisation shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset issue in lieu of dividends: and, 110,051 B Ordinary shares Management Group has the investment management, were converted into new Ordinary shares.
During the year secretarial, promotional and administrative skills required for no Ordinary shares were purchased in the market for the effective operation of the Company.
Management Fees from 1 January 2016 Subsequent to the period end 601,163 Ordinary shares have With effect from 1 January 2016, the Board and the Manager been purchased in the market at a discount for treasury and have agreed a new basis for calculating the Companys no new Ordinary shares were issued for cash at a premium to management fees payable to AFML.
The performance fee the prevailing NAV per share or sold from treasury.
A further has been discontinued and the annual management fee will 11,808 new B Ordinary shares were issued by way of now be charged on net assets ie excluding borrowings for capitalisation issue in February 2016 in lieu of the third investment purposes averaged over the six previous quarters interim dividend.
"""Net Assets"", on a tiered basis."
The annual management fee will now be charged at 0.575% of Net Assets up to 1,200 Murray International Trust PLC 33 Governance Directors Report continued million, 0.5% of Net Assets between 1,200 million and Risk Management 1,400 million, and 0.425% of Net Assets above 1,400 Details of the financial risk management policies and million.
Included in the charge of 0.575% above is a objectives relative to the use of financial instruments by the secretarial fee of 100,000 per annum which is chargeable Company are set out in note 17 to the financial statements.
A fee of 1.5% per annum remains chargeable on the value of any unlisted investments.
The The Board investment management fee is chargeable 30% against The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors.
revenue and 70% against realised capital reserves.
No fees The names and biographies of each of the six Directors who are charged in the case of investments managed or advised served during the year are disclosed on pages 30 to 32 by the Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The indicating their range of experience as well as length of management agreement may now be terminated by either service.
The whole Board will retire at the AGM in April 2016 party on the expiry of six months written notice.
On and, with the exception of Lady Balfour, each Director will termination the Manager would be entitled to receive fees stand for re-election.
Lady Balfour has indicated that she will which would otherwise have been due up to that date.
be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in April 2016.
Mr Best has agreed to become Senior The above changes to the management fee arrangements Independent Director with effect from the retirement of Lady constitute a smaller related party transaction for the purpose Balfour.
The Board considers that there is a balance of skills of LR 11.1.
10 R of the Financial Conduct Authority's Listing and experience within the Board relevant to the leadership Rules.
and direction of the Company and that all the Directors contribute effectively.
Management Fees up to 31 December 2015 For the year ended 31 December 2015, the management and In common with most investment trusts, the Company has secretarial fees payable to AFML were calculated and charged no employees.
Directors & Officers liability insurance cover on the old basis with an investment management fee has been maintained throughout the year at the expense of payable to AFML of 0.5% per annum of the value of total the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association provide assets, less unlisted investments and all current liabilities an indemnity to the Directors out of the assets of the excluding monies borrowed to finance the investment Company against any liability incurred in defending objectives of the Company, averaged over the six previous proceedings or in connection with any application to the quarters.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged on the value of Court in which relief is granted.
The investment management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and 70% against realised Policy on Tenure capital reserves.
The Boards policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve Included in the charge of 0.5% above there was a secretarial on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board fee of 100,000 per annum which was chargeable 100% to does not consider that the length of service of a Director is revenue.
In addition, the Manager was entitled to a as important as the contribution he or she has to make, and performance fee on the basis of i a fee of 5% of the first therefore the length of service will be determined on a case- 2% of any outperformance of the Companys net asset total by-case basis.
Each Director retires annually at the AGM return over that of its benchmark: and ii a fee of 10% of voluntarily and being eligible offers themselves for reany additional outperformance against the benchmark.
total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any one year comprising the basic management fee and the Management of Conflicts of Interest performance fee was capped at 0.8% of the average value of The Board has a procedure in place to deal with a situation the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any where a Director has a conflict of interest, as required by the performance fee was paid in equal instalments over a four Companies Act 2006.
As part of this process, the Directors year period with any future underperformance offset against are required to disclose other positions held and all other the fee payable.
conflict situations that may need to be authorised either in relation to the Director concerned or his or her connected No fees were charged in the case of investments managed or persons.
The Board considers each Directors situation and advised by the Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The decides whether to approve any conflict, taking into management agreement could be terminated by either party consideration what is in the best interests of the Company on the expiry of one years written notice.
and whether the Directors ability to act in accordance with his wider duties is affected.
Each Director is required to notify the Company Secretary of any potential or actual conflict situations that will need authorising by the Board.
34 Annual Report 2015 Authorisations given by the Board are reviewed at each Codes are available on the Financial Reporting Council's Board meeting.
No Director has a service contract with the Company The Board has considered the principles and although Directors are issued with letters of appointment recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance upon appointment.
The Directors interests in contractual as published in February 2015 AIC Code by reference to the arrangements with the Company are as shown in note 20 to AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the financial statements.
No other Directors had any interest AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, in contracts with the Company during the period or addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate subsequently.
Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues which are of specific The Company has a policy of conducting its business in an relevance to the Company.
Both the AIC Code and the AIC honest and ethical manner.
The Company takes a zero Guide are available on the AICs website: theaic.
tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has procedures in place that are proportionate to the Companys The Company has complied throughout the accounting circumstances to prevent them.
The Manager also adopts a period with the relevant provisions contained within the AIC group-wide zero tolerance approach and has its own detailed Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate policy and procedures in place to prevent bribery and Governance Code except as set out below.
Copies of the Managers anti-bribery and corruption policies are available on its website aberdeenThe UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions asset.
relating to: the role of the chief executive A.
1.2 : Substantial Interests executive directors remuneration D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 : The Board has been advised that the following shareholders and the need for an internal audit function C. 3.5. owned 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 December 2015: For the reasons set out in the AIC Code, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers that No.
of these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Ordinary % Company, being an externally-managed investment Shareholder shares held held company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day A Aberdeen Retail Plans 9,611,512 7.5 management and administrative functions are outsourced to Speirs & Jeffrey 9,295,000 7.3 third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Brewin Dolphin 7,064,439 5.5 directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company Investec Wealth & Management 6,597,513 5.2 has therefore not reported further in respect of these Rathbones 6,240,612 4.9 provisions.
The full text of the Companys Corporate A Alliance Trust Savings 5,764,189 4.5 Governance Statement can be found on the Companys A Hargreaves Lansdowne 4,764,189 3.7 website, murray-intl.
Smith & Williamson 4,068,223 3.2 A Non-beneficial interests Directors have attended Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2015 as follows with Number of B % of B their eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : Ordinary Ordinary shares held shares held Other Nom Audit Speirs & Jeffrey 204,254 22.1 Board Board Com Com MEC A K J Carter 6 6 2 2 1 1 n a 1 1 Corporate Governance Lady Balfour of 6 6 2 2 1 1 3 3 1 1 The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Burleigh governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys J D Best 6 6 1 2 1 1 3 3 1 1 shareholders for good governance and, as required by the M Campbell 6 6 2 2 1 1 3 3 1 1 Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, has applied the P W 6 6 2 2 1 1 3 3 1 1 principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code Dunscombe published in September 2014 and effective for financial D Hardie 6 6 2 2 1 1 3 3 1 1 years commencing on or after 1 October 2014 for the year A Dr Carter is not a member of either the Audit Committee or the Remuneration ended 31 December 2015.
The UK Corporate Governance Committee but attended all Committee meetings by invitation Murray International Trust PLC 35 Governance Directors Report continued the AGM and does not intend to seek re-election.
Mr Best Board Committees has agreed to become Senior Independent Director with Audit Committee effect from the conclusion of the AGM in April 2016.
The Report of the Audit Committee is on pages 42 and 43 of this Annual Report.
Remuneration Committee The level of fees payable to Directors is considered by the Management Engagement Committee MEC Remuneration Committee which comprises the entire Board The MEC comprises all of the Directors.
Dr Carter is the excluding Dr Carter and which is Chaired by Lady Balfour.
The Committee reviews the performance of the Dunscombe will become Chairman of the Remuneration Investment Manager and its compliance with the terms of Committee with effect from the conclusion of the AGM in the management and secretarial agreement.
The terms and April 2016. conditions of the Investment Managers appointment, including an evaluation of fees, are reviewed by the The Companys remuneration policy is to set remuneration Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee believes that at a level to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the the continuing appointment of the Manager on the new Company's future development.
Further information on terms that have been agreed is in the interests of remuneration is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration shareholders as a whole.
Nomination Committee Terms of Reference All appointments to the Board of Directors are considered by The terms of reference of all the Board Committees may be the Nomination Committee which comprises the entire found on the Companys website murray-intl.
co. uk and Board and is chaired by Dr Carter.
The Boards overriding copies are available from the Company Secretary upon priority in appointing new Directors to the Board is to request.
The terms of reference are reviewed and re-assessed identify the candidate with the best range of skills and by the Board for their adequacy on an annual basis.
experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board also recognises the benefits of diversity and its policy on diversity Going Concern is referred to in the Strategic Report on page 11.
When Board positions become available as a result of retirement or The Directors have undertaken a robust review of the resignation, the Company ensures that a diverse group of Companys viability refer to statement on page 11 and candidates is considered.
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio of listed equity shares and The Committee has put in place the necessary procedures to bonds which in most circumstances are realisable within a conduct, on an annual basis, an appraisal of the Chairman of very short timescale.
the Board, Directors' individual self evaluation and a performance evaluation of the Board as a whole.
For the year The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and to 31 December 2015 this was undertaken by Stephenson & uncertainties disclosed on page 10 and have reviewed Co an independent external board evaluation service provider forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities.
The Directors that does not have any other connections with the believe that the Company has adequate financial resources Company.
The review concluded that the Board has a good to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable balance of experience and considerable knowledge of future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual investment markets and works in a collegiate and effective Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the manner.
going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
In accordance with Principle 3 of the AICs Code of Corporate Accountability and Audit Governance which recommends that the directors of FTSE Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by there is no relevant audit information of which the shareholders, all the members of the Board will retire at the Companys auditor is unaware, and he or she has taken all forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, with the exception the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order of Lady Balfour, will offer themselves for re-election.
In to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information conjunction with the external evaluation feedback the and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Committee has reviewed each of the proposed information.
reappointments and concluded that each of the Directors has the requisite high level and range of business and financial Independent Auditor experience and recommends their re-election at the The Companys policy is to conduct a regular review of its forthcoming AGM.
Lady Balfour has indicated that she will audit arrangements.
The last tender took place in 2013 and retire from the Board and as Senior Independent Director at 36 Annual Report 2015 following a detailed and rigorous process involving large and which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, medium-sized audit firms the Boards recommendation to including compliance with the terms of the management shareholders to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP EY was duly agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve approved.
EY, has expressed its willingness to continue in controls are implemented.
office and a Resolution to re-appoint EY as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Risks are identified and documented through a risk Meeting, along with a separate Resolution to authorise the management framework by each function within the Directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Details of fees Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the relating to non-audit services are disclosed on page 40.
The FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market, Directors have reviewed the level of non-audit services operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit provided by the independent auditor during the year, risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
together with the independent auditors procedures in Any relevant weaknesses identified are reported to the Board connection with the provision of such services, and remain and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence is to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action being safeguarded.
required is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
The key components designed to provide effective internal Internal Controls and Risk Management control for the year under review and up to the date of this The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the Report are outlined below: Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following the Financial Reporting Council's the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts publication of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities Directors on the Combined Code the FRC guidance, the and review its investment performance: Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks investment criteria: faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the there are specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Reports on these issues, including performance statistics financial statements, and this process is regularly reviewed and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the by the Board and accords with the FRC Guidance.
The Managers investment process and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed The design, implementation and maintenance of controls and appraisal and due diligence: procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to as a matter of course the internal audit and compliance manage its affairs properly extends to operational and departments of AFML continually review the Managers compliance controls and risk management.
The Board has operations: prepared its own risk register which identifies potential risks written agreements are in place which specifically define relating to strategy, investment management, shareholders, the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third marketing, gearing, regulatory and financial obligations: third party service providers and monitoring reports are received party service providers and the Board.
The Board considers from these providers when required: the potential cause and possible impact of these risks as well the Board has considered the need for an internal audit as reviewing the controls in place to mitigate these potential function but, because of the compliance and internal risks.
A risk is rated by having a likelihood and an impact control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to rating and the residual risk is plotted on a heat map and is place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit reviewed regularly.
procedures: and twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of assessment of internal controls by considering internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process documentation from the Manager, including its internal for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by audit and compliance functions and taking account of the Company and the policies and procedures by which these events since the relevant period end.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented The Directors have delegated the investment management of contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities the Companys assets to AFML within overall guidelines and that have been delegated to external professional this embraces implementation of the system of internal organisations.
The Board meets annually with control, including financial, operational and compliance representatives from BNY Mellon and reviews a control controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by AFMLs internal audit function Murray International Trust PLC 37 Governance Directors Report continued report covering the activities of the depositary and Board receives regular reports on the exercise of the custodian.
Companys voting rights and discusses any issues arising with the Investment Manager.
It is the Boards view that having an The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six active voting policy and a process for monitoring the monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has Investment Managers exercise of those votes, especially in direct access to the Directors at any time.
relation to controversial issues, aids the efficient exercise of the Companys governance responsibilities.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is Relations with Shareholders exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are The Company places great importance on communication designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure with its shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can of meetings with institutional shareholders and reports back provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against to the Board on these meetings.
Participants in the Aberdeen Retail Savings Plans the The UK Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Plans, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the The purpose of the UK Stewardship Code is to enhance the Plans administrator, are given the opportunity to vote by quality of engagement between institutional investors and means of a Letter of Direction enclosed with the Annual companies to help improve long-term returns to Report.
The Letter of Direction is forwarded to the shareholders and assist institutional investors with the administrator of the Plans, who will complete a proxy on efficient exercise of their governance responsibilities.
behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants The Companys investments are held in nominee names.
The who attend the Annual General Meeting are given the Board has delegated responsibility for actively monitoring opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As the activities of portfolio companies, including the exercise required under the Code, the Annual Report is posted to of voting powers on its behalf, to the Manager who has in shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual turn delegated this responsibility to the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other is an event for all shareholders and encourages them to publications produced by the portfolio company and for attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to attending company meetings.
The Investment Manager, in the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is the Company.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put empowered to use discretion in the exercise of the questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
number of proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt In exercising the Companys voting rights, the Aberdeen with on a show of hands.
Group follows a number of principles which set out the framework on corporate governance, proxy voting and Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the shareholder engagement in relation to the companies in free shareholder information telephone service run by the which the Aberdeen Group has invested or is considering Manager, and the Company and the Manager respond to investing.
The Board has reviewed these principles together letters from shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with with the Aberdeen Groups Disclosure Response to the UK major shareholders and reports back to the Board on these Stewardship Code, and is satisfied that the exercise of visits.
delegated voting powers by the Investment Manager is being properly executed.
The Aberdeen Groups Corporate The Boards policy is to communicate directly with Governance Principles together with the Aberdeen Groups shareholders and their representative bodies without the Disclosure Response to the UK Stewardship Code may be involvement of the management group either the Company found on the Aberdeen Groups website, at Secretary or the Manager in situations where direct http: aboutus.
Representatives from the Board asset.
com en aboutus expertise equities stewardship.
meet with major shareholders regularly.
The Board recognises and supports the Aberdeen Groups policy of active engagement with investee companies and the voting of all of the shares held by the Company.
The 38 Annual Report 2015 Responsible Investment The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
The Directors, through the Companys Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in this area.
B Ordinary Share Conversion Circular to Shareholders Shareholders attention is drawn to the Circular to Shareholders accompanying this Annual Report which sets out the Boards proposals for the final conversion of the B Ordinary shares in 2016 and the adoption of amended Articles of Association.
By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY 11 March 2016 Murray International Trust PLC 39
