Strategic Report Investment Management Review best disconcerting, and at worst downright dangerous, the Background most unsettling aspect is how ambivalent the world has To some people, familiarity breeds contempt.
To others, it is become to the prevailing distorted financial landscape.
To most, it provides Current economics, markets, geopolitics and demographics confidence, clarity and conviction on which to act.
Remove may confound the laws of rational behaviour and common the familiar, its said, and sanity soon follows.
Nowhere does sense, yet few are prepared to acknowledge the fact.
The this more regularly occur than in financial markets.
History is collective denial casts an eerie silence over the reality of an littered with examples of arrogance discarding the familiar increasingly unrealistic world.
for self-justification its different this time, profits and dividends dont matter, business cycles and market forces are Investor sentiment obsessed excessively over interest rates, dead, a new paradigm for all to see.
When such contempt deflation and China throughout 2015, occasionally mutating arises, the financial consequences are seldom redeeming.
into angst when data disappointed.
Financial markets craving normality were constantly starved of any meaningful Structurally plagued by unrecognisable economic confirmation.
Periodic bouts of volatility reflected recurring fundamentals, yet possessing unquestioning conviction that moodswings of uncertainty, primarily prompted by nothing is seriously untoward, the financial world ignored ambiguous economic data.
Developed market sovereign escalating dissonance between familiarity and contempt over bonds proved particularly vulnerable.
Oscillating between the review period.
Policymakers positively proclaimed rising interest rate paranoia and deflationary concerns, bond progress towards economic normalisation despite virtually yields touched historical lows and unjustified highs.
For no conclusive evidence in support.
Politicians preached fiscal investors seeking stability and predictability, global bond prudence and balanced budgets, yet most sovereign debt markets offered little solace.
Economists declared declining energy prices to be the theoretical panacea for depressed Equity market returns also witnessed a torrid twelve months.
global consumption but already over-indebted consumers Weighed down by constant weakness in Energy and preferred to save rather than spend.
Projections relative to Commodities, plus downward pressure on dividends, the UK reality for both inflation and interest rates also failed to market suffered a negative total return.
Most Central Banks targeted normal inflation of printed money and political promiscuity, European markets around two percent.
In the event, inflation declined towards defied deepening deflationary disquiet to deliver mid-single zero in most of the developed world.
Predicting imminent digit positive returns in Sterling terms.
Whilst the portfolios higher interest rates at the beginning of 2015, only the heavily skewed defensively orientated exposure to United States dared to tentatively tighten by year end.
Switzerland delivered desired capital preservation, individual Scurrying in the opposite direction, the European Central stock weakness in France negated overall net returns from Bank and the Bank of Japan kept up the pace of monetary the region.
Asia ex Japan disappointed for the third expansion through continued quantitative easing.
consecutive year in terms of market returns.
Positive Beleaguered savers remained victims of financing fiscal portfolio stock returns from defensive Consumer Staples and largesse, with zero interest rates effectively eliminating any Telecommunications businesses in Indonesia, Singapore and income returns.
This absurdity descended into farce in Taiwan were welcomed, but the spectre of declining Chinese Europe.
Prevailing negative bond yields witnessed savers growth and currency weakness loomed large.
The paying heavily indebted European governments for the unexpected exception was Japan.
A crippled economy, privilege of lending to them!
Extraordinary to believe, unsustainable debt dynamics and deteriorating demographics guaranteed capital-loss investment proved popular amongst proved no constraint on sentiment.
Japanese equity market bond investors in Europe throughout 2015. returns of 17.6% in Sterling terms far exceeded its nearest challenger for best performing global region in 2015.
The cult of equity buybacks again thrived in the United Divergence of market and portfolio returns were most States where precious corporate cash flow retired record pronounced in the Americas.
Whilst a low, asset weighting amounts of stock at record high valuations.
Capital to benchmark heavyweight the United States deleted relative investment, vital to secure future growth and profitability, performance, strong defensive stock selection delivered again constantly being sacrificed at the altar of short double digit capital returns in a market up 6.9%.
Corporate defaults throughout the world remained 15.7% return from 10% exposure in Mexico delivered at record lows as no-one dared to question deteriorating against a market which declined 9.2%.
With over twenty developed world economies excessive currency weakness and commodity exposure in hostage to private and public sector debt above two hundred Canada and Brazil negated total relative North and South per cent of National Income, surely some-one, somewhere American regional returns.
In aggregate, the overall portfolio could not pay.
The mask of respectability held firm, despite a objective to preserve capital proved untenable over the constant stream of unrecognisable indicators emerging.
Diversification of assets, currency exposure, those familiar with history, nothing was familiar.
Whilst at Murray International Trust PLC 15 Strategic Report Investment Management Review continued sectors and stocks with a value and higher yield bias fell increasingly tough for lenders and borrowers alike.
At the short of delivering desired results against an increasingly coalface of such unconventional capitalism, American narrow and expensive market backdrop.
corporates wrestled with declining profit margins, pressures on selling prices and constraints from a strong US dollar.
Portfolio exposure, focused on defensive consumer staple Performance and telecommunication businesses, performed well in the The NAV total return for the year to 31 December 2015 with United States, but the Canadian holding in Potash net dividends reinvested was 7.8% compared with a return Corporation of Saskatchewan continued to restrain overall on the benchmark of 2.6%.
A full attribution analysis is North American performance.
Excess supply and below trend given on page 26, which details the various influences on demand meant the global potash market remained painfully portfolio performance.
In summary, of the 870 basis points out of equilibrium.
A further 13% appreciation of Sterling before expenses of performance below the benchmark, against the Canadian Dollar merely accentuated difficulties.
asset allocation detracted 670 basis points and stock With numerous negative influences now arguably selection a further 200 basis points.
Structural effects discounted, the outlook for this industry, and Canadian relating to the fixed income portfolio and gearing, net of exporters in general, should improve.
North American borrowing and hedging costs, deleted a further 180 basis portfolio strategy will continue to focus on capital points of relative performance.
preservation and income enhancement from relatively low investment exposure.
North America The drama that has become US monetary policy continued UK to captivate its worldwide audience throughout the year.
It is said that in the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is The unanswered question remained when the US Federal king.
Consensus opinion constantly believing Britain to be Reserve might raise interest rates.
Cyclical optimists the strongest economy in Europe in 2015 obviously missed expected normalisation to begin, just as they did last year the irony.
Smugly conceited, not-to-mention statistically and the year before.
Popular perception professed robust inaccurate Ireland expanded over 6%, such rhetoric economic health for the US economy, constantly captured the climate of denial that prevailed.
Not that it was emphasising improvements.
For the more objective observer, unreasonable to expect as much.
The politics of persuasion scant evidence existed to support such optimism.
dictate positivity must be portrayed at all times.
A message of prosperity to those who have, and of hope to those who Economic growth remained muted, the eagerly anticipated have not, even when the evidence suggests otherwise.
boost to consumption from collapsing oil prices failing to Economic evidence showed an economy flirting with materialise.
Heavily indebted Americans, fearing rising job deflation early in the year, and similarly constrained twelve insecurity, preferred to pay down debt and save more.
With consumer price inflation consistently debate raged around the need, timing and justification of reported around zero, the Bank of Englands target rate was potential interest rate hikes, further ambiguity festered never achieved.
Structural distortions to UK consumption, within the fragile US economy.
The housing market, so often escalating debt repayment pressures and wage stagnation deemed a barometer of US economic affluence, stagnated in combined to deflate rather than inflate the UK economy.
the vacuum of policy uncertainty.
Support from increased Yet financial markets, groomed for imminent interest rate capital investment never looked likely given corporate rises, worried constantly over circumstances increasingly Americas addiction to buying back stock.
New depths were unlikely to evolve.
breached with cheap debt being aggressively accrued to retire expensive equity, leaving corporate balance sheets The mood of uncertainty periodically spilled over into fragile increasingly stretched.
Somewhat ominously, total US business confidence where Sterling strength and sluggish equity buybacks surpassed the previous historical record set demand curtailed manufacturing activity and investment.
in 2007 and at generally much higher valuations.
Lack of Reduced oil revenues stalled fiscal improvements, but it was conclusive wage pressures, lingering excessive productive excessive current account deterioration which arguably capacity, worryingly anaemic credit conditions and subdued deserved greatest reproach.
Long subscribing to the view confidence presented a challenging contradiction to those that unsustainable external deficits do not matter, the UK confident of US prosperity.
Unbowed by inconclusive monetary authorities ignore this imbalance at their peril.
To economic evidence, and ignoring protesting pleas, the US fund such fiscal, trade and income deficits the UK finds itself Monetary Authorities raised the benchmark interest rate in structurally dependent on constantly selling assets to December.
Those hostage to onerous debt servicing foreigners land, property, bonds and financial assets.
In obligations vexed over implicit negative consequences from simple terms, the UK continues to live way beyond its the first such monetary tightening in over nine years.
Prevailing uninspiring fundamentals plus an EU thing became crystal clear.
Life was about to get membership referendum significantly raise the risk that 16 Annual Report 2015 foreign financing may dry up.
Capital flight and or plagued the European backdrop in 2015.
As internal divisions currency weakness have historically accompanied such widened amongst policymakers, the social fabric began to circumstances why should it be any different this time?
Increased agitation from the political right, escalating Close to historical lows in Sterling asset portfolio exposure rejection of austerity and widespread disillusionment with reflect an already cautious view towards the UK and UK market dynamics, clouded an increasingly opaque outlook in companies.
Although 2015 equity market returns were in Europe.
Despite positive defensive contributions from 7% line with negative expectations, performance of the Trusts exposure to Switzerland, individual stock weakness in UK portfolio proved particularly disappointing both on an emerging market focused French retailer Casino and oil absolute and relative basis.
Stock price declines at Standard services company Tenaris, deleted portfolio value on both an Chartered, Royal Dutch Shell, Weir Group and BHP Billiton all absolute and relative basis.
For a region universally touted as proved problematic.
Whilst compelling value is deemed to possessing most potential by an optimistic consensus at the exist in these companies, patience will likely be required beginning of 2015, overall returns proved ultimately before their full potential can be reached.
Given the disappointing in Sterling terms.
It is difficult to envisage this magnitude of prevailing negative sentiment, expected market year as being much better.
returns are unlikely to be anything other than uninspiring.
Latin America Europe A seven per cent total return decline from portfolio exposure The economic battlefield that characterised and dictated to Latin America also added to constrained overall policy directives in Europe last year was mired in argument performance.
Significant gains in Mexico proved insufficient and division.
The European Central Bank began the year by to offset stock and currency weakness in Brazil.
From Rio fide unleashing quantitative easing on predominately stagnant Janeiro to the Rio Grande, economic uncertainty and European economies.
The justification was to prevent a widespread risk aversion prevailed.
History and mistrust downward deflationary spiral gathering momentum.
The combined to exert enormous pressure on financial assets and exception, of course, was Germany where booming exports currencies.
Memories of twenty years ago, when Latin and balanced fiscal accounts remained the envy of all.
America previously endured similar challenging economic Publicly opposed to printing money yet privately benefitting conditions related to US interest rate policy, were constantly from associated Euro weakness, Germany argued against aired.
Distorted by time and prejudice, such recollections such unorthodox policy.
Faced with increasing austerity in were in no mood to differentiate between good and bad.
Yet peripheral Europe and stubbornly high unemployment Mexican fragility, the catalytic epicentre for economic havoc throughout the region, the ECB maintained it had no choice.
unleashed across the region two decades ago, had long since Bowing down in homage to popular opinion, the ECB duly disappeared.
Current circumstances bear little resemblance turned on the monetary taps causing a precipitous fall in the to the past.
Significant savings, strong foreign direct Euro.
Financial markets responded in true Pavlovian fashion, investment, robust local currency denominated bond markets with equities rising and bond yields falling.
Savers suffered and competitive exporters characterise a country respectful significantly as deposit rates in banks and shorter duration of reform and stability.
Nevertheless, perceived vulnerability bond yields turned nominally negative.
Scant attention was to international capital dependency kept investors fearful and paid to relative credit quality as sovereign bond yields created downward pressure on the Peso.
The Mexican collapsed in response to policy rhetoric of whatever it stockmarket return of -9.2% bore testimony to this, but takes.
Unfortunately such joy there was proved short lived.
portfolio exposure fared much better.
Large holdings in Grupo Asur, Femsa and Kimberly Clark fide Mexico delivered Manipulating higher European asset prices failed to translate solid profit and dividend growth, leading to a strong positive into positive economic traction, echoing the outcomes of total return of 15.7%.
such flawed economic policy when previously inflicted on the US and UK.
The futility of such action is self-evident.
Unfortunately, offsetting such resilience were negative For consumption based economies, like Europe, printing contributions from Brazil.
Political impotency, financial money fails to reignite credit growth and establish economic scandal and economic recession polluted the Brazilian traction for one simple reason.
Despite inflating European financial landscape.
Demands for Presidential impeachment household wealth, such assets tend to be owned by the rich and radical policy directives periodically surfaced in response who generally have a low marginal propensity to consume.
For the most part such Conversely the poor, with a much higher propensity to pleas fell on deaf ears.
Historically accustomed to financial consume, tend to own most of the debt.
The so called feast or famine, Brazilian nationals had seen it all before.
wealth effect of inflated valuations is thus rendered While domestic corporates adjusted downwards costs and impotent.
No improvement in consumption yet spending plans, international companies eyed  creating increasing inequality and an basement prices increasingly reflected in Brazilian assets.
enormous escalation in sovereign debt.
Such conditions Foreign direct investment poured in, capitalising on Murray International Trust PLC 17 Strategic Report Investment Management Review continued distressed sellers and attractive acquisition opportunities.
Defining moments in history manifest themselves in many Under such conditions, the portfolio core holding in Souza distinguished guises, but currency devaluations seldom spring Cruz was bought out by its parent British American Tobacco.
Seared into most global Significantly enhancing both capital and income returns over investors psyches are capital destroying devaluations in Hong the past decade, replicating such stability this position Kong 1983, China 1994, Thailand and Malaysia 1997 to provided would not be easy.
Consequently the realised funds name but a few.
Against such previous debasement Chinas were reinvested elsewhere.
Residual Brazilian equity recent Renminbi adjustment of under 5% since August exposure of 3%, concentrated in four companies, offers the appeared miniscule in devaluation folklore.
Arithmetically it paradox that repeatedly characterises Brazil.
Globally clearly was, but psychologically it proved seismic in competitive businesses but lack of near-term transparency: proportion.
Initially sending shockwaves around global historically low valuations but emotionally inspired risk financial markets, surprise descended into sobriety over all aversion: attractive growth opportunities clouded by things China.
Intense scrutiny of Chinese growth, Chinese recurring macro-economic mismanagement.
Experience debt, Chinese credit quality, Chinese policy and Chinese suggests when such despondency prevails, any unexpected capital flows ensured the focus of global attention positive event can have significant implications for asset increasingly faced towards the Orient.
After two turbulent years, an internationally challenge of repositioning the second largest economy in the vilified and discredited Brazil is likely to prove consensus world towards rising consumption from established wrong.
investment led growth, the Chinese Authorities acted accordingly.
Having endured constantly eroding competitiveness through an appreciating currency peg since Japan and Asia 2005, the intent was clear.
China would no longer tolerate Pushing on a string.
Plagued by stagnant wages, rapidly competitive devaluations against its currency.
The threat ageing demographics and dwindling savings, expectations of was also crystal clear.
Should China embrace the global Japan spending its way to salvation remained unfoundedly competitive devaluation merry-go-round so favoured by optimistic.
For the third consecutive year the disconnect Western central banks since 2008, the balance of power in between fact and fiction widened.
Printing money and an increasingly inter-dependent world would irrevocably manipulating bond yields towards zero, the Bank of Japan shift.
Through a weakened currency, China could exert a clung to dogmatic hope.
Expecting such actions would impel further deflationary shock presenting genuine systemic risk its citizens to drawdown savings and spend, unorthodox for numerous heavily indebted nations.
Having attracted the monetary madness continued unabated.
The unanswered worlds attention, an increasingly nervous global audience question remained why?
You can lead a horse to water but now awaits future developments.
Against a backdrop of you cant make it drink.
You can cut interest rates to zero China-induced neurosis, progress elsewhere in Asia was but you cant make people spend.
So it proved for Japanese always going to prove difficult.
The regional index recorded savers and consumers alike.
Faced with higher taxes, weaker a negative total return of -4.4% in Sterling terms.
Whilst purchasing power and insipid wage growth, cautious positive stock selection enhanced relative performance, consumer confidence prevailed.
Central Bank hopes to ignite overall capital depreciation still occurred.
Absolute strength inflation were all but extinguished as domestic deflationary in Indonesia and Taiwan contributed welcome positive pressures kept a vice-like grip on prices.
Pockets of inflation returns in both capital and income.
Defensive stock selection stayed confined to essential imports made more expensive in Singapore mitigated overall market declines whilst having by a depreciating currency.
Watching their standard of living no exposure to China and Korea avoided potential negative endlessly eroding, Japanese consumers understandably returns.
Whilst dividends in general remained robust, weaker favoured frugality and thrift.
Employment insecurity currencies reduced overall accrued income.
Importantly, increasingly surfaced as Japanese companies sought further portfolio exposure coped relatively well with prevailing cost savings.
With weakening worldwide demand for capital uncertainty, leaving plenty of scope for operational investment negatively impacting robotics and manufacturing improvements should interest rate cuts and currency equipment orders, an economic gloom descended appreciation evolve in line with expectations.
Disappointing domestic exports are arguably symptomatic of the futility of present Outlook day macro-economic policy in Japan.
Neither stimulative of consumption, investment nor inflation, the associated Predicting the future against a backdrop of unrecognisable currency devaluation fails to reinvigorate exports whilst factors is arguably futile.
The global economic landscape simultaneously eroding individual wealth.
Seldom has such that prevails today cannot be found in any textbook or obsessive pursuit of monetary directives been so irrational indeed in the historical experience of even the most and irresponsible.
Sadly who ultimately pays for such seasoned investor.
It is most definitely unfamiliar.
From an expensive misadventure could haunt Japan for generations.
economic perspective events of the past few years make no sense!
Governments across the globe have expanded 18 Annual Report 2015 sovereign balance sheets beyond breaking point through Against such a backdrop of unfamiliarity and uncertainty, irresponsible excessive money creation to achieve virtually investment must focus on what is familiar.
Growth in the developed world constantly possessing strong balance sheets producing affordable disappoints, debt levels have expanded significantly and products people need offer potential stability.
Where living standards, at best, have stagnated.
Sadly none of this geography of origin or market periodically attracts scorn then should come as a surprise.
Failure to grasp the nettle of opportunities to acquire at discounted valuations will be chronic debt dependency and unsustainable consumption embraced.
Global diversification, firmly out of fashion in an expectations remain the Developed worlds Achilles heel.
increasingly concentrated global financial landscape, will be Politically unpalatable and economically unviable, realistic maintained.
Whilst anything other than a challenging year redress is constantly shunned by policymakers persistently ahead with potentially increased volatility appears unlikely, procrastinating with less painful options.
Artificially Murray International will continue to strive to navigate a depressing bond yields may have bailed out the banks, but smoother course in pursuit of its investment objectives.
responsible savers still foot the bill.
Yet still the unorthodox monetary intervention continues.
It is common knowledge Bruce Stout that repeatedly pursuing the same actions expecting a Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited different outcome is the definition of madness.
Senior Investment Manager Unfortunately the stated aims and actions of numerous 11 March 2016 Central Banks today are symptomatic of exactly that.
Murray International Trust PLC 19 Portfolio The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of investments.
At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 47 equity and 17 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by the Board to hold between 45 and 150 stocks in the portfolio.
Landmark crane on the bank of the River Clyde, Glasgow
