FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activity of the Company is to carry out business as an investment company.
The Directors do not envisage any changes in this activity for the foreseeable future.
The following review is designed to provide information primarily about the Companys business, the principal risks and uncertainties it faces and results for the year.
The review should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on page 3 and 4 and the Investment Managers Report on page 5 which together give a detailed review of the investment activities for the year and an outlook on the future.
Structure The Company is a Guernsey Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme pursuant to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law 1987, as amended, and the Registered Investment Scheme Rules 2008 issued by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
It was incorporated and registered with limited liability in Guernsey on 10 March 2011, with registration number 53155.
The Company commenced business on 15 April 2011 when the initial 107,220,280 U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares and 243,973,227 Sterling Ordinary Shares were admitted with a premium listing to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority the UKLA and commenced trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 April 2011.
On 30 September 2011, the Company raised an additional $187 million by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
On 21 March 2013 and 24 October 2013 the Company raised an additional $550 million and $705 million respectively by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares.
On 22 July 2013, through a tap issue, the Company raised gross proceeds of $69 million.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC and is classified within the Debt Category.
For the purposes of efficient portfolio management, the Company has established a wholly-owned Luxembourg incorporated subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 1 S. r. l. which in turn holds a wholly-owned subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S. r. l. The Directors are presenting consolidated results for the Group, but use the term Company throughout this report to describe the consolidated results and activities of the Group, which include the results of its Luxembourg subsidiaries.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio, utilising the investment skills of the Investment Manager.
Investment Policy To pursue its investment objective, the Company invests mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars, Sterling and Euros by primarily North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans are at the time of investment often non-investment grade.
The Company considers debt instruments to be non-investment grade if, at the time of investment, they are rated below the four highest categories Aaa, Aa, A and Baa by at least two independent credit ratings agencies or, if unrated, are deemed by the Investment Manager to be of comparable quality.
6 NEUBERGER BERMAN STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Investment Policy continued The coupon received when investing in floating rate loans varies with, and is periodically adjusted to reflect changes in, a generally recognised base interest rate such as LIBOR.
The Company generally seeks to focus on loans of issuers that the Investment Manager believes have the ability to generate cash flow through a full business cycle, maintain adequate liquidity, possess an enterprise value in excess of senior debt and have access to both debt and equity capital.
The Company also makes investments in senior bonds on an opportunistic basis if the Investment Manager believes that such investments are attractively valued, up to a maximum in aggregate of 20% of the Net Asset Value at the time of investment, provided that no more than 10% of Net Asset Value may be invested in unsecured senior bonds at the time of investment.
Diversification The Investment Manager seeks to manage risk through in-depth credit research utilising proprietary analytic processes, diversifying across industries, companies and investment size and adjusting sector weightings based on economic and market analysis.
The Companys portfolio of investments is intended to represent at least 100 investments across a minimum of 20 industries, with a focus on those industries regarded as defensive.
Defensive industries are those the Investment Manager believes are less affected by changes in economic conditions and likely to demonstrate the strongest capital preservation.
The Board considers that it is not appropriate to make available a full portfolio listing to shareholders as the information is considered commercially sensitive.
Typically, no industry will represent more than 15% of Net Asset Value at the time of investment.
No single investment will, at the time such investment is made, represent more than 5% of Net Asset Value.
Gearing and Derivatives The Company does not normally employ gearing or derivatives for investment purposes.
The Company may, from time to time, use borrowings for share buybacks and short-term liquidity purposes.
The Directors will restrict borrowing to an amount not exceeding 20% of the Net Asset Value at the time of drawdown.
Derivatives are used for foreign exchange hedging purposes and the US Dollar exposure for sterling shareholders is explained in Note 2 of the financial statements.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board also monitors the investment limits and restrictions set out in the Companys investment objective and policy.
The principal risks and uncertainties that have been identified and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these areas are as follows: Macroeconomic Conditions Macroeconomic risk is the risk that macroeconomic conditions change significantly and to the detriment of the portfolio or the Company causing a Credit or Liquidity risk to crystallise.
To mitigate this risk, the Board receives regular reports from the Investment Manager on the health of the portfolio and the approach to managing Credit risk and Liquidity risk is set out further below.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 7 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Credit Risk The key risk for the Company remains Credit risk i. e. that the Investment Manager buys a loan or bond of a particular issuer and it does not perform as expected and either defaults on a payment or experiences a significant drop in the secondary market value.
To mitigate this risk, the Investment Manager carries out extensive, independent due diligence on each borrower, and has a particular focus on stable, performing credits that evidence strong track records through previous economic cycles.
Additionally, the size of an issuer is also considered and the Investment Manager continues to favour the larger issuers in the market, defined by having debt issuance greater than $500m or equivalent in sterling or euros.
These issuers tend to have broader syndicates, which can aid liquidity in the secondary market.
As well as screening out the smaller issuers, the Investment Manager also excludes highly cyclical industries and companies with limited earning visibility from its Investment Process.
Once a particular investment has been made, the Investment Manager is very focused on the monitoring of it.
A range of relevant data is reviewed on an ongoing basis for each investment, including, but not limited to, key financial drivers, commodity prices, stock prices, regulatory developments, financial results, press releases and management commentary to identify any indicators of credit deterioration.
To manage this risk further, the Board ensures a diversification of investments with the Investment Manager operating in accordance with the investment limits and restrictions policy determined by the Board.
The Directors monitor the implementation and results of the investment process with the Investment Manager at each quarterly Board meeting and monitor risk factors in respect of the portfolio.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its obligations as and when these fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed by the Investment Manager to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient working capital in cash or near cash form so as to be able to meet the Companys ongoing requirements as these are budgeted for.
Fund Performance The Companys Investment performance could fall below its stated objective or peer group for a variety of reasons including market conditions.
The Investment Manager has robust processes in place and monitors the underlying investments on a daily basis.
The Board receives detailed updates from the Investment Manager.
Level of Discount or Premium A discount or premium to NAV can occur for a variety of reasons, including market conditions or to the extent investors undervalue the management activities of the Investment Manager or discount their valuation methodology and judgment.
While the Directors may seek to mitigate any discount to NAV per Share through the discount management mechanisms set out in the Prospectus, there can be no guarantee that they will do so or that such mechanisms will be successful.
Switch of Administrator The Company switched its administrator on 1 March 2015.
A two month parallel run was conducted prior to the transition becoming effective.
The Investment Manager and the Board ensured that all processes and controls in place were adequate.
The Board will continue to monitor the new administrator in line with the parameters adopted with the previous administrator.
8 NEUBERGER BERMAN STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Operational Risk Disruption to, or the failure of either the Investment Managers or the Administrators accounting, dealings or payment systems, or the Custodians records could prevent the accurate reporting or monitoring of the Companys financial position and the receipt or transmission of payments.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by the Investment Manager and the Administrator, and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are explained further in the internal controls section of the Corporate Governance Report which is set out on pages 17 and 34.
The Investment Manager, the Company Secretary and the Administrator are contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals and the Board receives regular internal control reports from the Administrator that confirm compliance.
Furthermore, the Company must comply with the provisions of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended and, since its shares are admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to the FCAs Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
A breach of the legislation could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
A breach of the Listing Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares.
The Board relies on its Company Secretary and advisers to ensure adherence to the Guernsey legislation and the FCAs rules.
Heat Map of Principal risks Operational risk Level of Discount or Premium Liquidity Risk Fund performance Macroeconomic conditions Switch of Administrator Credit risk Low Likelihood High ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 9 Low Impact High FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Operational Risk continued Viability The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the three year period to 31 December 2018 in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the Code.
The Board conducted this review for a period of 3 years, a period that was selected for the following reasons: The nature of the loan investments held by the Company have an aggregate maturity of approximately 3 years which allows the investment cash flows, recycling of investments, and expenditure commitments of the Company to be reasonably forecast over this timeframe.
The impacts on the Company of other factors can be reasonably assessed within this timeframe.
Beyond a 3 year timeframe, the impact of external forces, such as changes to legislation, market forces or other unknown factors, becomes less able to be predicted or assessed in analysing the viability of the company.
10 NEUBERGER BERMAN STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Viability continued The 3 year review considers the Company's cash flow, cash distributions and other key financial ratios over the period.
The 3 year review also makes certain assumptions about the normal level of expenditure likely to occur and considers whether additional financing facilities will be required.
Furthermore, the 3 year review period to 31 December 2018 makes assumptions on the Companys continuation vote in 2017, and each year thereafter, as well as the annual Redemption Offer.
The Directors note that the annual Redemption Offer will be triggered if, in the last three months of each calendar year, the Companys Ordinary Shares trade at an average discount to Net Asset Value in excess of 5%.
In its assessment of the viability of the Company, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 7 to 10 and in particular the impact of a significant fall in the value of the Companys investment portfolio.
The Directors have performed a quantitative and qualitative analysis that included the Companys income and expenditure projections and the fact that the Companys investments include readily realisable securities which can be expected to be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Based on the Companys processes for monitoring operating costs, the Investment Managers compliance with the investment objective, asset allocation, the portfolio risk profile, liquidity risk and financial controls, and assuming normal market conditions the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 31 December 2018.
Management, Registrar, Administration, Custody and Company Secretarial Arrangements Investment management services are provided to the Company by Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC formerly Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC.
The management fee is accrued daily at a stepped rate of 0.65%-0.75% depending on the Companys NAV and is paid quarterly in arrears.
No performance fee is payable by the Company to the Investment Manager and soft commissions are not used.
The Investment Management Agreement can be terminated either by the Company on one hand or the Investment Manager, on the other, but in certain circumstances, the Company would be required to pay compensation to the Investment Manager of six months management charges.
No compensation is payable if notice of termination of more than six months is given.
BNP Paribas Securities Services S. C. A. Guernsey Branch provided administration and custodian services to the Company up to 28 February 2015.
On 1 March 2015, US Bancorp Fund Services Guernsey, Limited was appointed administrator and Quintillion Limited was appointed Sub-Administrator.
US Bank National Association was appointed custodian on 1 March 2015.
During 2015, company secretarial services were provided by C. L. Secretaries Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Carey Commercial Limited.
Registrar services are provided by Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited.
Related Party Transactions The contracts with Neuberger Berman Europe Limited, Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC and the Directors are the only related party transactions currently in place.
Other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business, there have been no material transactions with these related parties, which have affected the financial position or performance of the Company in the financial year.
Further details on related party transactions can be found under Note 4 to the financial statement.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 11 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Financial Review At 31 December 2015, the Net Assets of the Company amounted to $1,714,972,853 2014: $1,950,175,572.
The Net Asset Value attributable to the U. S. Dollar Ordinary shares amounted to $49,710,242 2014: $59,335,724 and the Net Asset Value per U. S. Dollar Ordinary share was $0.9490 2014: $0.9862.
The Net Asset Value attributable to the Sterling Ordinary shares amounted to 1,129,834,189 $1,665,262,611 2014: Ordinary shares: 1,212,666,057 $1,890,839,848 and the Net Asset Value per Sterling Ordinary share was 0.9422 2014: Ordinary shares: 0.9770.
Dividends The Company pays dividends to Shareholders equal to the cash income it receives less its running costs paid in that year, subject to the solvency test prescribed by Guernsey law.
Distributions are made by way of dividends with respect to each calendar quarter.
Dividends are paid in the currency of the class of shares in respect of which the dividend was declared.
The Articles of Incorporation also permit the Directors, in their absolute discretion, to offer a scrip dividend alternative to Shareholders when a cash dividend is declared from time to time.
In the event a scrip dividend is offered, an electing Shareholder is issued new, fully paid up shares or shares reissued from treasury pursuant to the scrip dividend alternative, calculated by reference to the higher of i the prevailing average mid-market quotation of the shares on the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over five trading days: or ii the Net Asset Value per Share, at the relevant time.
The scrip dividend alternative is available only to those Shareholders to whom shares might lawfully be marketed by the Company.
The Directors' intention is not to offer a scrip dividend at any time that the shares trade at a material discount to the Net Asset Value per Share.
On 21 December 2015, due to the current discount, the Board decided to replace the scrip dividend alternative with a Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP, whereby the Shareholders have the option to re-invest their cash dividend in the Companys shares on an efficient basis.
The below table sets out the quarterly dividends paid by the Company that relate to 2015 performance: Dividend per Dividend per Period Date Declared Payment Date U. S. Dollar Share Sterling Share Quarter ended 31 March 2015 7 April 2015 26 May 2015 $0.0089 0.0089 - Ordinary Shares Quarter ended 30 June 2015 3 July 2015 21 August 2015 $0.0103 0.0103 - Ordinary Shares Quarter ended 30 September 2015 5 October 2015 20 November 2015 $0.0091 0.0091 - Ordinary Shares Quarter ended 31 December 2015 6 January 2016 19 February 2016 $0.0099 0.0099 - Ordinary Shares The Company has issued the following Ordinary Shares under Scrip Dividend Alternative for the year: Number of U. S. Dollar Number of Sterling Rate per Rate per Period Shares Shares U. S. Dollar Share Sterling Share Quarter ended 31 March 2015 23,310 202,637 $0.9960 0.98799 Quarter ended 30 June 2015 6,507 609,773 $0.9892 0.98120 Quarter ended 30 September 2015 5,231 50,620 $0.9677 0.96010 12 NEUBERGER BERMAN STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Performance Measurement and Key Performance Indicators In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Investment Manager, the Directors take into account the following performance indicators: Returns and NAV - The Board reviews at each board meeting the performance of the portfolio as well as the NAV, income and share price of the Company: Discount premium to NAV - At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the Companys discount or premium to NAV and reviews the average discount premium for the Companys peer group.
The Company publishes a NAV per share for both share classes on a daily basis through the official newswire of the London Stock Exchange.
This figure is calculated in accordance with the AICs guide which includes current financial year revenue, the same basis as that calculated for the financial statements: The Directors examine the revenue forecast quarterly and consider the yield on the portfolio and the amount available for distribution: and The Board considers the peer group performance of other income funds at each quarterly Board meeting.
Gender Metrics The Board consists of three men and one woman.
More information on the Boards consideration of diversity is given in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 17 to 23.
For and on behalf of the Board William Frewen Chairman 18 April 2016 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 13
