COMPANY OVERVIEW The investment objective of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio.
Investment management services are provided to the Company by Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC formerly known as Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC, as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager, and Neuberger Berman Europe Limited, as the Companys Manager.
Neuberger Berman Europe Limited provides administrative and limited currency hedging services to the Company.
To pursue its investment objective, the Company invests mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars, Sterling and Euros by primarily North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans are at the time of investment often non-investment grade.
The Company may also make investments in senior bonds on an opportunistic basis if the Investment Manager believes that such investments are attractively valued up to a maximum in aggregate of 20% of the net asset value at the time of investment.
The Company considers debt instruments to be non-investment grade if, at the time of investment, they are rated below the four highest categories Aaa, Aa, A and Baa by at least two independent credit ratings agencies or, if unrated, are deemed by the Investment Manager to be of comparable quality.
For the purposes of efficient portfolio management, the Company has established a wholly-owned Luxembourg incorporated subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 1 S.. r. l. which in turn holds a wholly-owned subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. Part of the portfolio of the Company is held through NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. All references to the Company in this document refer to the Company together with its wholly-owned Luxembourg subsidiaries.
Company NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company Guernsey incorporated, closed-ended investment company Admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority with a premium listing and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 April 2011 The Company was admitted to the FTSE 250 in March 2012 Pays dividends quarterly Dividend yield based on dividends paid during the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 - U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares 4.11% based on the 31 December 2015 share price of $0.9238 - Sterling Ordinary Shares 4.13% based on the 31 December 2015 share price of 0.9175 Shares in Issue at 31 December 2015 - U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares - 53,735,656 of which 1,355,254 are held in treasury and are not eligible to vote - Sterling Ordinary Shares 1,246,446,600 of which 47,350,634 are held in treasury and are not eligible to vote Manager Neuberger Berman Europe Limited the Manager and Alternative Investment Fund Manager Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC formerly known as Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC the Alternative Investment Fund Manager or the AIFM and together with the Manager, the Investment Manager A large team of 143 fixed income investment professionals Total fixed income assets of approximately $106 billion Over $36 billion in high yield bonds and loans Non-investment grade research team of 27 analysts ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2015 1
