Governance At 31 December 2015, shareholder 119 What are the arrangements What is the Companys issued authorities were in force enabling the for Annual General share capital and who are the Company to make market purchases of, Meetings AGMs ?
Companys largest and or to purchase pursuant to contingent The Board uses the AGM, held at the shareholders?
purchase contracts relating to each of the Companys head office in London each The Companys issued share capital at overseas exchanges on which its shares are year, to comment on the Groups results for 31 December 2015 was 563,273,444 listed, its own shares up to an aggregate the previous year and developments during divided into 4,928,642,637 ordinary shares of 492,590,000 shares.
It bought back no 3 the current year to date.
Shareholders also of 11 7p each 2014: 560,756,596 divided shares during 2015 or during the period have the opportunity to ask the Board into 4,906,620,219 ordinary shares of up to 11 March 2016.
The AGM is webcast and a 11 p each.
The total number of voting 7 record of the proceedings is also made rights in the Companys issued ordinary In the period 1 January to 11 March 2016, available on the Companys website shortly share capital at 31 December 2015 was the Company issued a further 38,982 after the end of the meeting.
All formal also 4,928,642,637. shares under its employee share schemes at business items at the AGM are conducted an average price of 1.489 each.
As a During 2015, the Company issued on a poll, rather than by a show of hands.
3 result, the Companys issued share capital 2,696,988 ordinary shares of 11 7p each The Companys share registrars ensure at 11 March 2016 was 563,277, 899 divided under employee share schemes at an that all properly submitted proxy votes 3 into 4,928,681,619 ordinary shares of 11 7p average price of 1.2915 per share and are counted, and a senior member of 3 each.
The total number of voting rights at 19,325,430 ordinary shares of 11 7p each the UK registrars staff acts as scrutineer that date was also 4,928,681,619. as part of the Groups acquisition of Quilter to ensure that votes cast are correctly Cheviot at 2.1864 per share.
On 11 February 2016, Allan Gray Unit Trust received and recorded.
Management RF Proprietary Limited Each substantially separate issue at the notified the Company that it now held over AGM is dealt with by a separate resolution 3% of the Companys voting rights and, SHAREHOLDER and the business of the meeting always on 1 March 2016, Coronation Asset ANALYSIS includes a resolution on the receipt and Management Pty Limited notified the adoption of the Report and Accounts.
Company that it now held in excess of 5% of the Companys voting rights.
The notice of AGM is sent out to There have been no other notifications of 1 shareholders who have elected or are 9 disclosable interests by shareholders and entitled to receive physical documents in 8 no notifications of changes to the interests time to arrive in the ordinary course of the 7 set out in the table of substantial interests post at least 20 working days before the in the Companys shares below between date of the meeting.
31 December 2015 and 11 March 2016. Who will be standing for election or 6 How can I find out about the rights re-election at this years AGM?
and obligations attaching to the We anticipate that all the current directors Companys shares?
2 except for Paul Hanratty, who has stepped 3 54 The rights and obligations attaching to down from the Board with effect from 12 the Companys ordinary shares are those March 2016, will stand for election or conventional for a publicly-listed UK re-election at this years AGM and that the company.
The Corporate Governance Board will recommend that every director section of the Companys website provides who is standing should be elected or 1.
South African institutional 41.1% a summary of these along with certain re-elected.
Brief biographical details of all 2.
South African retail 5.0% other information relating to dividends, the directors are contained in the Board of 3.
BEE 2.1% directors and amendments to the 4.
Policyholders 1.3% Directors section earlier in this Annual Companys articles of association and the 5.
Additional information about them, Companys current articles of association.
USA 14.7% and further details of the basis on which the 7.
Europe 5.1% Board has assessed each directors 8.
Rest of the world 5.2% performance and recommends their 9.
Miscellaneous 9.1% election or re-election, will be set out in the Source: Nasdaq shareholder circular relating to the AGM when this is published later this year.
Substantial interests in the Companys shares At 31 December 2015, the following substantial interests in voting rights in relation to the Companys shares had been declared to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of % of voting rights voting rights Public Investment Corporation of the Republic of South Africa 536,064,427 10.88 BlackRock Inc. 249,751,037 5.09 Coronation Asset Management Pty Limited 197,345,256 4.00 OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 120 Why is the Company changing What dividends were waived its dividend policy and what is during 2015?
CORPOR ATE the new policy?
During 2015, trustees of the Companys, GOVERNANCE The Companys dividend policy is part of Quilter Cheviots and the Companys South CONTINUED the Groups wider capital management African subsidiary employee benefit trusts policy.
In light of the conclusions of the waived dividends on certain shares in the strategic review, the Group will be adopting Company held by them relating to awards a capital management policy which where the scheme participants were not What is the Companys provides appropriate flexibility for the entitled to receive dividends pending dividend policy and period of the managed separation and the vesting.
The total number of shares what dividend will be costs of that process, as well as providing concerned was 15,407, 092 for the final for the significant investment required in paid for 2015?
dividend for 2014 and 19,348,778 for each of the business units.
The Board has previously stated that it the first interim dividend for 2015. would seek to pursue a progressive Consequently the Board has approved a Audit arrangements dividend policy having regard to the new dividend policy whereby, during the Who is the Companys external Groups overall capital requirements, period of managed separation, the Board auditor and how much is it paid?
liquidity and profitability and targeting a intends to pursue a dividend policy KPMG LLP or, before 2014, its related dividend cover in the range of 2.0 to 2.25 reflecting the operational cash generation, associated entity KPMG Audit Plc has times AOP earnings, with interim dividends investment and liquidity needs of the been the Companys external auditor since set at about 30% of the prior years full Group, as well as the capital requirements it was originally listed in 1999.
of the underlying businesses, and will target made arrangements with KPMG LLP for Consistent with this policy, the Board has a dividend cover equivalent to 2.5 to 3.5 appropriate audit director rotation in line declared a second interim dividend for times Group AOP earnings for each annual with the requirements of the UK Auditing reporting period, with the first interim 2015 of 6.25p per share or its equivalent in Practices Board.
The current dividend cover equivalent to 3 times Group other applicable currencies.
This, together audit engagement director in the UK, with the interim dividend of 2.65p per share AOP earnings for the first interim period.
Philip Smart, assumed this role in April 2011 paid in October 2015, equates to 2.17 times and is due to rotate off after completion During the period of the managed AOP earnings cover for the full year.
of the audit for 2015, when he will be separation, the Group also intends to replaced by Rees Aronson.
This reflects the Groups current capital reduce the Group holding companys current debt, mainly through asset position and cash resources, and the strong The Group Audit Committee report above operating performance in 2015. disposals.
Subsequently and to the extent describes how that committee satisfies itself that excess capital is generated, the Board about the external auditors performance Further information on the second interim will consider further returns of capital to and its recommendation to reappoint dividend for 2015 including the currency shareholders.
KPMG LLP which has expressed its equivalents is given in the Shareholder willingness to continue in office as auditor What other factors are relevant in Information section at the back of this for 2016 at this years AGM.
The Company determining dividend payments?
has not entered into any contractual In addition to giving specific consideration Why is the Company paying a restriction preventing it from considering a to the Companys dividend policy, all second interim dividend instead change of auditor.
dividend declarations are assessed by the of a final dividend?
Board in the context of their impact on During the year ended 31 December 2015, In a departure from previous years, the the viability of the Group, as described fees paid by the Group to KPMG LLP and final dividend for 2015 has been declared elsewhere in this report.
its associates totalled 13.8 million for as a second interim dividend.
The payment audit services 2014 13.7 million and of a second interim dividend does not Dividend declarations must also take 3.5 million for tax compliance, auditrequire shareholder approval at the Annual account of the distributable reserves of related assurance, corporate finance General Meeting.
Consequently, the second the holding company, Old Mutual plc, transactions and other non-audit services interim dividend is revocable by the Board which were 2,440m at 31 December 2015.
In addition to the above, until paid.
This means that the Company In assessing the distributable reserves Nedbank Group paid a further 3.1 million has been able to set the foreign currency of the Company, management also 2014: 3.2 million to Deloitte in respect of equivalents and bring forward the date considers its ability to access subsidiary joint audit arrangements.
for dividend payment from the end of distributable reserves.
May, as was previously the practice, to the The Group Audit Committee has approved The Group capital management policy end of April.
This also means that, under detailed guidelines as part of the Groups also takes account of provisions in the Solvency II rules, the Companys ordinary policy on non-audit services: a summary OMLAC SA demutualisation agreement shares continue to qualify as eligible of the applicable provisions is available which restrict the application of South regulatory capital.
in the Corporate Governance section of African dividend remittances to the our website.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance The system of internal control is designed to In response to a detailed independent 121 Risk assessment and financial manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of review of the cost and timing overruns control environment failure to achieve the Groups business experienced in Old Mutual Wealths What is the Companys internal objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, outsourcing initiative with IFDS, we have control environment and how is it monitored?
and not absolute, assurance against strengthened the governance and oversight The Groups Finance function actively material misstatement or loss.
of this project by both the Old Mutual monitors the quality of the Groups Wealth and Old Mutual plc boards.
We The Groups actions to review the financial reporting controls, by seeking have also shared key learnings from the effectiveness of the system of internal positive affirmation from its principal review across other Group businesses with control include: subsidiary businesses twice-yearly to the similar initiatives.
effect that key controls safeguarding An annual review of the risk assessment The Board confirms that, in accordance reliable, accurate and timely Group procedures, control environment with the processes described above and in external IFRS reporting are in place considerations, information and the Risk and Capital Management section and operating effectively.
communication and monitoring of this Annual Report, it has, in conjunction procedures at Group level and within Management assessed the effectiveness with the Board Risk Committee, carried out each business unit.
This review covers of this framework at 31 December 2015, a robust assessment of the principal risks all material controls including financial, based on the criteria described in facing the Company, including those that operational and compliance controls Internal Control Integrated Framework would threaten its business model, future and risk management systems issued by the Committee of Sponsoring performance, solvency or liquidity.
The A certification process, under which all Organizations of Treadway Commission, relevant risks and the manner in which business units are required to confirm that and concluded that it was effective.
they are being managed or mitigated are they have undertaken risk management Management reports on the status of these explained in more detail in the Risk and in accordance with the Group risk controls to the Group Audit Committee, and Capital Management section of this framework, that they have reviewed the this has enabled the committee to support Annual Report.
effectiveness of the system of internal the Board in concluding that it can rely on What is the role of Group controls, that internal policies have been the operation of these controls as part of its Internal Audit?
complied with, and that no significant review of internal control effectiveness The purpose of Group Internal Audit GIA risks or issues are known which have not referred to above.
is to help the Board and executive been reported in accordance with policy management to protect the assets, An ongoing process for identifying, Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the reputation and sustainability of the Group.
evaluating and managing the significant system of internal control by the Group GIA does this by assessing whether all risks faced by the Group has been in place Audit Committee, which receives reports significant risks are identified and for the year ended 31 December 2015 and from the Group Internal Audit function.
appropriately reported by management up to this reports date of approval, as The committee also receives reports and the Risk function to the Board and described in more detail below.
Further from the external auditor, which include executive management: assessing whether details of the Groups risk and capital details of significant internal control they are adequately controlled: and management disciplines are described matters that have been identified during challenging executive management to in a dedicated section earlier in this the course of their work.
improve the effectiveness of governance, Annual Report.
These activities supplement the regular risk risk management and internal controls.
The Board has overall responsibility for management activities which are performed GIAs work is focused on the areas of the Groups system of internal control on an ongoing basis, as described in more greatest risk, both current and emerging, and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the detail in the Risk and Capital Management to the Group as determined by a implementation of internal control systems is section of this Annual Report.
comprehensive risk-based planning the responsibility of management.
Executive The certification process described above process.
The Group Audit Committee management has implemented an internal does not apply to some joint ventures approves the annual Internal Audit plan control system designed to help ensure: where the Group does not exercise full and any subsequent material amendments The effective and efficient operation management control.
In these cases, to it and also satisfies itself that GIA has of the Group and its business units by Old Mutual monitors the internal control adequate resources to discharge its enabling management to respond environment and the potential impact on function.
The Board is able to confirm appropriately to significant risks to the Group through representation on the that this was the case for 2015. achieving the Groups business objectives board of the entity concerned.
There are Internal Audit teams in each The safeguarding of assets from The Board reviewed the effectiveness of of our major businesses.
The heads of inappropriate use or from loss and the system of internal control during and Internal Audit in the Groups wholly-owned fraud and ensuring that liabilities are at the end of the year.
Our annual internal subsidiaries report directly to the Group identified and managed control assessment has not highlighted Internal Audit Director GIAD.
Heads of The quality of internal and any material failings.
We remain committed audit in majority-owned subsidiaries have external reporting to having a robust internal control a dual reporting line to the GIAD, in line Compliance with applicable laws environment across the Group.
with the Group Operating Model.
and regulations, and with internal policies on the conduct of business.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 122 Based on its enquiries, the Board has a As this is the first year of the Groups reasonable expectation that the Company reporting under the new Solvency II regime, CORPOR ATE and the Group have adequate resources the process for preparing the business plan GOVERNANCE to continue in operational existence for the gave specific focus to anticipated Solvency CONTINUED next twelve months.
Accordingly, it continues II outcomes over the period, in addition to adopt the going concern basis in to the existing Financial Groups Directive preparing the financial statements.
solvency measure and the capital strength of the underlying businesses.
During 2015, the GIAD reported The Boards assessment of going concern is underpinned by the enquiries and The Board has also given consideration functionally to the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and administratively to the assessments it has made in the course to the revised Group strategy for the Group Chief Executive.
The GIAD attends of its assessment of the Groups viability, managed separation of the Groups which is set out in further detail below.
operations announced on 11 March 2016. all meetings of the Group Audit Committee, and has unrestricted access to the Group This has been addressed by overlaying the Is the Board satisfied that the Group Chief Executive and the Chairman of the financial impacts of a number of managed is viable in the longer term?
Board, as well as open invitations to attend separation scenarios on to the business The Board routinely assesses the plan.
Although the means of giving effect any meetings of the business unit audit reasonableness of the expectation that the committees, the Board Risk Committee to the managed separation strategy are yet Company and Group will have adequate and the Group Executive Risk Committee.
to be fully determined, the Board has taken resources to continue in operational into consideration the adequacy of the existence for the foreseeable future.
Internal Audit teams across the Group Groups capital and resources to enable In addition to enabling the Board to use a single audit methodology which it to achieve the desired strategic outcome.
conclude that the Company is a going meets the international standards set by concern, this assessment has enabled the the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Issues As the Groups ongoing viability is subject Board to confirm that the parent raised by Internal Audit in the course of to certain factors that are beyond the Company and wider Group will remain control of its directors, such as future its work are discussed with management, viable, such that they are able to settle macro-environmental conditions and the who are responsible for implementing their liabilities as they fall due in the agreed actions to address the issues political situation of the countries in which longer term, meaning for this purpose, identified within an appropriate and it operates, further analysis has been the period up to the end of 2018. performed to ensure that, barring agreed timeframe.
unforeseen circumstances, these do not In reaching this conclusion, the Board has The GIAD submits formal reports to each pose a material threat to the viability of the assessed projections covering the period meeting of the Group Audit Committee, Group.
As a consequence, the business from 2016 to 2018, as set out in the Groups summarising the results of Internal plan and related managed separation rolling three-year business plan, which Audit activity, managements progress scenarios have been subject to stress testing was formally approved by the Board.
in addressing issues and other and risk assessment.
The principal risks These projections include analysis of the significant matters.
considered in these scenarios are consistent Groups current and prospective financial with those set out elsewhere in this report.
Can you confirm that the performance and cash flows on which In addition to the more severe stress tests Company is a going concern?
forecasts of its regulatory capital, liquidity and scenarios, management and the The Groups financial position, its cash flows, and financial positions have been based.
Board also consider milder downside liquidity position and borrowing facilities are The Groups current financial position, its sensitivities as part of routine Board reports.
described in the Financial review and risk cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing The Group and Company also maintain section of this Annual Report.
In addition, facilities are described in the Financial contingency plans and resources to deal Note E1 to the financial statements includes Review and the Risk and Capital with potential adverse developments, the Groups objectives, policies and Management sections of this Annual Report.
which have been reviewed by the Board.
processes for managing its capital solvency The Board considers a three-year outlook risk and liquidity risks, and sets out details Has all relevant information when considering the longer-term viability of the principal risks related to financial been disclosed to the auditor?
This is the period for which instrument market risk, credit risk and The directors who held office at the date the Group prepares its detailed business insurance risks as well as their sensitivities.
of approval of this Annual Report confirm plan which sets out the Groups prospective that, so far as they are each aware, there The preceding sections of the Annual Report operating performance and financial is no relevant audit information of which referred to above also explain the basis on position, including its capital position.
the Companys auditor is unaware, and which the Group generates and preserves each director has taken all the steps that Some Group businesses write business that value over the longer term and the strategy he or she ought to have taken as a director is very long term in nature, especially in the for delivering its objectives.
The Financial area of life assurance and pensions.
This is to make himself or herself aware of any Groups Directive surplus capital and cash relevant audit information and to establish accounted for appropriately, applying well flow are stress tested and are within the that the Companys auditor was aware established actuarial principles.
In adopting limits described in the Risk and Capital a three-year time horizon for this viability of that information.
Management section in order to identify statement which is a requirement under the those risks that would threaten the Groups UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, no solvency and liquidity.
As a consequence, inference should be drawn about a lack of the directors believe that the Group is in a viability of the Group in relation to such strong financial position and is well placed longer-term commitments.
to manage its business risks successfully.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance The Board Risk Committee and the Group How did the Board approve 123 Other Directors this Annual Report?
Executive Committee receive regular Report matters updates from the Responsible Business The Board approved this Annual Report at As an international business active in many its meeting on 10 March 2016.
It confirmed Committee on material responsible countries, the Group operates through that it considered the Annual Report and business issues that affect the Group and subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, updates on actions that are being taken associated companies established in, and balanced and understandable and to to address them.
subject to the laws and regulations of, provide the information necessary for many different jurisdictions.
Where can I find the other shareholders to assess the Companys matters required to be included Does the Company have any performance, business model and strategy.
significant agreements involving In reaching this conclusion, it took into The Company has taken advantage of change of control?
account input from the Group Audit, paragraph 1A of Schedule 7 to The Large The following significant agreement to Remuneration and Board Risk Committees, and Medium-sized Companies and which the Company is a party contains which had previously had the opportunity Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations provisions entitling counterparties to to review and comment on drafts of the 2008 to disclose certain information that exercise termination or other rights in sections falling within their respective remits.
must be disclosed as part of its Directors the event of a change of control of Report either elsewhere in this document Governing law the Company: or on our website as set out below: The Strategic Report, Financial Review 800 million Revolving Credit Facility and Risk section, and this Corporate Important events relating to the Group dated 22 August 2014 between the Governance report collectively comprise since the end of the financial year are Company, various syndicate banks the the directors report for the purposes of included in the Strategic Report as well Banks and Bank of America Merrill section 463 1 a of the Companies Act as in Note H9 to the financial statements Lynch International Limited as agent the 2006.
The Directors Remuneration Report Agent.
If a person or group of persons A description of likely future contained in this Annual Report is the acting in concert gains control of the developments of the business of the directors remuneration report for the Company, the Company must notify the Company and its subsidiaries is contained purposes of section 463 1 b of that Act.
The Agent and the Company in the Strategic Report and the Financial English law governs the disclosures will negotiate with a view to agreeing Review and Risk section contained in and liability for the terms and conditions acceptable to The Groups involvement in research and Directors Report and the Directors the Company and all of the Banks for development, insofar as relevant to its Remuneration Report.
If such negotiations operations, is given in the Strategic Report fail within 30 days of the original Martin Murray and the Financial Review and Risk section notification to the Agent by the Company, Group Company Secretary Our financial risk management objectives the Banks become entitled to declare any 1 1 March 2016 and policies are described in the Risk and outstanding indebtedness repayable by Capital Management section of this giving notice to the Agent within 15 days Annual Report.
Along with Notes E1 to of the 30-day period mentioned above.
E11 to the financial statements, this also On receiving notice for payment addresses the Groups exposure to price from the Agent, the Company shall risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash pay the outstanding sums within three flow risk business days to the relevant Bank s. Information about the Groups What is the Groups approach to greenhouse gas emissions is given in the being a responsible business?
Key Performance Indicators section of this Responsible business practices are core Annual Report components of the Old Mutual Group risk The Companys compliance with the UK management strategy, which is Human Rights Act 1998 and the UK underpinned by the Groups four values Modern Slavery Act 2015 are addressed of integrity, respect, accountability and under Stakeholder Relationships in the pushing beyond boundaries.
At local level, Strategic Review.
we have a network of people who manage and monitor our responsible business Did the Group make any approach.
Each business unit has named political donations during 2015?
a senior executive with overall responsibility The Group made no EU or other political for these issues.
At Group level, this is donations during the year.
overseen by the Head of Responsible Business and our Responsible Business Committee, which coordinates the delivery of our Positive Futures Plan, as well as overseeing social and environmental risks.
The Responsible Business Committee is chaired by the Group Customer Director and Responsible Business Lead.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
