Strategic report 08 OUR STRATEGY, PRIORITIES AND VALUES However, there are limited tangible Old Mutual Group Our strategic priorities synergies between the businesses.
Working with our businesses in delivering The Group has undergone substantial The evolving regulatory environment in enhanced performance relative to their change in recent years, completing a Europe and South Africa is adding a successful programme of simplifying the peer groups.
degree of cost and complexity to the business, focusing on customers and core Stewardship of the managed separation current Group structure.
This constrains competencies, operational improvement process, balancing value, cost, time their growth and value potential.
and reducing risk through lowering of debt, and risk.
and investment in governance and controls.
Our strategy Fulfilling the Groups ongoing To execute a managed separation of the regulatory obligations: and managing We have also strengthened our four Group into four strong standalone entities.
underlying businesses Old Mutual the Groups debt obligations, central cost reductions and distributions Emerging Markets OMEM, Nedbank, A managed separation of the Group will to shareholders.
Old Mutual Wealth OMW and Old Mutual create four independent businesses, each Asset Management OMAM having having a capital structure and dividend Our values invested in technology and acquisitions to policy suitable for its own strategy that will We are committed to being a responsible bolster capabilities and reach.
allow them to access their natural business with a view to the long-term and shareholder base.
Despite tough operating conditions, each will focus on areas where our businesses of our businesses has exciting growth can make a material impact and create Following the managed separation, the prospects in sizeable markets, with excellent meaningful change.
Our businesses will lead regulator for each business will then competitive positions, strong balance continue to be guided by our strong values: be the same as the local regulator.
Respect We will manage the separation of the Integrity Group in a manner that aims to enhance Accountability value to shareholders over time.
Pushing beyond boundaries We will manage the separation of the Group in a manner that aims to enhance value to shareholders over time Bruce Hemphill Group Chief Executive OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 09 Our business Our business unit unit strategies strategic priorities Old Mutual Emerging Markets An African financial services champion Continue to strengthen leadership positions in South Africa with strong, differentiated franchises Build East Africa financial services and accelerate growth in West Africa in select emerging markets Simplify and improve the customer experience Deliver a leading Property & Casualty capability Optimise and selectively invest in our businesses in Latin America and Asia Drive OMEM and Group collaboration Develop and strengthen our people to deliver on our growth ambitions Nedbank Africas most admired bank by staff, Client-centred innovation clients, shareholders, regulators Grow our transactional banking franchise and communities Optimise and invest Strategic portfolio tilt Build a pan-African banking network Old Mutual Wealth The leading UK and cross-border Continue to become one business to better serve our customers retail investment business Continue our IT and business transformation to develop market-leading, flexible and scalable investment platforms Build an outstanding investment and asset management business Enhance multi-channel advised distribution Expand offering of investment and protection products Old Mutual Asset Management A leading multi-boutique institutional Generate core Affiliate growth through strong investment asset management business performance and positive net client cash flows Invest in collaborative organic growth with existing Affiliates Increase global distribution opportunities for Affiliates Execute new Affiliate partnerships Efficiently manage our balance sheet BUILDING: An African financial services champion Africas most admired bank The leading UK and cross-border retail investment business A leading multi-boutique institutional asset management business OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 10 OUR BUSINESS MODEL TRANSITION Actively manage the separation of our four strong businesses to realise their full potential as standalone entities, in a manner consistent with our responsible business values Current-state Emerging Markets Group Four strong underlying businesses have benefited from significant investment.
Each has excellent growth prospects in sizeable markets, competitively positioned, with strong balance sheets, and appropriate governance OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report OUR THREE 11 TRANSITION ANCHORS 1 3 Working with our Fulfilling the Groups businesses in delivering ongoing regulatory enhanced performance obligations: and relative to their peer groups.
managing the Groups debt, central cost reductions 2 and distributions to Stewardship of the shareholders.
managed separation process, balancing value, cost, time and risk.
Managed End-state separation Emerging Emerging Markets Markets Group Four strong, independent businesses, each having a capital structure and dividend policy appropriate for its own strategy Each business delivering strong performance relative to its peer group A phased reduction of Group central costs OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 12 Intellectual capital Social and OUR BUSINESS MODEL relationship capital We have four strong brands, TR ANSITION each recognised at the local level: Old Mutuals four business units have a role CONTINUED Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Nedbank, to play in creating a thriving society and Old Mutual Wealth and Old Mutual have identified the stakeholders with whom Asset Management.
they must work to deliver value through the business.
The business units focus Each of the businesses works with its Our four strong businesses on financial wellbeing and responsible customers to enable their goals.
We deploy resources that create investment will ensure that they are doing recognise that partnerships are key to their part to support their customers, their value for our stakeholders delivering value and we have identified a families, communities and the wider society.
Our future success depends on us managing number of key partnerships to help deliver our resources in a way which sustainably value at an operational and strategic The four business units have invested a total delivers value to stakeholders over time.
These include Cambridge Institute of 16.7 million in community programmes for Sustainability Leadership, GlobeScan, focusing on financial education and Financial capital Opportunity International and many more.
They are the biggest In 2015, Old Mutual generated 1, 663 million investors in renewables in South Africa adjusted operating profit pre-tax and at 2.7 billion and have invested 2.5 billion non-controlling interest and funds under in infrastructure.
We will work with each of our businesses to deliver enhanced Natural capital performance relative to their peer groups.
Our role is to add A clear position on climate change is central to the commitment of our value to all of our businesses to enabling positive futures Human capital stakeholders.
Helping and their main objective is to play a Our business units recognise that investing significant role in the transition to a our customers thrive in their people is key to partnering sustainable-energy future.
Our four whilst creating a successfully with their customers to do businesses track and monitor their great things.
We have 64,043 employees direct footprint and are deepening their positive future for across the Group and are proud to understanding of the carbon intensity have a diverse workplace with 58% of society of their investment portfolios.
Gail Klintworth Manufactured capital Group Customer Director Our businesses partner with their customers by delivering a range of products through face-to-face support, branch advisers and virtually through digital platforms.
The combined activities of our four businesses enable Our businesses will continue to enhance them to create value for our stakeholders their capabilities and develop innovative solutions to meet their customers needs.
m 2015 1 Returns to shareholders 426 2 Returns to bondholders 83 3 Taxes to governments 1,872 1 Ordinary cash dividend 2 Interest paid on debt 3 Total taxes paid and collected.
We have the resources to manage the separation from a position of strength Bruce Hemphill Group Chief Executive OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
