Mike Arnold 68 British BOARD B. Sc.
Independent non-executive director since September 2009.
Chairman of the Board OF DIRECTORS Risk Committee and a member of the Group Audit Committee Principal Consulting Actuary and Head of Life practice at the consulting actuarial firm 1.
Paul Hanratty 54 Milliman from 2002 to 2009.
Prior to that, Zimbabwean Irish M. Sc.
B. S. F. C. A. Ireland he had been the senior partner at the practice Chairman of the Board since January 2010.
He is a past Member of Council and Also chairs the Nomination and Governance Chief Operating Officer and Chairman, Vice Chairman of the Institute of Actuaries, past Committee Old Mutual Emerging Markets Chairman of the International Association of Vice Chairman of Zurich Financial Services Consulting Actuaries and past member of the Paul Hanratty has been Chief Operating Officer from 2007 to 2009, where he had specific Board of Actuarial Standards.
since July 2014 having previously been Group responsibility for its international businesses Non-executive director of Financial Information Operating Officer from March 2013 and including those in South Africa.
Prior to that, Technology Limited.
Chairman of Old Mutual South Africa OMSA he had been CFO of the ZFS Group and CEO since September 2009.
Zoe Cruz 61 US of Eagle Star Insurance Company.
He held He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and has positions at Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, held a number of roles at Old Mutual, including B.
Financial Guaranty Insurance Company and Head of Product Development, General Independent non-executive director since Barclays BZW.
Manager Finance and Actuarial, Head of the January 2014.
Also a member of the Previous non-executive roles included Chairman Retail business of OMSA, and CEO of Long-Term Board Risk and Remuneration Committees of the UKs Shareholder Executive, Deputy Savings.
He joined the Board of OMSAs life Co-President for Institutional Securities and Governor of the Bank of Ireland, Senior business in 2003 and became Managing Wealth Management at Morgan Stanley from Independent Director at Man Group plc and Director of OMSA in 2006.
2005 to 2007, where she was responsible for Chairman of the Audit Committee at Collins running major revenue-generating businesses, 4.
Ingrid Johnson 49 Stewart plc and Cofra Group AG.
Bruce Hemphill 52 C. A. SA, A. M. P. Harvard South African Group Finance Director.
A. C. P. E. Solicitor of the Senior Courts director of Old Mutual Wealth of England and Wales Ingrid Johnson has been Group Finance Director Group Chief Executive.
Also Chairman of since July 2014.
Prior to taking on this role, she Old Mutual Wealth and a non-executive director had 20 years broad-based financial services of Nedbank Group Limited, Nedbank Limited experience with Nedbank Group in both line and Old Mutual Emerging Markets and financial roles.
She was appointed to the Bruce Hemphill joined Old Mutual as Group Nedbank Group Executive Committee in 2008.
Chief Executive in November 2015, succeeding Her most recent responsibility there, in addition Julian Roberts.
He was previously Chief Executive to being a Prescribed Officer, was as Group of Wealth, Insurance and Non-Bank Financial Managing Executive: Retail and Business Services at Standard Bank Group, the largest Banking.
She assumed this role in August 2009, African banking group by assets and earnings.
taking responsibility for the turnaround of the From June 2006 to February 2014, he was Chief Retail Banking cluster and managing the Executive of Liberty Group, an African financial integration of Imperial Bank, in addition to services group listed on the JSE.
He originally retaining her role of leading the commercial trained as a lawyer in the UK, practising law in cluster, Business Banking, which she had held both the UK and Hong Kong.
After completing since 2005. a management training programme at Anglo American in South Africa, he joined the corporate finance team at Standard Merchant Bank, where he eventually headed up the corporate finance, investment, banking, commercial banking and cash equities businesses.
14 6 3 OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance including overseeing their securities risk Corporation in the UK.
Adiba Ighodaro 52 British management and information technology.
From he was Chairman of Ulster Bank, a subsidiary LL.
B. L. ACCA 2009 to 2012, she was involved in founding and of Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Independent non-executive director since running her own investment management firm, Senior Independent Director of United Business January 2014.
Also a member of the Group Voras Capital Management.
Prior to becoming Media plc and Chairman of the Economic & Audit Committee Co-President of Morgan Stanley, she had been Social Research Council.
its Global Head of Fixed Income, Commodities Joined the Commonwealth Development and Foreign Exchange from 2001 until 2005.
Danuta Gray 57 British Corporation CDC in 1991, first in London, and She joined the company in 1982 and was later in Lagos, with a remit to establish CDCs B. Sc.
A. the third founding member of the foreign Nigerian business.
In 1995, her focus moved to Independent non-executive director since March exchange group.
the Caribbean as a Senior Investment Executive 2013.
Also Chairman of the Remuneration and Investment Manager, helping to obtain Founder and CEO of EOZ Global.
Committee and a member of the Nomination investment for and dispose of some of CDCs and Governance Committee 7.
Alan Gillespie 65 British interests in Africa and the Caribbean.
Later she Chairman of Telefnica O2 in Ireland until became CDCs Country Manager for Nigeria.
D. December 2012, having previously been its She also became Head of West Africa, Senior Independent Director since May 201 1, Chief Executive from 2001 to 2010.
Prior to that, with responsibility for building the investment having joined the Board as an independent she was a Senior Vice President for BT Europe in business of CDC Actis across the region.
Germany, where she gained experience in sales, Actis was spun out of CDC in 2004, following Also a member of the Nomination and marketing, customer service and technology which she became a founding principal of Actis Governance and Remuneration Committees and in leading and changing large businesses.
Today, as a partner of the She previously served for seven years on the Partner at Goldman Sachs from 1990, with firm, Adiba both heads fundraising across the board of Irish Life and Permanent plc and was responsibility for corporate finance and mergers Americas and manages a number of Actis also a director of Business in the Community.
and acquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
He jointly global strategic relationships.
led the firms financial services practice in Europe Non-executive director of Aldermore Group plc, Partner at Actis.
and in 1996 established Goldman Sachs Michael Page International Plc and Paddy presence in South Africa.
After retiring from Power PLC and a non-executive Defence Board Goldman Sachs in 1999, he became Chief Member and Chair of the People Committee Executive of the Commonwealth Development at the UK Ministry of Defence.
Vassi Naidoo 61 British South African British B OARD OF DIRECTORS B. Sc.
F. C. A. C. A. SA Independent non-executive director of the Non-executive director of the Company and CONTINUED Company and Chairman of the Group Audit Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited since Committee since August 2010.
Also a member of the Board Risk of the Board Risk and Remuneration Committees and Nomination and Governance Committees Former audit partner in Vice Chairman of Deloitte UK from 2009 to 2014.
Trevor Manuel 60 , where he led the CEO of Deloitte Southern Africa from 1998 to South African audit of a number of major groups, including 2006.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Non-executive director since January 2016.
Zurich Financial Services and Lloyds TSB.
Accountants in England and Wales and Also a member of the Board Risk Committee honorary life member of the South African Chairman of the Accounting Council, a director Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Trevor Manuel was a minister in the South of the Financial Reporting Council, and a African government for more than 20 years, non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit 14.
Nonkululeko serving under Presidents Mandela, Mbeki, Committee of Pension Insurance Corporation.
Nkosana Moyo 64 Minister from 1996 to 2009.
Before his retirement South African from public office in 2014, he was Minister in Zimbabwean B. Sc.
A. the Presidency responsible for South Africas Independent non-executive director of the Ph.
Also a member Independent non-executive director since his career, he assumed a number of ex officio of the Board Risk and Nomination and September 2013.
Also a member of the Group positions on international bodies, including Governance Committees Audit and Remuneration Committees the United Nations Commission for Trade and Founder of the Mandela Institute for Non-executive director of Old Mutual Life Development UNCTAD, the World Bank, Development Studies MINDS.
Vice President Assurance Company South Africa Limited from the International Monetary Fund, the G20, the and Chief Operating Officer of the African 2010 to 2012, a position she relinquished upon African Development Bank and the Southern Development Bank from 2009 to 201 1.
From 2004 taking up her role at Old Mutual plc.
He has to 2009, Managing Partner, based in London, of Chief Officer of Mergers & Acquisitions for the also served on a number of voluntary Actis Capital LLP with responsibility for its African Vodacom Group and Chief Executive Officer public interest commissions including Africa businesses.
Associate Director of the International of Alliance Capital.
Chief Executive Officer of Commission, Global Commission on Growth Finance Corporation of the World Bank from ArcelorMittal South Africa from 2008 until 2014. and Development, Global Ocean Commission, 2001 to 2004.
Managing Director of Standard and the New Climate Economy.
He holds a Chief Executive Officer of Ichor Coal N. V. Chartered Bank Zimbabwe from 1990 to 1995, National Diploma in Civil and Structural and non-executive Chairman of JSE Limited.
and later African Regional Head for Corporate Engineering from the Peninsula Technikon, Banking of Standard Chartered Bank.
South Africa and completed an Executive Management Programme at Stanford Executive Chairman of MINDS.
of the boards of Impala Platinum and the Africa Leadership Institute.
Member of the International Advisory Board of the Rothschild Group and Deputy Chairman of Rothschild South Africa, which provides financial advisory services to Old Mutual.
Also a non-executive Director of SABMiller plc and Swiss Re.
