Strategic report Governance Financials 01 WELCOME TO OUR ANNUAL REPORT 2015 OUR STORY Strategic report Old Mutual began in Cape Town in 01 Welcome 1845 as South Africas first mutual life 02 At a glance insurance company, offering financial 04 Chairmans message 06 Chief Executives review security in uncertain times.
Today, 08 Strategy 171 years on, the Group is made up 13 Stakeholder relationships of four strong businesses operating 18 Non-financial KPIs 20 Financial KPIs successfully in their respective markets 22 Old Mutual Emerging Markets and enabling positive futures for 32 Nedbank their stakeholders.
42 Old Mutual Wealth 52 Institutional Asset Management We are changing Our strategic priorities 60 Financial review Working with our businesses in Our strategy 82 Risks delivering enhanced performance To execute a managed separation Governance relative to their peer groups.
of the Group into four strong 100 Board of Directors standalone entities.
Stewardship of the managed 103 Corporate Governance separation process, balancing A managed separation of the Group value, cost, time and risk.
124 Directors Remuneration Report will free the constituent parts into four Fulfilling the Groups ongoing independent businesses, each having Financials regulatory obligations: and a capital structure and dividend 154 Group Financial Statements managing the Groups debt policy suitable for its own strategy 298 Financial statements of the Company obligations, central cost reductions that will allow it to access its natural 306 Shareholder information and distributions to shareholders.
Our values Following the managed separation, We are committed to being a the lead regulator for each responsible business with a view to business will then be the same the long-term and will focus on areas as the local regulator.
where our businesses can make a We will manage the separation of material impact and create meaningful the Group in a manner that aims change.
Our businesses will continue to enhance value to shareholders to be guided by our strong values: over time.
respect, integrity, accountability and pushing beyond boundaries.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
