Governance the share capital of the Company and its which must be pre-cleared with the 109 Are directors required to hold quoted subsidiaries, Nedbank Group Chairman if material.
shares in the Company and Limited and OMAM, at the beginning and what are their current The Companys procedures for dealing end of 2015 are set out in the table below.
with directors conflicts of interest continued The interests of the executive directors Under the Directors Remuneration Policy, to operate effectively during 2015 and no in share options and forfeitable shares the Group Chief Executive is required to director had a material interest in any awards are described in the section build up a holding of shares in the significant contract with the Company or of the Directors Remuneration Report Company equal in value to at least 200% any of its subsidiaries during the year.
entitled Directors shareholdings and share of his annual base salary within five years Additional details of various non-material interests.
There were no changes to any of of appointment.
For other executive directors transactions between the directors and the the interests between 31 December 2015 the requirement is 150% of annual base Group are reported on an aggregated and 11 March 2016. salary within five years of appointment.
basis, along with other transactions by senior managers of the Group, in Note H3 How are directors conflicts of The Board has considered adopting a to the financial statements.
shareholding requirement for non-executive directors, but does not believe a formal Processes are in place for any potential The executive directors are permitted to conflicts of interest to be disclosed and for requirement is appropriate.
Instead, it hold and retain, for their own benefit, directors to avoid participation in any encourages non-executive directors to fees from one external non-Group build up holdings equal to 50% of their decisions where they may have any such non-executive directorship of another conflict or potential conflict.
The annual base fees within 12 months after listed company but not a chairmanship, Nomination and Governance Committee appointment and to increase this over subject to prior clearance by the Board time to 100% of their annual base fees.
considers other significant commitments or and provided the directorship concerned external interests of potential appointees as The target for the Chairman was set at is not in conflict or potential conflict with part of the selection process and discloses 50% of his annual base fee, to be any of the Groups businesses.
None of them to the Board when recommending an achieved over time.
the executive directors currently holds appointment.
Non-executive directors any external non-executive directorships Details of directors interests including are required to inform the Board of any of other publicly-quoted companies.
interests of their connected persons in subsequent changes to such commitments, At 31 December 2015 Directors interests or date of resignation, if earlier At 31 December 2014 OM Asset OM Asset Old Mutual plc Nedbank Group Management plc Old Mutual plc Nedbank Group Management plc ordinary shares Limited shares shares ordinary shares Limited shares shares Mike Arnold 26,475 26,475 Zoe Cruz 34,500 Alan Gillespie 13,000 13,000 Danuta Gray 14,175 14,175 1 1 Paul Hanratty 446,578 824,547 1 Bruce Hemphill appointed 1 November 2015 Adiba Ighodaro 1 2 2 Ingrid Johnson 525 18,814 525 22,913 Roger Marshall 45,000 45,000 Nkosana Moyo 10,000 10,000 Vassi Naidoo appointed 1 May 2015 43,575 Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita 13,839 3,566 Patrick OSullivan 100,000 100,000 Former directors Reuel Khoza resigned 14 May 2015 6,410 14,774 3,566 14,774 1 1 Julian Roberts resigned 31 October 2015 2,014,303 2,014,303 1 These figures do not include rights to forfeitable shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Directors Remuneration Report 2 These shares are currently held under the terms of the Nedbank Compulsory Bonus Share Scheme and the Nedbank Voluntary Bonus Share Scheme.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 1 110 plc BOARD GROUP EXECUTIVE GENDER SPLIT GENDER SPLIT CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 5 3 Has the Company granted indemnities to its directors?
In accordance with the Companys Articles 8 of Association, each director is granted an indemnity by the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, 8 to the extent permitted by UK law.
The Company has entered into formal deeds of indemnity in favour of each of the directors.
A specimen copy of the indemnities is Female 38% Female 27% Male 62% Male 73% available in the Corporate Governance 2018 Target 30% 2018 Target 30% section of the Companys website.
1 At 31 December 2015, before Trevor Manuel The indemnities described above were in joined the Board.
force throughout 2015 and have remained so up to the date of this report.
In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not 1 KEY ROLES GENDER SPLIT be indemnified, the Company maintains GENDER SPLIT OF PERMANENT STAFF directors and officers liability insurance.
F 21 101 M Female 17% Female 58% 35,659 Our business Male 83% Male 42% 25,868 relies on the 2018 Target 30% 1 Top 122 positions around the Group, commitment, at 31 December 2015. talent and diversity of our for several years.
More than 40 of our top Leadership and leaders participated in a programme to effectiveness employees connect them better with the Groups Our business relies on the commitment, strategy and to learn how to address the talent and diversity of our employees.
challenges of being a business leader in the In order to understand and meet the 21st century.
needs of customers better, we strive to have an employee population that is fully What is the Companys representative of the markets we serve.
approach to ensuring To attract and retain appropriately skilled diversity?
employees, managers and executives, we Each business is required to develop an maintain effective HR practices.
environment that promotes the benefits To ensure leadership effectiveness at the of equal opportunities and diversity.
most senior levels, we developed a new Recruitment, promotion, selection for bespoke strategic leadership development training and other aspects of employee programme during 2015 as a successor management are free from discrimination to the programme that had been in place including on grounds of gender, race, OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance disability, age, marital status, sexual Group strategy and business unit The questionnaire sought feedback 111 orientation and religious belief.
For our awareness, business performance and around a number of different aspects of business units in South Africa, these financial management, governance and the Board and its committees, including: imperatives have to be balanced against compliance, and audit.
Each new member Expectations their Broad-Based Black Economic also completes a behavioural and Agreeing strategy Empowerment B-BBEE requirements.
psychometric assessment to provide Leadership awareness of their interpersonal preferences Some examples of how we have supported External environment and how these relate to the rest of the Board.
and benefited from engaging with those This feedback is available to the Chairman, Line of sight with physical disabilities are included in the to help him ensure that all members can Governance and support Meet our People section of our website.
participate fully in Board discussions.
Committee Chairman effectiveness We recognise that difference in its Training sessions for the Board in 2015 Board committee effectiveness broadest sense is critical to our success and, continued to focus principally on how the A separate questionnaire was issued while focus varies by country, increasing introduction of Solvency II was likely to to gather feedback on the Chairman.
gender diversity is a priority for all of our impact on the Group.
We continue to exceed our The feedback was collated and diversity target of at least three female How is the performance reported back to the Board.
The review members of the Board, with female concluded that: of the Board and its membership of our Board at 38% five out committees reviewed?
The Chairman, the Board and its of 13 at the end of the year.
Also, three of Performance reviews of the Board and committees had operated effectively our 1 1-member Group Executive Committee its standing committees are conducted during 2015, with clarity of purpose are women.
We remain committed to annually and are carried out by an external and appropriate consideration given improving our diversity and continue to expert at least once every three years.
strive towards the targets for 2018 that we Under its current Chairman, the Board set in 2013 see the diagrams on the Responsibilities were soundly delegated has invested a significant amount of effort preceding page.
We have invested to the Boards standing committees and in understanding its effectiveness through significantly in our womens networks those committees had executed their both internally and externally facilitated respective mandates appropriately.
and mentoring initiatives over the past reviews using a range of approaches.
two years, which we hope will lead to A number of areas where the Board could For further information on the history of an increase in the number of females in potentially improve its effectiveness were such reviews, please see the illustration senior roles over the coming years.
agreed as a consequence of this years on the next page.
review, but these will be considered How do we ensure that The feedback from the 2014 review afresh in light of the outcome of the Board members have the resulted in a number of actions being strategic review.
right knowledge to taken during 2015.
These included: discharge their duties?
What are the Boards Widening the scope of the Nomination The composition of and succession plans standing committees and Committee now renamed the for the Board are formally considered at Nomination and Governance Committee what did they do during least annually.
We have developed a skills to include oversight of the effectiveness the year?
and industry experience matrix to help the of the governance structures between The Board has a number of standing Board assess the composition profiles of the the Company and its principal business committees to which various matters Group and major subsidiary boards.
are delegated in line with their terms Nomination and Governance Committee of reference.
Development of a more structured regularly discusses talent and succession induction process to facilitate an plans for the Group and business unit After the significant changes to Board understanding of the role and Executive Committees.
committee memberships in 2014, no further expectations of non-executive directors, changes were made as a result of the Induction of new a shared awareness of the Groups annual review of such memberships that vision, strategy and values, the business non-executive directors took place towards the end of 2015, other strategy, the market for each business The Company has a structured and than to confirm that Trevor Manuel would unit and the people leading and comprehensive induction programme join the Board Risk Committee when he managing the business.
for new non-executive directors, which is became a director at the start of 2016. designed to enable new appointees to the A review of Board succession planning, The current membership of the Boards Board to familiarise themselves with the which resulted in more appropriate main standing committees is as follows: Groups operations, financial affairs and phasing of non-executive directors strategic position so that they can make planned retirement dates.
Group Audit Committee an effective contribution as soon as Coaching, where applicable, to support Roger Marshall Chairman since 2010 possible after they have joined the Board.
the transition to being a non-executive Mike Arnold since 2009 This programme includes sessions with director for new appointees to the Board.
Adiba Ighodaro since 2014 the heads of each of the Groups major Nkosana Moyo since 2014 The Board effectiveness review for 2015 businesses, functional heads and the Secretary to the committee: Martin Murray was conducted internally using an online Companys auditor and external since 1999 questionnaire supplemented by one-to-one legal advisers and includes the role and interviews with each Board member.
expectations of a non-executive director, OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
