Governance The metrics described in the preceding objective to align reward with performance.
125 paragraph are the principal financial We determined that it was appropriate to measures that the committee considers make a downward adjustment to the in the incentive plans for executives, and outcome of both the financial component the strong results are therefore reflected of the STI and the strategic component of in the incentive outcomes measured the LTIP, to take consideration of the against performance periods ended projected time and cost overruns of the 31 December 2015.
This is consistent Old Mutual Wealth initiative for outsourcing with our commitment to align executive technology and administration to IFDS.
remuneration to company performance The STI outcome was higher than in recent and shareholder value creation.
years, whilst the LTIP was broadly flat to the Danuta Gray The short-term incentive STI plan has two previous years vesting, following a period components, a financial component and of declining outcomes.
The committee Chairman of the a personal performance component.
was satisfied, taking consideration of the Remuneration Committee The committee approved an adjusted factors discussed above, that the outcomes outcome of 85% of maximum for the reflected the performance delivered and financial element of the STI, reflecting value created for shareholders.
the significant outperformance under the As always, the committee was mindful to EPS and RoE metrics.
The outcome of ensure overall pay was appropriate given Annual Statement the personal element, which is based on the performance of the Group and in an assessment of each executive against relation to its peers wherever located.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee a personal scorecard, is contained in the We were satisfied that this was the case referred to in the rest of this report as the detailed report that follows this statement.
for 2015, and will continue to monitor pay committee, I am pleased to present the In this years DRR, we have included details closely against relevant performance and Directors Remuneration Report DRR of the performance assessment for each market benchmarks in the future.
for 2015, my second since becoming of our executive directors, which we believe Chairman of the committee in May 2014. improves transparency of how the total incentive outcomes have been determined.
2015 was a year of significant change for the Group, which had a major impact The awards under the long-term incentive on the areas of focus for the committee.
plan LTIP originally granted in 2013 will Solvency II finally came into force from vest at 71.5% of maximum.
The 2013 LTIP 1 January 2016, which required the scorecard was based on a combination committee to review the Groups of financial and strategic objectives remuneration principles and policies to determined at the beginning of the ensure alignment to the remuneration performance period, which ended guidelines arising from that new regime.
The strategic And, of course, there was the Group The Group component represented 40% of the Chief Executive succession and the review total scorecard and was split between delivered strong of the Groups strategy that ensued.
stretching growth objectives for Old Mutual Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Wealth, results in 2015, In this statement, I will explain how the which were disclosed at the beginning committee has reacted to support the Group despite the of the period, and restructuring, risk, through these very significant changes.
governance, culture and reputation volatility of equity objectives, which we agreed would be fully Review of performance markets and disclosed at the end of the period to avoid and plan outcomes in 2015 commercial disadvantage to the Group.
The Group delivered strong results in 2015, the increasingly Full disclosure of each of these objectives despite the volatility of equity markets and and the committees assessment of delivery challenging the increasingly challenging economic are contained in this DRR.
environment in South Africa, with 14.9% economic adjusted operational profit AOP growth, The committee reviews risk management 15.7% growth in AOP EPS to 19.3 pence environment and controls across the Group annually, growth stated on a constant currency basis taking into account input from the Board in South Africa and RoE of 14.2%.
Risk Committee and the Groups Chief Risk Officer, to ensure that financial results The Groups Total Shareholder Return and strategic projects over a oneand continued to outperform the main equity three-year period have been achieved market indices in both the UK and South in an acceptable manner, within the risk Africa over the year.
This continued a framework and appetite limits established sustained period of excellent returns for for the Group.
The Group operated within our investors of 29.2% on the LSE and 99.7% the expected risk framework and policies: on the JSE ALSI over the last three years however, the committee exercised its using a three-month average at the discretion in one important area in order beginning and end of the periods.
to ensure that it maintained its overriding OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 126 and also in accordance with the DRP, its current form, does not provide the the Company covered the cost of certain necessary framework to make incentive DIRECTORS items related to his relocation to the UK awards that align executives to the newly REMUNERATION REPORT as detailed in this report.
Executives are now CONTINUED being asked to undertake the managed In September 2015, we announced that separation of the Group in a short time Paul Hanratty would be leaving the frame.
In order to incentivise executives to Board in 2016.
The committee similarly deliver business performance and fulfilment exercised its discretion to grant good Key decisions taken by the of the strategic objectives during this leaver status to his unvested share committee in 2015 period, the committee believe that we need awards, in recognition of his track record to introduce a policy that reflects the of performance over a period of more particular time frames and objectives set.
Remuneration aspects of Group Chief than 30 years of service with the Group.
Executive succession and of other While a base pay and STI structure will executive director changes Solvency II and remuneration generally remain appropriate, the principles for the Group Consideration of requirements arising committee is of the view that a conventional under Solvency II The Solvency II regime includes a detailed LTIP structure with rolling annual awards no set of remuneration guidelines to which longer aligns with, and does not incentivise, Update of the Group Remuneration certain businesses within the Group, the most timely and cost-effective execution Standard and the committees Terms including the Group Head Office in of the strategy.
Instead, the committee of Reference London, must align.
The committee intends to grant one-off LTIP awards, Implementation of updated malus and was pleased at how closely aligned replacing normal annual awards, to key claw back provisions for variable pay our remuneration principles and practices individuals, including Bruce Hemphill and Approval of business unit variable pay already were with Solvency II requirements.
Ingrid Johnson, with metrics relating to deferral structures and STI pool metrics Key areas of review included: execution of the new strategy, performance Review of the Directors Remuneration of our four constituent businesses, and the Quantitative and qualitative approaches Policy in light of the strategic review unlocking of value for shareholders.
to reflecting risk metrics and risk management in the outcome of our The committee will grant LTIP awards to incentive plans, whilst further the executive directors in March 2016, at strengthening collaboration with the the maximum level of 400% of base pay, Board Risk Committee within the current policy framework, and also commence a period of consultation Incentive structures for those in control Key areas of focus with our major shareholders, with a view functions to ensure they mitigate any during the year to presenting a new DRP to shareholders risk of a conflict of interest for approval in General Meeting Executive director changes Oversight of the remuneration structure later in 2016.
This policy will encompass In April 2015, we announced that Julian for impacted employees the March 2016 and additional awards, Roberts would be standing down as Group Sales incentive plan structures to ensure Chief Executive and from the Board later to provide a long-term incentive framework alignment to the principle of Treating that retains and motivates executives in the year.
He left the Board at the end of Customers Fairly.
through the business transformation, October 2015, and Julian began a period The committee agreed that these principles of garden leave which runs to the end of while enabling the Group to attract any reflected best practice and should be further key individuals required to execute his 12-month notice period in April 2016. adopted across the Group as a whole, the strategy.
The committee believes that As disclosed at the time, the principal not just in those businesses subject to terms of Julians exit were in accordance the new policy will give it the flexibility Solvency II.
The updated policies have required to align executives effectively to with his contract: however, the committee been implemented for 2016. the strategic objectives of the Group and, did exercise its discretion to grant good ultimately, shareholder value creation, leaver status to his unvested share awards, Looking forward to 2016 in recognition of his track record of and I look forward to discussing this on As explained elsewhere in this report, behalf of the committee with our major performance over a long period of service.
since joining the Board in November, shareholders very shortly.
At the same time, we announced that Bruce Hemphill has embarked on a I hope that you find this report helpful Bruce Hemphill would succeed Julian review of the Groups strategy.
The outcome and a clear indication of the committees Roberts as Group Chief Executive, and he of this review was announced together commenced employment with the Group commitment to aligning executive with our results on 11 March 2016.
It is compensation to the delivery of on 1 November 2015.
Full detail of his critical for the successful execution of this performance that drives shareholder buy-out awards and 2015 incentive are strategy, and to ensure that incentive value.
I look forward to your support, contained within this DRR.
In accordance outcomes reflect the value delivered to with the Directors Remuneration Policy shareholders through its execution, that both for this DRR, and the upcoming review of the DRP.
DRP, the committee gave careful our remuneration policies and incentive consideration to the structure and quantum structures are aligned with these new, Danuta Gray of his awards relative to those that were and fundamentally different, objectives.
forfeited as a result of joining the Group Chairman of the The committee believes that the current to ensure that they represented fair, but Remuneration Committee DRP which was predicated on a not excessive, compensation.
In addition, continuation of the Group in broadly OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
