Governance 106 directors, without the Chairman or any NATIONALITY executive present.
These meetings include CORPOR ATE OF BOARD MEMBERS the annual review of the Chairmans own GOVERNANCE performance led by the Senior CONTINUED Independent Director, who also obtains whatever input he considers appropriate from the executive directors.
1 3 The assignment of responsibilities between What is the Boards role Chairman Patrick OSullivan and Group and how does it operate?
Chief Executive Bruce Hemphill is The Boards role is to exercise stewardship documented to ensure a clear division of the Company within a framework of between running the Board and executive prudent and effective controls that responsibility for running the Companys enables risk to be assessed and managed.
Further details of the respective The Board sets the Companys strategic roles and responsibilities of our Chairman aims, based on recommendations made and Group Chief Executive are set by the Group Chief Executive, reviews 2 out below.
whether the necessary financial and human resources are in place for it to meet Key roles and its objectives, and monitors management responsibilities performance.
It is kept informed about 1.
African 50% major developments affecting the Group Chairman 2.
UK & Europe 43% through the Group Chief Executives and Leading the Board 3.
US 7% Group Finances monthly reports and Note: The position illustrated above is at Ensuring the Boards effectiveness and holds regular sessions to discuss high-level 1 January 2016, after Trevor Manuel joined the Board.
setting its agenda strategic matters.
The Group Operating For the purposes of this table, Paul Hanratty is treated as Zimbabwean and Vassi Naidoo as South African.
Ensuring that the directors receive Model identifies the matters that are accurate, timely and clear information, specifically reserved for Board decision and adequate time is available for and protocols governing escalation of discussion of all agenda items issues to it and delegation of powers Ensuring effective communication from it, to ensure clear allocation of with shareholders responsibility for decision-making.
about the discussions taking place Promoting a culture of openness In accordance with the Group Operating between the Group Chief Executive and and debate Model, the Board has delegated its the heads of the Groups main businesses Ensuring constructive relationships executive powers to the Group Chief and of Group central functions such as between the executive and Executive, with power to sub-delegate, Risk, Strategy, Responsible Business and non-executive directors.
and also to the Approvals Committee.
In his co-ordination and stewardship of The executive element of the Board is the Group, the Group Chief Executive Group Chief Executive balanced by an independent group of is supported by the Group Executive non-executive directors.
The Board as a Defining, creating and implementing Committee, a consultative management whole approves the strategic direction of strategy and objectives committee comprising the heads of various the Group, scrutinises managements Developing manageable goals Group functions and the Chief Executives performance against agreed goals and and priorities of the Groups four major business units.
objectives, and monitors performance The Board has also delegated specific Leading and motivating the reporting.
Procedures are in place to help responsibilities to Board committees, as management teams Board members satisfy themselves about described in more detail under the heading Developing proposals to present to the integrity of the Groups financial What are the Boards standing committees the Board on all areas reserved for information and to ensure that financial and what did they do during the year?
its judgement controls and systems of risk management later in this report.
Developing Group policies for are robust and sustainable.
approval by the Board and ensuring In addition to its interaction with the three Separately from the formal Board their implementation executive directors, the Board interacts with meeting schedule, the Chairman meets the other senior executive management Promoting the Groups culture.
with the non-executive directors, with including the most senior executives of the no executives present, to provide a Groups main business units through their What was the directors forum where any issues can be raised.
periodic participation in Board meetings, attendance record He also conducts an annual one-to-one other briefing sessions, Board visits to during 2015?
performance evaluation of each of the Groups main business centres The table on the next page sets out the the non-executive directors, and any and individual non-executive directors number of meetings held and individual resulting action points are reported to the engagement with subsidiary businesses.
directors attendance at meetings of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
The Board also receives minutes of the Board and its principal committees based proceedings of the Group Executive The Company also facilitates informal on membership of those committees, rather Committee, to help keep it informed meetings among the non-executive than attendance as an invitee during 2015.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance Group Limited, and circumstances may 107 What did the Board do ALLOCATION OF arise where he has to balance the during 2015?
BOARD TIME DURING 2015 fiduciary duties owed to both parent The Chairmans introduction to this and subsidiary having regard to minority report describes some of the main matters interests in the latter.
that the Board addressed during the year.
In addition to those and to the regular It is anticipated that Trevor Manuel will 1 updates that the Board received on the 6 become Chairman of Old Mutual Group Groups results, the Group Chief Executives Holdings OMGH, the South African report and reports from Board committee 5 holding company of both Old Mutual chairmen, the table on the following page Emerging Markets and the Groups stake sets out the Boards other main activities in Nedbank Group Limited, during 2016 at its principal scheduled meetings during following Paul Hanrattys retirement.
4 2 In light of the enhanced role that OMGH is expected to play once South African Are the non-executive Twin Peaks regulation comes into effect, 3 directors independent?
the Board has decided that it would not Of the 10 current non-executive directors be appropriate to categorise Mr Manuel excluding the Chairman, but including as an independent non-executive director Trevor Manuel, whose appointment took at plc level.
effect from 1 January 2016, the Board 1.
Capital and finance 30% considers eight to be independent within Who is the Senior 2.
Strategy 20% the criteria set out in the UK Corporate Independent Director?
People issues and succession 15% Governance Code 2014: that is, they are 4.
R egulatory matters, Alan Gillespie has been the Senior independent in character and judgement including Solvency II 15% Independent Director since May 201 1. and have no relationships or circumstances 5.
C ulture, responsible business The Senior Independent Director is available which are likely to affect their judgement, or and stakeholder matters 10% to shareholders if they have concerns that could appear to affect it.
Other 10% are unresolved after contact through the Mike Arnold, Zoe Cruz, Alan Gillespie, normal channels of the Chairman, Group Danuta Gray, Adiba Ighodaro, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or Roger Marshall, Nkosana Moyo and where such contact would not be Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita.
The Senior Independent Directors contact details can be obtained Vassi Naidoo is not considered from the Group Company Secretary.
independent because he chairs the Groups majority-owned subsidiary, Nedbank Board Nomination and Attendance record scheduled Group Audit Board Risk Remuneration Governance and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings attended number of meetings eligible to attend Mike Arnold 9 9 6 6 8 8 Zoe Cruz 8 9 7 8 6 7 Alan Gillespie 9 9 7 7 6 6 Danuta Gray 7 9 6 7 5 6 Paul Hanratty 9 9 Bruce Hemphill 2 2 Adiba Ighodaro 9 9 6 6 Ingrid Johnson 9 9 Roger Marshall 7 9 6 6 8 8 7 7 Nkosana Moyo 9 9 5 6 6 7 Vassi Naidoo 6 6 5 5 Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita 9 9 8 8 6 6 Patrick OSullivan 9 9 6 6 Former directors Reuel Khoza 4 4 3 3 3 3 Julian Roberts 6 7 One meeting of each missed owing to illness.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
