58 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination and Governance Committee report Membership and meetings Dear Shareholder Number of meetings I am pleased to present the report of the Director attended Nomination and Governance Committee.
Chairman 2015 has been our first full financial Mike Fairey 4 4 year as a Board following the IPO mid Current members 2014.
During the year we have kept Rod Duke 4 4 the requirements of the UK Corporate Dr David Morgan 4 4 Governance Code, both in terms of specific rules and the underlying Nathan Moss 4 4 1 principles, under review.
As such Mary McNamara 1 1 we have expanded the role of the Nomination Committee to incorporate 1 Appointed 8 December 2015. responsibility for oversight of Governance arrangements for the Board.
This The Nomination and Governance The specific responsibilities and includes oversight of Board Effectiveness, Committee meets at least twice duties of the Committee are set out compliance with Governance focused annually and at such other times in its terms of reference which were regulations, and sustainability.
A table during the year as is necessary to significantly expanded in February showing the key responsibilities is 2016 to include conflicts responsibility discharge its duties.
Only members of shown below, and the full Terms of for Board evaluation, corporate the Committee have the right to attend Reference are available on our website.
This meetings, however other individuals, has led to the committee changing such as the Chief Executive and We also reviewed the composition of the its name to the Nomination and Boards Committees in the context of external advisers, may be invited to Governance Committee.
The both the UK Corporate Governance Code attend for all or part of any meeting.
requirements around independence, terms of reference are available and the skills and experience needed to download from the Companys Membership of the Committee was to ensure the Committees can website.
The key responsibilities of reviewed during the year, and following discharge their duties effectively.
the Committee are shown opposite.
the requirements of the UK Corporate This review led to the appointment of Governance Code around diversity, Mary McNamara to the Nomination Mary McNamara was appointed to the and Governance Committee.
Mary is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and has The Committee has also carried previous experience in implementing out a deep dive into diversity diversity policy.
All Committee members within the business.
At this stage are Non-Executive Directors, although of our development, the diversity Dr David Morgan is not independent review has been limited to gender due to his connections with our diversity, however some of the major major shareholder, J. C. Flowers.
recommendations coming out of the review will be applicable to all diversity issues, such as the introduction of unconscious bias training to all managers across the business.
We are satisfied that the composition structures we have established are operating well, and we will continue to monitor Board and Committee membership in 2016, as well as undertaking the new areas of responsibility.
Mike Fairey Non-Executive Chairman Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Nomination and Governance Committee Responsibilities Board Composition and Succession Planning Regularly review structure, size and composition of the Board, and assess the knowledge skills, experience and diversity on the Board.
Recommend changes to membership of Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Recommend suitable candidates for the role of the Senior Independent Director.
Prepare role description for Board appointments following an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
Identify and nominate to the Board candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Make recommendations to the Board regarding the reappointment of NEDs at the end of their term of office.
Make recommendations to the Board regarding the annual re-election of Directors by shareholders.
Review annually whether Directors continue to meet independence criteria.
Review annually the time required from NEDs.
Keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation.
Give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Formulate succession plans for both Executive and Non Executive Directors and in particular the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Consider rotation of Committee Membership.
Board Evaluation Conflicts Corporate Governance Sustainability Oversees the annual Will consider and authorise To review and approve the To review and approve evaluation of the Board and if appropriate any conflict internal Governance Manual policies related to the its committees, making of interest of the Directors, annually.
sustainability of the business, recommendations around with ratification at the including Environmental To keep up to date with any remedial actions next Board meeting, policies, Health and Safety corporate governance required.
having consideration to and Diversity.
developments and advise among other factors, time Every three years, instructs the Board.
Advise the Board on any commitments.
an external board evaluator, Values Statements and To approve the Corporate setting the scope of the Will annually review the Business Principles or Group Governance Report in the review.
Standards for reputational annual report and accounts.
and environmental risks and the adoption of appropriate Corporate Sustainability targets and measures.
To review and advise the Board on the Groups Corporate Sustainability reporting.
Activity during 2015 The Committee identified four key priorities for 2015, under its former terms of reference.
A summary of actions taken and outcomes are set out in the table below: Objective Action taken Outcomes Evaluation of the skills, knowledge and Skills assessed using experience required for a balanced Board.
skills matrix, results to be discussed at meeting.
Consider succession planning for directors Full review of Identified gap between executive management andother senior executives.
succession planning and senior managers, which has led to the undertaken.
introduction of a Talent Management programme.
Review the structure, size, composition and Review carried out.
Identified the need for additional recent and diversity of the Board, including potential relevant financial experience, and led to the recruitment of an additional independent recruitment of a new independent director Non-Executive Director.
whowill chair Audit Committee in due course.
Broader review of diversity across the Group led to gap analysis resulting in improvement to maternity and paternity pay and unconscious bias training.
Consider composition of Board Committees.
Recommendation that a female director be appointed to Nomination and Governance Committee in line with UK Corporate Governance Code.
60 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nomination and Governance Committee report continued Chair of the Audit Committee Committee composition Diversity The Committee conducted a review OneSavings Bank recognises and appointment of the composition of the Audit, embraces the benefits of having a Following the annual review of Board Remuneration, Risk and its own diverse Board, and sees diversity at and Committee composition and the composition during 2015.
The review, Board level as an essential element in skills and experience available, the which included consideration of maintaining a competitive advantage.
need for an additional independent the role of the Chairman of each of Non-Executive Director with recent and the Committees, was framed in the A truly diverse Board will include and relevant financial experience to chair context of the relevant requirements make good use of differences in the the Audit Committee was identified.
of the UK Corporate Governance skills, regional and industry experience, Code and the Walker review.
background, race, gender and other In June 2015, the Committee agreed distinctions between Directors and the to appoint Lomond Consulting, a Following the review, the Committee Board recognises that diversity is the key specialist board level headhunter, to recommended that a highly experienced to avoiding the perils of Group Think.
conduct a search, with the specific female Non-Executive was appointed to direction to include at least one the Nomination Committee, and Mary These differences will be considered in female candidate in the shortlist.
The McNamara was duly appointed by the determining the optimum composition Committee discussed in detail the skills, Board.
The Committee is satisfied that of the Board and when possible experience and other commitments the implemented structure will allow should be balanced appropriately.
of each candidate and agreed a the effective discharge of duties by each All Board appointments are made shortlist of three.
As the Committee Committee, and will continue to monitor on merit, in the context of the skills, felt that it was important that the Board and Committee performance experience, independence and new Chair of the Audit Committee and structure going forward, including knowledge which the Board as a had prior experience of acting on a a consideration of rotation of Board whole requires to be effective.
listed company Audit Committee, committee membership to support and preferably prior experience of succession planning on committees.
The Nomination and Governance chairing such a committee, no suitable Committee is responsible for reviewing female candidates were identified for on an annual basis the Companys Board the Committees shortlist.
Interviews Succession Planning Diversity Policy: in particular whether between the shortlisted individuals The Committee considered both introducing measurable objectives and the Committee and Executive Executive and Board level succession is appropriate for the Company.
The Executive received interview feedback from all succession planning review highlighted The Nomination and Governance parties, the Committee unanimously the need for a formal Talent Committee has considered whether it recommended to the Board that Eric Development Programme and this has should recommend that the Board set Anstee should be appointed as the been initiated in the second half of any measurable objectives in relation new Chair of the Audit Committee.
2015, with full roll out during 2016. to diversity.
While the Nomination and Governance Committee fully The Committee has put in place supports the objectives of the a formal succession plan for the Davies Report, it does not feel that Chairman and Chairs of the Board setting specific objectives around Committees during 2015. the proportion of female directors on the Board is appropriate for the Bank at this time as the Bank will focus on ensuring that the Director with the right skills and expertise is appointed, having considered the balance of the Board as a whole.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 The Nomination and Governance Committee did carry out a review of gender diversity across the business in 2015, including at Board, Senior Management and non-managerial levels.
At the same time, the Committee also considered whether there were any impediments to ensuring gender balance across the business and looked at recruitment, retention and promotions policy and procedure.
Although no specific barriers were identified, Maternity and Paternity benefits have been improved and training in relation to unconscious bias is to be introduced across all management grades.
The Bank will be tracking take up of flexible working arrangements and other gender related metrics going forwards, and will assess whether any further measures or measurable objectives need to be put in place in the future.
Priorities for 2016 The Nomination and Governance Committees priorities for 2016 are: Continued evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience required for a balanced Board.
Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Review the structure, size, composition and diversity of the Board.
Consider the composition of the Board Committees.
Oversee compliance with Corporate Governance best practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Oversee sustainability matters such as environmental, diversity and equal opportunities and advising on business principles, values and purpose.
Mike Fairey Non-Executive Chairman 16 March 2016
