42 42 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Viability statement The three-year time period was selected Stress testing is a vital discipline, which In accordance with provision for the following reasons: underpins the Companys Individual C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate The Groups operating and financial Capital Adequacy Assessment Process plan covers a three-year period.
ICAAP and Individual Liquidity Governance Code, the Board The three-year operating and Adequacy Assessment Process of Directors have assessed the financial plan considers, among other ILAA.
The stress scenarios are prospects and viability of the matters: the Boards risk appetite: identified based on the severity of macro-economic outlook: market underlying assumptions, relevance to Group over a three-year period opportunity: the competitive the Companys business model and and have concluded they have landscape: and sensitivity of the alignment with the Bank of Englands financial plan to volumes, margin prescribed stress scenario.
In addition, a reasonable expectation pressures and capital requirements.
the Company identifies a suite of thatthe Group will be able The Board believes that there is credible management actions that tocontinue to operate and sufficient visibility over the economic would mitigate the impact of the stress and regulatory landscape and the scenarios.
The Board and executive meetits liabilities as they market outlook offered by the management use the outcome of the falldue over that period.
three-year time horizon to make a stress test analysis to evaluate the reasonable assessment of viability.
Companys management options and Significant uncertainty exists in the adequacy of the Companys capital regulatory horizon beyond this point, and liquidity resources to withstand an with the Basel Committee currently extreme but plausible stress scenario.
in consultation on standardised The Company holds sufficient capital approaches to credit and to withstand such a stress scenario.
In addition, the Group identifies a range The Company is authorised by the PRA, of catastrophic stress scenarios, which and regulated by the FCA and PRA, could result in the failure of its current and undertakes regular analysis of its business model.
Business model failure risk profile and assumptions.
It has a scenarios reverse stress tests are robust set of policies, procedures and primarily used to inform the Board and systems to undertake a comprehensive executive management of the outer assessment of all the principal risks and limits of the Groups risk profile.
Reverse uncertainties to which it is exposed on stress tests play an important role in a current and forward-looking basis helping the Board and its executives as described in Principal Risks and to identify potential recovery options Uncertainties on pages 38 to 41. under a business model failure scenario, and form an important aspect of the The Group manages and monitors Companys Recovery and Resolution its risk profile through its strategic Plans prescribed by the regulator.
risk management framework, in particular through its risk appetite The ongoing monitoring of all principal statement and risk limits as described risks and uncertainties that could in the Chief Risk Officers Report on impact the operating and financial pages 29 to 41.
Potential changes plan, together with the use of stress in its risk profile are assessed across testing to ensure that the Group could the business planning horizon by survive a severe but plausible stress, subjecting the operating and financial enables the Board to reasonably plan to severe but plausible macroassess the viability of the business economic and idiosyncratic scenarios.
