82 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report The Directors present their Annual the exercise of their powers, including may, subject to the Articles, by ordinary Report and the audited financial any liabilities relating to the defence resolution appoint another person who statements of the Group for the of any proceedings brought against is willing to act as a Director in his place.
year ended 31 December 2015. them which relate to anything done or omitted, or alleged to have been Equal opportunities done or omitted, by them as officers Share capital and rights attaching OneSavings Bank is committed to or employees of the Company and the applying its Equality and Diversity to shares Group.
Directors and officers liability policy at all stages of recruitment and Details of the Companys share insurance cover is in place in respect selection.
Shortlisting, interviewing capital are set out on page 119. of all the Companys Directors.
and selection will always be carried out without regard to gender, gender Without prejudice to any special rights Directors powers reassignment, sexual orientation, previously conferred on the holders of As set out in the Articles, the business marital or civil partnership status, any existing shares or class of shares, of the Company is managed by the colour, race, nationality, ethnic or any share in the Company may be Board who may exercise all the powers national origins, religion or belief, age, issued with such rights including of the Company.
In particular, save as pregnancy or maternity leave or trade preferred, deferred or other special otherwise provided in company law or union membership.
Any candidate with rights or such restrictions, whether in the Articles, the Directors may allot a disability will not be excluded unless in regard to dividend, voting, return of with or without conferring a right of it is clear that the candidate is unable capital or otherwise as the Company renunciation, grant options over, offer, to perform a duty that is intrinsic to may from time to time by ordinary or otherwise deal with or dispose of the role, having taken into account resolution determine or, in the shares in the Company to such persons reasonable adjustments.
Reasonable absence of any such determination, at such times and generally on such adjustments to the recruitment as the Directors may determine.
terms and conditions as they may process will be made to ensure that determine.
The Directors may at any no applicant is disadvantaged because Employee share schemes time after the allotment of any share of his her disability.
Line managers Details of the Companys but before any person has been entered conducting recruitment interviews will employee share schemes are in the Register as the holder, recognise ensure that the questions that they set out on pages 79 to 80. a renunciation thereof by the allottee ask job applicants are not in any way in favour of some other person and discriminatory or unnecessarily intrusive.
Results and dividends may accord to any allottee of a share The results for the year are set out a right to effect such renunciation Employee engagement in the statement of profit or loss on upon and subject to such terms and Employees are kept informed of page 88.
The Directors recommend conditions as the Directors may think developments within the business and the payment of a final dividend of fit to impose.
Subject to the provisions in respect of their employment through 6.7 pence per share on 18 May 2016 of company law, the Company may a variety of means, such as staff subject to approval at the Annual purchase any of its own shares meetings, briefings and the intranet.
General Meeting on 11 May 2016, with including any redeemable shares.
Employee involvement is encouraged a record date of 29 March 2016.
This is and views and suggestions are taken in addition to the 2015 interim dividend Appointment and removal of into account when planning new of 2.0 pence per share paid during the products and projects.
The Sharesave Directors year 2014: 3.9 pence total dividend.
save as you earn Scheme is open to all The Board may appoint a Director, UK based employees and allows them either to fill a vacancy or as an addition Directors to save a fixed amount of between to the existing Board.
This Director The Directors who served the Company 5 and 500 per month over either must retire at the next AGM of the during 2015 and up to the date of three or five years in order to use these Company and put themselves forward this report are listed on page 54. savings at the end of the qualifying for reappointment by the shareholders.
period to buy the Banks shares at In addition to any power of removal Eric Anstee joined the Board on a fixed price established when the conferred by the Companies Act, the 21 December 2015 as an independent scheme was announced.
The Group Company may, by special resolution, Non-Executive Director.
Stephan launched its first Sharesave scheme in remove any Director before the Wilcke will step down from the Board June 2014 and granted further options expiration of his period of office and with effect from the 2016 AGM.
Details of the Directors, together Greenhouse gas emissions with their biographies, can be found on pages 48 to 49.
CO e tonnes 2 LocationMarket-based Directors interests Emission type based Method Method Directors interests in the shares of Scope 1: Operation of Facilities 279 N A the Company are set out on page Scope 1: Combustion 57 N A 81 in the Remuneration Report.
TOTAL Scope 1 Emissions 336 336 Directors indemnities The Companys Articles of Association Scope 2: Purchased Energy UK 325 355 the Articles provide, subject to Scope 2: Purchased Energy Rest of World 299 N A the provisions of UK legislation, an TOTAL Scope 2 Emissions 624 555 indemnity for Directors and officers Total Emissions 960 990 of the Company and the Group in respect of liabilities they may incur in the discharge of their duties or in Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio: Annual General Meeting Accompanying this report is the Total Footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 2 Notice of the AGM which sets out the Year on resolutions to be proposed to the Previous Year Current Year Year meeting, together with an explanation 2014 2015 Variance of each.
This years AGM will be held Turnover 000s 118,911 162,511 36.7% on 11 May 2016 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London.
Intensity Ratio Scope 2 location The meeting will start at 11.00am based method tCO e 100,000 0.003 0.004 0.001 2 with registration from 10.30am.
Intensity Ratio Scope 2 market based method tCO e 100,000 N A 0.003 N A 2 Audit Each of the persons who is a Notes: Our methodology has been based on the principals of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, taking account of the Director at the date of approval 2015 amendment which sets out a dual reporting methodology for the reporting of Scope 2 emissions.
of this report confirms that: This means that UK Electricity is now reported using two methods.
So far as the Director is aware, We have reported on all the measured emissions sources required under The Companies Act 2006 thereis no relevant audit information Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, except where stated.
of which the Companys auditor The period of our report is 01 January 2015 31 December 2015 inclusive.
This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3. isunaware.
Conversion factors for UK electricity location-based methodology, gas and fugitive emissions are those The Director has taken all the steps published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for 201516. that he she ought to have taken as Conversion factors for UK electricity market-based methodology are published by electricityinfo.
org aDirector in order to make himself Conversion factors for overseas electricity are those published by the International Energy Agency for herself aware of any relevant audit 2015.
The units reported are CO rather than CO e. 2 2 information and to establish that Conversion factor used for R417A F-gas is published by National Refrigerants Ltd. A significant increase in the availability of data this year has meant that the scope of the emissions theCompanys auditor is aware of reporting has increased.
In addition to the emission sources reported in 2014, the following sources have that information.
now been accounted for: F-gas UK.
KPMG LLP has indicated their willingness Electricity India.
to continue holding office as auditor.
Electricity & Gas for tenanted UK properties.
As a result, the total number of supplies reported has increased from 12 to 28 and the reported emissions are significantly higher.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor will be put to shareholders Statement of exclusions at the forthcoming AGM.
Global diesel petrol use for vehicles has been excluded from the report on the basis that it is not material to our carbon footprint.
Going concern statement The scope of reporting for our fugitive emissions, gas and LPG has been restricted to the United Kingdom.
Other regions have been excluded due to lack of data or immateriality.
The Directors have undertaken Two UK sites: Heritage and InterBay, have been excluded from reporting as the data is not readily a going concern assessment in obtainable at the time of reporting.
accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk Guidance for UK directors of UK Companies Emissions breakdown by Emissions breakdown by source 2009, published by the Financial category tCO e Reporting Council in October 2009.
2 tCO e 2 n Operation of Facility n Electricity As a result of this assessment, the n Purchased Energy n Natural gas Directors are satisfied that the Group n Combustion n LPG and the Company have adequate n F-Gas resources to continue to operate as a going concern for a period in excess of 12 months and have prepared the financial statements on that basis.
In assessing whether the going concern Political donations Major shareholders basis is appropriate, the Directors have Neither the Company nor any of As at 16 March 2016, there were considered the information contained its subsidiaries made any political 243,079,965 ordinary shares in issue.
in the financial statements, the latest donations this year.
Shareholder business plan, profit forecasts and authority to make aggregate political The Company has been notified the latest working capital forecasts.
donations not exceeding 50,000 up to 16 March 2016 under the was obtained at the 2015 AGM.
provision of the Disclosure and These forecasts have been subject to Transparency Rules DTRs of the sensitivity tests and having reviewed following significant interests in the the ICAAP and ILAA and the Directors voting rights of the Company: are satisfied that the Group and the Company have adequate resources Percentage of current issued share capital to continue in operational existence for a period in excess of 12 months.
J. C. Flowers & Co 53.78% Old Mutual plc 8.45% Note: All interests disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTRs that have occurred, can be found on the News section of our corporate website: www.
84 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report continued The Directors are responsible for keeping Key information in respect of the Corporate governance statement adequate accounting records that Groups strategic risk management The Companys Corporate Governance are sufficient to show and explain the framework, objectives and processes for Report, which includes a statement Parent companys transactions and mitigating risks including liquidity risk as to the Companys compliance with disclose with reasonable accuracy at are set out in detail on pages 29 to 41. the UK Corporate Governance Code any time the financial position of the 2014 during the year under review, Parent company, and enable them to In accordance with provision C. 2.2 is set out on pages 50 to 57 and is, ensure that the financial statements of the UK Corporate Governance together with the information on comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Code, the Directors have assessed share rights set out on page 119, They have general responsibility for the prospects and viability of the incorporated into this corporate taking such steps as are reasonably Company over a three-year period governance statement by reference.
open to them to safeguard the assets and have concluded that they have of the Group and to prevent and a reasonable expectation that the Other Information detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company will be able to continue to Likely future developments in operate and meets its liabilities as the company and its subsidiaries Under applicable law and regulations, they fall due over that period.
Details are contained in the Strategic the Directors are also responsible for of this assessment are set out in Report on pages 1 to 47. preparing a Strategic Report, Directors the Strategic Report on page 42.
Report, Directors Remuneration Report Information on financial instruments and Corporate Governance Statement Statement of Directors including financial risk management that complies with that law and responsibilities in respect of the objectives and policies including the those regulations.
The Directors are policy for hedging the exposure of the Annual Report and the Financial responsible for the maintenance and company and its subsidiaries to price Statements integrity of the corporate and financial risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash The Directors are responsible for information included on the Companys flow risk can be found in the Chief Risk preparing the Annual Report and the website.
Legislation in the UK governing Officers Report on pages 29 to 41.
Group and parent company financial the preparation and dissemination of statements in accordance with financial statements may differ from Approved by the Board and applicable law and regulations.
signed on its behalf by: Company law requires the Directors Responsibility statement of the Zoe Bucknell to prepare financial statements for directors in respect of the annual Group General Counsel and each financial year.
Under that law CompanySecretary financial report the Directors are required to prepare 16 March 2016 We confirm that to the best of our the Group financial statements in knowledge: accordance with IFRS as adopted by the financial statements, prepared in the European Union and applicable accordance with the applicable set of law and have elected to prepare accounting standards, give a true the parent company financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements on the same basis.
financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings Under company law the Directors included in the consolidation taken must not approve the accounts as a whole: and unless they are satisfied that they the Strategic Report includes a fair give a true and fair view of the state review of the development and of affairs of the Group and parent performance of the business and the company and of the profit or loss position of the issuer and the of the Company for that period.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, In preparing each of the Group and together with a description of the parent company financial statements, principal risks and uncertainties that the Directors are required to: they face.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
We consider the Annual Report and Make judgements and estimates that accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, are reasonable and prudent.
balanced and understandable and State whether they have been provide the information necessary for prepared in accordance with IFRSs as shareholders to assess the Groups adopted by the EU.
position and performance, business Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is model and strategy.
inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
