08 08 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Market review The PRS now provides accommodation Economic overview The competitive landscape for more than 5.6m households in The UK economy continued to recover The UK market for lending and savings Great Britain as at September 2015 throughout 2015, with a Q4 GDP products is highly concentrated towards over 20% of the total.
Sector growth growth rate of 2.2% that is forecast the High Street Banks.
It is dominated is expected to continue, increasing to at 2% in 2016, according to the Bank by five major players, whose strategy 1 25% of total households by 2025 Local of England BoE.
The combination of is to use current accounts to cross-sell Government forecasting.
The total GDP growth, low inflation and falling a range of products including savings value of property in the PRS in Great unemployment fed through to housing and investments, mortgages, personal Britain is 1.2 trillion, driven by house demand, with an increase in property loans and credit cards.
The High Street price inflation HPI and PRS growth.
At transactions and lending volumes.
Banks primarily target the traditional, the same time, social housing properties Despite modest upward movements high-volume consumer markets and as a percentage of the housing sector in wage inflation, overall inflation rely upon economies of scale and have decreased, with renting the only as measured by the Consumer Price process automation.
In recent years, major alternative to home ownership.
Index CPI, has been negligible, largely High Street Banks have been subject to due to lower commodity prices and heightened and sustained regulatory, The Buy-to-Let BTL mortgage market persistent geopolitical uncertainties political and public scrutiny following serving the PRS has increased, with hindering global economic growth.
several industry crises: the need for the number of outstanding mortgages The continuing lack of inflationary state aid during the financial crisis, rising from 120,300 in 2000 to over pressure in the UK economy and weak alleged complicity in LIBOR rate fixing, 1.7 million in 2015.
Expansion in the global market performance in early mis-selling of payment protection Buy-to-Let market has been criticised 2016 has seen expectations of any rise insurance and interest rate swaps.
for inhibiting growth in the ownerin interest rates pushed further out.
occupied market, particularly for first This has facilitated the entry of time buyers.
Changes to tax relief and Challenger Banks, a term applied to an The housing market SDLT may moderate Buy-to-Let market emerging group of banks seeking to The UK housing market experienced growth, however the PRS is expected challenge the dominant market share of growth in 2015, although the double to remain a core component of the UK the High Street Banks.
These Challenger digit levels of 2014 moderated to housing supply and the primary issue Banks also offer current accounts as 6.7% in the year to December 2015. affecting the owner occupied market their core proposition, using them to House prices grew more slowly in remains the lack of available stock develop wider customer relationships.
the second half of 2015, reflecting and insufficient new build starts.
Smaller than High Street Banks and primarily the availability of mortgage without the negative brand legacy, credit, although changes to SDLT have Over 2015, a number of lenders focusing they develop customer propositions impacted prices, particularly on more on the amateur market have tightened where they have identified areas of expensive properties.
The economic their lending criteria and affordability competitive advantage such as service, recovery should continue to mitigate assessments, and this is predicted to accessibility and product features.
the impact of rising interest rates on become more widespread in 2016. affordability and repossessions.
The newest entrants are Specialist Many professional landlords run their Banks, a group that includes OneSavings The mortgage market portfolio as a business, focusing on wellBank.
The Specialist Banks focus on The CML entered 2015 expecting managed gearing levels and ensuring specific UK lending niches that are modest growth in new lending to that cash flow adequately supports debt underserved and do not offer current 222bn.
Year on year, however, the first servicing obligations.
A key feature of these half of 2015 saw a 1.1% reduction in perspective means they are selective Specialist Banks is a growing presence like for like new lending, prompting the and cautious about portfolio growth.
in the retail savings sector as they CML to revise initial forecasts downward develop a range of funding sources.
The final OSB is particularly focused on this outcome was 220bn however, driven market hence we believe that the OneSavings Banks lending markets by a second half performance that changes to tax relief and SDLT will not UK Buy-to-Let Specialist SME Market represented a 16.8% increase on 2014. materially affect our business.
We Growth in the private rented housing have already noted an increase in the sector PRS has been consistent since This growth was driven substantially by proportion of new business applications 2000, underpinned by strong tenant new Buy-to-Let lending, with the Buyfrom limited companies however demand as a result of social and to-Let market growing from 27.2bn and this is expected to continue.
demographic changes, government of new lending in 2014 to 37.9bn in policy and the potential difficulties 2015.
The Buy-to-Let sector saw two faced by first-time buyers in securing significant interventions announced finance.
The major shift seen in in the year.
In the Summer Budget, residential mortgage lending has been the Chancellor announced changes to make affordability assessments to tax relief on rental income and stricter, and this has curtailed lending in the Autumn Statement, changes activity, despite mortgage rates at were announced in respect of SDLT.
The former will be phased in over four years from 2017, with the latter to come into effect from April 2016.
1 Source: Bank of England Inflation Report February 2016.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09 UK Buy-to-Let Gross Advances UK House Price Ination 20102015 m 20102015 % 10.0 7.2 6.7 3.5 1.6 -1.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: CML Research.
Source: ONS, Survey of Mortgage Lenders.
and those seeking shared ownership The market will change fundamentally Residential development mortgages are ill-served by the in March 2016 with the implementation The UK has experienced a longcommoditised and inflexible decision of the European Mortgage Credit term upward trend in real house processes of mainstream lenders.
Directive and the move of second prices, creating affordability This is OSBs target market, which charge lending into the same regulatory problems as demand for housing has been enhanced by the Mortgage framework as first charge lending.
continues to outstrip both supply Market Review MMR changes in The most significant change will and real wage growth.
Furthermore, 2014, which resulted in growth in be to tighten the rules surrounding turnover in the second-hand demand for our personalised and affordability assessment and will housing market is subdued.
potentially result in fewer second Experienced and skilled underwriting charge residential loans although there The Commons Library Stimulating assessment and process management may be some mitigation from the Housing Supply estimates that around techniques can achieve higher increased number of brokers that are 230,000 new homes are required margins than mainstream lending, recommending second charge loans.
each year, far greater than the while maintaining a low risk profile.
OSB welcomes these changes, which 117,070 homes added to the national are aimed at improving consumer housing stock over the 12 months There has been significant regulatory outcomes in a sector that currently has to the end of September 2015. change in the residential market arrears levels in excess of 10%, several over the past decade, with new times greater than first charge lending.
The number of small and medium size measures to ensure good lending developers has not recovered after the practices and consumer outcomes.
While lending levels will fall in 2016, financial crisis in 2008 due to difficulties The MMR introduced new qualification the longer-term outlook is more in obtaining viable development finance requirements for sales staff and tougher positive.
In changing the regulatory and challenges of the planning system.
affordability tests for consumers, in turn framework, the FCA is sending a clear The Housing and Planning Bill, which has creating opportunities for lenders such message that an appropriate outcome received its third reading in Parliament, as OneSavings Bank, with our efficient, for a customer may be a secured loan.
will introduce various measures in an intermediary based distribution Improved regulation will safeguard attempt to boost the construction of model and a willingness to invest the consumer and ensures the most new homes including specific measures time in assessing individual cases.
appropriate customer outcome is to amend planning policy to support achieved.
As an established, regulated small sites.
The sector will struggle to business with a strong compliance produce sufficient homes without the Second charge lending and treating customers fairly ethic small to medium sized developers.
The second charge market saw an and processes and procedures for estimated 844m of gross new lending managing conduct risk, OneSavings in 2015 2014: 630m.
OneSavings Specialist residential lending Bank remains well-placed to take Bank targets good credit quality The High Street Banks typically rely on advantage of opportunities in the mortgage borrowers who wish to a heavily automated, scorecard-driven second charge residential market.
extend their borrowing but do not want approach to lending, as this provides a to change their existing mortgage cost-effective means of servicing a high arrangements.
Borrowers are typically volume of residential mortgage loans.
seeking to fund a major purchase, This is not an effective model for the undertake home improvements or specialist market, where OneSavings consolidate and reschedule other Banks manual underwriting and consumer debt without refinancing individual case assessment model is their existing first charge mortgage, more appropriate.
Customers with as it often carries a low interest rate.
