12 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model in action Sub-sector market specialisation specialist Our goals We focus on specialist mortgage lending to consumers, entrepreneurs and SMEs in sub-sectors of the UK market, where we lender have identified opportunities for riskadjusted high returns and strong growth, and where we can take a leading position.
private rented sector Buy-to-Let commercial and semi-commercial residential development finance bespoke specialist residential lending second charge residential shared ownership We delivered Best Buy-to-Let Mortgage Gross new organic lending We have further developed our wellestablished professional landlord Provider 2015 proposition by leveraging our distribution 2015: strengths across brands and developing products to support professional landlords, including property 1.8bn refurbishment and second charge Buy-to-Let.
2014: 1.5bn Looking forward We will continue to identify opportunities where we can use our strengths to take leading sub-sector positions, adding value to the Group and maximising our use ofcapital.
A relationship built on respect Brightstar is one of the UKs leading Such is the breadth of Brightstars relationship has grown in breadth and specialist mortgage brokers.
Set up operations, it now has key relationships depth as both businesses have grown, in 2011 by three blokes with three with Kent Reliance, InterBay and now includes weekly sales visits phones, it has grown to a headcount of Commercial and Prestige Finance, and and training for Brightstar staff at OSBs 43 and turnover in excess of 7,000,000, recognises the advantages of dealing head office in Kent, to ensure that they spread across its five specialist trading with such a diverse business.
It can are fully up to speed with the Banks divisions of Specialist Mortgages & BTL, be enormously helpful to deal with a lending policies and products.
Second Charge Loans, Bridging Finance, lender with such a broad range of Commercial Lending and Development lending solutions available.
We know The nature of Brightstars clients is Finance.
During that time it has that by approaching OSB with a case, never straightforward, and this makes won a host of industry awards for its we are going to a lender capable of OSB an ideal lender for them.
CEO Rob achievements and its CEO, Rob Jupp, providing a range of solutions for Jupp believes that OSBs open minded is widely recognised as a leading figure our clients.
approach to lending has been mutually in the UK mortgage industry.
Working with a lender who is prepared to take the time to Brightstar has had a relationship with hear the clients story can make all the OneSavings Bank since 2011, borne difference.
Their skilled underwriting out of key relationships with senior has been a part of our own growth members of the OSB team.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Intermediary Inorganic Bespoke relationships growth underwriting Our goals Our goals Our goals We build long-term partnerships with The Group is focused on organic We adopt an expertise-based, manual apanel of selected specialist mortgage origination as its core growth strategy.
approach to underwriting in each market intermediaries that are leaders in their Inaddition, OSB has diversified into sub-sector, specifically geared to each sub-sectors, making it easier for them new lending markets through business individual customer.
We do not use toserve borrowers by providing swift acquisitions, including SME Commercial, automated or scorecard-based processes decision making.
second charge, residential and Buy-to-Let.
In addition the bank has acquired We provide access to specialist products a number of mortgage portfolios and We differentiate our service proposition by and underwriting though our co-ordinated a personal loan book.
responding quickly and flexibly to requests multi-brand approach and focus on with direct access to decision-makers, and listening and working with partners to We delivered provide a service differential for more develop new opportunities and bespoke In 2015, OSB completed the purchase complex situations.
of a 260m portfolio of UK second charge residential mortgages, which has been We delivered We delivered migrated securely on to our Prestige We leveraged the expertise of our We have deepened our relationships with servicing platform.
highly-skilled underwriting team, which these intermediaries and conservatively has an average of 12 years experience, to expanded the panel with whom we work.
OSB also provides funding lines to other enhance the experience of our partners.
In 2015, we grew our sales force lenders, secured against pools of loan Our Transactional Credit Committee met supporting more interaction, developing collateral providing indirect access to 103 times in 2015 to assess more complex award-winning marketing and education certain high yielding, specialist subor larger new mortgage applications that campaigns, and making significant segments, such as residential bridge exceeded 1m of Group exposure.
As at the end of with extending dedicated marketing 2015, the Group had 126m of secured Our own brand residential arrears support, these actions enhanced our funding lines 2014: 70m.
levelistestament to the success of this Intermediary NPS to 59% in 2015. underwriting approach as at December What we will do 2015, out of more than 21,500 loans What we will do OSB will continue to actively consider totalling 4.2bn originated since the Banks We will introduce a broker-friendly inorganic opportunities as they arise creation in February 2011, we only have customer retention proposition to to complement the core organic 48cases of arrears over three months in enhance long-term relationships.
duration, with an aggregate balance of We will also use the broader reach of 5.1m and average LTV of 56%.
ourcross-brand distribution strengths toextend our distribution reach.
What we will do We will continue to develop existing and new manual underwriting skills, through atraining and coaching programme, ensuring that OSB staff have up-to-date skills and can continue to deliver a high-quality differentiated service.
14 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model in action continued fair place to save New online service customers Best Bank Savings Provider Best Cash ISA Provider 2015 2015: 32,500 Improved service with the same heart Over 30 years ago, Raymond Short accurate service.
For Raymond, a arrived in Kent to begin a new life.
branch only customer, the very new He was looking for a savings provider and very nice Hempstead Valley that could help him grow his money and Branch which opened in October 2015 provide for his family in the long-term.
represents an improvement on these He chose Kent Reliance and quickly established Kent Reliance values.
The realised that the building society as it new private area enables him to talk was at the time was about much more face-to-face with a real person quicker than just good rates.
and has built on the familial atmosphere he has come to expect.
Far from solely being motivated by interest rates and returns, Mr Short Kent Reliances relationship with the appreciates the friendly staff that Short family continues to flourish as treated him sympathetically when Raymonds daughter is now also a his son sadly passed away and who customer, with several Easy Access continue to offer a personable and accounts between them.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Stable funding Transparent savings Customer-focused platform products philosophy Our goals Our goals Our goals We focus on delivering a proposition to We deliver straightforward products that By maintaining our strong customerattract and retain a loyal customer base, meet customer needs for cash savings.
centric approach we are rewarded with providing a stable funding platform for We offer good and consistent value, a loyal customer base that recognises OneSavings Bank to grow its loan book.
without having to price at the top of long-term good value.
Our proven retail savings performance the best buy tables.
We do not offer ensures secure long-term funding.
new customer-only products, and new We reward our people based on the customers are not offered rates better quality of service they provide to We delivered than those for existing customers.
customers, further protecting our retail We continued to manage long-term savings franchise.
We measure customer relationships across all channels We delivered satisfaction and NPS through regular throughout 2015, offering a mixture We continued to develop our core customer surveys using independent of market competitive rates including savings product range and in 2015 were experts.
These measures are aligned to maturing fixed rate bonds and ISAs.
recognised by Moneyfacts as the Best our business strategy.
Where we target customer retention we Bank Savings Provider and Best Cash ISA achieve more than 90%.
This year we Provider for the third year running, as We delivered have diversified our funding using the well as Best No Notice Account Provider.
We continue to deliver our brand values Funding for Lending Scheme FLS and and in 2015 enhanced overall customer have managed liquidity using a mixture We also introduced an enhanced communications as well as individual of retention and FLS, averaging 89% childrens savings proposition with the interactions.
Our customer panel and retention throughout the year.
2015 launch of a new Peter Pan account feedback programme identified ways that supports Great Ormond Street of enhancing our online service and We attracted more than 23,000 Hospital for Children.
new savings customers in 2015, and For example, our new, improved demonstrated the value of investing in What we will do Hempstead Valley branch has been our infrastructure by growing our online In 2016, we will extend our savings well received.
The average expertise to SME customers, offering a balance of our savings customers is new range of good value online savings We measure customer satisfaction in 22,900. accounts.
We will also support people several ways: NPS assesses customer saving for their first home by introducing advocacy the likelihood of a customer What we will do Help to Buy ISA accounts, offering a 25% recommending us to someone else.
In 2016, we will continue to develop government bonus.
The industry our online savings proposition to new recognised our success in 2015 and we markets, using our proven and scalable won the customer experience category platform, to meet a wider range of our at the Financial Service Forum Awards customer savings needs.
What we will do We will continue to invest in enhancing our service in 2016, based on using technology and modern practices to support the brand traits customers have told us they prefer heritage, trustworthy and traditional.
We will also use our real-time customer feedback capability toidentify and act on ideas for new products and service improvements.
16 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model in action continued unique operating model Over Net Promoter Score 2015: 80% 55% of staff are graduates or hold higher degrees 2014: 39% OSBIndia award winning customer service Improving award winning customer by improving some of our services.
Another thing we were asked for service whilst simultaneously reducing When a new customer opens an and made happen was a secure our cost:income ratio see KPIs on page account we have made it easier for way to share confidential customer 20 takes a very particular approach them to prove their address and to information online securely.
validate their primary bank account.
of our customers elect touse our This has made account opening online service 35,000 new joiners in The first step is listening.
We ask for quicker and smoother.
2015 we are finding moreways of feedback from customers every time They also wanted to be able to improving the service theyreceive.
they call us, use our internet service or call us, rather than have to write transact in a branch and during 2015 toconfirm their choice of product These improvements amongst many we received more than 43,000.
We when fixed rate bonds and ISAs others have meant that customers feel capture that information, analyse it and came to the end of term.
A small the benefits of our ongoing investment then undertake programmes of work thing, but we had to make sure in OSBIndia and we were delighted toenhance our customer service: that we could prove who we were when OneSavings Bank was awarded takingaction.
talking to, and that the customer the The Financial Service Award for During 2015, customers told our understood the choices being made, Marketing Effectiveness, for our wholly owned, off-shore customer whilst not making it a lengthy and customer feedback strategy.
service centre in Bangalore, India, complicated process.
that we could make their lives easier Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Integrated CostInvestment in multi-brand efficient infrastructure approach operations and systems Our goals Our goals Our goals We will capitalise on our cross-company We aim to ensure our administrative We aim to deliver efficient, scalable expertise, operating under a common functions based in our wholly-owned and resilient infrastructure to support operational framework that supports subsidiary OSBIndia support the strategic our business strategy objectives.
Distribution, intent of delivering excellent customer We invest in complementary systems, sales and risk processes operate under experience.
We drive continuous both proprietary and industry standard, a simple, co-ordinated management customer-focused improvement through to deliver excellent service measured structure giving us the ability to our flexible and cost-effective operating against peers by industry experts, present our multiple-lending brands platforms, putting customer needs first.
outstanding resilience and strong with great efficiency.
OSB focuses on being a We delivered nimble bank with very few legacy issues.
We delivered We benefited from our investment in We continued to work to a single risk continuously identifying and curing areas We delivered appetite and a single lending policy that cause customer dissatisfaction.
In In 2015, we completed a scalable systems in2015, spanning all our brands and 2015 we established projects to improve infrastructure upgrade and continued to borrowing customers, using our experience customer experience by reviewing integrate common infrastructure across in specialist lending to enhance policy.
We customer surveys, comments, complaints the Group.
This included new data and ensured that risks were modelled and the and calls.
Customer-facing teams communications links throughout the comprehensive risk pricing model reflected identified changes and resourced their Group: leveraging the OSBIndia call centre latest market conditions and forecasts.
implementation, prioritised by their experience and commencing migration This modelling ensures all product pricing overall impact.
This has helped the of new and existing business onto the goes through the same rigorous analysis, improvement in our customer and newly-launched Phoebus mortgage according to core principles set by our intermediary NPS scores and improved servicing platform.
Group Pricing Committee, comprised training and new staff recruitment.
also supported staff retention, helped We also continued to invest in IT security, transition additional roles to OSBIndia and supported by market leading data security What we will do is now a leading contributor to customer and resilience experts and opened our We will further develop the coordination experience scores.
new head office building in Chatham, and commonality of approach for our Kent, supporting our growth objectives.
lending brands and customer and risk What we will do supporting operations in 2016, to maximise We will continue to benchmark our What we will do the expertise and goodwill we have built processes against industry best, We will continue to leverage infrastructure up in those customer-facing brands.
challenging what we do and eliminating investment across the Group in 2016, customer pain points as they arise.
We maximising customer and efficiency will also develop skills that enable highly benefits.
We will also ensure infrastructure efficient service management, matching and systems are regularly reviewed and those to business needs both in India tested, maximising their security and and the UK.
resilience using industry experts with particular focus on cyber security.
