48 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors biogs Mike Fairey Andy Golding April Talintyre Malcolm McCaig Tim Hanford Dr David Morgan Rod Duke Stephan Wilcke Mary McNamara Graham Allatt Nathan Moss Eric Anstee Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman Director Mike was appointed Andy was appointed April was appointed Malcolm joined Kent Tim was appointed David was appointed Rod was appointed Stephan was Mary was appointed Graham was Nathan was Eric was appointed to the Board of to the Board of to the Board of Reliance Building to the Board of to the Board of to the Board of appointed to to the Board of appointed to the appointed to the to the Board of OneSavings Bank OneSavings Bank as OneSavings Bank Society in 2009 and OneSavings Bank OneSavings Bank OneSavings Bank the Board of OneSavings Bank Board of OneSavings Board of OneSavings OneSavings Bank in as Chairman in Chief Executive Officer as Chief Financial was appointed to the in February 2011. in February 2011. in July 2012 and OneSavings Bank in May 2014.
Board of OneSavings was appointed in February 2011.
Member of the Member of the None.
Member of Member of the Audit, Member of the Chairman of Chairman of Risk Member of Chairman of Audit the Nomination Risk Committee.
Remuneration and Nomination and Risk, and Nomination Risk Committee.
Remuneration and and member of Remuneration Committee and and Governance Audit Committees.
Governance and Governance member of Risk Audit Committees.
and Nomination member of Risk Committee.
and Nomination and Governance Committee.
Mike is an extremely Andy has over 29 April has broad Malcolm has Tim has over 25 Dr Morgan has Rod has extensive Stephan has extensive Mary has broad Graham has Nathan is a business Eric has extensive experienced years experience in financial services experience in years experience extensive experience experience in operating, investing, Senior management significant banking development and corporate finance banking executive.
finance and has in banking and in corporate finance, operations, risk management experience in and credit risk marketing specialist and M&A experience In a career spanning worked extensively investment, including particularly in the investments, risk and corporate the Banking and experience and and has worked over a broad range more than 40 years, in the financial in credit strategies, banking sector.
management and finance experience, finance sectors.
financial services extensively in the of business sectors.
he has held a range services sector.
risk management, corporate finance particularly in experience.
mergers and across retail and financial services.
Mike was previously Andy was previously April was previously Malcolm was Tim is Managing Rod was previously Stephan was Mary was previously Graham was Nathan was David is Managing Eric was Chairman of Deputy Chief CEO of Saffron an Executive Director previously Chairman Director of J. C. Group General previously the Chief CEO of the previously Acting previously Group Director of J. C. CPPGroup plc from 2014 Executive of Lloyds Building Society, in the Rothesay Life of the Kent Reliance Flowers & Co. UK Manager, HSBC with Executive Officer of Commercial Division Group Credit Director Strategy Director at Flowers & Co for to 2015.
Prior to this Banking Group where he had been pensions insurance Building Society and Ltd.
Previously, he responsibility for the Asset Protection and Board Director of at Lloyds TSB and Friends Life from 2010 Europe and Asia he was Chief Executive for 10 years, until since 2004.
Prior to business of Goldman later Kent Reliance was Head of Private UK distribution Agency, an executive the Banking Division Chief Credit Officer at to 2013 and Prior Pacific.
Prior to that, of the City of London 2008.
Currently, that he held senior Sachs.
Prior to that Provident Society.
He Equity at Dresdner branches, call centres arm of HM Treasury, at Close Brothers Abbey National.
Prior to that Nathan was he served as Chief Group plc, the first he holds a number positions at NatWest, she worked for was a Partner at both Bank and a member and internet banking and a Partner and Group PLC.
Prior to to this he spent 18 Managing Director of Executive Officer of Chief Executive of the of Non-Executive John Charcol and Goldman Sachs Ernst & Young and for both personal the Head of European that Mary was COO of years in the NatWest of the Institutional Westpac Banking Wealth Management Institute of Chartered positions with the Bradford & Bingley.
International for over Deloitte, and has held and commercial Financial Services Skandia, the European Group culminating in Restructuring Units Corporation.
Prior at Lloyds TSB Group Accountants in England Energy Saving He currently holds a 16 years, including as senior management customers.
arm of Old Mutual the role of Managing Executive Committee.
to joining Westpac, having joined and Wales and Group Trust, Retirement number of posts with an Executive Director positions at was with HSBC for Stephan is a Member Group and prior to Director, Credit Risk Tim has also served David was the Senior Scottish Widows in Finance Director of Old Advantage, industry institutions in the Controllers Prudential, National 33 years.
Previous of the Financial that, 17 years at GE at NatWest Markets.
as a Board Director Deputy Secretary of 2002 as Managing Mutual plc.
Eric was Stonehaven UK and including membership division in London and Australia Bank and directorships include Services Commission Capital, running a A Fellow of the of Schroders, based the Australian Federal Director, Marketing also Group Finance Hastings Group of the Council of New York.
Currently VISA UK, HFC Bank of Jersey and a number of businesses Institute of Chartered in Hong Kong and Treasury.
David was & Distribution Prior Director at The Energy Holdings plc.
He is Mortgage Lenders her career at KPMG he holds a number plc and HSBC Life.
He Member of the Board including GE Fleet Accountants, Graham Tokyo, where he Chairman of the to this he spent 18 Group plc and advisor also the Chairman Executive Committee.
in a general audit of Non-Executive also served on the and Investment Services Europe is on the Finance was responsible for Australian Bankers years with HSBC to Lord Hanson on the of the Trustees He is also a Director of department.
She has positions including Board of Alliance & Committee of EMF and GE Equipment Committee of the structured finance.
Association from Group including four Demerger of Hanson of the Lloyds TSB the Building Societies been a member of the Unum, Punjab Leicester plc until Capital Partners Finance.
Mary is Chair Friends of the British 2006 to 2007.
Prior to this Eric Pension Funds.
Trust and has also Institute of Chartered National Bank its takeover by Ltd and a Non of Governors of the Library and was David was awarded Manager, Personal spent 17 years at Ernst Mike spent the served as a Accountants in International Santander.
Rod is a Executive Director Leasing Foundation.
involved in housing an Order of Australia Financial Services and & Young Management first 25 years of Non-Executive England and Wales Ltd, Tradition UK, Fellow of the Institute and Chairman of the associations for in the Australia Day culminating as COO Consultants.
Eric is his banking career Director for since 1992.
CMC Markets plc of Financial Services.
Audit Committee nearly 30 years as Honours by the of Merrill Lynch HSBC.
of Milvik AB and a Treasurer and Board Federal Government Nathan is a Nondirector of Sun Life NHS.
director of Rozes P2P member in the for his service to Executive Director Financial of Canada Investment Partners North of England the finance sector.
of Homeserve Limited, Insight and Chairman of and in London.
Membership Ltd. Asset Management, Amigo Loans Ltd. a member of the Takeover Panel Appeals Board and Visiting Professor, London Metropolitan University Business School.
Committee Experience & qualifications Key skills membership Appointment Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Mike Fairey Andy Golding April Talintyre Malcolm McCaig Tim Hanford Dr David Morgan Rod Duke Stephan Wilcke Mary McNamara Graham Allatt Nathan Moss Eric Anstee Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman Director Mike was appointed Andy was appointed April was appointed Malcolm joined Kent Tim was appointed David was appointed Rod was appointed Stephan was Mary was appointed Graham was Nathan was Eric was appointed to the Board of to the Board of to the Board of Reliance Building to the Board of to the Board of to the Board of appointed to to the Board of appointed to the appointed to the to the Board of OneSavings Bank OneSavings Bank as OneSavings Bank Society in 2009 and OneSavings Bank OneSavings Bank OneSavings Bank the Board of OneSavings Bank Board of OneSavings Board of OneSavings OneSavings Bank in as Chairman in Chief Executive Officer as Chief Financial was appointed to the in February 2011. in February 2011. in July 2012 and OneSavings Bank in May 2014.
Committee Experience & qualifications Key skills membership Appointment
