GOVERNANCE REGULATORY DISCLOSURES AIFMD DISCLOSURES In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the Company has, with effect from 12 May 2014, become an Alternative Investment Fund and from 1 May 2015 has appointed MW Eaglewood Europe as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager the AIFM to provide portfolio management and risk management services to the Company in accordance with an alternative Investment Fund Manager Agreement the AIFM Agreement.
The Board has also appointed Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S. A. to act as the Companys Depositary.
REPORT ON REMUNERATION The AIFMD requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to the remuneration policy of the Companys AIFM.
The total remuneration of the entire staff of MW Eaglewood Europe during the period was 2,871,532, divided into 848,181 fixed remuneration and 2,023,351 variable remuneration.
The aggregate amount of remuneration of senior management and members of staff of the AIFM whose actions have a material impact on the risk profile of the Company during the period was 1,829,078.
An allocation or breakdown of the total remuneration figures in relation to the Company does not exist and is not readily available.
RISK DISCLOSURES The financial risk disclosures relating to risk framework, leverage and liquidity risk as required in accordance with the AIFMD are set out in Note 6 to the notes to the financial statements.
PRE INVESTMENT DISCLOSURES The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in Alternative Investment Funds AIFs before they invest and requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of each AIF.
The Companys prospectus, which sets out information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder information is available on the Companys website at www.
There have been no material changes to this information requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through a primary information provider.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 33
