STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY & BUSINESS MODEL FIRST MOVER ADVANTAGE The emergence of marketplace lending, originally funded by retail capital, is rapidly attracting the interest of professionally managed capital seeking to gain exposure to attractive returns with lower correlation to traditional asset classes.
The Company and the Investment Manager pioneered a number of developments within the marketplace lending industry that allowed them to capture a first mover advantage and position themselves well for the growth of the industry.
Firstly, by introducing permanent, listed capital, the Company allows investors to gain instant, direct exposure to marketplace lending whilst maintaining the liquidity advantages of holding shares in a listed entity.
Secondly, the Company was one of the first to pioneer a global strategy in marketplace lending spread across a number of asset classes, allowing for further diversification compared to strategies focused on single asset classes and single geographies.
The Company will look to continue to stay at the forefront of the fast-growing industry with an aim to capture new Platform opportunities, where superior returns can be attained.
FOCUS ON CREDIT Despite the market enthusiasm for the process of marketplace lending itself, and the ability of such marketplace or balance sheet operators to offer risk-based priced loans to borrowers in a quick and efficient manner, the Investment Manager remains focused on the underlying creditworthiness of the borrowers.
The Investment Manager is of the belief that, irrespective of origination source or the convenience of the product to the borrower, credit performance will vary depending on the quality of verification, underwriting, servicing, and the ability to construct diversified portfolios of selective loans.
Due diligence on the credit process and overall business of the Platform operators is of primary importance to the Investment Manager and its global team of credit professionals.
GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES To date, successful marketplace originators have based their growth and credit performance on a number of characteristics in the markets where they operate including: n high quality credit data to enable accurate assessment of creditworthiness and pricing: n focus on geographies where oligopolistic credit markets allow traditional lenders to enforce large spreads between deposit rates and borrowing rates: and n a focus on types of lending where the overhead cost of traditional lenders bears the biggest weight on gross margin and makes lending unprofitable, unless conducted at high interest rates.
By acknowledging these characteristics, which enable disruptive marketplace lenders to offer borrowers a high quality product and their lenders an attractive return for the level of risk they are taking, the Company is seeking opportunities to meet these criteria, in order to extract additional value for shareholders.
As marketplace lending becomes more mainstream in certain geographies and asset classes, the Company will look to position itself to take advantage of the next wave of Platforms that repeat these characteristics, in new asset classes and new geographies.
P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 13
