STRATEGIC REPORT D. Accounting, Legal and Regulatory - In order to qualify as an investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs and an investment trust.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158, it would lose its investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio could be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored by the Investment Manager and the results reported to the Board.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys shares being suspended from listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, the Investment Manager and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Companies Act, the UKLA Listing Rules, DTRs and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the five year period to the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2021.
The Directors believe this period to be appropriate as they will be required by the Articles of Association to put a proposal for the continuation of the Company at that meeting and therefore cannot presume that it will continue as an investment trust thereafter.
In their assessment of the viability of the Company, the Directors have considered each of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties detailed above.
The Directors have also considered the Companys revenue and expenditure projections, working capital requirements and the fact that the Companys investments do not comprise readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Based on the Companys current position, the principal risks that it faces and their potential impact on its future development and prospects, the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period to the AGM in 2021.
ENVIRONMENTAL, HUMAN RIGHTS, EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES The Company is required, by company law, to provide details of the environmental matters including the impact of the Companys business on the environment, employee, human rights, social and community issues: including information about any policies it has in relation to these matters and the effectiveness of those policies.
The Company does not have any employees nor, as an investment trust, does it have any direct impact on the community or environment and as a result does not maintain specific policies in relation to these matters.
In carrying out its investment activities and in relationships with suppliers, the Company aims to conduct itself responsibly, ethically and fairly.
GENDER DIVERSITY The Board of Directors of the Company comprises three male Directors.
Further information in relation to the Boards policy on diversity can be found on page 24 of the Annual Report.
On behalf of the Board Stuart Cruickshank Chairman 21 April 2016 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 15
