A4 FUTURE PROSPECTS The UK Code of Corporate Governance requires the directors to consider and report on the future prospects of the Group.
In particular it requires that they: Explain how they have assessed the prospects of the Group and whether, on this basis, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation the viability statement State whether they consider it is appropriate for the Group to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements presented in section D the going concern statement In addition Listing Rule LR9.8.
6 R 3 requires the directors to make these statements and to prepare the viability statement in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the FRC in September 2014.
The business activities of the Group, its current operations and those factors likely to affect its future results and development, together with a description of its financial position and funding position, are described in the Chairmans Statement in section A1 and Chief Executives review in section A3.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate these risks are described in section B6.5.
Section B6 of this annual report describes the Groups risk management system and the three lines of defence model it is based upon.
Note 6 to the accounts includes an analysis of the Groups working and regulatory capital position and policies, while note 7 includes a detailed description of its funding structures, its use of financial instruments, its financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk.
Critical accounting estimates affecting the results and financial position disclosed in this annual report are discussed in note 5.
Financial forecasts As described under Accountability in section B3.1, the Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review.
The Groups planning procedures forecast its profitability, capital position, funding requirement and cash flows.
Detailed plans are produced for a rolling 24 month period with longer term forecasts covering a five year period.
These plans provide information to the directors which is used to ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its business objectives, both on a short term and strategic basis.
The plans for the period commencing on 1 October 2015 have been approved by the Board and have been compiled taking into consideration the Groups cash flow, dividend cover, liquidity and capital requirements as well as other key financial ratios throughout the period.
Current economic and market conditions are reflected at the start of the plan with consideration given to how these will evolve over the plan period and affect the business model.
The plan is compiled by consolidating separate income forecasts for each business segment and securitisation vehicle to form the top level projection for the Group.
This allows full visibility of the basis of compilation and enables detailed variance analysis to identify anomalies or unrealistic movements.
Cost forecasts and new business volumes are agreed with the managers of the various business areas to ensure that targets are realistic and operationally viable.
During this process, sensitivity analysis is also carried out on a number of key assumptions that underpin the forecast to evaluate the impacts of the Groups principal risks on profit, cash flow and other key metrics.
This is further stress tested as part of the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, using a number of severe downside scenarios.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT Risk assessment During the year the directors carried out a detailed risk evaluation facilitated by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
As part of this exercise directors were individually required to: assess the strength of the Groups risk framework under each of the headings by which the Group categorises risk identify present key risk concerns for each part of the business identify future key risk concerns for each part of the business over a two to three year time horizon The results of this exercise were subsequently reviewed by the directors and actions to address areas of concern were determined.
Based upon this exercise and their observations throughout the year the directors were able to conclude that the Groups system of risk management was fit for purpose.
A similar exercise also took place with the Groups senior management with similar results.
At the year end the directors reconsidered the results of this exercise and the extent of progress on the identified action areas.
They also considered whether there were any subsequent developments which would have impacted on their assessment and whether these had been addressed.
The directors concluded that this process constituted a robust assessment of all of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These principal risks are set out in section B6.5 of the Risk Management Report.
Availability of funding The securitisation funding structures described in note 7 ensure that both a substantial proportion of the Groups originated loan portfolio and a significant amount of its acquired Idem Capital assets are match-funded.
Repayment of the securitisation borrowings is restricted to funds generated by the underlying assets and there is limited recourse to the Groups general funds.
Recent and current loan originations utilising the Groups available warehouse facilities described in note 7 are refinanced through securitisation from time to time.
The Groups retail deposits of 708.7 million, accepted through Paragon Bank are repayable within five years.
The liquidity exposure represented by these deposits is monitored, a process supervised by the Asset and Liability Committees of the Group and Paragon Bank.
The Group is required to hold liquid assets in Paragon Bank to mitigate this liquidity risk.
At 30 September 2015 Paragon Bank held 364.4 million in liquid assets, comprising 41.1 million of short term investments note 37 and 323.3 million of cash note 38.
None of the Groups working capital debt matures before 2017, when the 110.0 million corporate bond is repayable.
During the year the Group raised a further 112.5 million of working capital though the issue of retail bonds, increasing the outstanding balance to 297.5 million, none of which is repayable before December 2020.
The Group was also granted a public BBBrating by Fitch, which should increase its access to debt.
The Group also raised external debt finance for its acquired assets in the previous year and after the period end.
The Group has therefore significantly enhanced its access to funding for its business during the year and at 30 September 2015 the Group had free cash balances of 199.9 million immediately available for use note 38.
PAGE 42 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Viability statement In considering making the viability statement the directors considered the three year period commencing on 1 October 2015.
This aligns with the horizons used for the risk evaluation exercise described above and only includes one year of the less detailed forecasting period.
The directors considered the Groups financial and business position at the year end, described in section A3 the Group forecasts, and the assumptions on which they were based the results of the risk assessment exercise and follow up actions taken since it was completed the Groups debt issuance in the year and its prospective access to future funding stress testing carried out as part of the Groups ICAAP process risk monitoring activities carried out by the Risk and Compliance Committee internal audit activities in the year Having considered all the factors described above the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks, including solvency and liquidity risks, successfully.
On this basis, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period commencing on 1 October 2015.
While this statement is given in respect of the three year period specified above, the directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over the longer term.
However, given the inherent uncertainties involved in forecasting over longer periods, the shorter period has been adopted.
Going concern statement In order to assess the appropriateness of the going concern basis the directors considered the Groups financial position, the cash flow requirements laid out in its forecasts, its access to funding, the assumptions underlying the forecasts and the potential risks affecting them.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 43 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT
