A2 BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY A2.1 PARAGON OVERVIEW A GROWING BUSINESS The Group is a specialist financial services business operating in the UK.
Best-known as one of the countrys leading, independent buy-to-let lenders, the Group is growing its business by expanding into new finance markets through its recently established subsidiary, Paragon Bank.
Paragon is also one of the nations largest debt purchasers through its Idem Capital division, where it purchases, co-manages and services secured and unsecured consumer loan portfolios.
A SPECIALIST BUSINESS The Group has a core expertise in data analytics, together with advanced risk and credit management capabilities.
It is this expertise that enables it to tailor lending products for specialist target markets and effectively manage complex consumer loan portfolios.
A SIMPLE BUSINESS MODEL The Group has a simple business model, underpinned by a focus on people and a commitment to a single set of values.
INCOME ASSETS FUNDING PROFITABILITY The Group To grow The Group Profitability generates its income, funds its is a key income from the Group assets measure interest, fees focuses on using a of success and charges earned on building its asset base variety of sources, and the Group its mortgage, consumer by originating new loans including securitisation, manages all aspects of and SME loan assets.
and acquiring loan savings deposits and its business closely to It also earns fees portfolios.
deliver sustainable and from third parties for It takes care to secure growing returns to its administering similar competitive funding shareholders.
over an appropriate term to underpin its assets, cover working capital requirements and maintain a strong financial position.
PAGE 12 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS Paragons operations are organised into three divisions, each with responsibility for achieving asset and profit growth.
The three divisions are supported by the Group through the provision of capital to support growth and, where appropriate, with central services including loan servicing, marketing, information technology and legal support.
The Groups central funding is provided by a mix of equity and corporate and retail bonds.
idem C A P I T A L PARAGON MORTGAGES IDEM CAPITAL PARAGON BANK Originates and services Acquires and services Develops and delivers buy-to-let mortgages consumer loan portfolios savings and loans for consumers, SMEs and Funded through a mix of Funded through dedicated landlords external limited-recourse warehouse facilities and funding and Group working securitisations which Funded with a mix of Group capital provide long-term, match capital and retail savings funding for the loan book at deposits LIBOR linked interest rates Over 75,000 Over 385,000 407.8 million buy-to-let loan consumer accounts loan assets accounts managed 708.7 million 9.0 billion 451.0 million retail deposits buy-to-let assets investment in SME asset finance loan assets 94.0 million business acquired operating profit 49.3 million after the year end operating profit Figures at 30 September 2015 FAST FACTS Established in 1985 134.7 million underlying operating profit Over 1,000 employees Headquartered in Solihull Over 450,000 customer loan accounts managed FTSE 250 listed 11.2 billion of gross assets under management The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT SUCCESS FACTORS Six key factors affect the Groups ability to maintain and grow profits: 1.
2. CREDIT QUALITY LOAN PRICING Paragon prices all new advances and portfolio Paragon is a conservative lender.
When purchases to be competitive and achieve an underwriting any new loan or portfolio appropriate margin over funding costs.
purchase, Paragon makes a detailed credit assessment of the customer and the strength of the underlying loan collateral to Net interest margin help minimise the risk of non-payment and portfolio losses.
FUNDING 0.19% The Group makes sure that its loan assets are financed using appropriately dated and priced funding.
It seeks to build a broad and diversified funding mix to underpin Buy-to-let industry average the business.
Investment grade corporate credit 0.67% rating achieved: BBBI am delighted to report another year of excellent progress for Paragon as we continue our strategy of diversifying the Group's income and funding streams, whilst continuing to improve shareholder returns.
Nigel S Terrington Chief Executive STRATEGIC REPORT 4.
STRONG FINANCIAL LOAN SERVICING FOUNDATIONS Each loan is serviced to optimise retention and minimise the risk of non-payment.
Strong cash generation Specialist receiver of rent operation for buy-to-let cases.
helps to support new investment and growth in each of the Groups 525 million three operating divisions.
The Groups conservative pieces of customer data collected and capital and debt positions, which rank among the analysed each month strongest in the UK, give the Group material balance Behavioural scoring models applied sheet capacity for further development.
COST CONTROL The Group has a low cost:income ratio and controls costs carefully 19.1% to maintain this advantage.
It operates from a centralised location, maximising the potential for operating leverage.
Loan products are distributed via third party brokers and savings deposits are collected online.
Leverage ratio Underlying cost: income ratio 7.7% 29.3% Amounts above at 30 September 2015 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT PARAGON MORTGAGES The private rented sector PRS makes up 19% What we do of the English housing market: Paragon Mortgages originates buy-to-let mortgages, for both large-scale professional and other landlords through its Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust brands.
Paragon was one of the first lenders to develop buy-to-let finance and, in 2000, became the only major UK mortgage lender to focus exclusively on buy-to-let products.
UK Private Rented Sector Economic, social and demographic changes, together with the flexibility that renting provides, have all combined to make renting in the PRS an increasingly popular choice.
Source: English Housing Survey 2013-14 Paragon Mortgages - Financial Highlights New buy-to-let lending Paragons landlord customers Large-scale, full-time professional landlords or SMEs with extensive 976.8million and complex portfolios 48.9% higher than 656.1 million in 2014 Other landlords who own a small number of properties as a means of augmenting savings and investments Excluding Paragon Bank The Group delivered a significant increase in buy-to-let lending this year - broadening our product range, increasing our funding capacity and extending our lending into Scotland with Paragon Bank.
John Heron Managing Director Paragon Mortgages STRATEGIC REPORT UK market growth Buy-to-let lending contracted sharply following the financial crisis.
Since 2009 the market has made significant steps on the road to recovery and is performing well.
However, further growth is needed to enable landlords to invest in quality property to meet growing tenant demand.
Source: Council of Mortgage Lenders A diverse population PRS tenant breakdown The perception of renting has changed.
Whilst the PRS was once regarded as the tenure of last resort, it is now increasingly popular with young professionals, couples and families.
The flexibility of the sector is being recognised by a larger and more varied demographic of people.
Source: English Housing Survey 2013-14 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 17 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT IDEM CAPITAL Idem Capitals loan portfolio by value What we do Idem Capital is a leading UK consumer debt purchaser, acquiring and servicing loan portfolios, including first and second mortgages as well as unsecured assets.
In addition, it services loan portfolios for clients including banks, private equity houses and specialist lenders.
Market dynamics The debt purchase market is expected to continue to grow as established banks restructure to return their business models towards more traditional lending markets.
Amounts above as at end September 2015 Idem Capital - Financial Highlights Net investment in loan portfolios Idem customer satisfaction survey 2015 between 2011 and 2015 Idem Capital has managed more than one million customer accounts and we are proud of the reputation we have established for customer service.
We assist our customers in managing their accounts 511.0million and strive to create fair and affordable repayment solutions should they encounter financial difficulties.
The Groups expertise in servicing paying debt is one of its core skills and Idem Capital has built a strong position in the debt purchase market by successfully leveraging and building on this capability.
Dave Newcombe Managing Director Idem Capital STRATEGIC REPORT The UK debt purchase market The UKs debt purchase market is a well-established, 1 billion plus per annum market with strong growth forecast as banks continue to fide-leverage and focus on core lending markets and customers.
Source: OC&C The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 19 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT PARAGON BANK 91% of customers found the process of opening an What we do account with Paragon Bank good or very good Launched in 2014, Paragon Bank is a retail deposit-funded lending bank.
It offers a range of lending products focused on markets where the Group has extensive experience and has enjoyed previous success.
The Banks lending products include car finance, secured personal loans and buy-to-let products that complement the core range from Paragon Mortgages.
In November 2015 the Bank acquired a new SME asset finance business and has plans to grow its lending in this market.
Development finance products launched in November 2015.
Retail savings deposits Paragon Bank funds its lending through a range of safe, simple and transparent online easy access, notice and fixed term savings accounts.
Source: Paragon Bank Customer Experience Survey, August - September 2015 Paragon Bank - Financial Highlights Retail savings deposits Loan assets at September 2015 708.7million 407.8million Steady build up since launch in 2014 Paragon Bank provides a unique platform for the Group to extend its lending into new consumer and SME specialist finance markets and to diversify its funding to include retail deposits.
Richard Doe Managing Director Paragon Bank STRATEGIC REPORT Consistently competitive Paragon Banks savings products are consistently at or near the top of the best buy tables and its lending products are regularly benchmarked against competitor products to ensure they offer attractive terms.
Paragon Bank was voted Best New Savings Provider by moneynet.
Best new savings provider Source: Datamonitor FLA According to Datamonitor, the UK consumer finance market is expected to increase by 34 billion to reach 258 billion by 2019.
As the UKs largest and longest-established banks restructure and focus more sharply on core lending products, there are opportunities for Paragon Bank to enter and take a share of a range of specialist consumer and SME finance markets.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 21 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT
