Savings The UK savings market continues to grow strongly, with household savings balances reported by the Bank of England increasing by over 40 billion in the year to 30 September 2015.
This strong supply has helped to maintain relatively low savings rates, which only increased marginally in fixed term bond segments over the year.
Retail deposits at 30 September 2015 had reached 708.7 million 30 September 2014: 60.1 million even though the Banks savings product range remains reflective of its stage of development, with a focus on attracting term funding to manage interest rate risk and often limiting product availability for short periods of time.
Accounts are offered through the internet and include fixed and variable rate savings products.
Our straightforward approach and consistently competitive products have been recognised in the industry and by our customers.
Paragon Bank was named as Best New Savings Provider at the fifth annual Moneynet Awards in February 2015 and nominated as a finalist for the Best Online Savings Provider award by Moneyfacts for the second consecutive year in October 2015.
In customer feedback 91% of those opening a savings account with the Bank between August and September 2015 rated the overall savings process as good or very good, while 84% stated that they would probably or definitely take a second product with Paragon Bank.
RISK Following a review in 2014, the Groups risk governance framework is now based upon a formal three lines of defence model which is being embedded in all areas.
Credit, Asset and Liability and Operational Risk and Compliance committees, formed of executive management, report to the board Risk and Compliance Committee, the membership of which comprises the Chairman and the independent non-executive directors of the Group.
In the last year we have also consolidated a number of established risk functions into an independent second line Risk and Compliance division headed by a Chief Risk Officer.
The Groups governance structure provides an effective basis for the management of risk within which: The first line of defence, comprising executive directors, managers and employees, holds primary responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring risk management and control processes The second line of defence is provided by the Risk and Compliance division, the board Risk and Compliance Committee and its supporting sub-committees The third line of defence is provided by the Group Internal Audit function and the board Audit Committee which are responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the first and second lines of defence Further details regarding the governance model together with the principal risks faced by the Group, are detailed within section B6 of this annual report.
REGULATION In March 2015 the Mortgage Credit Directive Order introduced legislation to move second charge mortgages from the FCAs consumer credit regime to its residential mortgage regime and to implement a new regulatory regime, to be overseen by the FCA, in relation to consumer buy-to-let mortgage contracts.
Both these new regimes are to take effect in March 2016.
The Group is putting in place the necessary processes and procedures to comply with both regimes from March 2016 and we do not believe that they will have a material impact on the operation of any of our businesses.
During the period the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of England FPC was granted powers to regulate owner occupied mortgage lending.
The FPC has also requested the power to regulate buy-to-let mortgage lending by reference to loan-to-value, debt to income and interest coverage ratios.
HM Government is currently consulting on this request.
The Group will keep this exercise under review to determine what impact it might have on its business model.
PAGE 34 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
