PIGIT pp01 16 PIGIT pp01 16 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 07 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT Market Review The Companys net asset value rose by 11.7% during the 12 months to the end of March 2015 compared to the return of 6.6% from the FTSE All-Share Index, both including reinvested income.
The market performance was held back for most of the year as a result of concerns over future profit growth caused by the strength of sterling, the end to the Quantitative Easing QE programme in the US, rising geopolitical risk, and the prospect of UK domestic elections.
A renewed sense of optimism developed at the start of 2015 fuelled by a significant fall in energy prices, declining bond yields, and by an increase in merger and acquisition activity despite uncertainty ahead of the UK general election.
As the year unfolded, fears over Chinas growth rate and a weakening European economy became more relevant concerns.
However, offsetting this, the fall in the price of oil in the second half of the year increased optimism that consumer disposable income would rise as fuel and utility costs fell.
The deflationary impact of this would also serve to reduce any short-term upward pressure on interest rates.
A final positive factor for the market was the news in January that the European Central Bank had decided to introduce a programme of QE in Europe.
Portfolio Strategy & Review The portfolios significant exposure to the financial sector was a key contributor to this good performance, notably the holding in Legal & General which increased its dividend by over 20%.
Legal & General remains a dominant player in the UK pensions market and is rapidly expanding the investment management business, both by product line and geographically.
It has recently won some key US pension fund mandates and stands to benefit from the growing need of governments across the globe to provide retirement income for an ageing population.
Additionally it is seeking to improve efficiencies across many business lines, whilst focusing on those products that offer scalability with the aim of further enhancing profitability going forwards.
The portfolios holdings in tobacco companies also delivered a significant positive contribution to performance over the period under review.
A combination of continuing robust profit margins and solid dividend growth, helped drive performance.
Reynolds American and Imperial Tobacco delivered total share price returns of 51% and 32% respectively over the period.
There remain high barriers to entry for new competitors and the premium brands strategy continues to demonstrate revenue growth despite an increasingly difficult operating environment.
The advent of plain packaging in Australia has encouraged a greater focus on brand differentiation through quality of tobacco, innovation around packaging and filter technology.
The prospect of plain packaging spreading across the globe is not considered a major threat given the significant existing restrictions on packaging in most jurisdictions.
Furthermore, Reynolds Americans agreed acquisition of North American competitor Lorillard announced last summer, and recently approved by the US Federal Trade Commission, should further strengthen its position in the US market.
Imperial Tobacco also stands to benefit from this deal, as it now has clearance to make a strategic purchase also agreed last summer of some of Lorillards North American brands and its domestic salesforce.
Both companies continue to offer above average dividend yields, in spite of the strong share price performance over the last 12 months.
Other strong contributors to performance were BAE Systems and AstraZeneca.
BAE Systems reported in February that defence spending has become a high priority in a number of international markets and commented that in spite of continuing pressure on public spending in the UK, the company benefited from having long-term contracts in place.
It appears to be likely that the defence budgets in the UK and US have now bottomed.
The company also highlighted that its large order backlog of 40.5 billion continued to provide good, multi-year visibility across many of their businesses.
The value inherent in AstraZenecas drug pipeline was highlighted in April 2014 when Pfizer made a bid for the company, which was subsequently rejected by the AstraZeneca board.
The company has continued to make progress and, at the time of the companys full year results in February, the chief PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 PIGIT pp01 16 PIGIT pp01 16 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 08 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT continued executive described 2014 as having been a remarkable year during which six product approvals were announced and the drugs pipeline was accelerated across all main therapy areas.
The company continues to expand in China which is now its second largest national market.
AstraZeneca remains a core holding in the portfolio.
Amongst the detractors to performance were the holdings in Thomas Cook, Babcock and Drax.
Thomas Cook saw the share price retreat over the period due to weaknesses in the continental European businesses.
The shares reacted more positively when the company announced a strategic partnership with Fosun, a Chinese conglomerate that owns Club Med.
The company remains committed to improving profitability through increased digitisation, further cost-cutting, and a focus on improving the exclusivity of their holiday offerings, through operating their own hotels.
Babcock saw its share price decline following the acquisition of Avincis, a helicopter services business.
The market has been concerned about the price paid for the acquisition and the limited synergies available to the buyer.
There were also wider concerns regarding the visibility of future profits growth.
However, the company continues to focus on winning and renewing complex long-term service contracts where it leverages a strong reputation for technological expertise and long-term experience.
The company operates globally and has a diverse range of contracts and customers are mainly government bodies.
The order book is expected to grow post the UK general election.
Whilst the portfolios exposure to the oil and gas sector is relatively low, the impact of a falling oil price was felt through the holdings in UK power generators, especially Drax, as earnings forecasts were downgraded and sentiment turned negative.
Additionally, Drax was also impacted by the UK governments decision to change its method of subsidy for future biomass conversions and by the possibility of EU intervention.
The other industry that contributed positively to performance over the period was financials.
The portfolio has maintained significant holdings in insurance companies, specialist lenders, and property companies all of which have contributed positively to performance.
The portfolio has no exposure to banks.
The portfolios continued rise in value over a period which has seen some high profile profit warnings and pronounced swings in sentiment is encouraging.
The market has been driven by a more positive view of companies able to deliver sustainable growth in earnings, cash-flow and, particularly, dividends.
In terms of portfolio activity, new investments were made in Game Digital, P2P Global Investments and Smith & Nephew.
The holding in Chemring was sold.
Outlook The recent performance of the UK equity market has seen further strong positive returns, with the FTSE All-Share Index hitting a new all-time high towards the end of April and this makes the near term outlook more subdued.
The continued re-rating of equities primarily as a result of the policies of central banks has resulted in boosting asset values to the point where the market looks more fully valued than for many years.
This high level of valuation coupled with a low level of earnings growth is the primary risk to the current level of share prices.
Furthermore, the increased probability of a change in monetary policy from the US central bank represents a more difficult back drop for government bond markets which will inevitably have a knock-on impact into equities.
The unexpected outright Conservative victory in the general election was positive for business and for UK plc.
Importantly, it removes the uncertainty that would have surrounded a hung parliament and fears of anti-business legislation.
However, as a result of this outcome two new political risks have risen to prominence.
First, the risk surrounding the successful integration of the Scottish Nationalist Party into the UK parliamentary system and second, the longer term risk relating to the EU in-out referendum.
The latter will certainly have an impact on financial markets and the domestic economy in due course.
Notwithstanding this challenging backdrop, the portfolio remains well positioned to prosper in this environment of continued low interest rates and low nominal GDP growth.
As ever, I continue to focus on identifying companies which can cope with a world of low inflation and where the ability to fund a sustainable and growing dividend remains a key principal of corporate strategy.
Fortunately the 08 PIGIT pp01 16 PIGIT pp01 16 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 09 STRATEGY UK equity market, and more importantly, the portfolio, is well represented with businesses which can continue to achieve this objective and which should, over the long term, provide the shareholders of the trust with a healthy total return from a combination of capital and income growth.
Mark Barnett Portfolio Manager 2 June 2015 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09
