PIGIT pp17 35 PIGIT pp17 35 05 06 2015 15:19 Page 17 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE, Chairman of the Richard Laing Chairman of the Audit Committee Board and of the Management Engagement Mr Laing was appointed to the Board on Committee 20 November 2012.
He was previously Chief Bill Alexander was appointed to the Board on Executive of CDC Group plc, formerly the 28 March 2006 and as Chairman on 19 July Commonwealth Development Corporation, from 2007.
He was previously non-executive 2004 to 2011, having joined the organisation in Chairman of Wigborough Ltd, Chairman of 2000 as Finance Director.
Prior to CDC, he spent Xansa plc and Chief Executive of RWE Thames 15 years at fide La Rue where he held a number Water plc, and also held non-executive of positions both in the UK and internationally, appointments at RMC plc, GB Airways Ltd and latterly as the Group Finance Director.
Bill is a Chartered Engineer and a also a non-executive Director of Camelot.
He Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
previously worked in agribusiness in developing FREng.
countries and at  and Marks & Spencer.
He has had a number of Sir Martyn Arbib non-executive positions across a range of sectors, Sir Martyn was appointed to the Board on mainly overseas.
He was the founder and include: a Director of the Overseas Development Chairman of Perpetual plc, which became part of Institute, the UKs leading independent the Invesco group on 7 December 2000, and left think-tank on international development: a the company in 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Trustee of Plan UK, the international childrens Institute of Chartered Accountants in England charity: Chairman of Miro Forestry, which and Wales FCA.
operates in Ghana and Sierra Leone, and a non-executive Director of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust Plc.
He obtained an Vivian Bazalgette MA from Cambridge University in Engineering Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board on and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 21 May 2007.
He is a non-executive Director of Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Henderson High Income Investment Trust plc and Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is also an Bob Yerbury adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and to the Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on Nuffield Foundation.
He is currently Vice 4 December 2008.
His investment career spans Chairman of the Governors of Dulwich College.
over 40 years, having led the North American He previously held the position of Chief team at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, becoming Investment Officer of M&G between 1996 and Chief Investment Officer in 1997 and Chief 2000 and, following the takeover of M&G by Executive Officer in 2004.
He handed over his Prudential, was Chief Investment Officer of CEO and CIO responsibilities in September 2008 Prudential M&G from 2000 to 2002.
He holds and June 2010 respectively, continuing as a an MA in English from Cambridge University.
Senior Managing Director of Invesco Ltd until his Antony Hardy Senior Independent retirement on 27 March 2013.
He holds an MA Director in Mathematics from Cambridge University and Antony Hardy was appointed to the Board on qualified as an Actuary at Equity & Law Life 2 February 1996.
He has held the position of Assurance Society.
He is a Fellow of the Institute Investment Adviser to Essex County Council of Actuaries FIA.
Pension Fund and South Yorkshire Pension Fund.
He is adviser to a number of endowed charities and trusts, a Director of Sableknight Limited, Chairman of the Trustees of the Threadneedle Pension Plan and was previously Investment All Directors are non-executive.
Manager of the Church Commissioners for All Directors are considered independent except England.
for Bob Yerbury, as he was employed by Invesco Perpetual until 27 March 2013.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17
