PIGIT pp17 35 PIGIT pp17 35 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 19 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 Introduction The Directors present their report for the year ended 31 March 2015. Business and Status The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company, registered number 3156676.
It is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs have approved the Companys status as an investment trust and, in the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Life of the Company The Companys Articles of Association require that with effect from 2006 and every five years thereafter, the Company will propose an ordinary resolution to approve the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The next occasion on which the Company must propose a similar ordinary resolution will be at the 2016 AGM.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 23 is included in this Directors Report by reference.
Directors Board Composition The Board comprises six non-executive Directors, all of whom served throughout the year.
Their biographies, which are set out on page 17, demonstrate their breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors.
Directors Remuneration and Interests in Shares The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 34 provides information on the remuneration and interests of Directors.
No Director was a party to, or had interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company during the year or at the year end.
Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards in place which will apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors are obliged to declare any potential conflicts of interest to the Company and these are recorded in the Companys register of potential conflicts.
This is reviewed regularly by the Board.
Directors Indemnities and Insurance The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance which provides appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
In addition, Deeds of Indemnity have been executed on behalf of the Company for each of the Directors under the Companys Articles of Association.
Subject to the provisions of UK legislation, these deeds provide that the Directors may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect of liabilities they may sustain or incur in connection with their appointment.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 PIGIT pp17 35 PIGIT pp17 35 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 20 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued Share Capital Capital Structure As at 31 March 2015, the Companys share capital consisted of 236,874,251 ordinary shares of 10p each.
In response to demand for ordinary shares, during the year 3,058,076 shares were issued for 389.15p.
Subsequent to the year end no further shares have been issued.
The Companys Articles of Association allow an issue of B shares to take place should conditions permit.
There are no B shares in issue.
Restrictions There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, no special rights with regard to control attached to said securities, no agreements between holders regarding their transfer known to the Company, and no agreements to which the Company is a party that might affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
There are restrictions on the transfer of B shares by shareholders located in the US, which make it more difficult for a US person to resell B shares in many instances.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company every ordinary shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each ordinary share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Repurchase Powers The Boards current powers to repurchase shares and proposals for their renewal are shown in the section titled Special Business at the Annual General Meeting.
4 The above rule requires listed companies to report certain information in a single identifiable section of their annual financial reports.
The Company confirms that all such reporting applied to only non applicable events for the year to 31 March 2015.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the 20 PIGIT pp17 35 PIGIT pp17 35 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 21 GOVERNANCE signing of the balance sheet.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities including the 60 million senior secured notes, repayable in May 2029 and ongoing expenses from its assets.
The Directors also considered the revenue forecasts for the forthcoming year and future dividend payments in concluding that the financial statements should be prepared on a going concern basis.
Auditor Deloitte UK LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditor to the Company and a resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the AGM.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 29 to 31 details, among other things, that Committees review of the auditors effectiveness and the Directors confirmation concerning relevant audit information as required by section 418 of the Companies Act.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions As an externally managed investment company, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company is on pages 59 to 62.
In addition to the ordinary business, four resolutions are proposed as special business, one as an ordinary resolution and three as special resolutions.
Share Issuance The Directors are seeking the authority to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,895,808 a third of the Companys issued share capital as at 2 June 2015 in new ordinary shares.
This will allow Directors to issue shares within the prescribed limits should any favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
This authority will expire at the AGM in 2016 or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors are also seeking the usual authority to issue new ordinary shares pursuant to a rights issue or otherwise than in accordance with a rights issue of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,368,742 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 2 June 2015 of new ordinary shares disapplying pre-emption rights.
This authority will not be exercised at a price below NAV so that the interests of existing shareholders are not diluted and will expire at the AGM in 2016 or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
Share Buy Backs and Treasury Shares The Directors are seeking to renew the authority to buy back up to 35,507,450 shares 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at 2 June 2015, subject to the restrictions referred to in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM.
The Directors are proposing that shares repurchased by the Company be either cancelled or, alternatively, held as treasury shares with a view to their resale if appropriate or cancellation.
Any resale of treasury shares will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
Notice Period for General Meetings The EU Shareholder Rights Directive increased the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 PIGIT pp17 35 PIGIT pp17 35 05 06 2015 11:40 Page 22 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued Meetings may be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 14 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall not be less than 14 days notice.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary Perpetual Park Perpetual Park Drive Henley-on-Thames Oxfordshire RG9 1HH 2 June 2015 22
