STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2015 INTRODUCTION The report which follows is designed to provide shareholders with information about: the environment within which the Company operates: the Boards strategy for achieving its stated objectives: principal risks and risk management: and shareholders returns measured against key performance indicators.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND STATUS The Company is incorporated in Scotland registered number SC074582.
It is an investment company as defined by Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
It carries on the business of an investment trust and has been approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs.
The Company has a wholly owned subsidiary, incorporated in Scotland, Personal Assets Trust Administration Company Limited, which provides secretarial and administration services to the Company and three other investment trust companies.
INVESTMENT POLICY The Company is an investment trust with the ability to invest globally.
Its investment policy is to protect and increase in that order the value of shareholders funds per share over the long term.
While the Company uses the FTSE All-Share Index the All-Share as its comparator for the purpose of monitoring performance and risk, the composition of the All-Share has no influence on investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
As a result, the Companys investment performance is likely to diverge from that of the All-Share.
Our definition of risk is fundamentally different from that commonly used by other global growth investment trusts and the industry at large ours being risk of losing money rather than volatility of returns relative to an index.
Taking this as our definition of risk, the Board will usually, although not invariably, prefer the Companys portfolio as a whole to have a lower level of risk than the All-Share.
The Company will invest in equities and fixed income securities and it may also hold cash and cash equivalents which may, depending on circumstances, include gold.
The Company may use derivatives as a way of increasing or reducing its investment exposure and to enhance and protect investment positions.
The Company may also from time to time make use of currency hedging.
The Company has no predetermined maximum or minimum levels of exposure to asset classes, currencies or geographic areas but these exposures are reported to, and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure that adequate diversification is achieved.
The Companys equity portfolio is typically concentrated in a short list of stocks and turnover tends to be low.
No holding in an individual company will represent more than 10 per cent.
by value of the Companys total assets at the time of acquisition.
The Company is prepared to make use of both gearing and liquidity, the former by using short-term borrowed funds or derivatives such as FTSE 100 Futures.
The Companys gearing will not exceed 50 per cent.
of shareholders funds in aggregate.
In exceptional circumstances, the Companys liquidity could be as high as 100 per cent.
These limits would not be exceeded without shareholder approval.
The Company may also invest in other investment trusts, especially as a way of gaining exposure to a region or industry in which the Company preferred not to invest directly.
The Companys policy is not to invest more than 15 per cent.
of its gross assets in other investment trusts and other listed investment companies.
An analysis of the investment portfolio as at 30 April 2015 can be found on page 7.
Page 4 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2130 AGM 3133 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2015 CONTINUED BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY FOR ACHIEVING OBJECTIVES Personal Assets is an investment trust run expressly for private investors.
Its capital structure is the simplest possible for an investment trust, consisting only of Ordinary shares.
The Company is a self-managed investment trust run by its Board, which takes all major investment decisions collectively.
At present all the Directors are male, although this is expected to change by the time of the AGM in July 2016 see under Nomination Committee on page 27.
In order to conform with the EUs Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD the Board appointed its subsidiary, Personal Assets Trust Administration Company Limited, with effect from 22 July 2014 as its alternative investment fund manager the AIFM.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio has been delegated by the AIFM to Troy Asset Management Limited Troy, the Investment Adviser, and is the responsibility of Sebastian Lyon, the Chief Executive of Troy, in particular.
The Directors, Sebastian Lyon and their respective families have substantial shareholdings in the Company see pages 21, 24 and below and those who run the Company therefore have a common interest with those who invest in it.
A review of the Companys returns during the financial year, the position of the Company at the year end and the outlook for the coming year are contained within the Chairmans Statement and Investment Advisers Report on pages 2 and 3.
INVESTMENT ADVISER Troy provides investment advisory services to the Company.
During the year the Board has reviewed the appropriateness of the Investment Advisers appointment.
In carrying out its review the Board considered the investment performance of the Company since the appointment of Troy and the capability and resources of the Investment Adviser to deliver satisfactory investment performance.
It also considered the length of the notice period of the investment advisory agreement and the fees payable to the Investment Adviser, details of which can be found in note 3 on page.
Following this review the Directors are confident of the Investment Advisers ability to deliver satisfactory investment performance.
It is therefore their opinion that the continuing appointment of the Investment Adviser, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders.
As at 30 April 2015 Sebastian Lyon had an interest in 8,813 2014: 5,612 shares of the Company.
DIVIDEND POLICY The Company aims to pay as high, secure and sustainable a dividend as is compatible with protecting and increasing the value of its shareholders funds and maintaining its investment flexibility.
DISCOUNT AND PREMIUM CONTROL POLICY Investment trusts have long suffered from volatile discounts to net asset value.
Sometimes, too, the shares of individual investment trusts may sell temporarily at a significant premium to net asset value.
This can put those investing regularly through investment plans at a disadvantage, because they may find themselves buying shares at a sizeable premium which almost certainly will not be sustained and which will therefore have an adverse effect on the return from their investment.
In view of the disadvantages to shareholders of such discount and premium fluctuations, the Companys policy is to ensure that its shares always trade at close to net asset value through a combination of share buybacks and the issue of new shares at a small premium to net asset value where demand exceeds supply.
This discount and premium control policy is enshrined in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Page 5 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2015 CONTINUED PERFORMANCE The Board assesses its performance in meeting the Companys objectives against the following Key Performance Indicators, details of which can be found in the Key Features on page 1 or, in the case of the volatility of the share price, on page 10 under the heading Volatility and Share Price Performance Since 30 April 2000: share price and net asset value per share against the FTSE All-Share Index over the long term whilst aiming to protect and increase in that order the value of shareholders funds per share in accordance with the Companys investment objective: volatility of the share price compared to that of the FTSE All-Share Index and the other 24 trusts included within the Companys peer group, the AIC Global Sector: and the range and volatility of the discount or premium to net asset value at which the Companys shares trade, in order to ensure compliance with its discount and premium control policy enshrined in the Articles of Association of the Company.
COMPETITIVE AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT The Company is an investment trust quoted on the London Stock Exchange and is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
The Company operates so as to comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, which allows it to be exempted from capital gains tax on investment gains.
In addition to publishing annual and interim accounts the Company announces net asset values per Ordinary share daily and provides more detailed statistical information on a monthly basis to the AIC in order to enable investors and brokers to compare its performance and other relevant information with those of its peer group, the AIC Global Sector.
The Company also publishes quarterly reports on subjects of investment interest to shareholders together with portfolio information and performance statistics.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board believes that the principal risks to shareholders, which it seeks to mitigate through continual review of its investments and through shareholder communication, are events or developments which can affect the general level of share prices, including, for instance, inflation or deflation, economic recessions and movements in interest rates and currencies.
Other risks faced by the Company include breach of regulatory rules which could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, financial penalties, or a qualified audit report.
Breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
Details of the Companys financial risks are contained in the Notes to the Accounts on pages 1520.
In the mitigation and management of these risks, the Board regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Companys investment portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the guidance provided by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Companys internal controls are described in more detail on page 28.
By Order of the Board Steven K Davidson Secretary 10 St Colme Street Edinburgh EH3 6AA 5 June 2015 Page 6
