KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2130 AGM 3133 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual ReFrank Rushbrook port together with the Accounts of the Company and the Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2009.
Group for the year to 30 April 2015.
Shares held: 12,357 Fees during year: 19,000 BOARD OF DIRECTORS A partner in Rushbrook & Co LLP, he has worked in the Hamish Buchan fund management industry since 1998.
Following eleven Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2001 and years at F&C Investment Management Ltd, latterly as Asbecame Chairman in 2009. sociate Director Continental European Smaller Equities, he co-founded Nettle Capital Management LLP and has Shares held: 1,091 Fees during year: 38,000 considerable experience of European mid and small cap He has worked in the investment trust sector since 1969 markets.
and headed the award-winning Wood Mackenzie later, Other Trust Directorships: None.
NatWest Securities trust research team for many years.
He is a past Chairman of the Association of Investment ComACTIVITIES panies.
A review of the Companys activities during the year can be Other Trust Directorships: Templeton Emerging Markets found in the Strategic Report on pages 46 and in the and The Scottish Investment Trust.
Chairmans Statement and Investment Advisers Report.
Robin Angus RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1984 and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Rebecame Executive Director in 2002. port and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those InternaShares held: 4,123 Fees during year: nil tional Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted Annual Salary: 200,000 by the European Union.
He has worked in the investment trust sector since 1977.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the He trained as an investment trust manager at Baillie, GifGroup financial statements unless they are satisfied that ford & Co and worked with Hamish Buchan for 17 years they present fairly the financial position, financial peras an investment trust analyst.
formance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In Other Trust Directorships: None.
preparing the Group financial statements the Directors are required to: Gordon Neilly select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1997. consistently: Shares held: 1,912 Fees during year: 19,000 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and Co Chief Executive Officer of Cantor Fitzgerald Europe, prudent: having been Head of Corporate Finance.
He was previously Chief Executive of Intelli Corporate Finance and Finance state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject and Business Development Director of Ivory & Sime.
Comto any material departures disclosed and explained in pany Secretary of the Company for ten years, he joined the the financial statements: and Board as a non-executive Director in 1997 and has considprepare the financial statements on the going concern erable experience and knowledge of investment trusts.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Other Trust Directorships: INVESCO Perpetual Enhanced Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate acStuart Paul counting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable acJoined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2009. curacy at any time the financial position of the Group and Shares held: 4,380 Fees during year: 19,000 enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the Managing Partner of First State Stewart which invests in IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguardAsia Pacific, Global Emerging and other markets worlding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable wide on behalf of its clients.
He is a Chartered Accountsteps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other ant and is a Director of Archangel Investors Ltd and irregularities.
Didasko Education Company Ltd. Other Trust Directorships: None.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In reaching this Page 21 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED conclusion the Directors have assumed that the reader of SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS the Annual Report and Accounts has a reasonable level of At 30 April 2015 the following holdings representing diknowledge of the investment industry.
rectly or indirectly 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company had Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are been disclosed to the Company: also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and CorSubstantial Holders Shares Held Percentage porate Governance Statement that comply with that law Personal Assets Trust ISA 261,635 15.0 and those regulations.
Personal Assets Trust The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and inInvestment Plan 167,012 9.6 tegrity of the corporate and financial information included There have been no changes notified in respect of the above on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing holdings, and no new holdings notified, since the end of the preparation and dissemination of financial statements the year.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS UNDER THE DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES Information on the Companys financial instruments can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 46 and in the Each of the Directors listed on page 21 confirms that to Notes to the Accounts on pages 1520. the best of his knowledge: PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true Information on the principal risks to shareholders and and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position management of these risks can be found in the Strategic and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings Report for the Year to 30 April 2015 on pages 46 and in included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Note 13 to the Accounts on pages 1820. the Directors Report includes a fair review of the fideDIRECTORS INDEMNITY velopment and performance of the business and the The Companys Articles of Association entitle any Direcposition of the Group and the undertakings included in tor or Officer of the Company to be indemnified out of the the consolidation taken as a whole together with a fideassets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred scription of the principal risks and uncertainties that it by him in the execution of his duties in relation to the faces.
Companys affairs to the extent permitted by law.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE CARBON EMISSIONS As at 30 April 2015 there were 1,742,956 Ordinary shares The Companys carbon emissions result predominantly of 12.50 each in issue.
from its consumption of gas and electricity at its single ofDuring the year the Company purchased 10,100 Ordinary fice.
Using Defra DECCs GHG conversion factors for shares to be held in Treasury for a total consideration of company reporting produced in 2014, emissions for the 3,374,000, and reissued 35,609 Ordinary shares from year to 30 April 2015 were 16.7 tonnes of CO2e 2014: 18.0 Treasury for proceeds of 12,306,000. tonnes of CO2e.
This equates to 0.10 tonnes of CO2e 2014: 0.11 tonnes of CO2e per square metre.
The revenue profits of the Company including accumulated revenue reserves and realised capital profits are availAUDITORS able for distribution by way of dividends to the holders of Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to the Ordinary shares excluding any Ordinary shares held in continue in office as Auditors and a resolution proposing Treasury, which have no entitlement to dividends.
their re-appointment will be proposed at the AGM.
Voting rights and deadlines for exercising voting rights can be found in the Notes for the Annual General Meeting AGM which accompany this Annual Report and Accounts.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND The results for the year are set out in the Group Income Statement on page 11.
The Company paid four quarterly dividends of 1.40 per share to shareholders in the year ended 30 April 2015.
Page 22 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2130 AGM 3133 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED RESOLUTIONS TO BE PROPOSED AT THE AGM Resolutions 10 and 11 would provide the Directors with the authority they need to manage Treasury shares.
Treasury Resolutions 1 to 8 are self explanatory.
shares will be sold only at a premium to the net asset value Authority to Issue Shares of the shares at the time of sale.
During the year the Company continued its policy of issuNotice Period for General Meetings ing shares at a small premium to net asset value in response The Companys Articles of Association enable the Comto demand.
Resolution 9 is to authorise the Directors to pany to call General Meetings other than an Annual Genissue new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of eral Meeting on 14 clear days notice.
In order for this to 2,184,837.50, being 10 per cent.
of the total issued shares be effective, the shareholders must also approve annually as at 5 June 2015.
Resolution 10 is to enable the Directors the calling of meetings other than Annual General Meetto issue such new shares and to reissue shares from Treasings on 14 days notice.
Resolution 12 will be proposed at ury see Treasury Shares below up to an aggregate nomithe Annual General Meeting to seek such approval.
The final amount of 2,184,837.50, being 10 per cent.
of the total approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual issued shares as at 5 June 2015, for cash without first ofGeneral Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resofering such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their lution will be proposed.
The Company meets the requireexisting shareholdings.
The Directors issue new shares only ments for electronic voting under the Companies Act 2006, when they believe it is advantageous to the Companys offering facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic shareholders to do so and for the purpose of operating the means.
The Directors believe it is in the best interests of Companys premium control policy.
In no circumstances the shareholders for the shorter notice period to be availwould such issue of new shares or reissue of shares from able to the Company, although it is intended that this flexTreasury result in a dilution of net asset value per share.
ibility will be used only for early renewals of the Boards Authority to Buy Back Shares authority to issue new shares and non-routine business and only where merited in the interests of shareholders as a During the year, the Company acquired 10,100 of its own whole.
shares to be held in Treasury.
The Companys current authority to make market purchases of up to 14.99 per cent.
RECOMMENDATION of the issued Ordinary shares expires at the end of the AnThe Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed nual General Meeting.
Resolution 11 is to renew the auat the AGM are in the best interests of the shareholders as thority for a further period until the Companys Annual a whole and recommends that they vote in favour of such General Meeting in 2016.
The price paid for shares on exresolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their ercise of the authority will not be less than the nominal own beneficial holdings.
value of 12.50 per share or more than the higher of a 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotaBy Order of the Board tions of those shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased and b the higher of the last indeSteven K Davidson pendent trade and the highest current independent bid on Secretary the London Stock Exchange.
The authority, which may be 10 St Colme Street used to buy back shares either for cancellation or to be Edinburgh EH3 6AA held in Treasury, will be used to purchase shares only if, in the opinion of the Directors, a purchase would be in the 5 June 2015 best interests of the shareholders as a whole and would result in an increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
There are no outstanding options warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
Treasury Shares Under UK company law investment trusts are able to acquire their own shares to hold in Treasury for reissue.
The Directors consider that this facility gives the Company more flexibility in managing its share capital.
As at 5 June 2015 the Company had reissued all of its Ordinary shares held in Treasury.
