KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2130 AGM 3133 INVESTMENT ADVISERS REPORT Over the year to 30 April 2015 the net asset value per share of Personal Assets rose by 4.8%, while our comparator, the FTSE All-Share Index, rose by 3.9%.
In a benign year for markets we kept pace with their modest rise as equities held on to their strong gains of recent years, buoyed on an ever-rising tide of liquidity.
But after six years of the devils brew of zero interest rates and quantitative easing there is evidence that bubbles are forming.
William McChesney Martin, Chairman of the Federal Reserve 1951-70, famously said that his job was to take away the punchbowl just as the party gets going.
In contrast to this, his successor between 1987 and 2006, Alan Greenspan, has asserted that central banks should concern themselves only with clearing up after crashes rather than trying to identify bubbles in advance.
It is therefore ironic that his central bank successors have themselves arguably created the third bubble in 15 years following the dot com boom in 2000 and the housing boom in 2007.
Like Greenspan, they are in no mood to identify it but even if they were they would be as helpless as the Sorcerers Apprentice to mop up the flood, since the enchanted broom labelled interest rates has lost all its bristles.
Todays bubbles are occurring both in risky assets, like Chinese equities, and in perceived safe assets, like German government bonds.
Shanghai-listed stocks are up over 100% during the past year, boosted by retail investors as margin financing has almost quadrupled from the equivalent of $64bn to $280bn in less than twelve months.
Beijing Baofing Technology, for instance, an online audio and video entertainment business, has risen 4,000% since it came to the market only two months ago.
We have not seen such flights of fancy since 1999.
But flights to safety look just as fanciful.
Since 2010 conventional wisdom has held that we are on a path towards normalised interest rates, yet in Europe over the past year some official interest rates have even fallen below zero.
In Switzerland and Denmark people are paid to take out mortgages and banks charge you to hold your cash.
Savers looking to escape this Alice in Wonderland world may start hiding their notes under the mattress.
Our goal at Personal Assets is to avoid bubbles and preferably to ignore them.
In one of the first conversations I had with Ian Rushbrook soon after the dot com bust back in 2003 he spoke of a fund manager whose investment trust had risen almost fivefold in the eight months to March 2000.
Ian urged him to bank it!, such gains being by nature ephemeral.
the trust subsequently fell by over 90% from its peak and was wound up, locking in a permanent capital loss for its shareholders.
Our practice when investing is always to try to cut the weeds and water the flowers, and over the year equity turnover was low at 7%.
We uprooted two serial disappointers, Newmont Mining and Newcrest Mining, while bedding out some more Diageo, Philip Morris and Sage during lulls in their share prices.
When picking stocks we like our holdings to pay us to own them and not vice versa, and we expect the three last named companies to continue to do just that.
We took advantage of a dramatic improvement in trading to sell the Companys longstanding holding in Greggs, given the increasingly competitive nature of the food-on-the-go market.
The immediate outlook for risk-averse investors is very challenging.
Prices today are predicated on interest rates staying permanently low which cannot happen while correlations between asset classes have moved closer to one, so diversification gives less protection.
In the Bible Ecclesiastes 11:2 Ecclesiastes the Preacher warns us, Divide your investments among many places, for you do not know what risks might lie ahead.
Excellent advice as far as it goes, but the Preacher probably never encountered investments as closely correlated as they are today.
If interest rates stay close to zero, as seems likely in the near term, low absolute returns are also likely.
Conversely, if interest rates start to rise then markets will be extremely vulnerable to a rising cost of capital.
Personal Assets is in a strong position to exploit market falls as and when they emerge.
We do not, however, propose to be lured down a path of decreasing quality.
Instead, we will avoid the seductive trap pointed out by Benjamin Graham, Observation over many years has taught us that the chief losses to investors come from the purchase of low-quality securities at times of good business conditions.
The purchasers view the good current earnings as equivalent to earning power and assume that prosperity is equivalent to safety.
