Strategic Review The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 Regulatory Arrangements Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations The Company is designated an Alternative Investment 2013 to set out a report to shareholders outlining a fair Fund AIF under the Alternative Investment Fund review of the strategy and performance of the Company Management Directive AIFMD and as required by the during the year ended 30 April 2015, the position of the Directive has contracted with Polar Capital LLP to act as Company at the year end and a description of the the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and principal risks and uncertainties.
HSBC Bank Plc to act as the Depositary.
These appointments became effective from 22 July 2014.
Both The Strategic Report Section of this annual report which the AIFM and the Depositary have responsibilities under comprises the Chairmans Statement, the Investment AIFMD for ensuring that the assets of the Company are Managers Report and this Strategic Report has been managed in accordance with investment policy and are prepared solely to provide additional information to held in safe custody.
The Board remains responsible for shareholders on the Companys strategies and potential setting the investment strategy and operational for those strategies to succeed.
The Strategic Report guidelines as well as meeting the requirements of the Section contains certain forward looking statements.
FCA Listing Rules and the Companies Act.
These statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of Statements from the Depositary and the AIFM can be their approval of this report and such statements should found on pages 126 to 128. be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors The Company seeks to manage its portfolio in such a underlying any such forwardlooking information.
way as to meet the tests set down in Section 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 as amended by Introduction and Business Model Section 49 2 of the Finance Act 2011 and continue to qualify as an investment trust.
This qualification permits The business of the Company is to provide shareholders the accumulation of capital within the portfolio without with access to an actively managed portfolio of technology any liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
Further information shares selected on a worldwide basis with the investment is provided in the Directors Report.
objective to maximise long-term capital growth.
The Company has no employees or premises and the Over the last three decades the technology industry has Board is comprised of Non-executive Directors.
The day been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly to day operations and functions of the Company have been growing segments of the global economy.
Technology delegated to third parties.
companies offer the potential for substantially faster earnings growth than the broad market, reflecting the long-term secular uptrend in technology spending.
Investments are selected for their potential shareholder returns, not on the basis of technology for its own sake.
The Investment Manager believes in rigorous fundamental analysis and focuses on: management quality: the identification of new growth markets: the globalisation of major technology trends: exploiting international valuation anomalies: and sector volatility.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 45 2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued Objective Service Providers The Companys investment objective has been since Polar Capital LLP has been appointed to act as the formation, and will continue to be, to maximise long-term Investment Manager and AIFM as well as to provide or capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of procure company secretarial services and administrative technology companies around the world.
services, including accounting, portfolio valuation and trade settlement which it has arranged to deliver through Policy HSBC Securities Services UK Limited.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 the following investment policy was approved.
The portfolio has been The Company also contracts directly with a number of managed in accordance with the policy and restrictions third parties for the provision of specialist services: in the year to 30 April 2015.
Cenkos Securities plc as corporate broker: Asset Allocation Equiniti Limited as the share registrars: Technology may be defined as the application of  LLP as independent scientific knowledge for practical purposes and auditors and tax advisers: technology companies are defined accordingly.
While Camarco as PR advisors: this offers a very broad and dynamic investing universe Accrue Fulton as website designers, internet hosting and covers many different companies, the portfolio of services and designers and printers for shareholder the Company the Portfolio is focused on technology communications: and companies which use technology or which develop and supply technological solutions as a core part of Alliance Trust Savings for the provision of investor their business models.
This includes areas as diverse information and to facilitate investors through the as information, media, communications, environmental, Alliance Trust Savings arrangements to cast proxy healthcare, finance and renewable energy, as well as the votes and attend the Companys AGM.
more obvious applications such as computing and associatedindustries.
Future Developments The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook for The Portfolio is constructed without specific reference technology and the Company will continue to pursue its to any individual market, index or benchmark and the investment objective.
The outlook for future performance Directors discuss asset allocation regularly.
The Board is dependent to a significant degree on the worlds financial has agreed a set of parameters which are based upon markets and their reactions to economic events and other current market conditions and provide a range which geo-political forces.
The Chairmans Statement and the guides the Investment Manager depending on market Investment Managers Report comment on the outlook.
The Board believes that this provides the necessary flexibility for the Investment Objective, Policy and Strategy Investment Manager to pursue the investment objective, given the dynamic and rapid changes in the field of Shareholders should be aware that the portfolio is actively technology, while maintaining a spread of investments.
managed and is not designed to track any particular benchmark, indices or market.
Given the dynamic nature of technology markets and the rapid changes in share prices of technology shares favoured by the Investment Manager the performance of the portfolio can vary from the benchmark performance, at times considerably.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 46 The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World In addition to the restrictions set out above, the Company Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted with is subject to Chapter 15 of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing the removal of relevant withholding taxes against Rules which apply to closed ended investment companies which net asset value performance of the Company with a premium listing on the Official List of the London is measured for the purpose of assessing Stock Exchange.
In order to comply with the current Listing performance fees the Benchmark.
Rules, the Company will not invest more than 10%.
of its total assets at the time of acquisition in other listed closed However, the Benchmark is neither a target nor an ideal ended investment funds, whether managed by the investment strategy.
The purpose of the Benchmark is to Investment Manager or not.
This restriction does not apply set a reasonable return for shareholders of the Company to investments in closed ended investment funds which above which the Investment Manager is entitled to a themselves have published investment policies to invest no share of the extra performance it has delivered.
more than 15% of their total assets in other listed closed ended investment funds.
However, the Company will not in Risk Diversification any case invest more than 15% of its total assets in other The Company will at all times invest and manage its closed ended investment funds.
The Company must not assets in a manner that is consistent with spreading conduct any trading activity which is significant in the investment risk and invests in a Portfolio comprised context of its group as a whole.
primarily of international quoted equities which is diversified across both regions and sectors.
Borrowing, Cash and Derivatives The Company may borrow money to invest in the Portfolio The Company will satisfy the following over both the long and short-term.
Any commitment to investment restrictions: borrow funds is agreed by the Board and AIFM.
The Companys interest in any one company will not The Companys Articles of Association permit borrowings exceed 10%.
of the gross assets of the Company from up to the amount of its paid up share capital plus capital time to time, save where the Benchmark weighting of and revenue reserves but any net borrowings in excess of any investee company in the Companys portfolio 15% of the Companys net assets at the time of drawdown exceeds this level, in which case the Company will be will only be made with the approval of the Board.
permitted to increase its exposure to such investee company up to the Benchmark neutral weighting The Investment Manager may also use from time to time of that company or, if lower, 20% of the Companys derivative instruments as approved by the Board such as gross assets.
financial futures, options,  and The Company will have a maximum exposure to currency hedges.
These are used for the purpose of companies listed on emerging markets as defined efficient portfolio management.
Any such use of derivatives by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 25%.
will be made in accordance with the Companys policies of its gross assets from time to time.
on spreading investment risk as set out in this investment policy and any leverage resulting from the use of such The Company may invest in unquoted companies derivatives will be subject to the restrictions on from time to time, subject to prior Board approval.
Investments in unquoted companies in aggregate will not exceed 10%.
of the gross assets of the Company measured at the time of acquisition of the relevant investment and whenever the Company increases the relevant holding.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 47 2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued purchase of appropriate government bonds, money market Changes to investment policy funds or bank deposits depending on the Investment Any material change to the investment policy will require Managers view of the investment opportunities.
the approval of the Shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution at a general meeting.
The Company will Gearing promptly issue an announcement to inform Shareholders During the year the Company had loan facilities with ING and the public of any change of its investment policy.
Bank NV for a 25m one year loan drawn in US Dollar 13,000,000 and Japanese Yen 2,600,000,000 which was Investment Strategy Guidelines and Board limits repaid on 2 October 2014.
This loan was replaced by a new The Board has within the Investment Policy established one year facility with ING Bank NV split into a one year guidelines on the Investment Manager in pursuing the term loan of 14m, drawn down in US Dollar 6,600,000 Investment Policy.
The Board use these guidelines to and Japanese Yen 1,700,000,000 and a Revolving Credit monitor the portfolios exposure to different geographical Facility RCF for 14m which could be drawn in US markets, sub-sectors within technology and the spread of Dollars, Japaneses Yen or Euros.
Both the term loan and investments across different market capitalisations.
the RCF fall for repayment on 2 October 2015.
The RCF These guidelines are kept under review as cyclical has not been used in the period to 30 April 2015. changes in markets and new technologies will bring Details of the loans are set out in note 18 to the certain sub-sectors or companies of a particular size financial statements.
or market capitalisation into or out of favour.
Market parameters Benchmark Notwithstanding the ability to invest up to 100% of the The Company has a Benchmark of the Dow Jones World portfolio in any one market, with current and foreseeable Technology Index total return, in Sterling with the removal investment conditions the Portfolio will be invested in of relevant withholding taxes against which NAV accordance with the objective across worldwide markets performance is measured for the purpose of assessing within the following geographical and market parameters: performance fees.
North America up to 85% of the Portfolio As at 30 April 2015 the Dow Jones World Technology Europe up to 40% of the Portfolio Index was calculated as a market capitalisation based Japan and Asia up to 55% of the Portfolio index of 590 technology companies worldwide.
71% of the index weighting is in North America, 8% in Europe Rest of the world up to 10% of the Portfolio and 21% in Asia Pacific.
By market capitalisation 84% The Board has set specific upper exposure limits for is represented by large companies, 15% by mid-caps certain countries where they believe there may be an and 1% by smaller companies.
Although the Company has a Benchmark, this is neither Cash a target nor an ideal investment strategy.
The purpose From time to time the Company may hold cash or near of the Benchmark is to set a reasonable return for cash equivalents if the Investment Manager feels that shareholders above which the Investment Manager is these will at a particular time or over a period enhance entitled to a share of the extra performance it has delivered.
the performance of the Portfolio.
The Board has agreed that management of cash may be achieved through the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 48 The Company has also considered the Investment Performance Managers Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Policy.
The At 30 April 2015 the total net assets of the Company Voting Policy is for the Investment Manager to vote at all amounted to 793,019,000 2014 606,633,000.
The general meetings of companies in favour of resolutions Net Asset Value per share rose by 30.7% from 458.40 to proposed by the management where it believes that the 599.25p.
The portfolio comprised of 129 investments with proposals are in the interests of shareholders.
However, the single largest investment being Apple 10.6% 2014: in exceptional cases, where it believes that a resolution Google 7.9%.
could be detrimental to the interests of shareholders or the financial performance of the Company, appropriate The top investments each being over 1% of the portfolio at notification will be given and abstentions or a vote against 30 April 2015 are described on pages 41 to 44.
A full listing will be lodged.
of all investments in the portfolio is given on pages 114 to 118.
Due to a computer error when we moved to a new custodian, no votes were cast between June 2014 and The portfolio has been analysed on pages 38 to 40 to June 2015 at company meetings of investments held in the disclose details on the distribution of investments by Portfolio.
Steps have been taken by the Investment market capitalisation and by the different sectors in Manger to implement a new system to correct this the different principal geographies.
The changes in the share price, net asset value and The Investment Manager reports to the Board, when benchmark over the financial year are shown on page 4. requested, on the application of the Stewardship Code and A review and commentary are given in the Chairmans Voting Policy.
The Investment Managers Stewardship Statement on pages 6 and 7 and the Investment Managers Code and Voting Policy can be found on the Investment Report on pages 8 to 37.
Managers website in the Corporate Governance section www.
The ongoing charges ratio shown on page 4 has been calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC Environment and constitutes the management fee in note 8 and the The Companys core activities are undertaken by other administrative expenses note 9 as a percentage of its Investment Manager which seeks to limit the average daily net assets over the year.
use of non-renewable resources and reduce waste where possible.
Dividends Diversity, gender reporting and human The Companys revenue varies from year to year and the rights policy Board considers the dividend position in each year in order to The Company has no employees and the Board comprised maintain the Companys status as an investment company.
of two female and five male Non-executive Directors.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
If any new appointments are made to the Board, the Corporate Responsibility Board will continue to have regard to the benefits of Socially responsible investing and exercise diversity, including gender, when seeking to make any of voting powers such appointments.
The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to take The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights into account the published corporate governance of the as it has no employees or operational control of its assets.
companies in which it invests.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 49 2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued Key Performance Indicators The Board appraises the performance of the Company and the Investment Manager as the key supplier of services to the Company against key performance indicators KPIs.
The objectives comprise both specific financial and shareholder related measures.
KPI Control process Outcome The provision of The Board reviews at each meeting the The Companys NAV has, over the year to 30 April 2015 investment returns to performance of the portfolio and the outperformed the Benchmark.
ordinary shareholders views of the Investment Manager.
The NAV per share rose by 30.7% while the measured by long-term Benchmark rose 29.5% over the same period.
NAV growth and relative performance against The reasons are explained in the Chairmans the benchmark.
Statement and the Investment Managers Report.
Over the longer-term, as shown by the historic performance data shown on page 5, growth in the NAV has exceeded the Benchmark.
Monitoring and reacting The Board receives regular information The discount premium of the ordinary share price to issues created by the on the composition of the share register to NAV per ordinary share diluted when appropriate discount or premium of including trading patterns and discount over the year has ranged from a maximum discount the ordinary share price premium levels of the Companys ordinary of 7.5% to a premium of 3.0%.
to the NAV per ordinary shares.
The Board discusses and The Company has not bought back nor issued any share with the aim of authorises the issue or buy back shares in the year to 30 April 2015. reduced discount volatility of shares when appropriate.
A daily NAV per share, diluted when appropriate, calculated in accordance with the AIC guidelines, is issued to the London Stock Exchange.
To qualify and continue The Board receives regular financial This has been achieved for every year since launch to meet the requirements information which discloses the current in 1996. for Sections 1158 and and projected financial position of the HMRC has approved investment trust status subject 1159 of the Corporation Company against each of the tests set to the Company continuing to meet the relevant Tax Act 2010 investment out in Sections 1158 and 1159. eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements.
The Directors believe that the tests have been met in the financial year ended 30April 2015 and will continue to be met.
Efficient operation of the The Board considers annually the The Board has received and considered satisfactory Company with appropriate services provided by the Investment the internal controls report of the Investment Manager investment management Manager, both investment and and other key suppliers including contingency resources and services administration and reviews on a cycle arrangements to facilitate the ongoing operations from third party suppliers the provision of services from third parties of the Company in the event of withdrawal or failure within a stable and risk including the costs of their services.
The annual operating expenses are reviewed The ongoing charges of the Company for the year and any non-recurring project related ended 30 April 2015 was 1.08% of net assets expenditure sanctioned.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 50 Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties The Board is responsible for the management of risks faced by the Company in delivering long-term returns to shareholders.
The identification, monitoring and appraisal of the risks, any mitigation factors and control systems is crucial.
The Board maintains a Risk Map which seeks to record risks in four main risk categories, Business, Portfolio Management, Infrastructure and External.
The Risk Map details each identified risk and any factors, both internal and external, that could provide mitigation as well as recording a reporting structure to monitor and mitigate as far as practical such risks.
Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls Business The appropriateness of the investment mandate and The Board seeks to mitigate the impact of such risks through the execution of the investment strategy may be out the regular reporting and monitoring of the investment of favour or poorly delivered which may lead to poor performance against its peer group, other closed ended and performance against the Benchmark and peer group open ended funds and Exchange Traded Funds ETFs.
leading to a depressed share price, unacceptably large A day a year is set aside to conduct an annual review of the and persistent discount as investors seek alternative investment strategy and investment markets which is used investments or lower risk strategies.
as a framework to assess portfolio construction and The ordinary shares of the Company are listed on performance across the remainder of the year.
The Board the London Stock Exchange and the share price is when considering the investment strategy has regard to the determined by supply and demand.
The shares degree of risk which the Investment Manager incurs in order may trade at a discount or at a premium to the to generate investment returns.
Companys underlying NAV and this discount For months when the Board is not scheduled to meet they or premium may fluctuate.
receive a monthly report containing financial information on the Company including gearing and cash balances.
They also receive a monthly commentary from the Investment Manager in the factsheet.
A continuation vote is held every five years to provide shareholders with an opportunity to wind-up the Company.
In consultation with its advisors, including the corporate stock broker the Board regularly considers the level of premium and discount of the share price to the NAV and the Board reviews ways to enhance shareholder value including share issuance and buy backs.
The Board is committed to a clear communication program to insure shareholders understand the investment strategy.
This is maintained through the use of monthly factsheets which have a market commentary from the Investment Manager as well portfolio data, an informative and relevant website as well as annual and half year reports.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 51 2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls Portfolio Management While the portfolio is diversified across a number of The Board has set appropriate investment guidelines and stock markets worldwide, the investment mandate is monitors the position of the portfolio against such guidelines focused on technology and thus the portfolio will be which includes guidelines on exposures to certain investment more sensitive to investor sentiment and the markets and sectors.
The Board discusses with the Investment commercial acceptance of technological developments Manager at each Board meeting developments in technology and than a general investment portfolio.
At each Board meeting the composition and diversification of Technology stocks also have greater relative price the portfolio by geographies, sectors and capitalisations are volatility and are subject to the risks of developing considered along with sales and purchases of investments.
technologies, competitive pressures and other factors Individual investments discussed with the Investment Manager as including the acceptance of new technologies and well as the Investment Managers general views on the various rapid obsolescence.
investment markets and the technology sector in particular.
Many companies in the portfolio are relatively smaller companies in the technology sector and are therefore Analytical performance data and attribution analysis is subject to the risks attendant on investing in smaller presented by the Investment Manager.
The policies for managing the risks posed by exposure to market prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit As the Companys assets comprise mainly listed and liquidity are set out in note 29 to the financial statements.
equities the portfolio is exposed to risks such as market price, credit, liquidity, foreign currency and The active share and statistics on the variance between the interest rates.
composition of the Benchmark and the portfolio are presented The portfolio is actively managed.
The Investment at each Board meeting and discussed.
Managers style focuses primarily on the investment opportunity of individual stocks and, accordingly, may not follow the makeup of the Benchmark.
This may result in returns which are not in line with the Benchmark.
The degree of risk which the Investment Manager incurs in order to generate the investment returns and the effect of gearing on the portfolio by borrowed funds which can magnify the portfolio returns per share positively or negatively.
Gearing, either through bank debt or the use of The overall levels of gearing are agreed with the AIFM.
The derivatives may be utilised from time to time.
Whilst arrangement of bank facilities and drawing of funds under such the use of gearing is intended to enhance the NAV total arrangements are controlled by the Board.
Derivatives are return, it will have the opposite effect when the return considered as being a form of gearing and their use is agreed by on the Companys investment portfolio is negative.
The deployment of borrowed funds is based on the Investment Managers assessment of risk and reward.
A very small element of the investment portfolio is Any investment in unquoted companies or funds is approved by invested into unlisted securities.
These investments the Board before the investment is made.
are made where they offer specialist management or At the year-end such investments amounted to less than 0.1% investment opportunities which would otherwise not of NAV.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 52 Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls Infrastructure There are risks from the failure of, or disruption At each Board meeting there is an administration report which to, operational and accounting systems and provides details on corporate matters including legislative and processes provided by the Investment Manager regulatory developments and changes, substantial changes in including: any subcontractors to which the shareholdings and the share register, and share price Investment Manager has delegated a task as performance.
well as directly appointed suppliers.
There is an annual review of internal control reports from suppliers which includes the disaster recovery procedures The mis-valuation of investments or the loss of of the Investment Manager.
assets from the custodian or sub custodians which affect the NAV per share or lead to a loss Regular reporting from the Depositary on the safe custody of the of shareholder value.
Companies assets and the operation of control systems related There is taxation risk that the Company may fail to to the portfolio reconciliation are monitored.
continue as an investment trust and suffer Capital Specialist advice is sought on taxation issues as and when Gains tax or recover as fully as possible withholding required.
The Audit Committee has oversight on such work.
Information and guidance on legal and regulatory risks is The legal and regulatory risks include failure to comply managed by using the Investment Manager or professional with the FCAs Prospectus Rules, Listing Rules and advisers where necessary and the submission of reports to the Transparency and Disclosure Rules: not meeting the Board for discussion and, if required, any remedial action or provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other UK, changes considered necessary.
European and overseas legislation affecting UK companies and not complying with accounting In addition, as an investment company, the Company is dependent standards.
Further risks arise from not keeping on a framework of tax laws, regulation both UK and EU and abreast of changes in legislation and regulations Company law.
which have in recent years been substantial.
The Board monitors new developments and changes in the regulatory environment and seeks to ensure that their impact on the Company is understood and complied with although the Board has no control over such legislative changes and such changes may be intended to affect us, or we may suffer unintended consequences from changes designed to affect others.
External There is significant exposure to the economic cycles The Board regularly discusses the general economic conditions of the markets in which the underlying investments and developments.
Other Investment teams from the investment conduct their business operations as well as the Manager present their views to the Board on stock markets economic impact on investment markets where and sectors.
The fluctuations of Note 29 describes the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates can also have a material impact exchange rates.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 53 2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued With effect from 1 May 2015 the base fee will be charged Management Company and Management at 1% on Net Asset Value per share basis up to 800m of the Portfolio and above 800m the base fee will be reduced to 0.85%.
As the Company is an investment vehicle for shareholders The fee remains payable quarterly in arrears.
Any the Directors have sought to ensure that the business investments in funds managed by Polar Capital are wholly of the Company is managed by a leading specialist excluded from the base management fee calculation.
investment management team and that the investment strategy remains attractive to shareholders.
Performance fee Performance periods will coincide with the Companys The Directors believe that a strong working relationship accounting periods.
with the investment management team will achieve the optimum return for shareholders and to this end value Annual performance fee equal to 15% of the amount by the inclusion on the Board of Brian Ashford-Russell.
which the increase in the adjusted Net Asset Value per share exceeds the total return on the Dow Jones World Investment team Technology Index total return, sterling adjusted with The Investment Manager is Polar Capital LLP Polar relevant withholding taxes removed multiplied by the Capital, which is authorised and regulated by the time weighted average of the number of shares in issue Financial Conduct Authority.
during that period, subject to a high water mark.
The Net Asset Value per share Adjusted NAV per Under the terms of the investment management share is adjusted for the purposes of the performance agreement Polar Capital provides investment fee calculation by adding back any accruals for unpaid management, and procures accounting, company performance fees, any dividends paid or payable by secretarial and administrative services.
reference to the performance period and the removal Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists of any benefit of share issuance or buy backs.
Each member focuses on specific areas High water mark the performance fee will only be while Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio and payable if, and to the extent that, the Adjusted NAV looks after the US investments.
Polar Capital also has per share exceeds the highest of: other specialist and geographically focused investment t he NAV per share on the last day of the previous teams which contribute to idea generation.
performance period: Termination arrangements t he Adjusted NAV per share on the last day of The investment management agreement may be a performance period in respect of which a terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice, performance fee was last paid: but under certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay up to one years management charges if Any performance fee accrual will be included in the immediate notice is given and compensation will be on a Net Asset Value calculated in accordance with the sliding scale if less than 12 months notice is given.
The performance fee which can be paid by the Fee arrangements Company in any one performance period is capped Management fee at 2% of net assets.
In the year to 30 April 2015 the management fee was 1% based on Net Asset Value plus borrowings, on a per share basis, payable quarterly in arrears.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 54 In the event of a termination of the investment management agreement, the date the agreement is terminated will be deemed to be the end of the relevant performance period and any performance fee payable shall be calculated as at that date.
No performance fee has been earned for the year to 30 April 2015.
Continued appointment of Investment Manager The Board, through the Management Engagement Committee, has reviewed the performance of the Investment Manager in managing the portfolio over the longer-term.
The review also considered the quality of the other services provided by the Investment Manager, including the strength of the investment team, the depth of the other services provided by the Investment Manager and their resources available to provide such services, which includes the organisation on the Companys behalf of third party suppliers, and the quality of the shareholder communications.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Management Engagement Committee, has concluded that on the basis of longer-term performance it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole that the appointment of Polar Capital LLP as Investment Manager is continued on the existing terms.
Approved by the Board on 24 July 2015 By order of the Board Neil Taylor FCIS Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 55
