2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Migration of workloads to the Cloud performance was also positively impacted also caught up with former datacenter by underweight positions in a number of 30.7% winners such as Riverbed while the large index constituents that delivered The increase in our own explosive growth of Hadoop continued to disappointing returns during the year, net asset value per disrupt traditional data warehousing including Hewlett Packard, Samsung share during the year impacting Informatica later acquired and Electronics and Qualcomm while our zero Teradata.
IT service companies an area exposure to IBM proved the most where we have limited exposure due to significant stock level contributor to The most significant concerns about the risk posed to relative performance as the stock fell 4% mishap came from IBM application development and maintenance during a very strong year.
The Trust also who, after a series of work by Cloud migration also showed benefited from M&A activity with three of lacklustre results, mixed progress with a number of Indian our positions Concur Technology, delivered a very poor IT companies delivering disappointing Integrated Silicon Solutions and Sapient quarter with revenue results during the year.
acquired during the year at healthy declining year-over-year premiums.
In terms of negatives, relative in all segments and all underperformance was generated by our Our Performance geographic regions large but underweight position in Apple Our total return performance came in and our decision to retain some liquidity ahead of our benchmark, our own net plus a modest amount of S&P put asset value per share rising 30.7% during protection, although the latter emboldened the year versus a 29.5% increase for the Our total return us to add significantly to our high growth sterling adjusted Benchmark.
In the USA performance came in high PE exposure near lows.
Trust the most significant positive contributor ahead of our benchmark, performance was also hindered by an to performance over the period was the our own net asset value underweight position in Microsoft 32%, sharp rebound in a number of our nextper share rising 30.7% which gained c. 16% during the final month generation growth stocks including Splunk during the year versus of the year following better than expected 34% and Tableau 95%, together with a 29.5% increase for first-quarter results.
the strong performance of a number of our the sterling adjusted off-benchmark Internet positions including Benchmark Economic Outlook Amazon 53%, and LinkedIn 81%.
However, the strongest absolute returns While the recovery is likely to remain were generated by Palo Alto Networks subpar this year, there is a good chance 156% and Proofpoint 133% both of that after years of continual downward which benefited greatly from increased revisions to growth the global economy Outside of the USA we security spending and investor surprises to the upside this year.
Current managed to add value in enthusiasm following a slew of global growth forecasts of 3.5% reflect all regions with a high-profile cyberattacks.
the positive impact of lower oil prices, particularly striking more moderate fiscal adjustment and performance in Japan, Outside of the USA we managed to add tighter labour markets in developed where we were assisted value in all regions with a particularly economies that are expected to grow by a strong market and striking performance in Japan, where we 2.4% in 2015 2014: 1.8%.
However, our Yen borrowings were assisted by a strong market and our slowing growth in China is likely to Yen borrowings helped to soften the continue to ricochet through other impact of currency weakness.
Relative emerging markets EM and the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 16
