3 Directors Report Directors # Michael Moule Brian Ashford-Russell Sarah Bates Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in 2011.
Skills and experience 2007 and was elected Brian Ashford-Russell is a director Skills and experience Chairman in August 2011. and founder of Polar Capital.
He was Sarah Bates is a past Chairman of the He is also chairman of the previously head of the technology team Association of Investment Companies Management Engagement at Henderson Global Investors.
He and has been involved in the UK savings and Nomination Committees.
managed the Company from launch and investment industry in different Skills and experience until 30 April 2006. roles for over 30 Years.
Michael Moule was a director of Other Appointments Other Appointments investment trusts at Henderson Global He is a Non-executive Director of Polar Sarah Bates is Non-executive Chairman Investors, where he had been the Capital Holdings plc.
of St. Jamess Place plc, JP Morgan investment manager for The Bankers American Investment Trust plc and Investment Trust plc and Law Mr Brian Ashford-Russell is connected Witan Pacific Investment trust plc.
Debenture Corporation plc until to the investment manager and as such Sarah is also a director of Development his retirement in 2003. is not considered independent.
Securities plc and Worldwide Health Other Appointments Trust plc.
She is Chairman of the He is a director of The European Cancer Research UK pension funds Investment Trust plc and is a director of investment committee, a member of Montanaro UK Smaller Companies the USS Investment Committee as well Investment Trust plc.
He is a member as being a member of a number of of the investment committee of the other charitable and pension fund British Heart Foundation and a investment committees.
member of the investment committee of The Open University.
Member of Audit Committee Member of Management Engagement Committee Member of Nomination Committee # Member of Remuneration Committee The Board considers that the majority of the Directors including David Gamble, who has served more than nine years, are independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
All the Directors served throughout the financial year with the exception of Ms Ginman who was appointed on 2 February 2015.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 56
