2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Migration of workloads to the Cloud performance was also positively impacted also caught up with former datacenter by underweight positions in a number of 30.7% winners such as Riverbed while the large index constituents that delivered The increase in our own explosive growth of Hadoop continued to disappointing returns during the year, net asset value per disrupt traditional data warehousing including Hewlett Packard, Samsung share during the year impacting Informatica later acquired and Electronics and Qualcomm while our zero Teradata.
IT service companies an area exposure to IBM proved the most where we have limited exposure due to significant stock level contributor to The most significant concerns about the risk posed to relative performance as the stock fell 4% mishap came from IBM application development and maintenance during a very strong year.
The Trust also who, after a series of work by Cloud migration also showed benefited from M&A activity with three of lacklustre results, mixed progress with a number of Indian our positions Concur Technology, delivered a very poor IT companies delivering disappointing Integrated Silicon Solutions and Sapient quarter with revenue results during the year.
acquired during the year at healthy declining year-over-year premiums.
In terms of negatives, relative in all segments and all underperformance was generated by our Our Performance geographic regions large but underweight position in Apple Our total return performance came in and our decision to retain some liquidity ahead of our benchmark, our own net plus a modest amount of S&P put asset value per share rising 30.7% during protection, although the latter emboldened the year versus a 29.5% increase for the Our total return us to add significantly to our high growth sterling adjusted Benchmark.
In the USA performance came in high PE exposure near lows.
Trust the most significant positive contributor ahead of our benchmark, performance was also hindered by an to performance over the period was the our own net asset value underweight position in Microsoft 32%, sharp rebound in a number of our nextper share rising 30.7% which gained c. 16% during the final month generation growth stocks including Splunk during the year versus of the year following better than expected 34% and Tableau 95%, together with a 29.5% increase for first-quarter results.
the strong performance of a number of our the sterling adjusted off-benchmark Internet positions including Benchmark Economic Outlook Amazon 53%, and LinkedIn 81%.
However, the strongest absolute returns While the recovery is likely to remain were generated by Palo Alto Networks subpar this year, there is a good chance 156% and Proofpoint 133% both of that after years of continual downward which benefited greatly from increased revisions to growth the global economy Outside of the USA we security spending and investor surprises to the upside this year.
Current managed to add value in enthusiasm following a slew of global growth forecasts of 3.5% reflect all regions with a high-profile cyberattacks.
the positive impact of lower oil prices, particularly striking more moderate fiscal adjustment and performance in Japan, Outside of the USA we managed to add tighter labour markets in developed where we were assisted value in all regions with a particularly economies that are expected to grow by a strong market and striking performance in Japan, where we 2.4% in 2015 2014: 1.8%.
However, our Yen borrowings were assisted by a strong market and our slowing growth in China is likely to Yen borrowings helped to soften the continue to ricochet through other impact of currency weakness.
Relative emerging markets EM and the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 16 While weaker oil prices will continue to have a significant impact on headline inflation, the battle against deflation should remain well supported by remarkably accommodative policy and large QE programmes commodity complex.
This, combined seen household debt service decline to a with US dollar strength and the new low.
This has resulted in improved 3.1% precipitous decline in energy prices will consumer confidence, aided by an oil Forecast 2015 US GDP likely result in an increasingly uneven windfall equivalent to a tax rebate of just global recovery, greater volatility already under $600 per household.
Upside risk to evident in currency, commodity and bond growth could come from capital spending markets and a worrying political trend that has remained subdued and housing towards each man for himself.
However, where activity has been constrained by The Trust also benefited there is much to be positive about with the tighter lending conditions and small from M&A activity with US economy looking close to achieving business creation.
In terms of headwinds, three of our positions escape velocity.
There are also signs of US dollar strength is the most obvious Concur Technology, life elsewhere including in the UK and although the economy should prove Integrated Silicon even in Europe and Japan: commentators relatively insulated as exports only Solutions and Sapient focus on faltering growth and deflation account for c. 13% of GDP.
Instead it is oil acquired during the year inadequately reflects some genuine price weakness that is most problematic at healthy premiums green shoots.
The energy windfall should because of its impact on US shale also add c. 1% to global growth in 2015. production recently worth as much as While weaker oil prices will continue to c. 1.1% of GDP.
Lower energy prices are have a significant impact on headline not an unequivocal positive for the US, a inflation, the battle against deflation fact already evident in softer US economic Current global growth should remain well supported by data further impacted by a West Coast forecasts of 3.5% reflect remarkably accommodative policy and port strike.
Notwithstanding this current the positive impact of large QE programmes in Europe and headwind, we expect the Federal Reserve lower oil prices, more Japan.
China should also be able to to commence policy normalisation before moderate fiscal avoid a hard landing given its fiscal too long because unemployment is fast adjustment and tighter and monetary firepower.
approaching the Feds full employment labour markets in target.
While this might ordinarily be a developed economies As in previous years, an upbeat cause for investor concern, we expect the assessment of the US economy remains Fed to remain significantly and key to our relatively sanguine economic intentionally behind the curve given the outlook.
Following a period of US output gap, global overcapacity, disappointing data primarily related depressed inflation expectations and to oil weakness US dollar strength in deflation-related scarring.
An upbeat assessment our view we are hopeful that the economy of the US economy will reaccelerate, forcing the Federal In contrast with the US, the recovery in remains key to our Reserve to raise rates for the first time Europe has remained muted with real relatively sanguine since 2006.
Current forecasts of 3.1% GDP only recovering to c. 98% of where it economic outlook in 2015 2014: 2.4% should see the US stood in 2007, as compared to c. 109% in economy outgrow nearly every other the US.
While the reasons for this developed market this year with labour underperformance are beyond the remit market improvement continuing to of this paper, it is likely that the ECBs underpin the recovery.
The combination of reluctance unwillingness to deliver wage growth and higher asset prices has full-blown QE has been a significant factor.
allowed for significant balance sheet repair while lower interest rates have Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 17 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Indeed, the ECBs balance sheet had decision in October to increase the size of contracted by almost one third since mid its QE programme and Governor Kurodas $1.1tr 2012 during which time the Feds expanded comments that the BoJ will adjust policy Size of the ECBs by c. 50%.
This juxtaposition changed without hesitation if we feel Japan is QE programme dramatically following the ECBs $1.1 deviating from the path of achieving 2% trillion QE announcement in January that inflation.
Fiscal policy is also likely to will see it end up owning c. 20% of the remain supportive following PM Abes eligible government bond market.
Despite landslide election victory in December We expect the Federal the recent plunge in short-dated sovereign while the strength of his mandate could Reserve to commence yields European macroeconomic data has see him more forcefully tackle vested policy normalisation been showing signs of improvement while interests by boosting third arrow before too long because the region remains one of the largest reforms.
As the largest developed market unemployment is fast beneficiaries of cheap oil with net energy oil importer as a share of GDP, lower approaching the Feds imports worth more than 2% of GDP.
energy prices should provide a timely full employment target The UK looks like a relative bright spot boost to growth a 40% fall in oil costs is especially following the Conservative said to be worth at least 1.3% to real GDP election victory with growth pegged at after two years.
Likewise, significant Yen 2.7% this year and oil price weakness weakness has left Japanese exporters likely to be more than offset by labour brutally competitive.
With our interests financial market improvement.
However, as shareholders firmly aligned with many of the structural issues that have policymakers and in light of the BoJs Despite the recent plunge plagued Europe remain far from resolved burgeoning balance sheet we expect this in short-dated sovereign and are particularly acute in Greece where year to prove a better one for Japan and yields European the economy has contracted by 25% post its economy.
macroeconomic data has the financial crisis, unemployment is 25% been showing signs of Growth in China has continued to slow with and government debt is equivalent to 175% improvement while the economic rebalancing resulting in the of GDP.
At the time of writing we do not region remains one of worlds second largest economy narrowly know the outcome of Greek brinkmanship the largest beneficiaries missing its official annual growth target for but we remain hopeful that an agreement of cheap oil the first time in fifteen years 7.4% vs. 7.5% will be reached.
Further deceleration After two quarters of contraction brought looks inevitable with 2015 growth on by the April 2014 consumption tax hike, expectations of 6.8% likely at risk.
After two quarters Japan is beginning to recover with growth Other indicators such as electricity prices of contraction brought in 2015 forecast at 1.0% supported by a suggest that the slowdown is already more on by the April 2014 weaker Yen and lower oil prices.
While the severe than the GDP numbers suggest.
consumption tax hike, latter will inevitably weigh on headline While this should not come as any great Japan is beginning inflation recently forcing the Bank of surprise given the reform agenda to recover Japan to lower its CPI forecast it remains articulated at the Third Plenum in too early to pass judgement on Abenomics November 2013, the new leaderships particularly as policymakers remain desire to cool the housing market, clean committed to delivering on their 2% up shadow banking and improve the inflation goal evidenced by the BoJs allocation of capital with the reform of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 18 Growth in China has continued to slow with economic rebalancing resulting in the worlds second largest economy narrowly missing its official annual growth target for the first time in fifteen years state-owned enterprises and reducing representing the fifth consecutive year corruption at the top of the policy agenda of economic deceleration.
However, EM c. 7% was always going to come with a nearfortunes will differ considerably this year Growth rate said term GDP cost.
With growth slowing, focus with oil commodity exporters hit by price to be required to has understandably shifted to Chinas declines and adverse currency movements support Chinese structural imbalances and by extension, epitomised by Russia whose economy is urbanisation the prospects for a hard landing.
There is expected to contract by 3.8% while energy no question that the Chinese credit boom importers should benefit greatly from With our interests as has been extraordinary with investment lower input prices and reduced inflation shareholders firmly share of GDP the highest on record.
current account deficits affording aligned with policymakers Property remains at the epicentre of this policymakers more room to adjust and in light of the BoJs investment boom with housing starts still monetary policy if necessary.
As one of burgeoning balance sheet outpacing units sold by more than 20%.
the biggest beneficiaries of weak oil we expect this year to Shadow banking said to account for more prices, India looks particularly promising prove a better one for than one-third of GDP and expanding at given its powerful demographics 1.2bn Japan and its economy twice the rate of bank credit represents people headed to 1.5bn with a declining another significant risk.
However, while age-dependency ratio and new PM the risks of a hard-landing appear to have Narendra Modi who has made economic increased, the structural bear case is development the governments top priority.
hardly new: instead we expect the As we have outlined in prior years, economy to muddle through with modest The new leaderships systemic risk has continued to diminish inflation CPI averaging 2% in 2014, desire to cool the due to decisive intervention taken by low levels of government debt and vast housing market, clean policymakers, aided by a sustained US foreign currency reserves affording the up shadow banking and recovery.
Although, many of the structural government significant monetary and improve the allocation of imbalances that we have previously fiscal firepower to achieve the c. 7% capital was always going highlighted remain unaddressed, these growth said to be required to support to come with a near-term are unlikely to flare up with interest rates urbanisation.
Although the economy has GDP cost and sovereign spreads at record lows.
clearly got off to a slow start this year, As previously discussed, Greece is the the PBOC has already shown its intent via exception to this and as such represents interest rate cuts and liquidity injections a significant risk to our view, particularly while recent market liberalisation as investors appear relaxed about the measures that have propelled A Although the Chinese potential for contagion.
Beyond Greece, and H-shares higher demonstrate economy has clearly got political risk has diminished following the governments intent to avoid a off to a slow start this the failed Scottish independence bid and hard landing.
year, the PBOC has Republican success in the US mid-term already shown its intent Slowing growth, industrial retrenchment elections that will see President Obama via interest rate cuts in China and falling commodity prices are serve out his final years as a lame duck.
and liquidity injections likely to continue to take their toll on However, governments will still have to emerging markets where the secular tread a difficult path between delivering growth story has been all but buried.
growth and austerity or risk increased This looks set to continue with forecasts political fragmentation and or of 4.3% growth in 2015 2014: 4.6% socialunrest.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 19 2 Strategic Report Section PAYMENTS A VISION OF THE FUTURE WHERE COMMERCE IS TRANSFORMED AND PAYMENT BECOMES INVISIBLE Widespread smartphone usage and tokenization are likely to accelerate mobile payment adoption allowing the technology sector to capture a portion of a transaction market $7.3tr worth $425bn in 2013.
Apple Pay will be an important litmus test of user acceptance Value of global payments of biometric authenticated mobile payments, while the Apple Watch will introduce enabled by Visa in 2014 consumers to the reality of wearable-originated transactions.
Tokenisation will also open new opportunities including better serving the 2.5bn unbanked people worldwide.
Social payment solutions look particularly disruptive with Tencents 400m WeChat users 172% sending RMB400m in virtual hongbao red envelopes during Chinese New Year.
Peer-to-Peer P2P transactions are also likely to cause disintermediation in other Estimated US mobile markets such as loan origination and international remittance while the use of in-store payment volume five beacons will enable online payment networks such as PayPal to become relevant at year CAGR the POS.
Further disruption looks inevitable as payments are increasingly subsumed by applications, a trend epitomized by taxi-app Uber which makes checkout nonexistent and payment invisible.
P P ol ol ar ar C C ap ap it it al al T T ee cc hn hn ol ol oo gg yy T T rr uu ss t p t p lc lc A A nn nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rr t & F t & F in in aa nn cc ia ia l S l S tt aa te te m m ee nn tt s f s f oo r t r t hh e y e y ee aa r e r e nn dd ee d 3 d 3 0 A 0 A pp rr il 2 il 2 00 11 55 20 20
