3 Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Directors Report including Capital Structure the Report on Corporate Governance together with the Issued Audited Financial Statements for the Company prepared The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary under International Financial Reporting Standards as shares of 25p each.
At the year end and at the date of this adopted by the European Union IFRS for the year ended report there were 132,336,159 ordinary shares in issue 30 April 2015.
Introduction and Status Changes during the year The Company is incorporated in England and Wales There have been no ordinary shares issued in the year as a public limited company and domiciled in the United ended 30 April 2015 or purchased for cancellation or to be Kingdom.
It is an investment company as defined in Section held in treasury.
833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares Voting rights are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary shares carry voting rights which are exercised The close company provisions do not apply.
on a show of hands at a meeting, or on a poll, where each share has one vote.
The Company seeks to operate as an investment trust in accordance with section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act Details for the lodging of proxy votes are given when a 2010.
The Company has received confirmation from HM notice of meeting is given.
Revenue & Customs that on the basis of the information Transferability supplied, the Company is an approved investment trust.
The Directors expect the affairs of the Company to Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated continue to satisfy the conditions.
form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
The Company has registered as a Foreign Financial Institution with the US IRS and been allocated a Global Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or Intermediary Identification Number GIIN of J29SBFany of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer 99999-SL-826.
in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer must be The attention of shareholders is drawn to the Chairmans executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the Statement, the Managers Report and the Strategic Report case of a partly-paid share the transferee.
which provide further commentary on the activities and outlook for the Company, including future developments The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without and dividends.
giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 60 The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the New ordinary shares will not be allotted and issued Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% at below Net Asset Value.
During the financial year interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has to 30April 2015 no ordinary shares were issued.
been served with a restriction notice as defined in the The Board also obtained shareholder authority at the Articles after failure to provide the Company with AGM in 2014 to make market purchases of up to 19,837,190 information concerning interests in those shares required ordinary shares of the Company for cancellation in to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless the accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms resolution.
This authority expires at the AGM in 2015 and length sale as defined in the Articles.
renewal of the authority to make market purchases of The Company is not aware of arrangements to restrict ordinary shares will be sought at the AGM in 2015. the votes or transferability of its shares.
During the financial year to 30 April 2015 no ordinary Powers to issue ordinary shares and make shares were purchased.
market purchases of ordinary shares The level of the ordinary share price discount or premium The Board was granted by shareholders at the AGM in to the Net Asset Value together with policies for the 2014 the power to allot equity securities up to a nominal repurchase or issuance of new ordinary shares are value of 3,308,403 and to issue those shares for cash kept under review by the Board.
without offering those shares to shareholders in accordance with their statutory pre-emption rights.
These powers will expire at the AGM in 2015 and renewal of the authorities will be sought at the AGM in 2015.
Major interests in ordinary shares Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company at 30 April 2015 are set out below.
Number of Percentageof ordinary shares voting rights Brewin Dolphin Limited 9,946,829 7.52% indirect Investec Wealth and Investment Limited 8,067,908 6.10% indirect Quilter Cheviot Limited 6,711,135 5.07% direct Lazard Asset Management LLC 6,383,454 4.82% indirect Rathbone Brothers plc 6,324,232 4.78% indirect Since the year end the Company has been notified of the following change: Number of Percentageof ordinary shares voting rights Investec Weath and Investment Limited 6,712,073 5.07% direct The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as notified to the issued ordinary share capital at 24 July 2015 of 132,336,159 ordinary shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 61 3 Directors Report Directors Report continued Life of the Company The Articles of Association of the Company provide that at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, and at every fifth Annual General Meeting thereafter, a vote on whether the Company should continue will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
Such a resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 9 September 2015.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 September 2015 at 2.30pm at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an opportunity for them to hear a presentation from the Investment Manager and meet the Directors and Investment team members.
The separate Notice of Meeting contains the usual resolutions to receive the financial statements, approve the Directors Remuneration Report, re-elect retiring Directors and elect a Director appointed during the year, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the Directors are also seeking powers to allot shares for cash and to buy back shares for cancellation.
There are three further items of business: a resolution to continue the life of the company for another five years: a resolution to adopt new Articles of Association to clarify certain matters required under the AIFMD regulations, a resolution to increase the maximum aggregate level of fees that may be paid to the directors.
The full text of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution is contained in the separate Notice of Meeting.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as the Companys independent auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 62
