2 Strategic Report Section Chairmans Statement Michael Moule Results Fraud I am pleased to report on an excellent year for the global Towards the end of last year your Board became aware technology sector and for most world equity markets.
In from reports by shareholders that private shareholders sterling terms the Dow Jones World Technology Index were being targeted by fraudsters.
The fraudsters sought posted a total return of 29.5% versus 18.2% for the FTSE a commission payment to facilitate shareholders World Index and 24.3% for the S&P 500.
Your trust has just participation in a so called takeover of your company.
completed its sixth financial year of consecutive increases This led to me writing to the private shareholders to alert in Net Asset Value NAV and share price, and it is gratifying them of this and I am pleased to say that the message to report that Ben and the team managed to outperform the seems to have reached the fraudsters as the number benchmark with our NAV rising by 30.7% and the share of notifications of such approaches has dropped to zero.
price by 33.9% during the past financial year.
The scale of Recent research by Which, the consumer group, found the increase was partially attributable to a recovery from that 33% of over 55s surveyed said they had been the final six week collapse in US technology shares which approached by a company they were unsure about.
We are depressed our 2014 year end, and also a circa 10% increase all in the firing line of fraudsters whether by, letter, in the dollar vs sterling.
No performance fee is payable this telephone, or online, and they are becoming more year as the manager needs to catch up on the under sophisticated.
Shareholders who are registered in their performance since the previous fee was paid in 2011.
For own name are particularly vulnerable, so please be on new shareholders we have not paid a dividend since our your guard, stall for time and ask a close relative or inception in 1996 and, given our capital growth objective, professional advisor if you are in any doubt about anything we are unlikely to pay one in the future.
that sounds plausible, or too good to be true!
This year we have included the top ten stock contributors and Directors detractors to our performance attribution and also the David Gamble retires from the Board at the AGM on geographical contribution, as shown on page 39.
He joined the Board in 2002 a year after the mega cap stocks still cast a very long shadow with, Apple, Polar management company was formed and when the Microsoft and Google accounting for just shy of 28% of our trust was still suffering from the delayed after shock of benchmark, and a myriad of mid and small cap winners can the TMT bubble.
He has been an incredibly effective and be neutralised if we dont get the balance between young and influential Board member capable of holding the manager old tech right.
Our performance in the countries outside the and service providers feet to the fire.
I am personally very USA is this year uniformly good, demonstrating that all grateful that he was willing to take on the role of audit members of the team are adding value.
Our manager gives a chairman in 2011, something he has attacked with vigour.
more detailed assessment of our results on pages 8 to 37.
We all wish him well for the future and will miss his guiding hand.
Regulation You will be relieved to read that this section is brief, but given We employed a specialist external search firm to find his the huge weight of legislation that we were obliged to adopt replacement and all directors agreed that Charlotta last year you at least deserve an update.
The Boards Ginman was the most capable candidate.
She joined the decision to appoint Polar Capital as the AIFM and HSBC as Board in February 2015 in time to attend our strategy our Depositary is running as well as can be expected, and we away-day.
She has already made an impact and her varied have no breaches or problems to report, and our registration experience in accountancy, investment banking, and with the IRS under FATCA has not caused any upset.
Fees technology operating companies will add to our diversity.
paid to external service providers are shown in note 9 on She has agreed to chair the audit committee when David page 97. retires in September, and we welcome her to the Board.
In 2017 we will have to embrace a new EU directive called Every three years we have an external review of the Board MIFID 2, sounding like a sequel to a scary science fiction and Chairman with the next one due to start in October, movie.
The contents of the directive will have far reaching and we have agreed to appoint a different evaluation consequences some of which threaten the provision of provider to the one contracted in 2012. primary research from brokers, currently paid for out of dealing commissions.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 06
