Managers Report continued While these risks have been largely the uniqueness of the present investment contained to date, the longer that the backdrop, it is worth considering that 17.6x recovery remains sub-par and uneven, based on US data since 1871 current PE Forward PE on the greater they will become.
This valuations are entirely compatible with the the S&P 500 dynamic also applies to the threat posed prevailing inflation rate.
Furthermore, a by currency wars, although recent US number of additional factors this year are dollar strength has significantly likely to support above-average valuations ameliorated the risk posed by competitive including cheap oil and US dollar EM fortunes will differ devaluation.
The one exception to this is strength both of which have empirically considerably this year China where a potential RMB devaluation corresponded with equity market strength with oil commodity represents a notable risk.
Once again, during non-recessionary periods, while exporters hit by price geopolitical risk remains the most the third year of the Presidential cycle has declines and adverse significant exogenous factor to consider, tended to be the strongest for equity currency movements in particularly an increasingly belligerent market returns.
More importantly, stocks while energy importers Russia, the challenge to nation states continue to look attractive compared to should benefit greatly posed by Islamic extremism in North most alternatives, particularly versus from lower input prices Africa and the Middle East and Irans cash where negative real returns look and reduced inflation pursuit of a nuclear capability while all but guaranteed.
current account deficits simultaneously fighting a proxy war Five years of profit growth has left the with Saudi Arabia in Yemen.
S&P 500 with $3.6trillion in cash and equivalents, which despite the market Market Outlook Governments will still advance and cumulative buybacks Although markets have got off to a have to tread a difficult continues to represent c. 15% of market promising start, we are hopeful that path between delivering capitalisation.
With much of this trapped equities will add to their gains during the growth and austerity or overseas, US companies have also become remainder of the fiscal year.
As in prior risk increased political adept at topping up their domestic cash by years, further improvements in investor fragmentation and or taking advantage of remarkably low yields sentiment and risk appetite have seen socialunrest via bond sales that raised almost $1.28tr equity valuations expand yet further with last year.
As a result of this balance sheet the forward PE on the S&P 500 expanding strength, stock repurchases look set to 17.6x today from 15.7x twelve months to continue at near-record levels with ago.
Global equity valuations have also expectations that companies will Although markets have expanded significantly with the FTSE All return more than $1.0tr via buybacks and got off to a promising World index trading at a slightly less dividends in 2015.
Likewise M&A activity start, we are hopeful demanding 15.4x forward earnings should continue to prove supportive for that equities will add 2014: 14.6x.
As a result, absolute stocks following a remarkable 2014 that to their gains during valuations are no longer cheap with saw activity increase 47% y y reaching the remainder of most traditional measures of value $3.5tr with Chinese companies entering the the fiscal year above longer-term averages.
Rather fray, announcing a record $46.8bn on than re-hash our healthy scepticism of the outbound transactions, more than ten times usefulness of long-term valuations given the amount spent over the previous decade.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 21 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued If anything, deal momentum has further as a result of declining sovereign yields.
accelerated in 2015 with $243bn As the global recovery extends and 47% of US deals announced in May alone, deflation fears subside and are potentially Increase in M A inauspiciously besting the previous replaced by nascent inflation concerns the activity during 2014 monthly records of $226bn in May fear of losses and or negative real returns 2007 and $213bn in January 2000.
The should drive further reallocation into continuing trend of mega mergers such equities an asset class that - lest we as Shells proposed $70bn acquisition forget has outperformed bonds two thirds Absolute valuations of BG and Avagos $37bn purchase of of the time since 1971.
While lost on are no longer cheap semiconductor rival Broadcom, M&A investors today, corporates appear to with most traditional premiums that in the US averaged 29% recognise the relative allure of equities measures of value above in 2014, and a sharp increase in private with global bond sales at record levels longer-term averages equity activity should all continue to while net buybacks accounted for c. 3.6% support equity valuations over the of market capitalisation last year.
Of course we expect our constructive view Although our hopes for a second albeit to be tested during the coming year given more muted wave of bond to equity that valuations and the duration of the Stocks continue to look market rotation did not transpire last year, present bull market already exceed attractive compared to we remain confident that it will before the long-term averages.
This year may prove most alternatives, current equity bull market is over.
Instead, more volatile than last because modest particularly versus 2014 and early 2015 saw the bond market earnings progress in the US primarily cash where negative enter what may prove a final, melt-up due to dollar strength and lower energy real returns look all phase with sovereign yields across the prices will make it more difficult for but guaranteed world plunging due to pronounced energy companies to grow into their aboveprice weakness impacting headline average valuations.
However we believe inflation and vast asset purchase investors are likely to consider these programmes in Europe and Japan.
In the earnings headwinds one-time in nature US, during the last calendar year ten year and rather than selling positions that US sovereign yields fell dramatically from appear fully valued on current year Stock repurchases 3.03% to 2.17% the first time since 1982 earnings are more likely to look into look set to continue that long-term Treasuries have 2016 and discount back.
The length of at near-record levels outperformed stocks when the S&P has the current bull market does not overly with expectations that returned more than 10%.
As a result, concern us either because sub-trend companies will return traditional valuations such as the Rule of recoveries tend to persist.
We also more than $1.0tr 20 which deducts CPI from 20 to generate continue to see limited immediate risk to via buybacks and a target PE and the Fed Model which record margins as the mean-reversion dividends in 2015 compares earnings and bond yields are view fails to acknowledge structural essentially unchanged from where they improvements associated with the stood twelve months ago, continuing to superior growth and richer margins strongly favour equities compared to of large index constituents like Apple, bonds.
This dynamic is hardly unique to Facebook and Google.
However, we are the US: equities continue to look attractive mindful of the risk posed by higher relative to bonds in almost every market interest rates reversing the benefits of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 22 We expect our constructive view to be tested during the coming year given that valuations and the duration of the present bull market already exceed long-term averages lower interest expense while corporate sanguine about what we might call tax reform remains a significant mediumrecovery risk what happens to 3.6% term concern given that lower taxes are valuations and markets once investors Amount of US market said to have accounted for c. one quarter genuinely start believing in a global capitalisation of margin improvement since 1990.
While it is true that PE ratios accounted for by net we know a number of indicators are have typically fallen following the first US buybacks in 2014 approaching levels previously associated interest rate hike we suspect that some with previous market tops especially good economic news would go a long way in relating to private equity venture a world fearing deflation and as such think capital M&A activity these are largely this question may prove more pertinent for As the global recovery coincident indicators and entirely bond investors.
Instead we remain most extends and deflation consistent with a bull market mid-way focused on the loss of policymaker support fears subside the fear through its seventh year.
that has underpinned risk assets post the of losses and or negative financial crisis.
While we are confident that real returns should That said, we are certainly alive to the fact monetary policy will remain data dependent drive further reallocation that each year of above-average equity and comfortably behind the curve wage into equities market returns particularly when PE inflation represents the most potent risk to expansion plays such a crucial role makes the current alignment of interest between the next intrinsically less attractive.
Rising wages As stewards of your capital we will do our could also signal a peak in profit margins, utmost to protect it should our long-held which have typically preceded stock market thesis play out or if the investment peaks by twelve to eighteen months.
With this in mind The length of the there are a number of potential negative To be absolutely clear we are not current bull market catalysts that could require us to change bearish.
It just feels appropriate that as does not overly concern course more materially.
The first relates to this bull market extends that we spend a us either because the high-yield market because widening little more time thinking about what will sub-trend recoveries spreads have tended to precede equity help us ameliorate the impact of a setback tend to persist bear markets.
Our concern here relates and communicate that to investors.
to the c. 14% of the $1.3tr US high yield To conclude this paragraph on a more market accounted for by energy bonds typically upbeat note, we think that the but thus far there is limited evidence of present bull market is more likely to end contagion.
Market breadth has also proven following a powerful surge akin to what we another useful forward indicator because have recently seen with bonds.
Retail bull markets tend to end when leadership investor sentiment remains muted while We are certainly alive to significantly narrows: here we are US household equity ownership at c. 55.7% the fact that each year encouraged by the fact that roughly half is well below the c. 63% achieved at 2000 of above-average equity of the S&P500 outperformed in 2014. highs.
In a bull case, cheap oil delivers market returns makes Responsible for the most painful bear stimulus right on cue resulting in a global the next intrinsically markets, recession risk represents another economic recovery that doesnt aggravate less attractive key concern but here we are emboldened by inflation, policymakers remain behind the the fact that with very few exceptions a curve and equities enter a self-fulfilling recession has never followed a significant cycle of outperformance that ends with oil price decline.
We are also relatively an explosive final phase.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 23
