2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued One key risk to our new cycle thesis sized business SMBs, less constrained by beyond trying to establish appropriate the need to leverage legacy investments, $57bn premiums for next-generation assets is are moving directly to public clouds in Value of the cloud whether or not strong cash generation our view, the truest form of cloud computer market capital return can trump weak negative computing.
By the end of 2015, SMBs are in 2014 organic growth.
This question will be expected to have migrated more than brought into sharper focus by increased 20% of their workloads, a penetration shareholder activism as well as potential level that typically coincides with growth Despite more challenging private equity activity.
Although overall penetration fundamentals, many of the a repatriation window, access to remains lower, this is likely to accelerate legacy companies in our remarkably cheap debt fide-equitisation sharply over the coming years.
For now, sector are today trading at and equity flows that favour passive cloud computing continues to rank their highest relative price funds, all of which could dilute or even strongly in CIO surveys while a recent earnings ratios for years overwhelm our diverging fortunes thesis.
UBS poll revealed that up to 25% of the IT budget would be spent on public and private cloud computing in 2015.
New Cycle Update The new technology cycle continues to be Today, public cloud computing is underpinned by three core themes: dominated by Amazons Amazon Web Internet infrastructure, broadband We have used the relative Service AWS with an estimated 30% Internet applications and mobility, with fide-rating to increase our share of the cloud infrastructure market, big data playing a galvanising role.
exposure to our favoured which was worth more than $16bn in 2014 This view remains supported by a recent names at the expense 48% y y. AWS share of this fragmented annual Gartner CIO survey which of increasingly market is greater than Microsoft, IBM and confirmed that analytics, infrastructure, anachronistic Google combined although competition is Cloud and mobility occupy four of the top incumbents heating up.
However, the six year head five priorities this year.
Certainly cloud start enjoyed by AWS has allowed it to computing appears to be gathering generate annualised revenues momentum with companies said to have of $5bn, win some impressive customers spent $56.6bn in 2014 while the cloud including Netflix, Dropbox and the CIA market grew 22%, six times faster than the and garner experience that allows it to run The new technology overall IT industry.
With the market set to every imaginable workload.
Today, DNA cycle continues to be expand to $127bn by 2018, it was only a sequencing company Illumina uploads underpinned by three matter of time before large incumbents its data directly to AWS, while police core themes: Internet threw in their lot and abandoned their departments across the US backup their infrastructure, former position that the Cloud was not Taser wearable cameras on Amazon broadband Internet suitable for important workloads.
Despite the companys applications and mobility, Microsoft epitomised this change of heart limited regard for short-term profits with big data playing by embracing the Cloud across its entire as it invests in its infrastructure, a galvanising role computing stack.
Large companies have Amazons public cloud leadership already begun to embrace private clouds explains why it remains one of our with c. 12% of enterprises said to be largest active portfolio holdings.
building out their own last year, up from 7% in 2013.
However, small and mediumPolar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 28 Today public cloud computing is dominated by Amazon Web Services AWF with an estimated 30% share of the market Like their hardware peers, software Internet applications remain key vendors have begun to pivot their offerings beneficiaries of new cycle deflation $5bn business models towards the Cloud.
This although with developed world Internet Annualised revenues at essentially reflects the fact that nearly penetration at saturation point US, Japan Amazon Web Services 30% of all applications are consumed as a and UK all approaching 90% of desktop AWS service today.
Mobility remains a key driver usage while desktop minutes of use are for migrating legacy applications to newer relatively static y y growth has become Cloud alternatives, designed to run on increasingly smartphone usage smartphones and tablets, as well as the PC.
Fortunately, mobile trends By the end of 2015, SMBs We have long argued that new technologies remain positive with the worlds 2.1bn are expected to have begin as complements but end as smartphone users generating a 69% y y migrated more than substitutes, a dynamic that appears to be increase in mobile data traffic during 2014.
20% of their workloads playing out within the SaaS space today.
The ubiquity of smartphones and tablets to the Cloud Whereas early SaaS applications created particularly once they are payment new opportunities and or threatened enabled is likely to continue changing people-based processes, these have consumer consumption patterns.
Together begun to be augmented by the migration with positive demographic trends, this of more critical applications such as email should support further online penetration enterprise cloud penetration expected to in key categories such as Internet The six year head reach 25% by 2017 from c. 6% in 2012 advertising and e-commerce.
Having start enjoyed by AWS and cloud office systems with penetration reached $126bn in 2014 17.3% y y, the has allowed it to expected to reach 90% in both categories outlook for online advertising remains generate annualised by 2027.
Other applications also appear to healthy and well-supported given that revenues of $5bn be gaining traction including cloud storage online accounts for c. 48% of US media led by the likes of Dropbox, accounting consumption but just 31% of advertising software and even critical enterprise budgets.
However, this belies a marked resource planning ERP software, despite shift from desktop to mobile usage which is migration being described as akin to creating both headwinds and opportunities elective heart transplant surgery, to for incumbents because search 53% of paraphrase the CEO of Netsuite whose total US advertising revenues is less We continue to regard bookings accelerated to c. $646m last year.
relevant in the mobile domain where c. 86% the SaaS space as one While both penetration and competition of time is spent inside apps rather than in of the best ways to gain have increased, we continue to regard the a browser.
Social media companies look exposure to the Cloud SaaS space as one of the best ways to gain well positioned to benefit from this shift due to its attractive exposure to the Cloud due to its attractive and also from the growth in video traffic underlying growth underlying growth 20% and the with sponsored content integrated into and the likelihood of likelihood of further M&A.
Conversely, for user feeds gaining user acceptance.
While further M&A incumbents, the transition to a SaaS LinkedIn and Twitter should both benefit, business model is likely to cap organic Facebook continues to dominate the social revenue growth and reduce gross margins media landscape with its 1.4bn monthly for the foreseeable future: this is best active users accounting for c. 23% of total understood as an unavoidable Faustian mobile Internet usage with improved pact given that the vast majority of new monetisation allowing the company to application installations are likely to be increase its share of total US online SaaS-based within the next five years.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 29 2 Strategic Report Section ROBOTICS A VISION OF THE FUTURE WHERE INEXPENSIVE ROBOTICS MAKES HYBRID PRODUCTION LINES A REALITY Technology improvement and price deflation of key components such as batteries, processors, and sensors is accelerating the adoption of robots $40bn beyond the factory automation market.
Within the industrial segment, Forecast size of the industrial advanced vision systems are allowing robots to operate in closer proximity robotics market by 2020 to humans making hybrid production lines possible.
Mobile robots able to autonomously navigate, fetch and transfer goods are also transforming fulfillment systems with Amazons logistic robots each said to travel as far 34% as 20 miles per day, enabling warehouse employees to more than triple their Estimated annual growth productivity.
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles drones have also received significant of the commercial drone attention following trials by Amazon and Google to use the technology for market through 2021 package delivery.
In time, commercial drones are likely to be adopted across agriculture, energy and surveillance verticals.
Medical robots are also likely to gain traction beyond minimally invasive surgery with pioneer Cyberdyne working on robotic remedial devices exoskeletons that allow physically challenged people to move by utilising bio-electric detectors.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 30 Managers Report continued Although desktop-to-mobile cross currents expansion is on services with nextare likely to persist pressuring incumbents generation companies optimising for $126bn to reinvest in their mobile offerings we mobile, on-demand delivery and the trend Size of the online expect the overall online advertising towards instant.
These new apps have also advertising market 2014 market to remain robust given growth in enabled consumer-to-consumer C2C China 40% y y in 2014 and the fact that rental and lending, creating a new industry TV and print continue to represent c. 59% known as the sharing economy.
of US advertising spend but only 41% of Epitomised by two private companies, Online adverts account media consumption.
AirBnB and Uber, the sharing economy is for c. 48% of US media focused on monetising underutilised consumption but just 31% Increasing smartphone usage is also capacity.
AirBnB helps users monetise of advertising budgets continuing to support e-commerce vacant rooms and properties and is today worth $1.5tr in 2014 and c. 5% of worldwide the worlds largest short-term vacation retail sales - with mobile commerce rental site boasting 30m cumulative guests.
growing at three times the rate of Uber has almost become a verb due to the e-commerce and accounting for 20% of success of its taxi hailing service that is online purchase volume worldwide.
This disrupting incumbents and changing user helped overall e-commerce to maintain a behavior in 300 cities worldwide.
With more mid-teens growth profile with online sales than 60% of Uber drivers using the income reaching $305bn in the US alone 15.4% to supplement another job and 72% of y y and accounting for c. 9% of total US AirBnB hosts in New York City relying on Facebook continues to retail sales.
While many are concerned that rental income to pay rents or mortgages dominate the social slowing smartphone adoption will weigh on these new applications are not just media landscape with its e-commerce growth, we think growth is expanding the reach of e-commerce: 1.4bn monthly active more likely to accelerate as new locationthey are empowering individuals like users accounting for c. based smartphone applications change 23% of total mobile never before.
Internet usage This dynamic is well underway already Mobility remains our third core theme but with more than 1.5m apps currently as highlighted in prior years we have available on Google Play while Apples continued to fide-emphasise smartphones app store has delivered 86bn cumulative within the portfolio.
With global downloads since its launch in 2008.
In smartphone penetration estimated at terms of changing user behavior, one need 65-70% of new phones sold, units are Increasing smartphone look no further than messaging, which expected to grow just 10% annually usage is also continuing today accounts for six of the ten most between 2014 and 2018 with revenues to support e-commerce popular apps globally with WhatsApps trailing due to lower average selling prices worth $1.5tr in 2014 800m active users sending more than ASPs.
In the years ahead, unit growth will and c. 5% of worldwide 30bn messages day, a full 50% more than be increasingly dependent on emerging retail sales the 20bn sent daily by SMS.
Whereas the markets which are expected to add 880m first generation of e-commerce companies subscribers over the next seven years as were focused on products, the current compared to only 56m new additions in focus and the next wave of market developed markets.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 31 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued While China remains the largest of a process of greater internalisation of smartphone market globally and likely to its component needs which would 30bn generate c. 60% of incremental units this seriously hurt the wider smartphone Number of messages year, India is also experiencing rapid supply chain given Samsung currently sent per day by adoption of low priced smartphones.
boasts its own CMOS sensors solutions, WhatsApp users Unfortunately for incumbent suppliers, TV controllers, LCD drivers and WiFi GPS emerging market smartphones carry capabilities, in addition to its leadership significantly lower ASPs $135 in 2014 position in memory chips.
New apps have also than the worldwide average of c. $297, enabled consumer-toIn contrast to both Samsung and which - because of this dynamic consumer C2C rental Qualcomm, Apple has continued to defy is expected to decline to c. $241 by 2018. and lending, creating a the s-curve by appealing to a mass new industry known as Samsung has been one of the greatest affluent audience which is apparently the sharing economy casualties of a smartphone market that agnostic to cheaper alternatives because is bifurcating into one characterised by the premium is irrelevant relative to high-end devices increasingly dominated above average incomes, warranted a by Apple and ultra-cheap low-end better product or illusory high residuals smartphones.
The rise of Xiaomi in China reducing the actual cost of ownership.
Or today the third largest smartphone maker it might be simply that a $200 premium Uber has almost become with 5.2% global share in Q314 has been over two years represents good value for a verb due to the success repeated elsewhere with new budget users who spend more than 30 hours per of its taxi hailing service brands such as Micromax said to have month on their smartphone.
Last year, we that is disrupting overhauled Samsung in India in late 2014. acknowledged Apples special status and incumbents and changing Fragmentation in EM markets other that it clearly understood the need to user behavior in 300 vendors beyond the top five accounting for maintain its premium-pricing model at the cities worldwide 49% of units last year has clearly hurt expense of unit share growth.
A year on, Samsung at the low end while Apples the company has managed to grow its larger form factor devices have seen it device ASPs while selling more than 74.4m greatly expand its share of the high-end iPhones in Q414.
At the heart of the Apple smartphone market, particularly in Asia.
story is a luxury goods company that As a result a key consideration this year enjoys premium pricing, aided by a leasing Mobility remains our is what does Samsung do next?
because model that allows customers to finance third core theme but its decision to replace Qualcomms the premium over two years at zero cost as highlighted in application processor with its own silicon while retaining the residual value at the prior years we Exynos was a momentous decision.
As a result, Apples have continued to This capped a difficult year for Qualcomm 14% smartphone unit share allows it to fide-emphasise a position we have reduced significantly capture 30% of industry revenues and a smartphones within as its share of the LTE applications significantly higher share of profits.
And the portfolio processor market fell to 80% in Q314 from unlike its luxury good peers, Apples 95% a year earlier, exacerbating slowing pricing and residuals have held despite unit growth and declining ASPs.
In time, much higher unit share than the likes of the Samsung decision may prove just part Porsche or Rolex whose premium prices Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 32 At the heart of the Apple story is a luxury goods company that enjoys premium pricing, aided by a leasing model that allows customers to finance the premium while retaining the residual value at the end of the contract come at the cost of miniscule market will barely move the needle Apple shares we believe 0.2% and 0.05% of their receiving just 15c per transaction mobile $230bn markets respectively.
While one might payments could obsolete the entire iPhone Forecast Apple argue that Apples status is likely to prove installed base, which could be as many as revenue this year less enduring than these examples in 400m phones less those iPhone 6 6s either the automotive or watch industries, already sold.
A second important growth it is worth considering that Apple has just driver is the Apple Watch, which if it sells launched its own watch while recent 1215m units in 2015 could add more Last year, we reports suggest that the company is than $4.5bn to Apples revenues.
While we acknowledged Apples seriously looking at the electric vehicle are unsure whether the current product special status and that it market following Teslas early success.
will meet expectations, the longer-term clearly understood the opportunity remains vastly larger than need to maintain its The idea of Apple as a luxury mass anyone is currently forecasting because premium-pricing model affluent consumer goods company is well it isnt a watch, in the same way that the at the expense of unit supported by its increasing share of the smartphone isnt a phone.
While payments share growth mature PC industry with premium priced could yet prove the killer-app for products.
More importantly, Apple is said wearables, so too could health monitoring to have captured more than 50% of PC or home automation two potentially huge industry profits with just 7% unit share standalone markets crying out for Apple similar to the Swiss watch industry whose to standardise and simplify.
c. 2.4% unit share is said to garner c. 54% of worldwide watch revenues.
Of course, In addition to our constructive view on Apple is said to have what connects Swiss watches, German Apple we remain excited about a number captured more than 50% sports cars and Apple is obvious their of smartphone mobility sub-themes that of PC industry profits affluent customers.
On Black Friday last should be able to withstand slowing unit with just 7% unit share year, Apple users accounted for nearly 4x growth and falling ASPs.
These include the quantity of online sales than their wireless charging now that standards Android counterparts with only 40% of the have been agreed and LTE content as the US smartphone market.
Using US online number of commercially available LTE 4G sales per head as an imperfect proxy this networks is set to increase from 256 in implies that the Apple customer base is 97 countries today to more than 500 in nearly 6x as valuable as the Android 128 countries over the next four years.
We are excited about Apple equivalent.
However once the iPhone However, the most promising of these Pay a mobile payments 6 6S upgrade cycle has played out related themes relates to mobile system that enables investors will have to consider how a payments which should directly benefit one-touch checkout using company forecast to generate more than suppliers of near-field communication a combination of near-field $230bn of revenues will manage to grow.
NFC chips as smartphones become communication NFC and Here we are less certain although we increasingly payment-capable.
Fingerprint biometric authentication are excited about Apple Pay a mobile sensor suppliers should also benefit payments system that enables one-touch from greater smartphone adoption aided checkout using a combination of nearby efforts by FIDO Fast Identity Online field communication NFC and biometric Alliance trying to establish security authentication.
While payment monetisation standards for the post password world.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 33 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued More broadly, payments represent a huge defend, mitigate and where necessary, opportunity for the technology sector to disclose cyber-crime.
While there were a 48% capture a portion of transaction revenues plethora of high profile attacks in 2014, Year on year increase in worth $425bn in 2013.
Mobile payment the year was almost defined by megadetected cyber attacks adoption looks set to accelerate due to breaches at JPMorgan where information during 2014 widespread smartphone usage and relating to 76m households and 7m small tokenisation, the technology behind Apple businesses was compromised and Sony Pay that allows users to make payments Pictures alleged North Korean hackers While payments could yet via fingerprint verification rather than accessing c. 100 terabytes of internal prove the killer-app for providing card numbers or account details.
The growing use of zero threat and wearables, so too could In establishing tokenisation, Visa and advanced persistent threat APT malware health monitoring or Mastercard have positioned themselves at able to evade signature-based detection home automation the centre of mobile payments innovation techniques revealed a dramatic increase two potentially huge while turning would-be disruptors into in hacker sophistication.
Tokenisation will also open up potent attacks also reflect the fact that crying out for Apple to new opportunities including better serving stolen information is becoming more standardise and simplify the 2.5bn unbanked people worldwide valuable hackers graduating from credit while the iPhone 6 Apple Pay revival of card data to medical identity theft and a NFC coincides with payments networks changing foe, a recent survey revealing incentivising retailers and issuers to adopt an 86% y y increase in respondents EMV chip payments with liability for card experiencing attacks by nation states.
Payments represent a fraud shifting from banks to those Growing concerns about the possibility huge opportunity for the retailers who have not upgraded their of an attack on national infrastructure technology sector to point of sale POS terminals to accept has prompted a strong US government capture a portion of EMV-enabled payments chip and pin response with President Obama calling transaction revenues to us in Europe by October 2015. for a $14bn boost to US cyber-security worth $425bn in 2013 spending in his 2016 budget and As a result of the growing ubiquity of establishing a new agency to coordinate smartphones, application migration to cyber threat assessments.
Over time, this the Cloud and the pervasiveness of the greater governmental focus is likely to Internet a network whose topology was push corporations to do even more to After an eventful year never designed with security in mind prevent and disclose data loss, with that elevated the security computing has become increasingly some industry experts suggesting that issue into the heterogeneous.
This has created a Sarbanes-Oxley-type legislation is just boardroom, companies multitude of new attack vectors and a a matter of time.
In the meantime, it is have responded by fertile backdrop for security an important clear that the cost has risen dramatically increasing spending to theme within the portfolio.
After an evidenced by losses at Target and Sony help defend, mitigate and eventful year that saw the number of said to be $148m and $100m respectively.
where necessary, detected cyber-attacks increase by 48% As such the current year is likely to prove disclose cybercrime y y and a clutch of high profile megaanother strong one for security spending breaches elevated the security issue with Gartner forecasting 8% growth to into the boardroom, companies have $71bn with pure play, next-generation responded by increasing spending to help Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 34 The portfolio retains a healthy exposure to the semiconductor sector where slowing growth and Moores Stress have introduced some long overdue capital discipline and industry consolidation vendors likely to grow substantially faster.
This As in prior years we expect M&A activity unusual situation reflects another key $71bn and strong underlying growth to support sub-sector driver Chinas semiconductor Size of the cyber above-average sector valuations.
ambitions with the government keen to security market develop the domestic industry in order in 2015 Although we have taken some profits to deliver more sustainable growth, and following a strong 2014, the portfolio capital deepening while reducing Chinas retains a healthy exposure to the dependence on imported semiconductor Growing concerns semiconductor sector where slowing products that in 2013 exceeded the value about the possibility of growth and Moores Stress the term of imported crude oil.
As a result of the an attack on national used to describe the increasing difficulty significant technology gap between local infrastructure has faced by the semiconductor industry in players and global peers that exists today, prompted a strong US keeping to Moores Law have introduced the government is likely to continue to government response some long overdue capital discipline and provide strong support via funding for industry consolidation.
2014 saw the desire both acquisitions and R&D, with the aim to combine extend beyond the memory of achieving a 20% compound average space with the likes of RF Microdevices growth rate by 2020. and Infineon consolidating smaller peers More recently the to exploit cost synergies and increase In addition to these key areas, we have a semiconductor M A scale.
More recently this trickle has number of other important themes that trickle has become a become a flood with would-be buyers we have exposure to within the portfolio flood with would-be taking advantage of remarkably cheap including robotics where demand for buyers taking advantage debt or large cash balances earning very industrial robots traditionally used in of remarkably cheap debt little to fashion hugely accretive deals automotive manufacturing is growing or large cash balances applauded by both sets of shareholders.
as they are increasingly being applied to to fashion hugely While the NXP Freescale merger will electronic manufacturing due to labour accretive deals create an automotive semiconductor cost inflation and new materials which powerhouse, the recent Avago Broadcom cannot be processed by traditional $37bn and Intel Altera $16bn deals moulding and injection machines.
are much less obvious combinations they Improved designs utilising sensors and are financially, rather than strategically, cameras to form vision systems mean driven.
While activity must slow from that these robots can operate in close We have a number of current frenzied levels, we would be proximity to humans making hybrid smaller positions in the surprised if others did not follow suit for production lines possible for the first portfolio which as well fear of falling further behind in the time.
New applications such as minimally as providing exposure to consolidation game.
We have a number of invasive surgery and fulfilment systems preferred themes smaller positions in the portfolio which are also driving rapid demand for service would also make as well as providing exposure to preferred and logistics robots, while the market for attractive acquisitions themes would also make attractive unmanned aerial vehicles drones has acquisitions.
One of these Integrated received significant attention following Silicon Solutions is currently the subject trials by Amazon and Google to use of a bidding war between long-term US technology once reserved for military rival Cypress Semiconductor and a applications for package delivery.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 35 2 Strategic Report Section HEALTHCARE A VISION OF THE FUTURE WHERE WEARABLE TECHNOLOGY AND BIG DATA TRANSFORMS THE FACE OF HEALTHCARE Healthcare is beginning to join the digital revolution.
Smartphone ubiquity and the falling cost of compute and storage are powerful technology enablers 150tr GB driving long-term trends towards connected health, personalised medicine Quantity of data contained and big data.
These are likely to prove welcome developments given adverse in the human body demographics and rising healthcare costs that already account for more than 17% of US GDP today.
Improved access to information and the rise of the so-called Quantified Self are changing the orientation of healthcare away from doctors towards patients while home health monitoring offers the potential to change the face of healthcare.
New technologies should make it easier $4tr to collect, store and manipulate clinical data, while allowing the likes of Apple Estimated US healthcare and Google to create vast new data repositories.
In time, the marrying of spending in 2015 retrospective and real-time data should facilitate predicative analytics while truly personalized medicine has huge commercial and clinical potential, as Moores Law drives the cost of sequencing a human genome below $1000.
P Pol olar ar C Cap api it tal al T Te ec chn hnol olo og gy y T Tr ru us st t p plc lc A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 30 A 0 Ap pr riil 2 l 20 01 15 5 36 36 Managers Report continued We are also tremendously excited about opportunities in the automotive market as 20% technology advances are allowing the car Annual growth target to be broadly reinvented.
While early efforts for the Chinese are focused on infotainment systems, Semiconductor digital dashboards and growing industry through 2020 semiconductor content per vehicle, we are most excited about advanced driver assistance systems ADAS that use In addition to these key sensors to constantly monitor the areas, we have a surrounding environment, provide warnings number of other and take mitigating action if required.
Not important themes that only is the addressable market huge 90m we have exposure to consumer vehicles sold each year but the within the portfolio regulatory backdrop is supportive and, in including robotics time the ADAS-enabled vehicle will evolve into a semi-autonomous one.
Within the portfolio we also have exposure We are most excited to a number of exciting emerging themes.
about advanced driver We expect these to become more assistance systems significant both in terms of their realADAS that use sensors world and portfolio importance over the to constantly monitor coming years.
These include but are the surrounding certainly not limited to 3D printing, environment, provide augmented and virtual reality, drones, warnings and take electric and autonomous vehicles, the mitigating action Internet of Things, mobile connected if required health, personalised medicine, renewable energy and wearable computing.
This year rather than providing historical parallels to illuminate the change we see occurring in our sector, we have chosen Within the portfolio we to instead highlight a number of the most also have exposure to a exciting, landscape altering themes number of exciting that we expect to emerge over the emerging themes.
expect which become more significant both in terms of their Ben Rogoff real-world and 24July 2015 portfolio importance over the coming years Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 37
