2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report Ben Rogoff remarkable 10% on a trade-weighted Market Review basis, helping the FTSE World total return 18.2% Global equity markets added convincingly index advance 18.2% during the fiscal year.
to their multi-year gains during the fiscal Increase in the FTSE year as PE expansion trumped downward World Index total Developed markets once again led the revisions to global growth expectations return during the year running as disproportionate beneficiaries due to sustained US dollar strength, of policymaker intervention, weak energy remarkably weak energy prices and a prices and improved investor sentiment.
Equity markets added faltering Chinese economy that weighed Japanese stocks reversed their prior year convincingly to their on forecasts.
Concerns about an imminent losses as faltering economic progress multi-year gains US interest rate hike quickly gave way to was trumped by an enlarged QE during the fiscal year renewed misplaced deflationary fears programme and some genuinely exciting as PE expansion as sharply lower energy prices oil 34% company-level progress.
US equities also trumped downward during the year and US Dollar strength continued to deliver returns above revisions to global drove headline inflation to post crisis lows underlying earnings growth with improved growth expectations causing sovereign yields to plummet shareholder returns and elevated M&A across developed markets.
However, aside supporting asset prices.
European stocks from a short-lived sell-off during October, fared less well until later in the year when equity markets proved remarkably weaker economic progress was met with resilient as investors instead focused on QE and oil price weakness providing the likely stimulus associated with lower additional stimulus.
As in prior years, energy prices, more encouraging core Equity returns were emerging market returns proved more inflation trends and near record M&A significantly enhanced closely tied to global growth 3.4% y y activity.
Most importantly, vast new by currency movements which once again trailed early expectations quantitative easing QE programmes with Euro and Yen of c. 3.7%.
Although this growth was led by in both Europe and Japan designed to weakness more than developing economies 4.6%, industrial combat deflationary pressure acted offset by a resurgent US retrenchment in China 7.4% was as timely reminders of the continuing dollar that appreciated transmitted into commodities such as alignment of interests between 9% against sterling oil and iron ore weighing heavily on policymakers and investors that has resource-dependent economies such as underpinned risk assets since 2009.
Brazil 0.1% and Russia 0.6% which also suffered from pronounced currency Nowhere was the primacy of interest weakness.
With adverse political alignment over economic progress more Developed markets developments further hindering progress in apparent than in China where a more once again led Emerging Markets EM, recovery continued pronounced economic slowdown was the running as to lean more heavily on developed met with decisive policy action expected disproportionate economies 1.8% where growth remained and market liberalisation unexpected beneficiaries of robust if a little shy of early expectations resulting in the Shanghai Composite rising policymaker with solid improvement in the US 2.4% an incredible 144% in sterling terms intervention, and progress in Europe 0.9% able to during the year.
Overall equity returns weak energy prices absorb disappointment in Japan -0.1%.
were significantly enhanced by currency and improved movements with Euro and Yen weakness Equities began the year in fine spirits, as investor sentiment -11% and -6% versus sterling more investors shrugged off negative revisions than offset by a resurgent US dollar that to global growth forecasts and weaker appreciated 9% against sterling and a economic data that prompted the ECB to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 08
