2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report Ben Rogoff remarkable 10% on a trade-weighted Market Review basis, helping the FTSE World total return 18.2% Global equity markets added convincingly index advance 18.2% during the fiscal year.
to their multi-year gains during the fiscal Increase in the FTSE year as PE expansion trumped downward World Index total Developed markets once again led the revisions to global growth expectations return during the year running as disproportionate beneficiaries due to sustained US dollar strength, of policymaker intervention, weak energy remarkably weak energy prices and a prices and improved investor sentiment.
Equity markets added faltering Chinese economy that weighed Japanese stocks reversed their prior year convincingly to their on forecasts.
Concerns about an imminent losses as faltering economic progress multi-year gains US interest rate hike quickly gave way to was trumped by an enlarged QE during the fiscal year renewed misplaced deflationary fears programme and some genuinely exciting as PE expansion as sharply lower energy prices oil 34% company-level progress.
US equities also trumped downward during the year and US Dollar strength continued to deliver returns above revisions to global drove headline inflation to post crisis lows underlying earnings growth with improved growth expectations causing sovereign yields to plummet shareholder returns and elevated M&A across developed markets.
However, aside supporting asset prices.
European stocks from a short-lived sell-off during October, fared less well until later in the year when equity markets proved remarkably weaker economic progress was met with resilient as investors instead focused on QE and oil price weakness providing the likely stimulus associated with lower additional stimulus.
As in prior years, energy prices, more encouraging core Equity returns were emerging market returns proved more inflation trends and near record M&A significantly enhanced closely tied to global growth 3.4% y y activity.
Most importantly, vast new by currency movements which once again trailed early expectations quantitative easing QE programmes with Euro and Yen of c. 3.7%.
Although this growth was led by in both Europe and Japan designed to weakness more than developing economies 4.6%, industrial combat deflationary pressure acted offset by a resurgent US retrenchment in China 7.4% was as timely reminders of the continuing dollar that appreciated transmitted into commodities such as alignment of interests between 9% against sterling oil and iron ore weighing heavily on policymakers and investors that has resource-dependent economies such as underpinned risk assets since 2009.
Brazil 0.1% and Russia 0.6% which also suffered from pronounced currency Nowhere was the primacy of interest weakness.
With adverse political alignment over economic progress more Developed markets developments further hindering progress in apparent than in China where a more once again led Emerging Markets EM, recovery continued pronounced economic slowdown was the running as to lean more heavily on developed met with decisive policy action expected disproportionate economies 1.8% where growth remained and market liberalisation unexpected beneficiaries of robust if a little shy of early expectations resulting in the Shanghai Composite rising policymaker with solid improvement in the US 2.4% an incredible 144% in sterling terms intervention, and progress in Europe 0.9% able to during the year.
Overall equity returns weak energy prices absorb disappointment in Japan -0.1%.
were significantly enhanced by currency and improved movements with Euro and Yen weakness Equities began the year in fine spirits, as investor sentiment -11% and -6% versus sterling more investors shrugged off negative revisions than offset by a resurgent US dollar that to global growth forecasts and weaker appreciated 9% against sterling and a economic data that prompted the ECB to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 08 Equities ended the summer on a high note with the S&P 500 closing above 2000 buoyed by a better than expected second-quarter earnings season and further M&A activity introduce a new Long-Term Refinancing consternation, resulting in sharply lower Operation LTRO in May.
US equity markets equity markets, both the UK and the US 80tr made new highs during the month despite correcting more than c10% from their Size of the enlarged greater geopolitical uncertainty with mid-September highs while US sovereign Japanese purchase Islamic State IS making further gains yields breached 2% for the first time since programme 2013.
Fortunately this risk-off episode while Argentina entered technical default.
proved short lived with better US Geopolitical risk increased further economic data and an encouraging start to following the Malaysian Airline tragedy, Economic news-flow third-quarter earnings season buttressing while the conflict in Gaza culminated in an took a turn for the worse investor sentiment.
However, with investor Israeli ground assault.
European markets during late summer with hopes firmly focused on the ECB, it was bore the brunt of a short-term pullback disappointing inflation ironically the BoJ that saved the day with disappointing inflation data and the readings in both the when it unexpectedly boosted its asset collapse of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Eurozone and the UK purchasing programme to 80tr.
This, Santo adding to the regional gloom.
In the driving ten-year German together with some positive Ebola US, more encouraging economic data was bund yields to a new developments allowed equity markets to overshadowed by hawkish commentary all-time low close out our half-year at highs.
Improved from Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen US economic data and Republican success leading to some profit taking and a rotation in the US mid-term election saw stocks away from small mid caps.
Economic newsflow news-flow took a turn for the worse during was less positive elsewhere with Japan late summer with disappointing inflation With investor hopes officially entering recession while the readings in both the Eurozone and the UK firmly focused on the European commission pared its 2015 driving ten-year German bund yields to a ECB, it was ironically the growth expectations to just 1.1%.
Once new all-time low and a sharp reversal in BoJ that saved the day again, weaker economics were met with earlier sterling strength.
While oil and when it unexpectedly further intervention this time in China as other commodity price weakness boosted its asset the Peoples Bank of China PBoC delivered suggested the slowdown was global in purchase programme its first rate cut in two years.
However, nature, European data was particularly the greatest support at least from a weak.
Remarkably, equities ended the developed market perspective came summer on a high note with the S&P 500 from plunging energy prices as OPEC closing above 2000 buoyed by a better ruled out a supply cut to counter earlier than expected second-quarter earnings price weakness resulting in oil declining season and further M&A activity.
Once again, weaker economics were met Equity markets began to show signs of Crude continued its slump during with further intervention fatigue in September despite the ECB December with the c. 50% decline from this time in China as the reducing its main refinancing and deposit summer highs prompting the Russian Peoples Bank of China rates as investors remained sceptical of central bank to hike interest rates to 17% PBoC delivered its first its ability and willingness to embark on in order to stabilise the Rouble and prevent rate cut in two years full-blown QE.
The growth scare that capital flight.
Political turmoil in Greece triggered a late September sell-off also returned to the fore following snap broadened after German industrial presidential elections that failed to deliver production data that represented the the desired result triggering a January steepest drop in activity for four years.
general election, an unwelcome Disappointing US data and alarming development given anti-austerity party Ebola-related newsflow added to investor Syrizas lead in the polls.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 09
