2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued 2015 opened with a bang as the ECB revisions to S&P earnings expectations, finally announced its QE programme a trend that continued into year-end.
In 30% 60 billion per month designed to inject contrast, a marked economic slowdown Total returns generated liquidity and stimulate economic activity.
in China did nothing to derail a rampant in Japan during the While European QE was anticipated, the local stock market as investors positioned year in sterling terms Swiss National Bank decision to abandon for further stimulus while embracing the the Euro Swiss Franc 1.20 floor was not, reformist intentions of the new leadership resulting in the Euro depreciating as with enthusiasm spilling into Hong Kong.
much as 29% intraday against the Swiss A sharp recovery in the oil price also saw Franc.
Weaker oil prices and escalation sovereign yields begin to back up as Crude continued its in Ukraine also saw the Rouble fall investors began to reverse out earlier slump during December significantly against the US dollar.
deflation fears associated with QE and with the c. 50% decline European QE also caused havoc in bond plunging energy prices, a trend that has from summer highs markets with German five year sovereign continued post year-end.
prompting the Russian yields falling below zero, which was central bank to hike During the year, some of the strongest transmitted into the US Treasury market interest rates to 17% regional returns taking into account the where ten year yields declined to a in order to stabilise the impact of foreign exchange movements remarkable 1.68% in spite of constructive Rouble and prevent were generated in Japan 30% as earlier US data and expectations of impending capital flight Yen weakness began to more meaningfully rate hikes.
The stronger US dollar further benefit corporate earnings while asset hindered energy prices while Greek prices were further supported by enlarged elections late in January saw Syriza claim QE and greater focus on shareholder victory, leaving investors to fear the worst.
Asia also performed very well January also marked the zenith of US 2015 opened with a 30% although returns were dominated market leadership as money rotated into bang as the ECB finally by Chinese 152% and Hong Kong 46% regions and markets where asset prices announced its QE stocks with larger markets such as Korea looked better supported by central programme 60 billion and Taiwan generating more modest bank intervention.
Some of Januarys per month designed returns.
US 24% equities continued to remarkable volatility was ameliorated to inject liquidity comfortably outperform global equities, the following month aided by the Minsk II and stimulate aided by a resurgent dollar while the agreement and rebounding commodity economic activity weakest performance was reserved for prices.
While US economic data remained European 8% stocks where much robust, deterioration elsewhere together stronger second half returns were unable with falling energy prices and their to offset pronounced currency weakness impact on headline inflation saw many and a difficult start to the year.
central banks cut interest rates.
With the Greek elections late in US adding a further 257,000 jobs during January saw Syriza claim Technology Review the month and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang victory, leaving investors targeting growth of around 7%, in March The technology sector continued to outpace to fear the worst markets began to worry about the timing the broader market during the fiscal year, of a US interest rate hike and slowing the Dow Jones World Technology index growth in China.
US stocks continued to rising 29.5% in sterling terms, outpacing trail global equities as the strong dollar the broader equity market FTSE World and weak energy prices began to show index 18.2% TR.
Although a significant up in US economic data and downward portion of this outperformance was passive Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 10 Technology sector performance was driven by a combination of strong new cycle fundamentals, shareholder friendly capital return M&A and additional PE expansion reflecting relative US market and dollar year driven by further progress in the strength technology sector performance PC market where demand continued to 29.5% was driven by a combination of strong new rebound from its Q113 nadir, aided by Increase in the Dow cycle fundamentals, shareholder friendly tailwinds associated with the end of Jones World Technology capital return M&A and additional PE support for Windows XP.
This improvement Index total returns in expansion.
After a disappointing 2013, IT allowed Intel to raise guidance in June its sterling terms during budgets rebounded somewhat increasing first positive pre-anouncement since 2009 the year 2.3% y y in 2014.
This, together with better leading to some noteworthy PC-related articulation of their own cloud strategies performances during the first half of the resulted in strong stock performances from fiscal year.
PC market improvement After a disappointing a number of enterprise incumbents naturally rubbed off on Microsoft whose 2013, IT budgets including Cisco 37% and Oracle 17% new CEO Satya Nadella also captivated rebounded somewhat with returns primarily driven by multiple investors by more fully embracing the post increasing 2.3% y y expansion, rather than earnings upside.
PC enterprise computing world with this in 2014 One notable exception was IBM -4% as strategic change of direction seemingly fundamental weakness finally caught up supported by early success with both with the stock.
PC companies benefited Office 365 and Azure.
Investor from further industry improvement during rapprochement peaked during the third the first half of the year, which together with quarter when rising inventories at Intel strong returns at Apple resulted in small suggested that the boost from Large-caps continued cap stocks trailing.
However, this dynamic Windows XP replacement demand was to dominate proceedings reversed during the second half of the year waning before both Microsoft Q4 and Intel during the first half as the PC renaissance ran out of steam Q1 confirmed PC weakness by delivering of the year driven by while encouraging next-generation poor earnings and or guidance.
This further progress in fundamentals and a modest snapback in weighed heavily on PC stocks that had the PC market where valuations resulted in small cap growth previously performed well on recovery demand continued to outperformance.
Regional returns largely hopes with deteriorating industry trends rebound from its mirrored broader markets led by Japan that have continued post fiscal year end Q113 nadir 38%, closely followed by the US 32% making last years stabilisation look little where a number of remarkable large-cap more than an XP-related time out.
performances from the likes of Apple, Most smartphone incumbents also Cisco and Microsoft were augmented by continued to struggle throughout the year US dollar strength.
Asia 28% trailed amid slowing unit growth and intensifying the Benchmark due to weaker hardware price competition.
Although smartphone PC market improvement trends, although this had negligible impact units exceeded 1.2bn in 2014 this naturally rubbed off on on Chinese HK stocks that returned some represented significant deceleration from Microsoft whose new of the strongest country level returns.
the prior year with revenue growth CEO Satya Nadella also Weakest regional performance was impacted further by a c. 8% decline in captivated investors by reserved for European stocks 15% average selling prices.
As one might more fully embracing the largely reflecting the broader market expect, this dynamic hurt marginal post PC enterprise currency weakness.
players but also caught up with both computing world Aside from a short-lived small-cap Samsung and Qualcomm whose strong growth rally early in the fiscal year, market positions had insulated them from large-caps continued to dominate the competition that previously derailed proceedings during the first half of the HTC, Nokia and Research in Motion.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 11 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued As unit share leader, Samsung 11% increasingly dominates its financials c. always had the most to lose from a 69% of revenues in Q1, Apple also 74.4m market slowdown but this dynamic was continued to grow its PC share during the Number of Apple exacerbated by share losses to Apple at year while revealing its payment strategy iPhones sold in Q414 the high end and to Chinese and Indian ApplePay and the much awaited Apple vendors at the low end.
In addition to strong fundamentals also experienced a difficult year with and a promising product pipeline, Apple greater competition and lower also continued to return vast quantities of Most smartphone smartphone ASPs resulting in the excess cash to shareholders via buybacks incumbents also company lowering its long-term chipset and dividends with the company recently continued to struggle operating margins at its analyst day in expanding its capital return programme throughout the year November while two months later it was to a cumulative total of $200bn by the amid slowing unit forced to accept a lower royalty rate in end of March 2017. growth and intensifying China following an anti-monopoly price competition Strength at Apple helped the investigation.
Fortunately, the impact semiconductor industry enjoy another of these negative fundamental strong year, aided by a corporate PC developments was ameliorated by refresh cycle, elevated demand for a $10bn buyback announcement by servers, increasing automotive Qualcomm in March and a further $5bn semiconductor content and growing in May and a 40% dividend hike and its demand for sensors: industry revenues first buyback for seven years at Samsung.
growth did not extend to Slowing smartphone growth did not PC-related names led the running during Apple as it enjoyed an extend to Apple 63% or its supply chain: the first half of the year with robust DRAM incredible renaissance Apple enjoyed an incredible renaissance pricing helping memory stocks such as driven by strong driven by strong fundamentals and a well Micron, while Intel benefited from better fundamentals and a deserved re-rating.
Having described PC and server demand.
A favourable well deserved re-rating Apple this time last year as a very investment backdrop was challenged in special situation, this has proved an October by a surprise profit warning from understatement as the company posted Microchip that warned another industry respectable earnings ahead of its correction has begun presaging the most smartphone refresh, responded favourably dramatic one day correction in the to shareholder activism, delivered the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index -6.9% In addition to strong iPhone 6 and then made corporate history since the financial crisis.
However, fundamentals and a by posting the largest quarterly profit ever the sell-off proved short lived as lack of promising product $1.8bn having sold 74.4m iPhones in corroborating evidence of an industry pipeline, Apple also Q414.
By introducing a larger screen downturn allowed stocks to rally continued to return iPhone 6 plus, Apple significantly substantially from lows before Microchip vast quantities of excess broadened its appeal in Asia which saw released its actual results that were not cash to shareholders via it generate revenues of $16.8bn from what as bad as feared.
While PC fortunes buybacks and dividends it calls greater China in Q1 71% y y. deteriorated during the second half of the Despite some iPad cannibalisation, iPhone fiscal year, the broader semiconductor upside has translated into faster revenue industry continued to perform well with growth due to higher average selling Apple-related strength more than prices of the new devices and richer offsetting deteriorating trends at overall margins.
However, a profit warning Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 12 A favourable investment backdrop was challenged in October by a surprise profit-warning from Microchip that warned another industry correction has begun presaging the most dramatic one day correction in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index -6.9% since the financial crisis in January from NAND flash vendor point of sale systems company, Micros Sandisk shattered the calm and TSMC while in April, Nokia announced it was $40bn commented on an FX-related slowdown merging with long-time telecom Value of the NXP in March, raising fears of an inventory equipment rival Alcatel in an all-stock Freescale merger correction beyond PCs.
This view was transaction worth 15.6 billion.
In the announced in March corroborated by disappointing results at a IT services space, digital marketing number of Samsung suppliers during Q1 company Sapient was acquired by Publicis and soft guidance from industry stalwart while HP returned to M&A in March with Strength at Apple helped Texas Instruments.
its $3bn acquisition of Aruba Networks.
the semiconductor Private equity buyers also remained industry enjoy another While semiconductor newsflow became active, accounting for 38% of technology strong year, aided by more mixed during the final third of the deals in 2014, withdrawing a number of a corporate PC refresh year, chip stocks continued to deliver growth-challenged companies from the cycle, elevated strong returns throughout the year as public domain, including Compuware, demand for servers, continued progress on capital return Informatica, Riverbed and TIBCO.
increasing automotive epitomised by KLA Tencors $2.75bn Although it also proved a record M&A semiconductor content leveraged recapitalisation in October year for the Internet sector aggregate helped attract a new generalist audience.
value of disclosed deals in 2014 reaching However, it was M&A activity that c. $50bn, more than 4x the previous year garnered most attention with average this was less well received by investors semiconductor deal values for 2014 who became increasingly concerned reaching $621m 2013: $325m as Analog about negative earnings revisions due to Chip stocks continued to Devices acquired Hittite for approximately increased levels of investment spending deliver strong returns $2bn in June and Cypress Semiconductor and dilutive M&A activity as incumbents throughout the year as announced a $4bn merger with Spansion looked to pivot towards mobile, move continued progress on in December.
The trend towards larger beyond their core markets or simply capital return helped financially driven deals accelerated reaccelerate growth.
attract a new audience significantly in early 2015 with NXP and Freescale agreeing to a $40bn merger With the strong dollar providing a in March, the largest semiconductor significant additional headwind, last fiscal transaction ever.
Although Applied year proved a difficult one for the Internet Materials and Tokyo Electron sector despite the successful debut in terminated their intended merger in September of Alibaba, the worlds largest Elevated M&A together April, semiconductor M&A roared back IPO to date.
While foreign exchange with increased buybacks to life post year-end with Avago acquiring headwinds showed up as early as the and dividends also Broadcom for $37bn and Intel agreeing third-quarter tripping up a number of helped support earnings to buy Altera for $16bn.
companies including Amazon, Priceline and and valuations beyond TripAdvisor Google 13% also had to Elevated M&A together with increased the semiconductor contend with calls for it to be broken up buybacks and dividends also helped sub-sector on anti-competitive grounds by the support earnings and valuations beyond European parliament.
Weak third-quarter the semiconductor sub-sector.
Higher earnings reports from social media leaders profile transactions during the financial Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter were all year included two in the software sector reversed in Q4 while Alibaba delivered a SAP acquiring Concur Technology for strong debut quarter as a public company.
$8.3bn and Oracles $5.3bn purchase of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 13 2 Strategic Report Section AUTOMOTIVE A VISION OF THE FUTURE WHERE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFORMS THE AUTOMOTIVE EXPERIENCE Electronic content in cars has been steadily increasing since the 1980s.
1m However, this trend appears to be accelerating due to technology advances in a number of fields including vision systems and sensors, technology deflation Number of miles already and the rise of the smartphone that has radically altered consumer driven by the Google Car expectations.
This potent combination is driving penetration of infotainment systems, connected-car technologies and digitalisation of a number of features including customizable digital displays and keyless entry systems.
1Gb sec As vehicles become increasingly Internet connected, automatic software Rate of data processing upgrades and remote diagnostics will become standard features.
One of the required by ADAS technology most promising emerging technologies is Advanced Driver Assistance Systems ADAS, which enable a range of active safety systems such as lane departure and forward collision warnings.
Aided by regulation in the EU and US, ADAS will lay the foundations for semi-autonomous vehicles and in time the self driving car, with several automotive OEMs and a number of technology companies committed to making these vehicles a reality by 2020.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 Managers Report continued Smaller companies fared less well Cognex, Harmonic Drive benefited from a trend that continued in Q115 while new use cases that significantly expand $50bn both LinkedIn and Twitter delivered their respective target markets.
However, Aggregate value of disappointing quarters.
Among the relative the strongest next-generation disclosed Internet gloom there were some positives as performances were generated within the M A during 2014 Facebook 45% continued to benefit from security space where a significant increase greater engagement and monetisation, in the number of cyber attacks and a series Tencent 83% rose sharply on plans to of high profile breaches at the likes of Last fiscal year proved better monetise WeChat and Amazon JPMorgan and Sony changed the a difficult one for the 53% unveiled financials for AWS Amazon investment backdrop.
The combination of Internet sector despite Web Services for the first time, showing higher earnings and valuation multiples the successful debut in positive operating income for several saw pure-plays such as Palo Alto Networks September of Alibaba, quarters and 50% y y revenue growth 156% and Proofpoint 133% register the worlds largest on an annual run-rate of $5bn.
some remarkable returns while strength in IPO to date their security offerings helped drive upward Next-generation companies have fared revisions and some multiple expansion at a considerably better than the Internet number of second liners such as Akamai sub-sector as increased adoption of a 53% and Radware 58%.
number of new cycle technologies saw most deliver ahead of expectations.
This In contrast, many technology incumbents was particularly true in cloud computing delivered lacklustre growth which Amazon unveiled where the decision by a number of large appeared to support our view that the financials for AWS incumbents to bless the Cloud made its new cycle had entered a more pernicious for the first time, outcome as the default computing platform phase.
While PC fundamentals remained showing positive all but certain.
In the software space, the robust during the first half of the fiscal operating income for transition to Software as a Service SaaS year, Q3 was more challenging for several quarters and appeared also to gather pace following enterprise incumbents as former software 50% y y revenue growth Microsofts decision to embrace the leaders Citrix and TIBCO later acquired on-demand model and SAPs acquisition of both disappointing investors.
Despite a marked fide-rating in SaaS However, the most significant mishap came valuations over the year, most pure-plays from IBM who, after a series of lacklustre delivered ahead of expectations driving results, delivered a very poor quarter with some strong returns from the likes of revenue declining year-over-year in all The decision by a number Logmein 55%, ServiceNow 66% and segments and all geographic regions.
of large incumbents to Ultimate Software 53%.
Business Moreover, the company abandoned its $20 bless the Cloud made intelligence and so-called big data also FY15 earnings target while admitting that its its outcome as the remained a key area of focus ranking #1 recent struggles point to the unprecedented default computing in many CIO surveys allowing log analysis pace of change in our industry, in-line with platform all but certain software vendor Splunk 34% and data our long-held new cycle thesis.
New cycle visualisation software provider Tableau deflation also took its toll on storage 95% to deliver results well ahead of where incumbents EMC and Network expectations.
Elsewhere, disruptive Appliance delivered a series of earnings vendors such as Nimble significantly disappointments with neither company outgrew the underlying storage market willing to really admit the role played by while leading suppliers of sensors disruptive new technologies and vendors.
Keyence, Omron and robotic systems Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 15
