3 Directors Report Directors # Michael Moule Brian Ashford-Russell Sarah Bates Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in 2011.
Skills and experience 2007 and was elected Brian Ashford-Russell is a director Skills and experience Chairman in August 2011. and founder of Polar Capital.
He was Sarah Bates is a past Chairman of the He is also chairman of the previously head of the technology team Association of Investment Companies Management Engagement at Henderson Global Investors.
He and has been involved in the UK savings and Nomination Committees.
managed the Company from launch and investment industry in different Skills and experience until 30 April 2006. roles for over 30 Years.
Michael Moule was a director of Other Appointments Other Appointments investment trusts at Henderson Global He is a Non-executive Director of Polar Sarah Bates is Non-executive Chairman Investors, where he had been the Capital Holdings plc.
of St. Jamess Place plc, JP Morgan investment manager for The Bankers American Investment Trust plc and Investment Trust plc and Law Mr Brian Ashford-Russell is connected Witan Pacific Investment trust plc.
Debenture Corporation plc until to the investment manager and as such Sarah is also a director of Development his retirement in 2003. is not considered independent.
Securities plc and Worldwide Health Other Appointments Trust plc.
She is Chairman of the He is a director of The European Cancer Research UK pension funds Investment Trust plc and is a director of investment committee, a member of Montanaro UK Smaller Companies the USS Investment Committee as well Investment Trust plc.
He is a member as being a member of a number of of the investment committee of the other charitable and pension fund British Heart Foundation and a investment committees.
member of the investment committee of The Open University.
Member of Audit Committee Member of Management Engagement Committee Member of Nomination Committee # Member of Remuneration Committee The Board considers that the majority of the Directors including David Gamble, who has served more than nine years, are independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
All the Directors served throughout the financial year with the exception of Ms Ginman who was appointed on 2 February 2015.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 56 # # David Gamble Charlotta Ginman Peter Hames Rupert Montagu Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Director Director Director Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Appointed to the Board in 2002 and to the in 2015.
Board in 2011. in 2007, and became chair of the Audit Senior Independent Skills and experience Skills and experience Committee in 2011.
Director and Chairman Peter Hames spent 18 years Charlotta Ginman qualified Mr Gamble is retiring of the Remuneration of his investment career in as a Chartered Accountant at the conclusion of the Committee from Singapore, where in 1992 he at Ernst & Young before AGM to be held on September 2013. co-founded Aberdeen Asset spending a career in 9September 2015.
Managements Asian Skills and experience investment banking and Skills and experience operation and as director of Rupert Montagu cocommercial organisations, David Gamble was chief Asian equities he oversaw founded Montagu principally in technology executive of British Airways regional fund management Newhall Associates now related businesses.
She Pension Investment teams responsible for Greenspring Associates held senior roles with JP Management Ltd. until running a number of in 2000, a specialist Morgan, Deutsche Bank, his retirement in 2004. top-rated and award investor in technology UBS and the Nokia winning funds.
Other Appointments capital industries where David is chairman of Hermes Other Appointments Other Appointments he was a partner until 2010.
GPE LLP and Vencap He is a director of MMIP Charlotta Ginman is a International plc and is Investment Management Other Appointments Non-executive Director also an advisor to the Limited, BACIT Limited and None of Kromek Group plc, Investment Committee independent member of the where she is the current of the BBC pension plan.
Operating Committee of Chairman of the Audit Genesis Asset Managers Committee and is also a LLP as well as serving on Non-executive Director of a number of Genesis Pacific Assets Trust plc, fund boards.
Consort Medical plc and Motif Bio plc.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 57
