3 Directors Report Investment Manager Team Ben Rogoff Nick Evans Fatima Iu Xuesong Zhao Director, Technology Senior Fund Manager Fund Manager Fund Manager The portfolio is managed Nick joined Polar Capital Fatima joined Polar Xuesong joined Polar by Ben Rogoff.
Ben has in September 2007 and Capital in April 2006 Capital in May 2012, having been a technology has sixteen years after working as an spent most of the previous specialist for seventeen experience as a analyst with Citigroup four years working as an years having begun his technology specialist.
He Asset Management for investment analyst within career in fund has been lead manager of 18 months.
She focuses the Emerging Markets & management at CMI, as a the Polar Capital Global on European technology Asia team at Aviva global technology analyst.
Technology Fund since stocks and has responsibility Investors, where he was He moved to Aberdeen January 2008.
Prior to for coverage of the global responsible for the Fund Managers in 1998 joining Polar he was Head medical technology Technology, Media and where he spent four years of Technologyat AXA sub-sector.
Prior as a senior technology Framlington.
He also graduated from Imperial to that, he worked as a manager prior to joining spent three years as a Pan College London in quantitative analyst and Polar Capital in May 2003.
European Investment 2002 with a degree in risk manager at Pictet He is also joint manager Manager and Technology Medicinal Chemistry.
He of Polar Capital Global Analyst at Hill Samuel started his career as a Technology Fund.
Nick Financial Engineer at graduated from St graduated from Hull Algorithmics, an IBM Catherines College, University with a degree company, in 2005.
He Oxford with a degree in in economics.
holds an MSc in Finance modern history in 1995. from Imperial College Science & Technology and a BA Hons in Economics from Peking University and is a CFA charter holder.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 58 John Gladwyn Paul Johnson Bradley Reynolds Investment Analyst Investment Analyst Investment Analyst John joined Polar Capital in Paul joined Polar Capital in March Brad joined Polar Capital in February 2015 as an Investment 2012 as an Investment Analyst on October 2011 as an Analyst and Analyst on the Global Technology the Polar Capital Technology team.
Trader working as part of the team.
Prior to joining Polar Capital, Prior to joining Polar Capital, Paul European Market Neutral team John spent 6 years at Blackrock helped manage a private investment with a focus on media and internet.
working as an analyst on the Global fund between 2010 and 2012.
Paul In 2014, he joined the Technology Equity team with his first year as a holds a BA in History and Politics team as an Investment Analyst.
graduate working with the UK Equity and a Masters in History from Keele Prior to joining Polar Capital, Brad team.
John holds a degree in University.
He has successfully worked at Ratio Asset Management Classics from the University of passed all three levels of the as an analyst and trader, and from Oxford, a Masters in Finance with CFA program.
2007 to 2011 he worked at F&C as a Distinction from London Business hedge fund analyst.
Brad started his School, and is a CFA Charterholder.
career in 2001 at Gartmore Investment Management working within the hedge fund team.
Brad graduated from the University of Hertfordshire with a degree in Business Studies and has passed the Level I examination of the CFA Program.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 59
