2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Amid all the fashionable talk of market reallocation of budgets appear inevitable.
bubbles, it is easy to forget that this bull As in prior years, this budget reallocation c. 3.1% market has been remarkably orderly and is likely to disproportionately benefit Forecast 2015 IT characterised by reluctance, rather than cheaper next-generation technologies budget growth in ebullience.
Should the final years of this and vendors with little to lose and much constant currency bull market end in a bubble, investors can to gain.
look forward to prices that, on average, As with the broader market, the move c. 4.4 standard deviations above Wage inflation technology sector re-rated modestly their ten-year moving average as represents the most over the past year leaving it trading on compared to just c. 1.4 today.
potent risk to the current a forward PE of 17.5x 2014: 16.7x in line alignment of interest with longer-term averages the median Technology Outlook between policymakers forward PE since 1976 averaging 15.3x.
Although worldwide IT spending is and investors However, large-cap technology companies expected to fall 1.3% in 2015, this decline continue to boast some of the strongest reflects significant headwinds associated balance sheets with cash equivalent to with US dollar strength.
On a constant c. 8% of market capitalisation which at currency basis, IT budgets are somewhat par value would reduce cash-adjusted healthier with growth more broadly valuations to an undemanding c. 14x Amid all the fashionable inline with global GDP 3.1% vs. 3.5% forward EV NOPAT.
Unfortunately much talk of market bubbles, respectively this year.
Whether or not an of this cash is held trapped offshore and it is easy to forget that improved economic environment and less therefore would be subject to repatriation this bull market has been uncertainty result in a pick up in capital tax.
As in previous years market remarkably orderly spending remains a moot point.
Dollar capitalisation weighted measures of value and characterised by strength represents a significant continue to be flattered by a number of reluctance, rather incremental headwind this year because cheap mega caps.
On a relative basis, the than ebullience c. 56% of US technology sector sales technology sector continues to trade at come from overseas, more than any other around 1.0x the market multiple ignoring sector except energy.
However, nearly all balance sheets which suggests relative semiconductor sales are conducted in downside is limited but at the same time it dollars, which means that only c. 37% is difficult to argue for a material re-rating Dollar strength of US technology revenues will face direct given that overall IT spending is barely represents a significant headwinds from dollar strength.
This is keeping pace with global GDP.
Fortunately, incremental headwind expected to generate a c. 4% drag on top most technology incumbents have now at this year because c. 56% line growth.
The sectors exposure to least begun to acknowledge their slower of US technology sector energy related spending c. 10% of total growth profiles via greater capital return sales come from IT spending is an additional downside programmes in the form of both buybacks overseas, more than consideration given sharply lower oil the sector reducing its shares outstanding any other sector prices and reduced capital spending by c. 2% in 2014 and dividends.
In any event we continue to aggregates are somewhat flattered by believe that low single digit IT spending Apples remarkable $68bn capital return growth remains entirely at odds with between Q114 and Q115, each of IBM, computing needs that are growing Intel, Oracle and Microsoft returned more inexorably: this makes a further than $10bn to shareholders over the same Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 24 Although there is no denying that most growth-challenged incumbents have become better stewards of capital this has done nothing to alter our view that enterprise computing is looking increasingly anachronistic period.
This trend looks set to continue due to developed market growth where the given strong cashflow generation and over expiry of support for Windows XP helped $68bn capitalised balance sheets with Apple, drive a corporate replacement cycle.
Amount of capital Microsoft, Cisco and Google combined However, these tailwinds appear to returned by Apple holding $345bn in cash reserves, have largely played out with current between Q114 equivalent to 23% of total corporate expectations for 5% unit declines in 2015 and Q115 cash reserves in the US.
reflecting an increasingly commoditised, mature industry.
The tablet c. $80bn We continue to believe Although there is no denying that most market also looks increasingly mature that low single digit IT growth-challenged incumbents have with single digit unit growth expectations spending growth remains become better stewards of capital this reflecting cannibalisation from largerentirely at odds with has done nothing to alter our view that screen smartphones.
Printing $50bn computing needs that are enterprise computing is looking looks set to continue contracting with growing inexorably increasingly anachronistic and our hardware and supplies expected to belief that the new technology cycle has decline at an annual rate of 1.4% and 2-3% entered a more disruptive phase where respectively through 2018.
Servers 2013: newer technologies will increasingly $51bn are likely to fare somewhat better replace, rather than augment existing c. 4% growth this year aided by Windows As with the broader ones.
Although budget reallocation and Server 2003 support expiration offset by market, the technology technology deflation may only appear the trend of higher workload density.
sector re-rated modestly marginal today after all, leading public However, demand for UNIX servers c. 10% over the past year cloud company Amazon Web Services of the overall market and dominated by leaving it trading on a AWS boasts only $5bn in annualised IBM, Oracle and HP is expected to decline forward PE of 17.5x revenues versus total corporate IT 18% this year, having already contracted by in line with longerspending of c. $1.7tr it is likely 15% in 2014.
Mainframes 2013: $4.7bn term averages already having a meaningful impact on have been a relative bright spot especially incumbents because all of the industrys for IBM which enjoys c. 71% market share incremental growth is being captured by and c. 60% margins but the number of new technologies and vendors.
This likely mainframe customers globally has fallen explains why IBM was forced to abandon to 3,500 from 5,000 five years ago.
Storage Although budget its long-term financially engineered 2013: $35bn has also fared relatively well reallocation and earnings targets last year when it cited with capacity growth of c. 26% in 2014 technology deflation the unprecedented pace of change in expected to accelerate to c. 39% through may only appear the industry.
However, price declines of c. 25% marginal today it is mean industry revenues are likely to grow likely already having a IBMs travails are likely to be more widely under 4% through 2018.
Incumbents such meaningful impact on felt over the coming years as large legacy as EMC and Network Appliance will also incumbents because technology areas continue to slow and or have to contend with market fragmentation all of the industrys contract.
Having grown at an average with converged, all-flash and hyperincremental growth annual rate of 7.8% over the past ten years, converged alternatives dominated by new is being captured by PC unit growth turned negative in 2010 vendors growing at the expense new technologies with the advent of tablets.
After a terrible of the traditional network NAS and and vendors 2013 where PC units fell 10% y y the PC storage attached SAN markets.
market 2013: $202bn stabilised last year Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 25 2 Strategic Report Section VIRTUAL REALITY A VISION OF THE FUTURE WHERE REAL AND VIRTUAL WORLDS COLLIDE Since its inception, the virtual reality VR Industry has consistently overpromised and under-delivered with head mounted displays HMDs $2.3bn enjoying little traction beyond initial military applications.
A 1990s industry Amount paid by Facebook boom was followed by a bust leaving VR to fade from public consciousness.
to acquire Oculus Rift However, this all changed in 2012 when Palmer Luckey introduced a $300 headset called the Oculus Rift, which just two years later was acquired by Facebook for $2.3bn.
After decades of disappointment, technology advances $67bn in sensors, displays and graphics have helped reduce costs and ameliorate motion sickness with the Rift slated for commercial launch in Q116.
An Estimated value of the interesting alternative to VR is augmented reality AR, which puts virtual VR market by 2025 things into real worlds with Microsofts HoloLens a transparent wireless HMD showing most promise to date.
While early VR and AR iterations may yet fall short of heightened expectations, both technologies will prove hugely disruptive in time with VR likely to transform education, film, gaming and live entertainment while AR will replace the screen as we know it.
P P ol ol ar ar C C ap ap it it al al T T ee cc hn hn ol ol oo gg yy T T rr uu ss t p t p lc lc A A nn nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rr t & F t & F in in aa nn cc ia ia l S l S tt aa te te m m ee nn tt s f s f oo r t r t hh e y e y ee aa r e r e nn dd ee d 3 d 3 0 A 0 A pp rr il 2 il 2 00 11 55 26 26 Managers Report continued While deflation as an industry constant is Despite more challenging fundamentals, well understood, over time its impact can many of the legacy companies in our 30% be truly staggering.
For instance, DRAM sector are today trading at their highest Decrease in the costs have dropped from c$80k Mb in the relative price earnings ratios for years number of mainframe 1970s to around 1c today, while HDD because of broader market PE expansion customers during the storage has declined from c$315 MB in the and their attraction to incremental buyers past 5 years early 1980s to less than 1 10,000th of a due to capital return programmes and or cent today.
Compute costs have also fallen the articulation of Cloud strategies.
In precipitously with the same dollars buying contrast, most of our favoured nextmore than 3000x the number of transistors generation companies with modest IBMs travails are likely today than they did in 1989.
The impact of if any exposure to challenged areas to be more widely felt open-source infrastructure, upon which are materially cheaper today than over the coming years as many of the webscale companies are built, eighteen months ago despite most having large legacy technology is also likely to play an increasingly continued to deliver strong performance.
areas continue to slow deflationary role going forwards.
While we have previously acknowledged and or contract that the valuation elastic between the Fortunately, the same deflation that is sectors winners and losers had causing havoc in legacy markets where become stretched in early 2014, the volume growth is insufficient to offset sentiment-driven readjustment that has pricing significantly increases the reach persisted since then has been substantial.
of technology from 1m mainframes to While we cannot know if the present 5bn mobile Internet users and, in time, reset will prove sufficient or if it has While deflation as an 30bn connected devices.
This makes it already overshot, at the time of writing industry constant is possible to reimagine major global the relative valuation spread between well understood, over industries such as advertising, legacy and next-generation assets is time its impact can be commerce, payments and travel.
significantly less demanding that it was truly staggering However these new opportunities have a year ago.
We expect these respective very little to do with legacy incumbents, growth profiles to continue to diverge as explaining why they embark on M&A foreign exchange headwinds, slower EM activity designed to offset the impact growth and a weaker PC market weigh of the new cycle.
As the current cycle disproportionately on incumbents.
becomes increasingly pernicious we expect this type of defensive M&A As such we have used the relative The same deflation that activity epitomised by SAPs $8.3bn fide-rating to increase our exposure to is causing havoc in acquisition of Concur at c. 10x sales last our favoured names at the expense of legacy markets where year to re-accelerate.
Underlining this increasingly anachronistic incumbents.
volume growth is point, Hewlett Packard CEO Meg Whitman We also expect M&A activity to support insufficient to offset recently declared that one-time serial small mid cap valuations although recent pricing significantly acquirer HP was back in the M&A game deals have involved large cap peers increases the reach which should remind investors that free combining using cheap debt to generate of technology cash flow yields are a flawed measure of immediate financial synergies value when M&A is required to ameliorate in the style of private equity which have the impact of a new cycle that in the been cheered by shareholders.
case of HP has resulted in year over year sales declines in every one of its business divisions.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2015 27
