88 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Our directors and officers Peter Crook 52 Andrew Fisher 58 Manjit Wolstenholme 51 Malcolm Le May 58 Chief Executive Finance Director Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director Chairman Appointed to the board: 2006 Appointed to the board: 2006 Senior Independent Director Appointed to the board: 2007 Chairman: Committee membership: Appointed to the board: 2014 Committee membership: Executive committee and group Executive committee and group Committee membership: executive committee executive committee Risk advisory committee Audit committee, risk advisory Key achievements: Key achievements: Chairman: committee and nomination committee Successfully addressed the succession Oversaw the creation of a group Nomination committee Chairman: issues at Vanquis Bank by recruiting internal audit function.
Key strengths: Remuneration committee Chris Sweeney to replace Michael Oversaw the groups discussions with Lenora as Managing Director following Extensive experience of corporate the Prudential Regulation Authority Key strengths: his retirement.
finance matters, having spent 13 years PRA on regulatory requirements.
Over 30 years experience in banking, in investment banking.
Oversaw the entry of the group into Recruited a new Director of Corporate asset management and insurance.
Previous board and management Previous board and management Integration of and support for the experience: Effectively managed the ongoing experience: non-executive directors who joined the relationship with Fitch Ratings, the Co-head of investment banking at boards of two of the groups divisions.
Co-head of banking for Barclays in groups rating agency.
Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, New York: head of investment banking, Provided strategic input into the future partner at Gleacher Shacklock and Implemented a revised investment Europe at UBS, global head of corporate growth options for Vanquis Bank.
non-executive director of Aviva Investors strategy for the groups defined benefit and investment banking at ING Holdings Limited.
Provided strategic input into the pension scheme in conjunction with Barings, deputy CEO at Morley Fund FCA full authorisation and change the trustees.
Current external appointments: Management now Aviva Investors, of permission application processes president of JER Europe, senior Previous board and management Non-executive director of Future plc, the being undertaken by the divisions.
independent director of Pendragon experience: Unite Group plc, CALA Group Holdings plc and non-executive director of RSA Previous board and management Limited and CMC Markets plc.
Finance director of Premier Farnell plc Insurance Group plc.
experience: and partner at Price Waterhouse LLP.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Senior independent director of IG Current external appointments: None.
Group Holdings plc, non-executive Non-executive director of Cabot director of Hastings Group Holdings GroupHoldings Limited.
plc, governor of Twyford School, senior advisor to Ernst & Young and to Heidrick & Struggles, and partner at Opus Corporate Finance and Juno Capital LLP.
Governance 89 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Alison Halsey 60 Stuart Sinclair 62 Rob Anderson 57 Ken Mullen 57 Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the board: 2014 Appointed to the board: 2012 Appointed to the board: 2009 Appointed to the board: 2007 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Remuneration committee, risk advisory Remuneration committee, audit Remuneration committee, audit committee and nomination committee committee and nomination committee committee, risk advisory committee Group executive committee andnomination committee Chairman: Chairman: Secretary: Chairman: Audit committee Risk advisory committee Executive committee, remuneration None committee, audit committee, risk Key strengths: Key strengths: advisory committee and nomination Key strengths: committee 34 years with KPMG specialising Extensive experience in the financial in financial services with audit and services market in the UK and Extensive retail experience and Key achievements: advisory responsibilities for UK and overseas.
knowledge of the type of consumer international banks.
Operational Project management of the legal 10 years experience in US-based business experience which is relevant due diligence exercises, through a management consulting, 14 years Previous board and management to the groups businesses.
combination of internal and external experience as CEO or equivalent in experience: legal resources, on two potential retail banking organisations and seven Previous board and management Partner at KPMG.
Advised a number of acquisition targets.
years experience on the boards of experience: UK charities and was a board member financial services companies.
In his capacity as chairman of the of the National Autistic Society for five Director of childrenswear business unit Trustees, renewed the investment years.
Previous board and management of Marks & Spencer and chief executive strategy of the groups defined benefit experience: of Signet Jewelers Limiteds UK Division.
pension scheme which has resulted in Current external appointments: Chairman of GE Capital China and GE a significant fide-risking of the schemes Current external appointments: Non-executive director of Cambian Capital Bank UK, chief executive officer assets and the creation of a hedging Group plc, Aon UK Limited, Credit None.
of Tesco Personal Finance, director of strategy in respect of two key risks Suisse International and Credit Suisse Virgin Direct, director of Retail Banking faced by the scheme: interest rate Securities Europe Limited.
at The Royal Bank of Scotland, nonfluctuation and changes in the level executive director at Liverpool Victoria ofinflation.
and TSB plc and council member of the Close management of the groups Royal Institute for International Affairs regulatory relationships, both in the Chatham House.
Current external appointments: Previous board and management experience: Director of Vitality Health, senior independent director of Swinton Group Company secretary and general counsel Limited, QBE Insurance Europe Limited of Premier Farnell plc, Silentnight plc and and QBE Underwriting Limited: nonWhessoe plc.
executive director of Lloyds Bank plc, Lloyds Banking Group Limited, Bank of Current external appointments: Scotland plc and HBOS plc.
Chairman of Rexel UK Limited Pension Scheme.
