Governance 97 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Shareholder engagement Key themes discussed with shareholders in 2015 Provident home credit Satsuma and glo Levels of disposable income and confidence in the Development of underwriting at Satsuma and glo.
Competitive environment in online short-term credit and impact The point at which the contraction in customer numbers and on business volumes.
receivables stabilises following completion of the repositioning Impact of regulation on High-Cost Short-Term Credit.
of home credit into asmaller, better quality, more costefficient business.
Progress with glo and rationale behind decision to roll-out in 2016.
Next stages of development for the business.
Moneybarn Vanquis Bank Growth in new business volumes.
Development of product proposition anddistribution channels.
Progress in building an infrastructure tosupport growth Focus and outcome of the FCA credit card review.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring Specific information on the 2015 IR that appropriate channels of communication programme can be found in the calendar the primary objective are established between directors and on page 98.
Further communication is shareholders and that all directors are achieved through: of corporate aware of any issues and concerns that The annual report this is the most majorshareholders may have.
significant communication tool, ensuring governance should Regular engagement provides investors that investors are kept fully informed with an opportunity to discuss particular regarding developments in the group.
be safeguardIng areas of interest and raise any concerns.
Management continually strives to The group is eager to ensure that it produce an award-winning, clear and shareholder and other understands shareholders views and transparent annual report which provides that it is able to effectively communicate shareholders with a complete picture stakeholder Interests.
The group engages ofthe group.
Manjit Wolstenholme effectively with shareholders through its The corporate website provides Chairman regular communications, the AGM and investors with timely information on the  IR activity.
groups performance as well as details of the groups corporate responsibility IR programme CR activities.
In 2015, a full refresh of the website was undertaken to improve The group has a comprehensive IR its look and feel and to ensure that the programme through which the Chief website was fully accessible from either Executive, Finance Director and Head of IR aPC, tablet or smartphone without the engage regularly with the companys largest need for a separate mobile app.
shareholders on a one-to-one basis to discuss strategic and other issues as well as Investor days inviting institutional to give presentations on the groups results.
shareholders and sell-side analysts to an on-site facility or an external location to The effectiveness of the groups IR provide them with a more detailed insight programme has been recognised in the into the group.
The most recent investor UK PLC Awards for three consecutive day took place at Vanquis Banks London years.
The group won the award for Best headquarters on 16 April 2015 and was Investor Communications in 2012 and was very well attended.
The next investor day included in a shortlist of four in 2013 and is likely to be held in spring 2017, subject 2014.
The group has also been awarded to newsflow.
the Excellence in Financial Reporting in the FTSE250 for two consecutive years at the PwC Building Public Trust Awards.
98 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Shareholder engagement continued Investor analyst meetings the group The board also considers an IR report at AGM takes a proactive approach by inviting each board meeting which outlines the Investor relations Shareholders are invited each year to investors and sell-side analysts to meet general nature of matters communicated programme in2015 attend the AGM, where the board members with divisional senior management and and discussed with institutional investors, are available t oT raandsinwge srt aatneme y qntue.
Independent reviews of shareholders may have.
Facilities are JAN shareholder views are also commissioned US and European roadshow programmes also available to shareholders to submit through an annual perception audit and allows overseas investors better access to questions in advance of the meeting and reviewed by the board.
The group collates management, enabling them to receive the Preliminary results to cast their votes electronically or by broker feedback from roadshows to present announcement.
same access to information as investors pos Ft EB.
Details of proxy votes cast are made in the IR board report and all analyst and London and Edinburgh investor in the UK.
Usually attended by the Chief available by means of an announcement broker reports on the company are also sales team roadshows.
Executive, the Finance Director and the to the London Stock Exchange and on the distributed to all board members.
It is the companys policy Dublin roadshow.
This year there have been no significant to give shareholders in excess of 20 working Attending broker conferences issues raised by shareholders in relation to MAR days notice of the AGM and the Notice of management regularly attend and the company.
Had there been, these would the 2016 AGM setting out the resolutions for present at various conferences hosted have been reported to the board, discussed the meeting, together with an explanation by brokers to ensure that a wide variety Investor & Analyst Event in detail, and an appropriate corrective of them, accompanies this report and is VanquisBank, London.
of shareholders, including those from APR action plan developed to address any available on the groups website.
Details of different geographies, have access concerns raised.
the 2016 AGM are set out on page [] of the to management.
An annual CR report a stand alone report US investor roadshow AGM MAY clearly demonstrating the significant Chicago, Boston and New York.
Shareholders are invited each year to importance placed on corporate attend the AGM, where board members responsibilities within the group.
KBW UK Challenger Banks are available to answer any shareholders Conference.
JUN Responding promptly the group is questions.
Facilities are also available Shore Capital UK Specialist committed to responding to shareholders, for shareholders to submit questions in Lending Seminar.
regardless of the size of their holding, advance of the meeting and to cast their within two working days.
votes electronically or by post.
Details of Interim results announcement.
the proxy votes cast are made available London and Edinburgh investor An annual perception audit designed JUL by means of an announcement to the sales team roadshows.
to obtain formal independent feedback London Stock Exchange and on the groups from investors and sell-side analysts.
In the event that, in the opinion of KBW UK Growth Bank This enables management to consider the board, a significant proportion of votes conference.
and respond to any concerns in the SEP have been cast against a resolution at any investment community.
general meeting, the company will explain Q3 IMS and analysts call.
when announcing the results of voting what Board oversight Zurich and Geneva roadshow.
action it intends to take to understand the OCT reasons behind the vote result.
It is the Communications with shareholders are companys policy to give shareholders in given a high priority by the board.
In order US investor roadshow excess of 20 working days notice of the to ensure that board members develop NewYorkandChicago.
NOV AGM and with regard to any other general an understanding of the views of major JP Morgan Best of British meeting, the company will provide at least shareholders, there is regular dialogue Conference.
14 working days notice of the meeting.
with institutional shareholders, including The Notice of the 2016 AGM setting out meetings after the announcement of Berenberg European Investor the resolutions for the meeting, together the year-end and half-yearly results.
DEC with an explanation of them, accompanies Shareholders occasionally meet with Citi Diversified Financials this report and is available on the groups Conference.
the Chairman or SID both in his capacity website.
Details ofthe 2016 AGM are set as senior independent director and as outon page112 of the Directors Report.
remuneration committee chairman when Find out more online we publish required to discuss remuneration matters.
our results and presentations on our investor website at www.
