Remuneration 115 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy Committee role The committee is responsible for the remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
The remuneration and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are determined by the board as a whole.
The committee also reviews theremuneration of the senior management teams within the three divisions and the corporate office team.
The Chief Executive is consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive director and the senior management teams and the Chairman is consulted on proposals relating to the Chief Executives remuneration.
When appropriate, bothare invited by the committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
The committee recognises and manages any conflict of interest when receiving views from executive directors or senior management or when consulting the Chief Executive or Chairman about their proposals.
Considerations when setting policy How employees pay How shareholders views istakenintoaccount aretakenintoaccount In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors and senior management, Pay and conditions elsewhere in the group We remain committed to taking into account the committee takes into account were considered when finalising the policy shareholder views on any proposed changes the following: for executive directors and the senior to our remuneration policy.
The same principles chairman maintains contact, as required, 1.
The responsibilities of each individuals apply throughout the group but are with the companys principal shareholders role and their individual experience proportionate relative to an individuals about all relevant remuneration issues.
and performance: influence at group level.
The base salary Following consultation with shareholders 2.
The need to attract, retain and increases awarded to the executive directors on the proposed renewal of the LTIS in 2015, motivate executive directors and senior are consistent with the average percentage it was agreed that the share ownership management when determining benefit increases awarded elsewhere in the group guidelines for executive directors be packages, including an appropriate and reflect the strong financial performance increased to 200% of salary in 2016 from proportion of fixed and variable pay: of the group and each individual directors 175% in 2015.
This change continues to personal performance.
The committee does improve the current policys alignment 3.
P ay and benefits practice and employment not formally consult directly with employees with the groups shareholders vis--vis conditions both within the group as a on executive pay but does receive periodic the share ownership guidelines included whole and within the sector inwhich updates from the divisions on remuneration in the remuneration policy approved it operates: issues in general and specifically in relation byshareholders at the 2014 AGM.
P eriodic external comparisons to examine to remuneration structures throughout current market trends and practices the group.
and equivalent roles in companies of similar size, business complexity and How the executive directors geographical scope: remuneration policy relates to 5.
The need to maintain a clear link between thesenior management team the overall reward policy and the specific Remuneration for the level below performance of the group: executive director including share 6.
The need to achieve alignment to incentives, bonus, benefits and pension thebusiness strategy both in the entitlement is set primarily by reference shortandlong term: and tomarket comparatives.
The requirement for remuneration Long-term incentives are typically only to be competitive, with a significant provided to the most senior executives and proportion dependent on risk-assessed are reserved for those identified as having performance targets.
the greatest potential to influence group level performance.
116 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy continued Executive director remuneration policy Purpose and link Operation including Performance targets and provisions Element to strategy maximum levels for recovery of sums paid Salary To reflect the responsibilities Reviewed annually and effective from 1 January.
Broad assessment of group and individual performance of the individual role.
as part of the review process.
Typically set following review of the budget for the To reflect the individuals forthcoming year, taking into account salary levels Clawback provisions do not apply.
skills and experience and incompanies of a similar size and complexity.
their performance over Targeted at or around median.
Annual increases typically linked to those of the To provide an appropriate wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted level of basic fixed income to the wider workforce may be awarded in certain and avoid excessive risk circumstances such as where there is a change in taking arising from over responsibility, progression in the role, or a significant reliance onvariable income.
increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the group.
Annual bonus Incentivises annual delivery Financial and operational goals set annually.
A minimum of 50% of any bonus opportunity will be of agreed financial and subject to financial targets eg EPS with up to 20% linked Maximum opportunity of 120% of salary for the operational goals.
Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the Finance Rewards the achievement Director.
A graduated scale operates from threshold performance of an agreed set of annual through to the maximum performance level.
In relation One-third of bonus earned is subject to compulsory financial and operational to financial targets, 0% of this part of the bonus becomes deferral into the 2013 PSP, typically for a period of goals.
payable for achieving the threshold performance target three years.
with a graduated scale operating thereafter for higher May defer up to an additional third of bonus.
In relation to personal Any deferred bonus will be eligible for Matching objectives, it is not always practicable to set a sliding scale Awards under the 2013 PSP.
Where it is, a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold Remainder of bonus paid in cash.
performance level as for financial targets.
Clawback provisions apply where there is a material prior period error requiring restatement of the group financial statements.
Details of the bonus measures operated each year will be included in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
The committee reserves the power to make changes over the life of the policy to achieve alignment with the groups annual strategy.
Performance Alignment of managements Invitations to participate and awards made annually.
Awards vest based on three-year performance against Share Plan long-term strategic interests a challenging range of EPS growth targets set and Opportunity to defer up to two-thirds of annual with long-term interests of assessed by the committee.
25% of the Matching Award bonus and receive a basic award together with a shareholders.
half of one matching share vests at the threshold matching share award.
performance level with full vesting taking place on a Encourages an increased Executive directors eligible for a Matching Award of graduated scale for achieving the maximum performance shareholding in thegroup.
up to two times based on a deferral of up to twolevel.
The performance condition is reviewed annually thirds of annual bonus with a minimum compulsory by the committee prior to grant in terms of the range deferral of one-third.
of targets and the choice of metric and may be refined Maximum bonus being earned and a maximum to ensure that the condition remains aligned with the bonus deferral, results in a maximum benefit of groups strategy and key performance indicators KPIs.
160% of salary in the case of the Chief Executive and Any substantive reworking of the current performance 133% of salary in the case of the Finance Director.
condition would be accompanied by appropriate dialogue Dividends may also be payable on basic awards and with the groups shareholders and or approval sought for in addition, dividend equivalent provisions allow the a revised remuneration policy depending on the nature committee to pay dividends on vested Matching ofthe change.
Awards or cash at the time of vesting.
Clawback provisions apply to the Matching Award only.
Remuneration 117 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Purpose and link Operation including Performance targets and provisions Element to strategy maximum levels for recovery of sums paid Long Term Alignment of managements Annual grant of share awards structured as Awards vest based on a three-year performance period Incentive long-term strategic interests conditional awards or nil-cost options.
against a challenging range of EPS and TSR targets set Scheme with long-term interests of and assessed by the committee.
20% of the award Executive directors are eligible for awards of up to shareholders.
vests at the threshold performance level with full 200% of salary which is the maximum opportunity vesting taking place on a graduated scale for achieving Rewards strong financial contained within the plan rules.
The performance performance and sustained Dividend equivalent provisions allow the committee conditions are reviewed annually by the committee increase in shareholder to pay dividends on vested shares or cash at the prior to grant in terms of the range of targets and the value.
choice of metrics and may be refined to ensure that Encourages an increased Shareholders approved the renewal of the Long the conditions remain aligned with the groups strategy shareholding in thegroup.
Term Incentive Scheme at the 2015 AGM.
Any substantive reworking of the current performance conditions would be accompanied by appropriate dialogue with the companys shareholders and or approval sought for a revised remuneration policy depending on the nature of the change.
Retirement Provision of a range Available pension arrangements include the cash Not applicable.
benefits of schemes and balance section of the Provident Financial Staff arrangements to enable Pension Scheme, an Unfunded Unapproved executive directors to Retirement Benefits Scheme, a cash supplement fundtheirretirement.
inlieu of pension and or a contribution to individual Self Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs.
Pension credit of up to 30% of salary per annum isgiven to all executive directors.
Other Provision of a range of Benefits will be appropriate to an executive directors Not applicable.
benefits insured and non-insured circumstances and include: benefits commensurate Life cover of six times salary subject to the with the role.
provision of satisfactory medical evidence, apermanent health insurance benefit of 75% of basic salary after six months illness and membership of the groups private medical insurance scheme: Fully expensed company car or a cash equivalent: and Participation in any all-employee share plans operated by the company on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Share To ensure alignment of Executive directors are required to hold a minimum Not applicable.
ownership the long-term interests of 200% of salary in the form of shares in the ofexecutive directors company with effect from 1 January 2016. andshareholders.
Executive directors are required to retain half of any shares vesting net of tax under the LTIS until the guideline is met.
Unvested shares held under the PSP are not taken into account.
The committee will operate the incentive schemes within the policy detailed above and in accordance with their respective rules.
In relation to the discretions included within the scheme rules, these include, but are not limited to: i who participates in the schemes: ii testing of the relevant performance targets: iii undertaking an annual review of performance targets and weightings: iv the determination of the treatment of leavers in line with the scheme rules: v adjustments to existing performance targets and or share awards under the incentive scheme if certain relevant events take place eg a capital restructuring, a material acquisition divestment etc with any such adjustments to result in the revised targets being no more or less challenging to achieve: and vi dealing with a change of control.
For the purposes of incentive pay, EPS iscalculated on an adjusted basis to show the EPS generated by the groups underlying operations.
118 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy continued In the case of an internal promotion, any Regulatory changes The commiTtee has considered The outstanding variable pay awarded in relation The committee is mindful that proposed to the previous role will be allowed to pay recently published Guidelines on sound regulatory changes in the financial services out according to its terms of grant adjusted sector may result in a need to rebalance the remuneration Policies under crD iV as relevant to take into account the board executive directors pay and, as a result, the appointment, even if inconsistent with the anD intends To take inTo account committee retains discretion to adjust the policy prevailing when the commitment current proportions of fixed and variable the Guidelines, the upDated Principles is fulfilled.
pay within the current total remuneration of remuneration issued by the On the appointment of a new chairman package if new legislation were to impact or non-executive director, the fees will be the executive directors in due course.
investment association in november set taking into account the experience and Should this be the case, the company would 2015 and recent DeVelopmenTs in calibre of the individual.
Where specific enter into appropriate dialogue with its cash or share arrangements are delivered major shareholders and, depending on the wiDer best practice when setting to non-executive directors, these will not nature of any changes, may be required to the remuneration Policy for 2017. include share options or other performanceseek shareholder approval for a revised related elements.
This will be done in consultaTion wiTh shareholders.
Choice of performance metrics Policy for new directors Malcolm Le May The performance metrics used for the Base salary levels will be set in accordance Remuneration committee chairman annual bonus scheme, the LTIS, the 2015 with the approved remuneration policy, LTIS and the 2013 PSP have been selected taking into account the experience and to reflect the key indicators of the groups calibre of the individual.
Benefits will also financial performance.
be provided in line with the approved remuneration policy and relocation EPS continues to be considered by the expenses arrangements may be provided committee as one of the broadest and most if necessary.
well understood measures of the groups long-term financial performance and The maximum level of variable pay that therefore it remains appropriate to maintain may be offered on an ongoing basis and the option to use it as a key metric in our the structure of remuneration will be in long-term incentive plans.
accordance with the approved remuneration policy.
This limit does not include the value of Furthermore, EPS is fully aligned with the any buyout arrangements.
groups objective of continuing to deliver ahigh dividend yield and thus is aligned Different performance measures may be withthe shareholder base which is weighted set initially for the annual bonus, taking into towards longer-term income investors.
account the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year that they In 2012, the link to RPI was removed from the join the company.
performance targets for the LTIS and PSP following consideration by the committee Any incentive offered above these limits of various factors prevailing at the time.
would be contingent on the company This approach has been retained in relation receiving shareholder approval for an to awards under the PSP, the 2013 PSP and amendment to the approved remuneration the LTIS since 2012, and it is intended that policy at its next AGM.
this will be the approach for all awards made The above policy applies to both an internal under the 2015 LTIS.
Performance targets promotion to the board or an external hire.
will, however, be assessed annually when setting targets for future awards to take In the case of an external hire, if it is account of prevailing rates of inflation.
necessary to buy out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited In addition, TSR is used under the LTIS to on leaving a previous employer, then the provide an appropriate external balance form cash or shares, timing and expected to the internal EPS measure and is value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing consistent with delivering superior returns performance criteria of the remuneration to shareholders which remains the groups or benefit being forfeited will be taken into key, over-arching, long-term objective.
The company will not pay any more The committee has determined that absolute than necessary and will not pay more than TSR remains an appropriate performance the expected value of the remuneration measure as the FTSE 250 is considered too or benefit being forfeited.
The approved diverse a group against which to compare remuneration policy will apply to the balance relative TSR performance.
The company will also not make a golden hello payment.
Remuneration 119 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Also, the general financial sector is a diverse Notice periods are limited to 12 months.
group of companies, none of which is If the company terminates the employment considered to be directly comparable to the of an executive director without giving the group.
The committee agreed, however, to period of notice required under the contract, keep the appropriateness of this measure then the executive director may be entitled under review and at its meeting in February to receive up to 12 months compensation.
2016 the committee determined that an Compensation is limited to: base salary due absolute TSR target remained appropriate for any unexpired notice period: any amount for the 2016 LTIS awards.
assessed by the committee as representing the value of contractual benefits and pension No performance targets are set for options which would have been received during the granted under the companys Save As You period: and any annual bonus which the Earn Scheme SAYE or for awards under the executive director might otherwise have companys share incentive plan SIP as they been eligible to receive on a pro rata basis, form part of the all-employee arrangements subject to the committees assessment of which are designed to encourage employee group and personal performance.
share ownership across the group.
To the extent that a director seeks to bring Service contracts and exit policy a claim against the company in relation The committee ensures that the contractual to the termination of their employment terms for the executive directors take due egforbreach of contract or unfair dismissal, account of best practice.
the committee retains the right to make an appropriate payment in settlement of Service contracts normally continue until the such claims.
directors agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
All service In the case of a termination by the company contracts contain provisions for early of the contract of any new executive termination.
The contracts of the executive director who has been appointed where directors are dated 27 April 2006 for the a payment in lieu of notice is made, the Chief Executive and 1 January 2008 for the committee would normally seek to limit Finance Director.
All contracts operate on a this to base salary, pension and benefits rolling basis with a 12-month notice period for up to 12 months.
An amount in respect served by either the executive director or of loss of annual bonus for the period of the company.
notice served prorata would only be included in exceptional circumstances and A directors contract may be terminated would not apply in circumstances of poor without notice and without any further performance.
For theavoidance of doubt, payment or compensation, except for sums in such exceptional circumstances, the accrued up to the date of termination, on director would be eligible to be considered the occurrence of certain events such as in the normal way for an annual bonus for gross misconduct.
No director has a service any period they have served as a director, contract providing liquidated damages subjecttothe normal assessment of on termination.
In the event of the termination of a Any share-based entitlements granted to service contract, it is the current policy an executive director under the companys to seek mitigation of loss by the director share incentive schemes will be determined concerned and to aim to ensure that any based on the relevant scheme rules.
In the payment made is the minimum which is case of a bad leaver eg resignation the commensurate with the companys legal awards normally lapse and in certain good obligations.
Payments inlieu of notice are leaver circumstances eg ill-health awards not pensionable.
would remain eligible to vest subject to an assessment of the performance target and In the event of a change of control of the a pro rata reduction unless the committee company, there is no enhancement to determines otherwise.
120 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy continued Non-executive director remuneration policy Purpose and link Operation Element to strategy including maximum levels Fees To attract and retain a high-calibre Chairman The Chairman and non-executive directors receive annual fees paid in monthly and non-executive directors by offering market instalments.
The fee for the Chairman is set by the remuneration committee and competitive fees which reflect the individuals skills, thefeesfor the non-executive directors are approved by the board.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all board responsibilities.
The other nonexecutive directors receive a basic non-executive director fee, with supplementary feespayable for additional responsibilities, including a fee for chairing a committee and, from 2016, for membership of the risk and audit committees but not if performing a chairman role.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys incentive arrangements.
Relevant expenses and or benefits may be provided to the non-executive directors.
The fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis and may be increased taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to go above the current fee levels and or to provide the fees in a form other than cash but not as share options or other performance-related incentives if necessary to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive director of an appropriate calibre.
Terms of appointment for the non-executive directors Date of most Expected Name Appointment recent term date of expiry Manjit Wolstenholme 16 July 2007 31 July 2013 31 July 2016 Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 30 March 2015 30 March 2018 Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 31 October 2015 31 October 2018 Malcolm Le May 1 January 2014 1 January 2014 31 January 2017 Alison Halsey 1 January 2014 1 January 2014 31 January 2017 Remuneration payments and payments Policy on other appointments Non-executive directors for loss of office will only be made Executive directors are permitted to hold Non-executive directors are not employed if consistent with this approved one non-executive directorship in a FTSE under service contracts and do not remuneration policy or otherwise 100 company and to retain the fees from receive compensation for loss of office.
approved by an ordinary resolution that appointment provided that the board They are appointed for fixed terms of three of shareholders.
considers that this will not adversely affect years, renewable for a further three-year their executive responsibilities.
term and, in exceptional circumstances, Malcolm Le May further extended if both parties agree.
Remuneration committee chairman Copies of directors service contracts and Any such extension will be subject to annual 23 February 2016 or letters of appointment are available from reappointment by shareholders.
The table above shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive directors.
Following the extension of the terms of appointment of both Stuart Sinclair and Rob Anderson, all directors will seek reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration 121 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Annual Report on Remuneration provides an overview of the workings of the committee during the year, sets out details of how the approved remuneration policy was implemented in 2015, and explains the total remuneration earned by the directors in 2015.
It also sets out details of how the approved remuneration policy will be implemented in2016.
This report will be subject to an advisory vote at theAGM of the company to be held on 5May 2016.
The committee considers corporate Code of Conduct.
Aon plc also provides Committee role and membership performance on environmental, social and pension consultancy and investment The role of the committee is set out in its governance ESG issues when setting the advice to the company.
The committee is terms of reference which are reviewed performance conditions for the annual satisfied that these additional services in annually and were last updated in January bonus scheme and share incentive plans no way compromised the independence 2015.
These can be found on the groups andwill use its discretion to ensure that, ofadvicefrom NBS.
where appropriate, the management The committee also engaged Addleshaw The committee meets at least three times a of ESG risks is reflected in the rewards Goddard LLP to provide advice and support year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
grantedto executive directors and the in relation to the establishment of the seniormanagement team.
Details of the work undertaken by the replacement LTIS the 2015 LTIS which was committee during the year are set out approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM onpage 122.
Effectiveness and in relation to other remuneration related matters.
The total fees paid to Addleshaw The members of the committee, all of whom On the basis of an internal board and Goddard LLP in 2015 in respect oftheir are considered to be independent, and their committee evaluation, the committee services were 29,153. attendance at meetings during the year is considered its effectiveness in 2015 at its shown in the table below.
Overall the The terms of engagement for NBS and committee determined that it was operating Addleshaw Goddard LLP are available from The committee has reviewed and considered effectively and that it continued to have the Company Secretary on request.
the impact of the FCA Remuneration Code appropriate regard for the key issues within FCA Code.
Whilst the FCA Code applies to The Company Secretary is secretary to the its remit.
Vanquis Bank, it does not apply to the group committee and instructed all the external executive directors, based on the companys advisors on behalf of the committee.
External advisors interpretation of the FCA Code, in relation The Company Secretary attended all the to their executive roles.
Vanquis Bank has meetings of the committee in 2015 and During the year, New Bridge Street NBS, established a remuneration committee to provides legal and technical support.
a trading name of Aon plc NBSs parent identify those Vanquis Bank employees who company, was engaged by the committee to In selecting advisors, the committee are Material Risk Takers and to ensure that provide remuneration consultancy services.
considers a range of factors, such Vanquis Bank complies with the FCA Code The Company Secretary, on behalf of the asindependence and objectivity, experience, on an ongoing basis.
The committee reviews committee, agrees the scope of the services technical ability and market knowledge.
the work undertaken by the Vanquis Bank to be provided and a fixed fee in respect of These factors are reviewed on a regular remuneration committee through regular each deliverable.
The total fees paid to NBS basis, and were last considered by the reports submitted to it.
in respect of such services to the committee committee at its meeting in January 2015. during the year were 81,025.
NBS is a The committee regularly reviews the signatory to the Remuneration Consultants approved remuneration policy in the context of the groups risk management framework to ensure it does not inadvertently promote irresponsible behaviour.
It has coordinated Committee members and meeting attendance its work with both the audit committee and 2015 Percentage the risk advisory committee, who assist Name Notes Date appointed Attendance attended with the monitoring and assessment of risk management specifically in relation to the Malcolm Le May Chairman 1 January 2014 6 out of 6 100% incentives provided under the approved remuneration policy.
Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 6 out of 6 100% Alison Halsey 1 January 2014 6 out of 6 100% Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 4 out of 6 66.7% 122 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Annual Report on Remuneration continued EPS is the key internal measure of financial Components of the approved performance as it is the broadest measure Remuneration committee key remuneration policy of the groups financial performance items in 2015 The approved remuneration policy will and is aligned to the shareholder base Review of directors expenses.
beimplemented in 2016 as follows: which is weighted towards longer-term Review of the committees JAN income investors.
performance and effectiveness Executive directors 2014.
Straight-line vesting will operate between Review of Chairmans fees 2015.
95% of the targeted group EPS at which point 1.
Salary Review of feedback from 0% of the bonus subject to this measure will shareholders on the renewal of Salaries for executive directors and the be payable, and the maximum of 105% of the LTIS.
senior management team are reviewed the targeted group EPS.
60% of the bonus Finalisation of targets under annually by the committee, although subject to this measure will be payable for the2015 annual bonus scheme not necessarily increased.
At its meeting target levels of performance.
in December 2015, the committee objectives element of the scheme will considered the companys strong financial continue to be underpinned by the threshold Review of the 2014 remuneration performance and each individuals level of the targeted group EPS.
FEB responsibilities, abilities, experience and basis that the vast majority of the groups Determination of vesting of LTIS personal performance.
The committee also competitors are unlisted, and on the basis and PSP awards granted in2012.
considered both the groups own salary that the EPS target is consistent with the Review of proposed LTIS, PSP structures, pay and conditions and, although groups objective of continuing to deliver a and PF EquityPlan awardsand used with caution in order to avoid paying  targets.
high dividend yield, the committee considers more than necessary, market data on salary Review of prior year performance that disclosure of the actual EPS target for against financial and non-financial rates for similar positions in comparative the annual bonus scheme in 2016 would objectives in relation to the 2014 companies.
As a result, it agreed to increase put the company at a significant commercial annual bonus scheme for executive the executive directors salaries in 2016 disadvantage.
Details of the extent to which directors.
as follows: the bonus targets are achieved will, however, Assessment of the remuneration be set out in the next Annual Report % increase Salary risk framework.
Peter Crook 3.4 730,000 Adoption of the 2015 LTIS following Clawback provisions also apply to annual Andrew Fisher 3.2 520,000 shareholder approval at the bonus awards which will enable the MAY 2015AGM.
committee to recover value overpaid in the These increases are consistent with the event of a restatement of the companys average percentage increases awarded Annual Report and Financial Statements or Review of a proposed elsewhere in the group.
an error in the calculation of the extent to remuneration package for the new SEP which the performance target has been met.
Annual bonus The mechanisms open to the committee The group operates an annual bonus scheme when undertaking a clawback include the which provides the framework for an annual withholding of variable pay to offset the value Review of remuneration incentive for executive directors.
The aim to be clawed back and or seeking repayment developments and best practice OCT of the scheme is to improve the companys from the individual of the value overpaid.
performance through the achievement Any bonuses paid are non-pensionable Discussion on the operation of of certain financial and operational goals.
theapproved remuneration policy and are not taken into account when The maximum bonus opportunity will for 2016. determining base salary for performancecontinue to be restricted to 120% of salary related remuneration.
for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary Review of executive directors for the Finance Director.
DEC conditions for the 2016 annual bonus will Review of Chairmans fees 2016. continue to be based on the groups EPS and Review of the restructure of divisional boards and severance personal objectives as follows: terms for departing subsidiary Peter Crook Andrew Fisher directors.
Measure Maximum bonus Maximum bonus Agreement on the application of opportunity opportunity the approved remuneration policy in2016.
Targeted 80% 700,800 80% 416,000 Review of the committees group EPS performance andeffectiveness Personal 2015. objectives 20% 175,200 20% 104,000 Remuneration 123 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The actual range of the TSR targets for The same general underpin to the EPS 3.
Long-term incentive schemes awards in 2016 will be as follows with a targets in the LTIS as set out above The companys long-term incentive sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis appliesto all awards granted under the arrangements for executive directors between these lower and upper targets : PSPsince 2013. arethe2015 LTIS and the 2013 PSP.
Annualised Percentage vesting ESOS The LTIS expires in May 2016 and a resolution TSR of TSR part of award to renew the scheme on substantially similar The committee does not intend to make Below 8% 0% terms was approved by shareholders at the further grants to executive directors under 8% 20% 2015 AGM.
15% 100% A replacement PSP was approved by 4.
All-employee share schemes shareholders at the 2013 AGM following Notwithstanding achievement against the Savings-related share option scheme expiry of the previous PSP in 2012. challenging EPS targets, vesting will only The executive directors together with take place to the extent that the committee The Provident Financial Executive Share other eligible employees may participate considers the vesting to be consistent with Option Scheme 2006 the ESOS also expires in the Provident Financial Savings Related the broader financial performance of the in May 2016 and is not being replaced.
Share Option Scheme 2013 SAYE Scheme.
company and the committee may scale Participants save a fixed sum each month In 2016 and future years, executive directors back vesting if this is not considered to be for three or five years and may use these will participate in the 2015 LTIS and the the case.
The committee introduced this funds to purchase shares after three or five 2013 PSP.
underpin to the already demanding EPS years.
The exercise price is fixed at up to 20% targets to ensure that the executive directors LTIS below the market value of the shares at the do not place too great an emphasis on EPS date directors and employees are invited to The committee is responsible for selecting alone.
There is also a general underpin participate in the SAYE Scheme and monthly eligible employees, including executive which applies to the TSR target whereby the savings amounts are subject to HMRC limits.
directors, to participate in the LTIS and for committee needs to be satisfied that the granting conditional share awards under Share incentive plan TSR performance is a genuine reflection of the LTIS.
Participants are eligible to be the underlying performance of the company In addition to the SAYE Scheme, the considered for awards annually.
No payment before any award vests.
executive directors may participate in the is required on grant or vesting of an Provident Financial Share Incentive Plan award.
Until an award vests, a participant PSP SIP.
This is an all-employee plan which has no voting, dividend or other rights in Executive directors are required to waive offers a further mechanism through which respect of the shares subject to the award.
a minimum of one third of annual bonus employees can acquire shares in a taxThe aggregate market value of awards made payable into the PSP.
They may also elect approved manner.
Executive directors and to a participant under the 2015 LTIS in any to waive up to a further third of bonus.
the senior management team are invited to one financial year may not exceed 200% of They then receive a Matching Award under participate in the SIP on the same terms as basic salary which is the normal grant policy the PSP which is subject to a performance other eligible employees.
The SIP provides under the LTIS and the committee intends target based on absolute EPS growth.
an opportunity to invest in the companys to grant awards under the LTIS at this level shares and benefit from the companys offer At the lower end of the performance target in respect of the current financial year.
to match that investment on the basis of one range, one-half of a matching share will vest This 200% limit does not include the value of share for every four shares purchased.
up to a maximum of two matching shares any dividend equivalent payable on shares at the upper end of the performance target vesting under an LTIS award which is also The amount an executive director range for each basic share awarded following paid on the vesting date.
couldearn under the approved bonus waiver into the PSP.
The value of the remuneration policy For awards in 2016, it is proposed that the award can therefore increase or decrease performance targets continue to be based A significant proportion of remuneration depending on the prevailing share price at on absolute EPS growth and absolute is linked to performance, particularly at the date of vesting.
TSR, with the range of targets remaining maximum performance levels.
The charts on The actual range of the EPS targets for unchanged from 2015. page 124 show how much the Chief Executive awards in 2016 remains unchanged from and the Finance Director could earn under The actual range of the EPS targets for 2015 and will be as follows: the policy under different performance awards in 2016 will be as follows with a Annual average Matching shares scenarios.
The following assumptions have sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis growth in EPS vesting been made: between these lower and upper targets : Below 5% No vesting Minimum performance below threshold Annualised Percentage vesting 5% Half of one matching share fixed pay only with no vesting under the growth in EPS of EPS part of award 11% Two matching shares LTIS or PSP and no annual bonus: Below 5% 0% 5% 20% On target fixed pay plus a bonus at target 11% 100% 60% of the maximum opportunity and vesting of 55% of the Matching Award under the PSP and 55% of the award underthe LTIS: and 124 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Maximum performance meets or exceeds Non-executive directors Total remuneration opportunity Peter Crook maximum fixed pay plus maximum 1.
Non-executive directors fees bonus 120 100% of salary and maximum 5 vesting under the PSP and LTIS.
At its meeting in December 2015, the board 4,554,000 reviewed the non-executive directors fees Fixed pay comprises: in the context of a benchmarking exercise 4 i salary salary effective as at undertaken by NBS, taking due account 1 January 2016: of the need to use such benchmarking exercises with caution.
After taking into ii benefits amount received by each 58% account the anticipated ongoing time 3 executive director in the 2015 financial 2,764,000 commitment for the role and in recognition year: and of the increased workload of the audit and risk advisory committees in the current iii pension pension credit of 30% 43% financial services regulatory environment, it 2 of salary.
was agreed to increase the 2016 fee levels for Awards under the PSP and LTIS have been 19% current incumbents as follows: 19% assumed as follows: 1,050,000 Non-executive director base fee: 66,000 1 i 2013 PSP Matching Award of twoincreased by 2,000 : thirds of bonus earned at target and 100% 38% 23% Supplementary fee for chairing the audit, maximum performance levels: and remuneration or risk advisory committee: 0 ii 2015 LTIS award equal to 200% 20,000 increased by 5,000 : of salary.
Supplementary fee for membership Partnership and matching shares under the Fixed pay ofthe audit committee or risk advisory SIP and options under the SAYE Scheme have Annual bonus committee: 5,000 new for 2016.
Long-term incentives not been included.
This fee is not paid to the chairman ofeachcommittee: and The scenarios do not include any growth or a fall in the share price or dividend assumptions.
Supplementary fee for the role of Senior Total remuneration opportunity Andrew Fisher Independent Director SID : 10,000 It should be noted that since this analysis no change.
shows what could be earned by the 5 executive directors based on the approved 2.
Chairmans fees remuneration policy ignoring the potential On the basis of 1 a benchmarking exercise impact of share price movements the carried out by NBS in December 2015: 4 numbers will be different to the values 2 the fact that no increase was awarded included in the table on page 125 detailing in 2015: 3 the anticipated increased time what was actually earned by the executive commitment for the role: 4 the growth in 2,981,000 directors in relation to the financial year 3 size and complexity of the business and ended 31 December 2015, since these 5 the increased regulatory requirements values are based on the actual levels of of the group, the committee agreed that the performance achieved to 31 December 58% Chairmans fees for 2016 be increased to 2 2015 and include the impact of share price 1,841,000 310,000 2014: 255,000. movements in relation to share awards.
1 This increase relates primarily to a change in the Chief Executives normal place of work from Bradford to London.
2 The annual bonus represents the gross bonus payable to the directors in respect of 2015.
Each director has agreed to waive two-thirds of gross bonus payable in order to participate in the 2013 PSP.
3 Amount calculated based on 100% vesting of 2013 awards multiplied by an average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2015.
No account has been taken of the dividend equivalent payable on these shares, which will be calculated on the vesting date of 1 March 2016.
The actual value may vary depending on the actual share price on the vesting date of 1 March 2016.
4 Amount calculated based on 100% vesting of 2013 awards multiplied by an average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2015.
No account has been taken of the dividend equivalent payable on the matching award shares, which will be calculated on the vesting date of 9 May 2016.
The actual value may vary depending on the actual share price onthe vesting date of 9 May 2016.
Fees Annual cash bonus Benefits in kind Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Directors name 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Manjit Wolstenholme 255 255 4 3 259 258 Non-executive directors Rob Anderson 64 66 3 11 67 77 1 Stuart Sinclair 79 79 3 11 82 90 Alison Halsey 79 76 2 81 76 1 Malcolm Le May 89 89 1 90 89 Total 566 565 13 25 579 590 Note: The non-executive directors did not receive a pension benefit nor did they receive any bonus or share incentive entitlements.
1 Stuart Sinclair and Malcolm Le May each receive an additional fee of 50,000 per annum in respect of their directorships of the relevant companies of CCD and Moneybarn respectively, pro rated in 2015 from their respective dates of appointment.
126 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Annual Report on Remuneration continued The committee carries out a detailed profile well within targeted levels: and iv Directors fees review of the computations undertaken in appraising and strengthening the finance Non-executive directors determining the groups EPS and ensures function in light of the continued growth and that the rules of the scheme are applied expansion of the group.
Non-executive directors fees are designed consistently.
The companys auditor is also both to recognise the responsibilities of The bonus payable as a percentage of salary asked to perform agreed-upon procedures non-executive directors and to attract in relation to 2015 was therefore 98% for on behalf of the committee on the individuals with the necessary skills and the Finance Director and 117.6% for the EPS calculations.
experience to contribute to the future Chief Executive.
Full details of the At its meeting in February 2016, the non-executive directors fees are set out committee assessed the groups Share incentive schemes in the table on page 125.
Non-executive performance against the adjusted targeted directors remuneration is fixed by the In 2015 the committee continued with the group EPS.
The adjusted EPS achieved of boardand does not include share options policy of making conditional share awards 163.6p exceeded the adjusted targeted orother performance-related elements.
to executive directors and the senior group EPS of 153.4p by more than 5% management team under the LTIS and and the committee therefore determined Chairman awards under the 2013 PSP.
This policy is that 100% of the EPS element of the 2015 The fees for the Chairman are fixed by the in line with prevailing market practice and annualbonus would be paid.
Full details of the Chairmans recognises that conditional share awards, feesare set out in the table on page 125.
The balance of the annual bonus, as detailed and the waiver of annual bonus in the case in the table of directors remuneration ofthe 2013 PSP, provide greater alignment Fees from other directorships on page 125, was paid on the basis of the with shareholders interests.
Peter Crook is a non-executive director committees assessment of the extent of Cabot Group Holdings Limited and he to which the personal objectives for the LTIS retains the fee from that appointment.
Historically, and dependent upon During 2015, these fees amounted to 61,251 satisfactory personal and corporate The committees assessment of the 2014: 50,000. performance, the committees policy has ChiefExecutives performance against been to grant conditional share awards at hispersonal objectives was that they were Annual bonus scheme the maximum level of 200% of basic salary.
achieved at 90% of the maximum.
While the Executive directors received maximum specific factors underlying this assessment The 2015 annual bonus scheme grants in 2015. are considered to remain price sensitive wasbased on adjusted targeted group and will not be disclosed, the key factors EPS excluding exceptional items and 2015 awards assessed when determining the bonus amortisation of acquisition intangibles The proposed performance targets for payable included: i the options presented andpersonal objectives.
awards made under the LTIS in 2015 were to the board to broaden the groups reviewed by the committee at its meeting The maximum bonus opportunity in respect participation in the non-standard market, the inFebruary 2015 and it was considered that of 2015 was restricted to 120% of salary for recommendations then put forward and the they remained appropriately challenging the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for decisions taken by the board against original given market forecasts and the economic the Finance Director and was split as follows: plans: ii achievement against pre-set environment prevailing at the time.
targets relating to the repositioning of CCD Peter Crook Andrew Fisher The actual range of the targets for awards in and delivering a clean exit from the Vanquis Measure Maximum bonus opportunity 2015 was the same in terms of metrics and operation in Poland: iii feedback received Targeted 80% 80% annual growth requirements as the targets from external audits in managing key groupEPS for the proposed 2016 LTIS awards, further stakeholder relations: and iv the progress Personal 20% 20% details of which are set out on page 123. made during the year in strengthening the objectives leadership team in light of the successful 2013 awards growth of the group.
The actual proportions of the 2015 adjusted Vesting of the 2013 conditional share awards targeted group EPS and the corresponding The committees assessment of the Finance was split equally between the companys targeted group EPS that needed to be Directors performance against his personal annualised growth in adjusted EPS and its achieved, which the committee considered objectives was that they were also achieved annualised TSR as follows: tobe challenging, were as follows: at 90% of the maximum.
As noted above Annualised Percentage vesting for the Chief Executive, the specific factors Threshold Target Maximum growth in EPS of EPS part of award underlying this assessment are considered Below 5% 0% % of the 95% 100% 105% to remain price sensitive and will not be adjusted 5% 20% disclosed, however, the key factors assessed targeted group 11% 100% when determining the bonus payable EPSachieved included: i working with the Chief Executive % of EPS 0% 60% 100% Annualised Percentage vesting on broadening the groups participation element TSR of TSR part of award in the non-standard market, repositioning of annual Below 8% 0% bonuspaid CCD and delivering a clean exit from the 8% 20% Vanquis operation in Poland as noted above: Target EPS 145.7p 153.4p 161.1p 15% 100% ii achieving a tax charge for the group within the target range set: iii delivering Straight-line vesting operated between an updated ICAAP in line with planning 95% and 105% of the adjusted targeted expectations and managing the groups risk group EPS.
Remuneration 127 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line The committee therefore approved Divisional targets basis applied between the lower and upper a 100% vesting of the 2013 awards, As in previous years, awards made in 2015 EPS and TSR targets.
having also satisfied itself that the TSR to employees within CCD, Vanquis Bank performance was a genuine reflection of and Moneybarn are subject to a challenging The assessment of the extent to which these theunderlying performance of the company.
divisional performance target rather than performance conditions were met was This assessment included consideration of group EPS and TSR targets.
discussed by the committee at its meeting various factors, including the annualised in February 2016, with assistance from increase in profit before tax, amortisation NBS.
The companys annualised growth in PSP of acquisition intangibles and exceptional adjusted EPS over the performance period items over the period of 19.6% and the total 2015 awards was 16.9% which exceeded the maximum annualised growth in dividends over the annualised growth in EPS target of 11%.
In 2015, participation in the 2013 PSP period of 15.7%.
The committee therefore approved a 100% included the executive directors, who were vesting of the EPS element of the award, Dividend waiver able to elect to waive up to two-thirds with having satisfied itself that the vesting a minimum of one third of their annual The executive directors have waived an was consistent with the broader financial bonus payable, and other eligible employees entitlement to any dividend in respect of performance of the company.
who were able to waive up to 50% or 30%, the conditional share awards during the depending on their level of seniority, of their performance period.
To the extent an award NBS also confirmed that the companys annual bonus payable.
Participants then vests at the end of the performance period, annualised TSR over the three-year received a basic award of shares equal to the either additional ordinary shares in the performance period was 41.7%, which value of their waived bonus, together with an company or a cash amount equivalent to exceeded the maximum annualised TSR equivalent Matching Award on the basis of the dividends that would have been paid on target of 15%, resulting in 100% of the TSR one share for each share acquired pursuant the vested awards from the date of grant, element of the award vesting.
to the participants basic award which is will be provided to the executive directors subject to a performance condition over on vesting.
Long Term Incentive Scheme Details of the conditional share awards granted to the executive directors during 2015 are summarised below: Date of Number Face Percentage Performance Performance % vesting 1 2 Directors name award of shares value of salary condition period at threshold 50% based on Three consecutive Peter Crook 25.02.2015 51,797 1,411,986 200% absolute TSR and financial years 20% 50% based on ending Andrew Fisher 25.02.2015 36,977 1,007,993 200% absolute EPS 31 December 2017 1 Face value calculation is based on the share price of 27.26 on 24 February 2015.
Actual value at vesting may be greater or lesser depending on actual share price at vesting and as a result of any dividend equivalent payable on vested shares.
2 Details of the performance conditions are set out in the notes to the table below.
2 Details of the performance target for the 2012 award were included in the Annual Report on Remuneration in 2014.
3 Half the award vests subject to EPS growth with 20% of this part of the award vesting for EPS growth of 5% per annum through to full vesting for EPS growth of 11% per annum.
The remaining half of the award is subject to absolute TSR with 20% of this part of the award vesting for 8% absolute TSR per annum and full vesting for absolute TSR of 15% per annum.
No vesting takes place below the threshold performance levels with straight-line vesting taking place between threshold and maximum performance levels.
In addition: 1 with regard to the absolute TSR performance targets, that part of the award will not vest unless the committee is satisfied that the TSR performance isagenuine reflection of the underlying performance of the company: and 2 with regard to the absolute EPS performance targets, that part of the award will not vest unless the committee is satisfied that the vesting is consistent with the broader financial performance of the company.
Full details of historic performance targets have been fully set out in previous directors remuneration reports.
128 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Awards to executive directors and certain made pursuant to the 2013 PSP.
The trustee Dividends members of the senior management team transferred the beneficial ownership For awards granted prior to 2013, the in 2015 were however made on the basis subject to the performance conditions set dividends payable on the basic and matching ofup to two shares for each share acquired out above, in 64,124 of the shares for no shares were paid to the directors on the pursuant to their basic award, the second consideration to the executive directors normal dividend payment date.
matching share being subject to a more on 11 March 2015 and also transferred the stretching performance target.
legal ownership in 32,062 of the shares for For awards granted from 2013 onwards, the no consideration to the executive directors.
dividend payable on the basic award only is For awards granted since 2012, the KB Trustees has entered into a dividend paid to the directors on the normal dividend committee changed the EPS target to an waiver agreement in respect of all the shares payment date.
Any dividend payable on absolute EPS target, which is consistent it holds in the company at any time.
the matching shares granted will be paid to with the absolute EPS target which was the directors as a dividend equivalent on introduced for awards under the LTIS from the normal vesting date and to the extent Statement of shareholder voting 2012, as set out on page 118. of vesting.
atAGM The actual range of the EPS targets for The dividends received in 2015 under awards granted in 2015 is as follows: At the 2015 AGM the directors Annual Report the 2013 PSP were: Peter Crook 80,591 on Remuneration received the following Average annual Matching shares 2014: 137,132 and Andrew Fisher 49,099 votes from shareholders: growth in EPS vesting 2014: 82,596.
These figures have Below 5% No vesting Total number % of been included in the table of directors of votes votes cast 5% Half of one matching share remuneration on page 125.
For 114,206,094 95.48 11% Two matching shares Other relevant share incentive Against 5,402,332 4.52 scheme information Total votes cast 119,608,426 100.00 A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line for and against basis applies between these lower and The mid-market closing price of the upper targets which are measured over a companys shares on 31 December 2015 period of three consecutive financial years, was3,366.5p.
The range during 2015 was The total number of votes withheld was the first of which is the financial year starting 2,423.5p to 3,633p.
905,039. immediately before the grant date of the No consideration is payable on the award of At the 2014 AGM, the directors Matching Award.
Remuneration Policy received the followingvotes from shareholders: 2013 awards There were no changes in directors For awards granted in 2013, the actual range Total number % of conditional share awards or PSP of votes votes cast of the EPS targets was as follows: awards between 1 January2016 and For 104,365,608 96.0 23 February 2016.
Average annual Matching shares Against 4,254,554 4.0 growth in EPS vesting Offshore Employee Benefit Trust Total votes cast 108,620,162 100.0 Below 5% No vesting The rules of the LTIS, 2015 LTIS and 2013 for and against 5% Half of one matching share PSP allow these schemes to be operated 11% Two matching shares in conjunction with any employee trust The total number of votes withheld was established by the company.
A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line established the Provident Financial plc basis applied between these lower and 2007 Employee Benefit Trust EBT in Jersey Savings-related share upper targets which were measured over a with Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees period of three consecutive financial years, optionscheme Limited KB Trustees acting as the trustee the first of which was the financial year ofthe trust.
As set out on page 123, the executive starting immediately before the grant date directors may participate in the Provident The EBT, together with any other trust ofthe Matching Award.
Financial Savings Related Share Option established by the company for the benefit At its meeting in February 2016, the Scheme 2013. of employees cannot, at any time, hold committee considered the extent to which more than 5% of the issued share capital This scheme does not contain performance the performance target for the awards ofthe company.
conditions as it is an HMRC-approved granted in 2013 had been met.
The average scheme designed for employees at all KB Trustees, as trustee of the EBT, subscribed annual growth in adjusted EPS over the levels.
Invitations to join the scheme were for 323,218 ordinary shares in February 2015 performance period was 19.9% and this level issued to eligible employees in August 2015. for the purpose of satisfying the 2015 awards of EPS growth exceeded the maximum target No consideration is payable on the grant made pursuant to the LTIS.
The trustee of 11% resulting in 100% of the Matching ofan option.
transferred the beneficial ownership subject Award vesting.
The committee therefore to the performance conditions set out on approved a 100% vesting of the 2013 awards, No directors exercised share options page 123 in 88,774 of the shares for no having satisfied itself that the vesting under the Provident Financial plc Employee consideration to the executive directors was consistent with the broader financial Savings-Related Share Option Scheme on13 April 2015. performance of the company.
2003 or the Provident Financial Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2013 during KB Trustees also subscribed for 180,860 the year.
There was therefore no notional ordinary shares in February 2015 for the gain representing the difference between purpose of satisfying the 2015 awards Remuneration 129 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Performance Share Plan Details of the awards granted to the executive directors during 2015 are summarised below: Directors Date of Type of Number Face Percentage Performance Performance % vesting 1 2 name award award of shares value of salary condition period at threshold Peter Crook 25.02.2015 Basic 20,103 548,008 78% 100% based Three consecutive on absolute financial Half a Matching 40,206 1,096,016 155% EPS growth of years ending matching Andrew Fisher 25.02.2015 Basic 11,959 326,002 65% between 5% 31 December share Matching 23,918 652,005 129% and 11% 2017 1 F ace value is calculated based on the share price of 27.26 on 24 February 2015.
The actual value at vesting may be greater or lesser depending on actual share price at vesting and as a result of any dividend payable on vesting shares.
2 D etails of the performance conditions are set out on page 128.
2 The matching awards vest subject to a performance target based on average annual growth in EPS, with 25% of the matching award vesting for EPS growth of 5% per annum threshold through to full vesting for EPS growth of 11% per annum.
No vesting takes place below the threshold performance level with straight-line vesting taking place between threshold and maximum performance levels.
In addition, no awards will vest unless the committee is satisfied that the vesting is consistent with the broader financial performance of the company.
Fulldetails of historic performance targets have been fully set out in previous directors remuneration reports.
the exercise price and the market price of prior period error requiring restatement awards by making market purchases of the shares at the date of exercise on the of the group financial statements: or shares.
Had the demerger not occurred, exerciseof share options 2014: nil.
ii anerror in assessing the extent to which the company would have had sufficient a performance target and or any other headroom under the then existing 5% limit There were no changes in directors share condition had been met.
to continue to satisfy awards under the options between 1 January 2016 and executive share incentive schemes using 23 February 2016.
The mechanisms open to the committee newly issued shares.
when undertaking a clawback include the None of the directors has notified the withholding of variable pay to offset the value The committee considers the LTIS an company of an interest in any other shares, to be clawed back and or seeking repayment important means of incentivising and transactions or arrangements which from the individual of the value overpaid.
retaining the executive directors and senior requires disclosure.
management and consequently a resolution seeking shareholder approval for the removal Dilution and use of equity Clawback of the 5% anti-dilution limit from the rules of Following the demerger of the international the LTIS was passed at the companys 2008 In accordance with the recommendations business in 2007 and the subsequent share AGM and again at the 2015 AGM in respect of within the Code and other best practice consolidation, the number of shares in the 2015 LTIS.
Information on the resolution guidance, the committee, having consulted issue was halved.
As a consequence of this, was included in the shareholders circular with NBS, introduced clawback provisions the 5% anti-dilution limit contained within and notice of both the 2008 AGM and the into all awards under the annual bonus the companys executive share incentive 2015 AGM.
Awards granted under the 2015 scheme, LTIS and the PSP from December schemes was completely utilised so that it LTIS can therefore be satisfied using newly 2010 and into all awards under the 2013 was no longer possible for the company to issued shares, up to the 10% anti-dilution PSP and the 2015 LTIS.
This enables the satisfy any new awards granted under the limit in any 10 years, which applies to all committee, at its discretion, to clawback executive share incentive schemes using share schemes operated by the company.
value overpaid in the event of: i a material newly issued shares as opposed to satisfying In due course, the committee intends to 130 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Savings-related share option schemes Range of normal Options Options Market value exercisable dates held at Granted Exercised held at Exercise at date of of options held Directors name 01.01.2015 in 2015 in 2015 31.12.2015 price p exercise p 31.12.2015 Peter Crook 1,777 1,777 868 01.12.2016 31.05.2017 Andrew Fisher 689 689 1,305 01.12.2016 31.05.2017 547 547 1,644 01.12.2017 31.05.2018 Total 3,013 3,013 re-introduce the 5% limit when the 2015 LTIS can be effectively operated in accordance 1.
Total shareholder return: Provident Financial vs FTSE 250 2008 to 2015 with, and subject to, a 5% anti-dilution limit.
700 Provident Financial The table below sets out the headroom 600 FTSE 250 available for all share schemes and shares 500 held in trust as at 31 December: 400 300 Headroom 2015 2014 200 All share schemes 4.5% 2.8% 100 0 Shares held in trust 3.2% 3.2% Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Payments for loss of office 2.
Total shareholder return: Provident Financial vs FTSE 250 16.07.07 to 31.12.15 There were no payments for loss of office 700 Provident Financial during the year.
600 FTSE 250 500 Total shareholder return: 400 300 Provident Financial plc vs FTSE 250 200 100 Graph 1 shows the total shareholder return 0 for Provident Financial plc against the FTSE Jul 07 Jul 08 Dec 08 Jul 09 Dec 09 Jul 10 Dec 10 Jul 11 Dec 11 Jul 12 Dec 12 Jul 13 Dec 13 Jul 14 Dec 14 Jul 15 Dec 15 250 index for the past seven years.
This index was chosen for comparison because the company has been a member of this index for the vast majority of the seven-year period 3.
Chief Executive remuneration 2009 to 2015 before its entry into the FTSE 100 Index on Year ended 31 December 21 December 2015.
Graph 2 shows the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 comparison for the period from demerger Single total figure of 2,023 2,727 3,443 4,326 4,985 6,594 8,455 ofthe international business to 31 December remuneration 000 2015, which the committee believes is a more Annual bonus % 81 100 98 89 100 98 accurate representation of the companys performance.
Table 3 shows the total LTIS vesting % 100 66 49 100 100 100 100 remuneration figure for Peter Crook, the PSP vesting % 100 79 100 100 100 Chief Executive, over the seven-year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus paid together with LTIS and PSP awards which vested based on the relevant performance targets in those years.
The annual bonus, LTIS and PSP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum opportunity.
Remuneration 131 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Chief Executive relative pay 4.
Chief Executive relative pay Table 4 shows the percentage year-on- 2014 2015 2013 2014 year change in salary, benefits and annual % Salary Benefits Annual bonus Salary Benefits Annual bonus bonus earned between the years ended 1 Chief Executive 3.1% 118.4% 3.1% 3.0% 1.1% 16.3% 31 December 2013 and 31 December Average corporate 3.4% 16.9% 8.3% 1.9% 11.4% 9.5% 2015 for Peter Crook, the Chief Executive, office employee compared to the average for the corporate Across the group, the budgeted salary increase ranged from 0% to 3.5%.
office employees during the same period.
A comparison with the corporate office employees is considered to be more 1 This increase relates primarily to a change in the Chief Executives normal place of work from Bradford to London.
suitable due to the range and composition of employees across the group and the wide range of different remuneration structures and practices which operate in the divisions, making any meaningful comparison difficult.
Relative importance of Relative importance of spend onpay spendonpay % % Year ended 31 December change change This table shows the total pay including 2015 2014 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 bonuses for all the groups employees Total employee 132.8 123.2 116.0 6.2 7.8 inthe 2013, 2014 and 2015 financial years remuneration m compared to the distributions made to shareholders in the same periods.
Total shareholder 148.9 123.4 108.4 13.8 20.7 distributions m The committee reviews the shareholdings The executive directors complied with these Share ownership guidelines of the executive directors in the light of guidelines as at 31 December 2015: The company has share ownership these guidelines once a year, based on Actual share ownership guidelines for executive directors which in themarket value of the companys shares at Directors name as a percentage of salary 2015 required them to acquire and maintain the date of assessment.
When performing Peter Crook 420% shares in the company with a value of 175% the calculation to assess progress against Andrew Fisher 357% of basic salary.
These guidelines have been the guidelines, shares held by a spouse, increased to 200% of basic salary from dependant, or in an ISA or pension scheme 2016.
Executive directors are required to Details of shares held by the executive are included, whilst unvested LTIS and 2015 retain 50% of vested LTIS and 2015 LTIS directors and their connected persons, LTIS awards and awards granted under the awards, net of tax, until this requirement areshown below.
Directors share options at 31 December 2015, granted under the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2003 and the Provident Financial Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2013 are set out in the table on page 130.
Executive directors share ownership Unvested Owned Subject to Not subject to Total as at Director Type outright performance conditions performance conditions 31.12.15 Peter Crook Own name Held in Barclayshare Nominees Limited 82,979 82,979 Held in YBS Trustees SIP 167 167 LTIS 214,724 214,724 PSP 156,336 78,168 234,504 Total 83,146 371,060 78,168 532,374 Andrew Fisher Own name 50,297 50,297 Held in YBS Trustees SIP 188 188 LTIS 153,323 153,323 PSP 95,246 47,623 142,869 Total 50,485 248,569 47,623 346,677 132 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Accrued retirement account 1 2 as at 31December Increase in retirement account Age as at Normal 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 retirement Defined benefits 2015 000 000 000 000 age Cash balance Peter Crook 52 60 Andrew Fisher 57 60 UURBS Peter Crook 52 60 1,015 792 223 239 Andrew Fisher 57 60 654 498 156 181 1 The transfer value of the accrued retirement account is the same as the accrued retirement account.
2 The increase in the transfer value of the accrued retirement account is the same as the increase in the retirement account.
The total increases for each director in 2015 whichare included in the table of directors remuneration on page 125 were: Peter Crook: 223,000 and Andrew Fisher: 156,000.
Peter Crook and Andrew Fisher were members of the cash balance section of the pension scheme until 3 April 2014 and 4 June 2013 respectively when they transferred the value of their pension rights into a Self Invested Personal Pension scheme SIPP.
If the director dies in service, a death benefit of six times salary is payable.
Personal pension arrangements Pensions and life assurance Audit Peter Crook and Andrew Fisher also have In December 2011, the Finance Act The elements of the directors remuneration personal pension arrangements to which introduced the Reduced Annual Allowance report including pension entitlements and thecompany has made contributions which limited the benefits that can be share options set out on pages 125 to 132 of in previous years but did not make any provided by the groups registered pension this report which are required to be audited, contributions in 2015 2014: nil.
schemes on a tax-efficient basis to a value have been audited in accordance with the of 50,000 in any year which reduced to Companies Act 2006.
Unfunded Unapproved Retirement 40,000 from April 2014.
As a result, the Benefits Scheme This Annual Report on Remuneration company has provided a range of options has been approved by the remuneration The company operates an Unfunded through which executive directors can committee and the board and signed on Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme choose to receive retirement benefits with its behalf.
UURBS to provide cash balance benefits avalue equivalent to 30% of basic salary.
to those employees affected by the Lifetime Malcolm Le May Allowance or the Reduced Annual Allowance.
Remuneration committee chairman Pension entitlements Details of the pension credits earned under 23 February 2016 the UURBS are set out in the table above.
Details of the pension entitlements earned The accumulated UURBS credit increases under the companys pension arrangements each year by the lower of the increase in RPI are set out above.
At retirement, UURBS Provident Financial benefits will be provided in accordance with StaffPensionScheme the current HMRC practice.
No directors 2014: one accrued retirement Cash supplement benefits in the year under the cash balance A further option is for directors to section of the Provident Financial Staff receive a cash supplement in lieu of Pension Scheme the pension scheme.
the benefits payable in excess of the The pension scheme is a defined benefit ReducedAnnual Allowance.
scheme with cash balance benefits.
133 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134 Consolidated income statement 134 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 134 Earnings per share 134 Dividends per share 135 Balance sheets 136 Statements of changes in shareholders equity 138 Statements of cash flows 139 Statement of accounting policies 145 Financial and capital risk management 150 Notes to the financial statements 188 Independent auditors report
