26 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Divisional review Vanquis Bank Non-standard credit cards Vanquis Bank is the leading supplier of credit cards in the nonstandard market and brings the benefit of credit cards to people who can find themselves excluded by mainstream creditcard providers.
185.5m 1,386 UK profit before tax UK employees 1.3bn 1.4m UK year-end receivables UK customers Strategic report 27 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 How our model applies to Vanquis Bank How we create value 5.
Lend responsibly Initial credit line of between 01 02 1.
Secure longer-term, lower 250and 500. rate funding Low and grow approach to 03 extending credit.
Intercompany loan also providedby PFG.
Average life of a card account 04 ofaround four years.
Develop tailored products tomeet Representative APR of 39.9%.
Collect repayments due Simple credit card offering 07 06 with no teaserrates or Best in class collections centre rewards programmes.
Provides utility for modern day life, Experienced contact such asshopping onthe internet.
centre staff with compliant Read more about the group business model remuneration arrangements.
Allows customers with thin on pages 12 and 13 or impaired credit records Leading edge technology and torebuildtheir credit score.
High levels of customer satisfaction.
Manage arrears and customer difficulties Typical customer: Full-time employed: Immediate contact when paymentsare missed.
Average income of between Multiple forbearance methods 20,000 and 35,000: forcustomers in difficulty.
Limited indebtedness: Optional ROP product freezes Lives in rented accommodation: account for up to two years when and customers get into difficulty.
Average age of between 35 and Low levels of complaints 45years old.
Channels to market: Multiple brands Vanquis Bank, 8.
Pay for funds and generate Aquis, Black Diamond, Granite, surplus capital to deploy Neo, Original, Origin: High ROA business.
Strong track record of developing Strong capital generation funds channelsto market: and growth and allows surplus capital Customers recruited through the to be paid in dividends to PFG.
internet, direct mail, face-to-face and partnership arrangements.
Assess affordability and credit worthiness Bespoke underwriting systems.
Use of external bureau data.
Welcome call with all new customers.
13 years of experience oflendingto nonstandard creditcard customers.
28 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Divisional review Vanquis Bank What is Vanquis Bank?
In many ways Vanquis Bank looks and operates like any other creditcard provider: We are Visa-branded: Non-standard credit cards Our cards are accepted at over 15 million locations: Vanquis Bank is the leading provider of credit Customers enjoy up to a 56-day interest free period on cards to people in the non-standard credit new purchases: market.
We promote financial inclusion, bringing We use the internet for applications and customer service: credit cards topeople who are typically declined by mainstream credit card providers.
In doing so, We accept standard payment methods and issue customer statements: and we help people toestablish or rebuild a credit history and enable those in the non-standard We have contact centres to support our customers.
credit market to share in modern buying Our customers spend at the same major merchants used by prime methods such as online shopping, that can only credit card customers, such as Tesco, Asda, Sainsburys, Argos, Amazon and PayPal.
However, our target customers have a very really be achieved with card-based products.
different profile to prime credit card users.
Whilst they are typically employed, their incomes of between 20,000 and 35,000 are, on average, lower than a prime customer and most will have a credit profile which means they have limited access to, and use of, other forms of borrowing compared with prime customers.
They are also much less likely to be home owners, with some three quarters living in rented accommodation.
Our customers value a Vanquis Bank credit card for a variety of reasons: It provides them with access to credit for the first time if they have a thin credit history and no previous experience of taking out credit: They are seeking to rebuild their credit history after problems in the past: They value the inherent utility of a credit card, particularly accessing discounts and lower prices on the internet: Our customers often have a lack of trust in high street banking, having been declined or experienced financial difficulty in the past with high street banks: and They value our high personal contact model.
We have 13 years of experience in lending responsibly to our chosen target market.
Our success is based on a clearly defined strategy and our tailored approach to serving customers in the non-standard credit market.
Chris Sweeney Managing Director Vanquis Bank Strategic report 29 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 iii Fresh start Vanquis Bank has 2015 in focus proven collections capability and has We have 13 years of 2015 has been another excellent year for also been successful in packaging and Vanquis Bank, delivering strong growth selling delinquent debt to third parties.
experience in lending in customers, receivables and profits.
We are trialling purchasing small tranches With 1.4 million customers and a receivables of debt and leveraging our collections responsibly to our book of 1.25bn at the end of 2015, we expertise, customer contact data and debt are making excellent progress towards rehabilitation offerings in order to improve chosen target market.
our medium-term guidance of serving up recoveries and help customers get back to 1.8 million customers with an average on-track.
balance of 1,000. our success is based iv Face-to-face We already successfully We will continue to develop the non-standard use the face-to-face channel in high streets on a clearly defined credit card market in the UK and drive further across the UK to attract new customers, but growth through our core channels to market there are many cities and towns where we strategy and our of the internet and direct mail.
However, we do not have a presence and are areas for recognise that we have a large customer further growth.
In addition, our face-to-face base but only serve them with one product tailored approach activities are currently out-sourced to a third acredit card.
As a result, during the second party and so we are looking at managing half of 2015 we have been developing our some of the process in-house to gain greater to serving customers strategy to supplement our core proposition.
It is important to note, that whilst a new customer recruited through the in the non-standard 1.
New business initiatives face-to-face channel will have met a Vanquis There are a number of areas where we are Bank representative on the high street, they credit market.
looking to develop, including the following: will still go through the same underwriting, affordability and welcome call process as i Partnerships We are looking to expand allour other channels.
our existing capability in the partnerships market, building on existing successful v Other financial services We are in the relationships and adding new partners.
very early stages of investigating the potential These could be in the form of decline of offering other financial services, including arrangements with prime banks whereby loans, to our existing customer base.
declined customers who meet Vanquis Bank Clearly it is unlikely that all of the above areas criteria are offered a Vanquis bank credit will lead to incremental growth.
However, we card, or through a partner branded credit have a number of exciting opportunities to card arrangement which allows access to all augment our existing growth opportunity Visa merchants or through a private label innonstandard credit cards.
credit card restricted to partner stores or website.
New leadership ii Customer product marketing Michael Lenora, who has led the business Customer research shows us that there very effectively since 2007, has decided to is an appetite amongst our customers for retire on 30 June 2016.
He has contributed insurance products which have the same hugely to the success of Vanquis Bank and characteristics as our credit card offering he leaves the business with everyones clarity, simplicity and higher service levels.
sincere thanks and good wishes for a happy We are therefore, considering promoting retirement.
He leaves behind an excellent home contents, travel, car, gadget and pet business and a very strong management insurances to our customers, all of which are team.
It is great news that Chris Sweeney has very relevant to them.
The insurance would joined the firm as Michaels successor from be provided through a third party who meets the start of January 2016.
He has a wealth of our high standards of service, but clearly this experience in credit cards and retail banking, could be an incremental income source for most latterly with Standard Bank, and is the the business.
right person to lead Vanquis Bank in its next stage of development.
New accounts Receivables growth 30 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Divisional review Vanquis Bank 3.
500 2 Profit before interest after tax as a percentage of average receivables.
100 250 Vanquis Bank has delivered another excellent The credit line increase CLI programme to performance in 2015, reporting UK profits customers who have established a sound 0 0 22.8% higher than 2014.
Sound credit payment history is the most important driver 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 quality and favourable delinquency assisted of credit issued and, when combined with Receivables growth Growth excluding boost from enhanced CLI scorecards by an improving UK employment market growth in customer numbers, generated Receivables have enabled the UK business to deliver an a 19.6% increase in average receivables.
improvement in return on assets from 15.5% Returns from the low and grow approach to in 2014 to 15.8% in 2015. extending credit remain consistently strong Average balance and are underpinned by average credit line Demand for non-standard credit cards utilisation of around 70% which delivers a continues to be strong and, whilst the 1,000 strong stream of revenue whilst maintaining marketing activity of competitors in both a relatively low level of contingent risk from the direct mail and internet channels undrawn credit lines.
800 has continued, further investment in the customer acquisition programme Yearend receivables grew by 14.5% in2015 has allowed the business to deliver with the business adding 158m of receivables 600 record new account bookings of 433,000 compared with growth of 233m in 2014 and 2014: 430,000.
2014 receivables growth was 400 acceptance rate of around 25% against boosted by the introduction of enhanced unchanged underwriting standards with the CLI scorecards following the decision to business only booking new business that is augment the sourcing of credit bureau data.
200 expected to meet its minimum threshold This boosted receivables growth by around returns.
Customer numbers ended 2015 30m in 2014, a proportion of which was at the at 1,421,000, up 9.9% on last year, which expense of 2015, and therefore the reduction 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 is stated after the cancellation of 46,000 in receivables growth is less pronounced dormant accounts during June and July to than the headline reduction.
Overall, Vanquis eliminate the contingent risk associated with Banks receivables profile reflects consistent undrawn credit lines.
The underlying growth new account bookings of between 411,000 is therefore around 13.5%.
and 433,000 over the last three years and thecurrent maximum credit line of 3,500.
Receivables Customers Strategic report 31 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The average customer balance increased to Interest costs increased by 8.6% during 2015, Poland 881 in 2015 2014: 846 as the proportion significantly lower than the growth in average Following the decision to withdraw from the of new customers in the total population receivables.
This reflects the reduction in Polish pilot operation in February 2015, the reduces.
It remains well on-track towards the Vanquis Banks blended funding rate, after receivables book was sold to a third party.
medium-term guidance of 1,000. taking account of the cost of holding a liquid The economic interest passed from Vanquis assets buffer, from 5.6% in 2014 to 5.3% in The riskadjusted margin for 2015 was 32.8%, Bank to the purchaser on 1 April 2015 with 2015 due to the progressive benefit from a modest reduction from 33.2% in 2014. legal completion and the payment of final taking retail deposits.
The reduction in the risk-adjusted margin consideration occurring in August 2015. comprises a 0.6% decline in the revenue yield Vanquis Bank remains firmly on track to The residual loss of 1.8m in 2015 reflects the derived from the Repayment Option Plan achieve the medium-term potential of up trading losses in the first quarter of the year ROP product following the changes to the to 1.8 million customers with an expected 2014: loss of 10.6m.
sales process and product features in 2013 average balance of approximately 1,000, and interchange income, partly offset by a ascommunicated at the start of 2015.
Interchange income is being adversely impacted by the agreement between Visa and the European Commission to implement a phased reduction in the interchange Looking ahead fees charged by credit card companies to retailers.
This programme was fully We expect 2016 to be another year of strong growth.
We will continue to invest in growing implemented from December 2015 when the core credit card customer base and receivables in a sustainable and responsible domestic transactions were subject to manner.
In addition, we will invest in new business areas to augment future growth lower fees.
The impact on Vanquis Bank although these are too early in their development to have a material impact on earnings in was a reduction in income of approximately 2016.
We remain focused on delivering good customer outcomes as well as delivering high 3m in 2015 which is estimated to shareholder returns and we will not seek growth at the expense of diluting our returns or increase to around 11m in 2016, based impacting our high levels of customer satisfaction.
Even though the UK has shown a strong on current volumes, as the reduced fees recovery over recent years, we will maintain the tight underwriting that served us so well on domestic transactions fully take effect.
Interchange revenue is a less significant Looking beyond 2016, we expect the demand for non-standard credit cards in the UK source of income for Vanquis Bank than for to remain strong.
Our mediumterm guidance for the credit card business remains mainstream credit card providers.
unchanged serving up to 1.8 million customers with an average balance of approximately Although the UK employment market has 1,000.
However, as we have previously stated, we do not view these targets as the end continued to improve, Vanquis Bank has, game and we are continually looking at ways to enhance the potential for the business and will continue to, apply consistently tight through developing our channels to market, our product proposition and new business credit standards.
This explains the further areas.
The rate of progress towards our targets will be dictated by future economic reduction in the rate of delinquency to a conditions, the potential emergence of increased competition and, very importantly, new all-time low for the business and the maintaining a minimum riskadjusted marginof 30%.
corresponding 1.2% yearonyear reduction We are delighted to be taking on the baton of developing the glo guarantor loans product in the rate of impairment.
Over the same from CCD, subject to regulatory approval.
Our Commercial Director, Michael Hutko, will be period, the improving quality of the book has responsible for running this part of the business in addition to his other responsibilities seen the revenue yield from interest and late in the credit card business.
We expect 2016 to be a year of modest investment, as we and over limit fees reduce by around 1.0%.
embed credit, marketing and collections into our operations, before reaching a break even Taken together, these explain the net benefit position in 2017. of 0.2% to the riskadjusted margin from improved delinquency over the last year.
The future for Vanquis Bank remains very bright: Based on current delinquency trends, the We have a core proposition which is tailormade for the nonstandard market, offering changes made to the ROP product and the limited amounts of credit in a responsible, straightforward and sustainable way.
recent changes to interchange fees, the riskWe allow those consumers who may find it difficult to obtain credit elsewhere the adjusted margin is expected to moderate to opportunity to participate in modern day life through the utility offered by a credit card.
around 32% during 2016 and remain above Supporting customers to repair or build their credit history is central to our proposition.
We are testing a suite of new business strands to augment growth in addition to our core Costs increased by 16.2%, below the product proposition.
We will ensure that we maintain the same ethos of clarity, simplicity 19.6% growth in average receivables as and high levels of customer service in anything we do.
the business continues to benefit from We are excited about the prospects of glo, the groups guarantor loans product, operational gearing.
The cost base in 2015 following the successful trial in CCD.
The guarantor loans market is an attractive market includes a further uplift of 4m in the spend and we are confident that by utilising our credit, marketing and collections skills we can on direct mail and marketing activities that build a successful business which will deliver the groups target returns.
has supported the increase in new account bookings in 2015 and additional expenditure We are a profitable, growing, capitalgenerative business and we continue to see of approximately 3m on the risk, legal and excellent growth opportunities for the business in the UK.
Vanquis Bank will continue compliance functions.
tobe the major contributor to thefuture growth of the groups dividends.
32 Strategic report 33 I got the keys to my new flat in December.
The flat needed a lot of renovations so I wasnt able to move instraight away with my young daughter.
As a single dad and with Christmas coming up, there were a lot of expenses all at once.
Ive always had a good relationship with my Provident agent and he was happy to help me.
My loan from Provident helped me to complete the improvements I needed to move in before Christmas.
Without Provident, Christmas would certainly have been tougher and I know that my repayments are manageable and that my agent is there to support me.
Scott Read more about Provident from page 34
