94 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Effectiveness Training What does effectiveness mean to the company?
Appropriate training and briefing is provided to all directors on appointment to the Board members are qualified, individually and collectively, fortheir board, taking into account their individual qualifications, skills and experience.
They understand their oversight and corporate governance Ongoing training is arranged to suit their responsibilities and are able to exercise sound objective judgement specific needs and the Chairman periodically about the affairs of the group.
The balance of the board in terms reviews and agrees with each director their training and development needs.
ofskills, diversity and expertise is commensurate with the size, Following last years report, the Chairman complexity andrisk profile of the group.
has put in place individual development plans for each of the non-executive directors The Chairman manages the board and oversees the operation of its which focus on areas where they can add value to the key strategic matters facing the committees, with the aim of ensuring that they operate effectively by group.
In addition, the board requested, fully utilising the diverse range ofskills and experience of the various through the Chief Executive, that as part board members.
The board and its committees are annually assessed of the groups succession plan, action was to ensure their effectiveness is maintained, that they remain fit for in hand to create personal development plans for those divisional and corporate purpose, and that they continue to evolve and develop to address the office employees who were identified as ever-changing regulatory environment in which the group operates.
high potential individuals through the group Evaluating the boards performance can lead to fresh insights into the talentreview exercise carried out by the board during 2015. functioning of the board, whilst potentially identifying areas that might need to be strengthened and developed.
Independence of non-executive directors Non-executive directors are expected to be independent in character and judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of that judgement.
The board considers and reviews the independence of each non-executive director on an annual basis.
In carrying out the review, consideration is given to factors such as length of tenure, the ability of the director to provide objective challenge to management and each directors other material commitments.
Each of the five non-executive directors was formally determined by the board in December 2015 to be independent for the purposes of the effective governance of the group, in line with the independence expectations of the Code.
The boards assessment is based on the fact that they Induction of new directors have all served less than nine years in their On appointment, to help board members The programme includes individual current roles, they receive no additional acquire a good understanding and meetings with the executive directors and benefits from the group and they have not knowledge of the groups businesses and to the Company Secretary: meetings with the previously held an executive role within enable them to fulfil their responsibilities, divisional boards and senior management the group.
they are required to participate in a teams in each division: spending a day at one The board has determined that there are no comprehensive induction programme which of the CCD branches: and meeting with the current or past matters which are likely to introduces them to the groups businesses audit partner from Deloitte LLP.
affect their independent judgement and that and its senior management.
there have been no material changes since the determination was made.
Governance 95 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 the Act and place to deal with situations where a director Keeps records and board minutes on the companys articles of association the has an actual or potential conflict of interest.
authorisations granted by directors and Articles require the board to consider any Each director abstains from approving their the scope of any approvals given: and potential conflicts of interest.
The board own reported and potential conflicts, and as Regularly reviews conflict authorisations.
considers and, if appropriate, authorises part of these procedures the board: each directors reported actual and potential The board has complied with these Considers each conflict situation conflict of interest, taking into consideration procedures during the year.
separately based on its particular facts: what is in the best interests of the company and whether the directors ability to act in Considers any potential conflict situation accordance with his or her wider duties is in conjunction with the other duties of affected.
The board has put procedures in directors under the Act: Board evaluation 2014 Following the internal board evaluation in 2014, a summary of the boards progress against the actions that arose is set out below: Actions Progress outcomes 1.
Continue to develop and extend the boards work on The board carried out a group talent review at its meetings in February and May succession planning, which will include consideration ofhigh and requested that the Chief Executive ensure personal development plans were potential individuals and their development inthebusiness.
established for divisional and corporate office employees who were identified as highpotential individuals as part of the group talent review.
This is a continuing actionwhich was also identified in the 2015 evaluation.
Consideration to be given to complementing and The Chairman has put in place personal development plans for the non-executive strengthening the boards existing skill set.
directors and will continue to keep under consideration the need to strengthen theboards existing skill set through the recruitment of a board member with digitaland technology skills.
This is a continuing action which was also identified inthe2015evaluation.
Continue to encourage interaction between the Various meetings and events took place during 2015 which fostered more extensive non-executive directors and the businesses and contact between the non-executive directors and the senior management of the seniormanagement.
businesses, which included an on-site board meeting at Moneybarn followed by alunchwith all the staff.
Improvements to the board agenda to ensure that there is a During 2015 a number of strategic issues were discussed at the board meetings, substantial element of strategy discussed, more discussions with some of the discussion being facilitated by external parties including potential on broader topics, more variety in presentation and themes acquisitions, future funding options for the group and the group talent review.
and less run of the mill reporting.
Further integration of the CPC output required.
A summary of the output from the 2015 CPC was presented at the board meeting in June 2015 and progress on identified actions was considered and approved.
This is a continuing action which was also identified in the 2015 evaluation.
Consider the boards visibility and control over the divisions, Within the group structure, the board is aware of the material risks and issues which whilst allowing FCA approved persons withinthedivisions to might affect the group as a whole and, during 2015, it considered various alternative fulfil their responsibilities.
governance structures to ensure it could exercise adequate oversight of the divisions, while respecting the independent legal and governance responsibilities that apply to its subsidiary boards.
Workhas commenced, but is not yet completed, to establish a corporate governance framework with clearly defined roles and responsibilities, including those at the parent company level and at the subsidiary level, as may be appropriate, based on the complexity andsignificance of the divisions.
Stuart Sinclair was appointed as a non-executive director of the companies comprising CCD and Malcolm Le May was appointed as a non-executive director of  Moneybarn in order to further enhance the boards oversight ofthesedivisions.
96 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Effectiveness continued Board evaluation 2015 Following the internal board evaluation in 2014, this years evaluation of the board, its committees, individual directors and the Chairman was also carried out internally in December 2015, by way of a detailed questionnaire.
The results of the evaluation were discussed by the board as a whole at its meeting in December 2015, and at the committee meetings in December 2015 and January and February 2016.
The evaluation confirmed that the board and its committees were working effectively and efficiently as a team and a high overall score was achieved.
The evaluation confirmed that improvements had been made since the external board evaluation in 2013 and the internal evaluation in 2014, and also identified a number of areas for further improvement.
Overview The board overall scored well, either meeting or exceeding No significant actions were identified.
Role of directors and The board scored well and exceeded requirements on acting It was felt important that the board maintains a clear and the board effectively.
The board gave excellent feedback on the role of rigorous process for identifying, assessing and selecting the Company Secretary.
Board composition The board unanimously felt that additional skills would be The board and the nomination committee should continue beneficial as the group evolves in the technology and digital to look at succession planning as a priority in 2016. sphere.
It was also agreed that a sufficient amount of time Consideration should be given in the future to recruitment had been spent on succession planning in 2015, and that this ofa board member with technology and or digital skills.
Non-executive The board was extremely satisfied with the non-executive No significant actions required.
directors directors contribution to the boards effectiveness.
In 2015, the non-executive directors continued to have discussions without the executive directors present which were considered to be beneficial.
Executive The board agreed that the executive directors have a strong No significant actions required.
directors and balanced relationship and that they have a broad range ofskills.
Their effectiveness was determined to be at a very high level.
Board meetings The board agreed that its meetings were effective but that The timing, content and scope of meetings will be kept under there was still a need for a stronger link to the output from review, particularly regarding the monitoring of the output the CPC and to strategy in general.
Monitoring The board agreed that the monthly financial and operational The board agreed to keep under review the content and performance performance reporting was very comprehensive but that it format of presentations and background information should include more information on the important issues provided for decisions.
Information The board agreed that this was a particular area that The executive directors agreed to ensure that more had significantly improved over recent years but thought information, particularly on key or strategic issues, would be therewas still a lack of information between board meetings provided in the form of a regular update between meetings on occasions.
Leadership andculture The board, excluding the Chairman, agreed that the No significant actions were identified.
Chairman demonstrates effective leadership, allows everyone to contribute and summarises actions, decisions and the nature of the debate very well.
She is well respected and has a strong relationship with the Chief Executive and other boardmembers.
Corporate governance The board agreed that it continues to maintain a high The executive directors agreed to ensure that going forward standard of corporate governance but thought that there there are effective briefings on any emerging topics.
could be more briefings on emerging topics.
Committees Overall, the committees scored well and met the It was agreed that the following improvements would be requirements of the board.
The board agreed that there had implemented: greater alignment of risk reporting across been an appropriate level of focus on customer and conduct thegroup: greater links between risk and remuneration: risk but felt risk management methodology requiredbetter anda continued focus on succession planning.
Board evaluation 2016 In accordance with the requirements of the Code, an externally facilitated board evaluation will be carried out in 2016.
