40 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Divisional review Consumer Credit Division Satsuma online lending Satsuma provides a unique customer proposition in the short-term, small-sum online loans market, building on the groups experience and skills in serving home credit and non-standard credit card customers.
12.1m 49,000 Year-end receivables Customers 1001,000 Loan range Strategic report 41 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 How our model applies to Satsuma How we create value 5.
Lend responsibly Low and grow approach 01 02 1.
Secure longer-term, lower toextending credit.
rate funding Loans of between 200 and 03 Intercompany loan provided 1,000 repayable between by PFG.
Guarantor to group bank facilities.
Develop tailored products tomeet with no additional interest customers needs 08 or late fees and manageable 05 weeklyrepayments rather Simple short-term loans 07 06 thanbullet repayment.
Allows customers fast access to finance.
Collect repayments due Manageable weekly payments.
Read more about the group business model No additional, hidden fees.
Repayment taken via Continuous on pages 12 and 13 Payment Authority CPA from Suited to customers who prefer thecustomers bank account.
totransact online, without the need Compliant CPA policy with of an agent relationship.
customer contacted after two High levels of customer satisfaction.
Attract target customers Leveraging best-in-class collections provided by VanquisBank Typical customer: in Chatham.
Full or part-time employment: Experienced UK-based contact Low to average incomes of between centre team.
10,000 and 15,000: Dedicated self-serve area on Limited indebtedness: website being developed to Mainly lives in rented allowelectronic payments.
accommodation: and Typical average age of between 7.
Manage arrears and 25and 35 years old.
customer difficulties Channels to market: Immediate contact made when High levels of brand awareness payments are missed.
through initial TV advertising: Multiple forbearance methods Focus now on digital and available with no additional fees social media: or charges.
Pay for funds and generate Will begin to make use of Vanquis surplus capital to deploy Bank declines: and Building on existing Progress to date confirms customer relationships.
theability to meet the groups target returns.
Assess affordability and credit worthiness Use of external credit bureau data.
Bespoke credit scoring using arange of data sources.
Perform validated affordability assessments using payslips and external data.
42 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Divisional review Satsuma What is Satsuma?
2015 in focus Satsuma iS based Satsuma provides short-term loans online to In its second year of operation Satsuma has help customers manage their everyday lives.
continued to make further good progress in closely on the proven It addresses those applicants of sufficient developing its product proposition, channels credit quality whose preference is to access to market, underwriting, collections and back home credit customersmall-sum credit online and make weekly office processes.
The business ended 2015 repayments direct from their bank account with 49,000 customers 2014: 21,000 and without the need for an agent visit.
It is a receivables book of 12.1m 2014: 5.0m.
specifically aimed at the significant audience The level of investment in 2015 was of non-standard consumers in the segment approximately 5m higher than 2014. of the market between Vanquis Bank and our We expect the business to generate a small Provident home credit business.
contribution to CCDs profits in 2016.
Customer demand in the unsecured loans 1.
Product proposition market, in which payday lending was most Our product proposition has remained recently the most significant participant, is unchanged in 2015, focusing on loans strong.
The gross advances in this market of between 100 and 1,000 repayable were in excess of 10bn prior to the credit weekly over a period of between 13 weeks crunch but had reduced significantly until and 52 weeks.
This reflects our decision recent years when payday lending started to focus on smaller-sum, shorter-term to fulfil some of the demand.
With the lending whilst we develop the customer backdrop of clearer, tighter regulation journey, underwriting and our collections around payday lending implemented from processes.
Weekly lending aligns with the 1 July 2014, including the introduction of Provident home credit business.
Typically our a rate cap from 2 January 2015, there is customers are on low incomes and manage an ongoing and significant shift in supply their household budget on a weekly basis from payday loans to more affordable and and weekly repayments also allows us to get responsible instalment lending products.
a quicker read on credit quality as four weekly Tighter regulation has meant that a number payment cycles have occurred by the time of smaller payday loan companies have one cycle of a monthly product has taken already exited the market and larger place.
This is particularly important in the operators are revising their business early stages of the businesss development.
models and curtailing their payday lending We intend to further develop our product activities.
As a result, there is an attractive proposition as we continue to develop our opportunity to develop Satsuma as a underwriting and customer journey.
The first sustainable business with a leading market stage of this is likely to be the introduction position capable of delivering the groups of a monthly product in 2016 for those target returns.
customers who are paid monthly and The product proposition of Satsuma is manage their budget on a monthly basis.
based closely on the proven home credit Beyond this, there continues to be a lack of customer-centric proposition.
The full cost supply for larger sum lending 1,000 over a of a loan is agreed upfront and is then repaid year in duration for better-quality customers.
in fixed and manageable weekly payments This is an area that we will explore as well collected by Continuous Payment Authority as line of credit products which will allow CPA, on a day agreed with the customer better-quality customers to have a revolving upfront.
This means that customers have balance against a set credit limit at a peace of mind that theyll never incur any lower APR.
additional fees or charges whatsoever.
Customers can have regular contact with 2.
Channels to market atelephone representative and there are a Our initial focus with Satsuma through 2014 number of forbearance procedures in place and the early part of 2015 was to build strong for those customers who get into financial brand recognition through memorable frontdifficulty.
In addition, Satsuma is utilising the of-mind TV advertising.
We have introduced highly effective distribution, underwriting four separate TV advertisements over the and collections capabilities of both CCD last two years and we have seen our brand andVanquis Bank.
recognition improve from 30% to 50% of non-standard consumers over that period.
This currently places us number three in the market and awareness continues to grow.
During 2015, we have tested multiple B2C channels and now that we have built a strong brand, we are turning our attention to a more targeted, lower cost approach in the Strategic report 43 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 B2C channel, focusing on digital marketing which gives us a unique customer insight and including better use of social media and provides our customers with peace of mind, Working closely with search engine optimisation.
We have recently knowing that they always have someone they introduced a new website, including an can talk to.
our customerS is a improved application form, to supplement 4.
We will also be placing greater emphasis fundamental part We have successfully embedded our on developing the B2B channel, where collections operation into the highly effective we have recently seen some encouraging of our propoSition and scalable collections capability of success, including leveraging our existing Vanquis Banks contact centre in Chatham.
Their representatives are engaged at an early and one which Overall, 2015 loan volumes were stage to optimise collections performance approximately 150% higher than 2014. and work closely with our customers.
diStinguisheS us from Demand for Satsumas weekly product In addition, we continue to introduce proposition is strong and we have now different aspects of their technology to the majority of other provided over 150,000 loans and lent nearly contact customers either through the use 50m to customers in the two years since of their contact centre and SMS capabilities, we started Satsuma.
One of our main areas lenders in the market.
trace activity for customers where no of focus in 2016, will be on re-serving good contact can be made and, very importantly, quality customers who have either repaid utilising their extensive range of forbearance their loan or wish to take out a concurrent measures for those customers whose loan, subject to affordability.
We will be circumstances have changed.
Our collections introducing a secure customer log-in performance has fluctuated in line with the capability and a mobile app during 2016 changes made to underwriting during the which will allow customers to view their year to test different scorecard cut-offs but account, apply for new or further credit and isnow tracking in line with our plans.
to make repayments if a CPA does not work for any reason.
It will also allow us to provide Just like all of the groups businesses, working marketing messages to existing customers closely with our customers to ensure the and will be a much more effective and lower best possible outcome is a fundamental cost option than direct mailing.
In addition, part of our proposition and one which we will also more effectively target those distinguishes us from the majority of other customers declined by Vanquis Bank for an lenders in this market.
We are very pleased open-ended revolving credit facility but who with the progress made in 2015 and, together may be better suited to a shorter small-sum, with the refinements made to underwriting, fixed-term online loan.
we are confident that we will continue to see improvements in the quality of the 3.
Following the introduction of a new decision 5.
Back office processes engine and scorecard in November 2014, One of our key goals in 2015 has been Satsuma has continued to refine and to further develop the IT infrastructure, develop its underwriting during 2015, analytics, management team, and typical for a nascent business, whilst governance and control processes to adopting a measured approach to growing support the medium-term growth of the customer numbers.
business as well as underpinning high The evolution of underwriting resulted customer service levels and positive in a significant tightening of credit from customer outcomes.
There is much more October which reduced the conversion to do in these areas but it is very pleasing rate to around 10% from closer to 20% that through our continued investment, in the middle of the year.
These changes 98% of our customers rate our service as necessarily impacted growth in the fourth good or excellent on Feefo January 2016. quarter trading period.
Most importantly, the 2016 will see us further develop our IT and expected step-change in credit quality has back-office processes and develop our materialised and the business is also seeing analytics capability to improve our decision a good flow of further lending to established making and enable us to be more agile than customers which is fundamental to future the competition.
Our conversion rates are now Luke Enock joined the business in August improving again as we continue to broaden 2015 as Director of Online to lead the next our channels to market, marketing approach, phase of Satsumas development.
Luke was andthe customer experience.
previously with Barclays and has extensive Consistent with other Provident Financial experience in financial services, particularly businesses, we maintain close, ongoing in analytics.
He is already making a very personal contact with our customers positive impact on the business.
