34 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Divisional performance Consumer Credit Division Provident home credit Provident is the largest home credit business in the UK and Ireland and is still lending a hand to its customers after135years.
105.4m 2,160 Profit before tax UK employees 522.2m 0.9m Year-end receivables Customers 1002,000 Loan range 1 For CCD as a whole.
Strategic report 35 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 How our model applies to Provident home credit How we create value 4.
Assess affordability and credit worthiness 01 02 1.
Secure longer-term, lower Expertise 135 years of rate funding experienceof lending home credit 03 to nonstandard customers.
Intercompany loan provided Central underwriting generates by PFG.
04 Affordability and lending decision made inthe home 2.
Develop tailored products tomeet byaselfemployed agent.
customers needs 08 05 Agents are typically female, Simple cash loans delivered by a have anaverage of seven 07 06 selfemployed agent in the home.
years experience, and live Enables the customer to manage inthecommunities they serve.
Lend responsibly Read more about the group business model on Allin fixed charge no late fees Smallsum credit with initial pages 12 and 13 oradditional interest.
135 years of serving Low and grow approach to nonstandard customers.
High levels of customer satisfaction.
Agents only paid commission onwhat they collect therefore 3.
Attract target customers noincentive to overlend.
Typical customer: Representative APR of 399.7%.
Collect repayments due Low incomes 10,000 to 15,000 per annum: Collections typically made weekly Limited indebtedness: by the agent in cash from the Typically live in rented customers home.
accommodation or social housing: and 7.
Manage arrears and Often female, middleaged.
customer difficulties Channels to market: Weekly facetoface visit from Multichannel recommendation, theagent allows discussion direct mail, internet or through ofthecustomers situation.
selfemployed agents: Agents can agree reduced Strong brand with loyal customer payments oratemporary base: and payment holiday.
No additional fees or interest Builds on existing fromlate payment.
Pay for funds and generate surplus capital to deploy High ROA business.
Strong capital generation funds growth and allows surplus capital to be paid in dividends to PFG.
36 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Divisional review Provident home credit Why home credit works We are the largest home credit business in the UK and Ireland.
Every week, 5,500 local agents visit the majority of our 0.9 million customers, to issue loans and collect repayments.
Even after 135 years, the business continues to fill a vital need for customers, providing access to credit for those who might otherwise be Provident home credit financially excluded and lending a helping hand when others dont.
The home credit service fits the needs of customers like a glove: Provident is the groups longest-running 1.
T he products are simple and transparent with all costs included business, stretching back to the companys up front and no additional fees or charges whatsoever.
It offers home credit managing on a tight budget, its important to know that the loans, typically of a few hundred pounds, amount to be repaid is fixed at the start and will never go up.
through a network of agents who call each 2.
T he affordable weekly repayments suit those managing on week at customers homes in the UK and tight weekly budgets and the agents regular visit is not only convenient for the customer but it also helps them maintain Ireland.
It is a business that has stood the goodpayment discipline.
test of time, serving customers through 3.
F orbearance is core to our product offering so that when thick and thin, including two world wars customers get into difficulty they know theyll get a sympathetic and numerous economic cycles.
response, which could mean either making a reduced payment or missing a weekly payment altogether, depending on the circumstances.
T he Provident service is facetoface, with loans being delivered to customers homes by selfemployed agents who then usually call every week to collect repayments.
Agents often live in the same communities as their customers and understand their needs, developing an intimate knowledge of their circumstances through the weekly visit.
Whilst central underwriting is also used, agents make the final lending decision as they can assess customer affordability and character in the home.
Importantly, agents are paid commission primarily on what they collect, not what they lend, so they have no reason to lend more than their customers can afford to repay.
Providents service is one that customers trust and positively want to use, which helps to explain why our customer satisfaction rates are consistently high.
93% of customers say they are satisfied with the Provident home credit service, and the vast majority say they would recommend Provident to family or friends.
2015 in focus In September 2013, in the face of inflationary pressures on customers disposable incomes and structural changes in the market towards accessing credit online, we outlined a new strategy and timetable for the transition of Provident to a leaner, betterquality, more costefficient business focused on returns.
By successfully implementing these changes, we indicated that 2013 would be the baseline year for profits, 2014 would be a year of further change before completion of the transformation programme in 2015.
It is very pleasing to report that we have successfully delivered on all of these commitments and we now have a solid foundation to develop the business in 2016 and beyond.
Mark Stevens Managing Director Consumer Credit Division Strategic report 37 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our strategy involved five key areas for reached a new base level and do not expect change, on which we have made excellent any further significant movements from the Providents service is progress over the last two years: actions taken to reposition the business since 2013. one that customers 1.
Much lower costs Historically, there had been differing working trust and positively practices spanning the 240 branches across To ensure that profit levels in the business the UK and Ireland.
The absence of sharing were at least maintained following the want to use, which best practice resulted in significant variations managed contraction in the receivables in branch and manager performance.
book, it was not only necessary for the helps to explain Whilst there are still ways in which we quality of receivables to improve but the cost can improve, we have made further great base needed to be reduced to reflect the progress during 2015 in standardising our lower volume of business.
why our customer ways of working, particularly in arrears Whilst job losses are always regrettable, since management, compliance and performance satisfaction rates the middle of 2013 we have implemented management assisted by the deployment of four phases of cost reduction: technology and investing in developing our are consistently high.
best people, all of which is described further Phase 1 180 field managers left the below.
This has undoubtedly contributed to business in June 2013. the improved performance of the business.
Phase 2 340 field and head office 2.
Technology and apps employees left in December 2013.
The programme of work to develop our Phase 3 225 field administration employees technology through the use of smartphone left in June 2014. and tablet apps to standardise best practice, Phase 4 500 field manager and field access significant efficiency gains across administration employees left in June 2015. the field operation and implement market leading compliance is now complete.
Employee numbers in Provident have reduced from 2,897 to 2,160 since June 2013 Following the rollout of the collections which has been possible by the successful app to agents and tablet devices to completion of the programme to deploy field managers in 2014, we successfully technology throughout the field operation.
deployed the lending app to all agents in 2015.
The successful implementation of The headcount reductions, together with technology in the field has multiple benefits other savings and volume reductions, have in eliminating paper, better enforcing reduced the CCD cost base by around 8m and evidencing compliance as well as over the last two years and has allowed CCD improving collections performance, arrears to invest in developing Satsuma, glo and the management and saving a significant amount regulatory agenda whilst delivering a modest of agent and back office time, allowing increase in profits.
agents and managers to spend more time with customers.
Performance through people The profitability of an agency increases 3.
Collections focus markedly as the agent gets more experience.
In order to improve collections performance, As a result, we have significantly changed the underwriting was significantly tightened way we attract, induct and support agents in September 2013 and the business to drive higher retention and reduce agent commenced the process of standardising turnover.
We have also been combining agent arrears and collections processes, including rounds to remove less profitable agencies, a focus on early intervention and the which are a key driver of agent turnover as better integration of field and central the agents commission is often insufficient collections activities.
These changes have resulted in a halving in the number of vacant agencies.
As a result of these decisive measures, the business experienced a marked We have introduced a new development improvement in the quality of the receivables agenda throughout the business to recruit, book in 2014 with CCDs ratio of impairment retain and develop better leaders in our to revenue reducing significantly from 38.7% management team.
2015 has seen training for managers throughout the the ratio further reduce to 20.6% as the business is now well established and has improved quality of the receivables book been extremely well received.
This will has come through.
Over the same twoyear continue to benefit the businessinthe future.
period CCDs receivables book has reduced by 26.3%, reflecting the impact of the tighter credit standards.
We expect that the receivables book and credit quality has now 38 Strategic report 39 When my car broke down in the middle of the month, I needed to be back on the road quickly for work.
Ihad previously had help from family when I was out of work last year so I didnt want to ask them for help again.
I applied for a Satsuma loan to cover the cost of repairs.
The loan was straightforward to arrange and I particularly liked that I could spread the repayments over a six-month period.
I spoke to a customer service advisor on a couple of occasions and they were always very friendly and helpful.
I was able to carry on working and knew the total repayments in advance.
I would definitely use Satsuma again.
Samantha Read more about Satsuma from page 40
