108 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Directors report There were no other qualifying indemnities Introduction inplace during this period.
The company maintains Directors and In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors Officers Liability insurance which gives present their report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The following appropriate cover for any legal action provisions, which the directors are required to report on in the Directors brought against its directors.
Report, have been included in the strategic report: Information required by Future business developments throughout the strategic report, ListingRule 9.8.
4R inparticular on pages 22 to 56 : Share capital Greenhouse gas emissions page 85 : During the year, the ordinary share capital in issue increased by 760,488 shares Risk management pages 57 to 65. to 147,173,935 shares at 31 December 2015.
Details are set out in note 25 to the Both the strategic report and the Directors Report have been prepared financial statements.
and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable The companys issued ordinary share capital English company law.
The liabilities of the directors in connection with comprises a single class of ordinary share.
both the Directors Report and the strategic report shall be subject to The rights attached to the ordinary shares thelimitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Other information are set out in the Articles.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of to bedisclosed in the Directors Report is given in this section.
During the year, 760,488 ordinary shares in the company with an aggregate nominal Directors Directors indemnities value of 157,628, were issued as follows: The membership of the board and The companys Articles permit it to 323,218 shares in relation to the Provident biographical details of the directors are given indemnify directors of the company or of Financial Long Term Incentive Scheme on pages 88 and 89 and are incorporated any associated company in accordance with 2006 at aprice of 2,726p: into this report by reference.
section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
180,860 shares in relation to the Provident All directors served throughout 2015 and up The company may fund expenditure incurred Financial Performance Share Plan 2013 at to the date of signing of the Annual Report by directors in defending proceedings a price of 2,726p: and and Financial Statements.
There were no against them.
256,410 shares in relation to the employee If such funding is by means of a loan, share option schemes at prices ranging During the year, no director had a material the director must repay the loan to the between 656p and 1,644p.
interest in any contract of significance company if they are convicted in any criminal to which the company or a subsidiary proceedings or judgment is given against Rights of ordinary shares undertaking was a party.
them in any civil proceedings.
The company All of the companys issued ordinary shares may indemnify any director of the company are fully paid up and rank equally in all or of any associated company against Appointment and replacement respects and there are no special rights with any liability.
ofdirectors regard to control of the company.
The rights However, the company may not provide an attached to them, in addition to those Rules about the appointment and indemnity against: i any liability incurred conferred on their holders by law, are set replacement of directors are set out in the by the director to the company or to any out in the Articles.
There are no restrictions companys Articles.
In accordance with the associated company: ii any liability incurred on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the recommendations of the Code, all directors by the director to pay a criminal or regulatory exercise of voting rights attached to them, will offer themselves for reappointment at penalty: iii any liability incurred by the except: the 2016 AGM.
The directors powers are director in defending criminal proceedings conferred on them by UK legislation and by 1 w here the company has exercised its in which they are convicted: iv any liability the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must right to suspend their voting rights or incurred by the directors in defending any be approved by shareholders passing a to prohibit their transfer following the civil proceedings brought by the company or special resolution and must comply with the omission by their holder or any person an associated company in which judgment provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and interested in them to provide the is given against them: or v in connection the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
company with information requested with certain court applications under the by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006.
No indemnity was Companies Act 2006: or provided and no payments pursuant to these provisions were made in 2015 or at any time 2 w here their holder is precluded from up to 23 February 2016. exercising voting rights by the FCAs ListingRules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Governance 109 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 As set out on page 126 of the directors Substantial shareholdings Dividend waiver remuneration report, the remuneration In accordance with the Disclosure and Information on dividend waivers currently committee did not grant any options during Transparency Rules DTR 5 the company, inplace can be found on pages 127 and 128. the year under either the ESOS or the LTIS.
as at 19 February 2016 being the latest Powers of the directors practicable date before publication of this report, has been notified of the Subject to the Articles, UK legislation and Provident Financial plc 2007 following disclosable interests in its any directions given by special resolution, Employee Benefit Trust the EBT issuedordinary shares: the business of the company is managed The EBT, a discretionary trust for the benefit by the board.
The directors currently have Invesco Limited 15.17% of executive directors and employees, was powers both in relation to the issuing and Woodford Investment Management 9.55% established in 2007.
The trustee, Kleinwort buying back of the companys shares, which Limited UK Benson Jersey Trustees Limited, is not a were granted by shareholders at the 2015 BlackRock Investment Management 7.27% subsidiary of the company.
The board is seeking renewal of these Limited in conjunction with the LTIS and the 2013 PSP powers at the 2016 AGM.
M&G Investment Management 5.29% and either purchases shares in the market Limited UK or subscribes for the issue of new shares.
All employee share schemes Marathon Asset Management UK 4.90% The number of shares held by the EBT at any time, when added to the number of shares The current schemes for employees resident held by any other trust established by the Interests as at 31 December 2015 were in the UK are the Provident Financial plc company for the benefit of employees, will as follows: Employee Savings-Related Share Option not exceed 5% of the issued share capital Scheme 2003, the Provident Financial Invesco Limited 14.83% of the company.
The EBT is funded by loans Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2013 Woodford Investment Management from the company which are then used and the Provident Financial Share Incentive Limited UK 8.73% to acquire, either via market purchase or Plan SIP.
BlackRock Investment Management subscription, ordinary shares to satisfy Limited 6.97% In 2015 we launched a new savings-related conditional share awards granted under share option scheme for employees resident M&G Investment Management the LTIS and awards granted under the Limited UK 5.04% in the Republic of Ireland: the Provident 2013 PSP.
For the purpose of the financial Financial Irish Savings Related Share Option Marathon Asset Management UK 4.84% statements, the EBT is consolidated into Scheme 2014. the company and group.
As a consequence, Note: all interests disclosed to the company in the loans are eliminated and the cost of the Share schemes are a long-established and accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred since shares acquired is deducted from equity successful part of the total reward package 19 February 2016 can be found on the groups website: as set out in note 27 on page 183 of the www.
com offered by the company, encouraging and financial statements.
The company operates three savings-related In relation to its operation in conjunction Directors interests in shares share option schemes aimed at encouraging with the LTIS, the EBT transfers the beneficial employees involvement and interest in the The beneficial interests of the directors in interest in the shares to the executive financial performance and success of the the issued share capital of the company directors and employees when conditional group through share ownership.
were as follows: share awards are made, and the legal interest is only transferred on vesting.
In relation to Around 1,093 employees were participating Number of shares the 2013 PSP, the legal and beneficial interest in the companys save as you earn schemes 31 December 31 December in the Basic Award is transferred to the as at 31 December 2015 2014: 1,246.
2015 2014 executive directors and other participants 1 Peter Crook 532,374 629,669 The companys SIP offers employees the when the awards are made but is subject 1 Andrew Fisher 346,677 411,870 opportunity to further invest in the company to certain forfeiture conditions.
However, Rob Anderson 4,178 4,047 and to benefit from the companys offer only the beneficial interest in the Matching Manjit Wolstenholme 5,663 5,663 to match that investment on the basis of Award is transferred when the award is one share for every four shares purchased.
Malcolm Le May made and the legal interest is transferred 283 employees were investing in company Stuart Sinclair to the participant on the vesting of the shares under the SIP as at 31 December 2015 Matching Award.
Full vesting of awards Alison Halsey 2014: 285. granted under the LTIS and the Matching Award granted under the 2013 PSP is subject 1 These interests include conditional share awards granted under the LTIS, awards under the 2013 Executive share incentive schemes to the achievement of the performance PSP and shares purchased under the SIP as targets set out on page 123 of the directors detailed on pages 127 to 131 of the Annual Report Options are outstanding under the remuneration report.
Provident Financial Executive Share Option No director had any non-beneficial interests In February 2015, the EBT subscribed for Scheme 2006 the ESOS.
Awards are also at 31 December 2015 or at any time up to the issue of 323,218 new shares in order to outstanding under the Provident Financial 23 February 2016. satisfy the awards made under the LTIS and Long Term Incentive Scheme 2006 the LTIS There were no changes in the beneficial or 180,860 shares in order to satisfy the awards and the Provident Financial Performance non-beneficial interests of the directors made under the 2013 PSP.
between1 January 2016 and 23 February 2016, except for the automatic monthly purchases under the SIP.
110 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Directors report continued As at 31 December 2015, the EBT held the For the purposes of the financial statements, In 2015, the trustees implemented a new non-beneficial interest in 2,556,478 shares the BAYE Trust is consolidated into the investment strategy which had been in the company 2014: 2,535,307.
The EBT company and group.
Participants in the SIP agreed with the company.
The objective may exercise or refrain from exercising can direct the trustee on how to exercise of the new strategy was to reduce the risk any voting rights in its absolute discretion its voting rights in respect of the shares it that the assets would be insufficient in the and is not obliged to exercise such voting holds on behalf of the participant, As at future to meet the liabilities of the scheme.
rights in a manner requested by the 31 December 2015, the BAYE Trust held the The fide-risking investment strategy is kept employee beneficiaries.
under close review by both the trustees and the company.
Provident Financial Employee Profit and dividends In January 2014, three new membernominated trustees were appointed, Benefit Trust the PF Trust The profit, before taxation, amortisation bringing the total to four.
In addition, there of acquisition intangibles and The PF Trust, a discretionary trust for are currently two trustees appointed by exceptional costs, amounts to 292.9m the benefit of executive directors and the company.
The directors have employees, was established in 2003 and declared dividends as follows: operated in conjunction with the PSP.
The group also operates a group personal The trustee, Provident Financial Trustees pension plan for employees who joined the Ordinary shares p per share Performance Share Plan Limited, is a group from 1 January 2003.
Employees in Paid interim 39.2p per share subsidiary of the company.
The number of this plan have access to dedicated websites dividend 2014: 34.1p per share shares held by the PF Trust at any time, when which provide information on their funds and Proposed final 80.9p per share added to the number of shares held by any general information about the plan.
dividend 2014: 63.9p per share other trust established by the company for Total ordinary 120.1p per share In October 2013, the group auto-enrolled all the benefit of employees, will not exceed 5% dividend 2014: 98.0p per share eligible staff into a new scheme designed for of the issued share capital of the company.
As at 31 December 2015, the PF Trust had The final dividend will be paid on 24 June nointerest in any shares in the company In 2011, the company established an 2016 to shareholders whose names are 2014: nil.
Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits on the register of members at the close Scheme UURBS, for the benefit of those ofbusiness on 20 May 2016.
The PF Trust has previously subscribed for employees who are affected by the HMRC shares for the purpose of satisfying awards annual allowance and lifetime allowance granted under the PSP.
When the PF Trust which applies to members of registered Pensions subscribed for shares, it was funded by loans pension schemes.
The UURBS offers an from the company which were then used to The group operates three pension schemes.
alternative to a cash payment in lieu of a acquire ordinary shares for the purposes Employee involvement in the group defined pension benefit.
of satisfying awards granted under the PSP.
benefit pension scheme is achieved by For the purposes of the financial statements, the appointment of member-nominated Health and safety the PF Trust is consolidated into the company trustees and by regular newsletters and and group.
As a consequence, any loans communications from the trustees to Health and safety standards and are eliminated and the cost of any shares members.
In addition, there is a website benchmarks have been established in the acquired is deducted from equity.
As the PSP dedicated to pension matters.
The trustees divisions and compliance by the divisions is expired in July 2012, no further awards under manage the assets of the defined benefit monitored by the board.
the PSP and no further loans to the PF Trust pension scheme which are held under trust have been made since then.
separately from the assets of the group.
Anti-bribery and corruption Each trustee is encouraged to undertake The PF Trust operated in conjunction training and regular training sessions on The corporate policies reflect the with the PSP and the legal and beneficial current issues are carried out at meetings requirements of the Bribery Act 2010 and a interest in the Basic Award and the Matching of the trustees by the trustees advisors.
corporate hospitality register is maintained Award was transferred from the PF Trust to The training schedule is based on The using a risk-based approach.
Although the executive directors and employees when Pension Regulators Trustee Knowledge risks for the group arising from the Bribery awards were made but was subject to and Understanding requirements and the Act 2010 continue to be assessed as low, certain forfeiture provisions.
In addition, full sessions are tailored to current issues, the divisions are, nevertheless, required vesting of the Matching Award was subject emerging issues or to address any skill gaps.
to undergo appropriate training and to the achievement of the performance The trustees have a business plan and, at instruction to ensure that they have effective targets set out on page 129 of the directors the start of each year, review performance anti-bribery and corruption policies and remuneration report.
against the plan and objectives from the procedures in place.
Compliance is regularly The Provident BAYE Trust the BAYE Trust is previous year.
In addition, they agree monitored by the risk advisory committee a discretionary trust which was established objectives and a budget for the current and is subject to periodic review by the group on 9 May 2013 to operate in conjunction with year.
The trustees have a risk register and internal audit function.
The trustee, YBS Trustees, is not a an associated action plan and a conflicts of subsidiary of the company.
The BAYE Trust interest policy, both of which are reviewed at Overseas branches is funded by loans from the company which least annually.
are then used to acquire ordinary shares The group has overseas branches in the via market purchase to satisfy the matching Republic of Ireland.
awards to participants of the SIP.
Governance 111 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The Companies Act 2006 requires the Important events since Significant agreements directors to prepare financial statements the end of the financial year There are no agreements between any group for each financial year.
Under this Act, the 31December 2015 company and any of its employees or any directors have prepared the group and director of any group company which provide company financial statements in accordance There have been no important events since for compensation to be paid to an employee with International Financial Reporting the end of the financial year.
or a director for termination of employment Standards IFRS as adopted by the European or for loss of office as a consequence of a Union.
Under this Act, the directors must Corporate governance statement takeover of the company.
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and The groups corporate governance report is fair view of the state of affairs of the group set out on pages 86 to 112.
The group has Directors responsibilities in and company and of the profit or loss of complied with the provisions of the Code relation to the financial statements thegroup and company for that period.
The following statement, which should be In preparing these financial statements, read in conjunction with the independent Financial instruments thedirectors have: auditors report on pages 188 to 193 is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective Details of the financial risk management Selected suitable accounting policies responsibilities of the directors and of the objectives and policies of the group and the andapplied them consistently: auditor in relation to the financial statements.
exposure of the group to credit risk, liquidity Made judgements and accounting risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange The directors are responsible for estimates that are reasonable rate risk are included on pages 145 to 149 preparing the annual report, the directors and prudent: ofthe financial statements.
remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable lawsand regulations.
Employee involvement The group is committed to employee involvement in each of its Training divisions.
Employees are kept well informed of the financial and The group is fully committed to encouraging employees at all operational performance and strategy of the divisions through levels to study for relevant educational qualifications and to the weekly huddles or monthly town hall style meetings, personal improvement in skills through training.
In particular, the group has briefings and through an increasing use of modern technology.
initiated a series of talent and development initiatives as part of its The divisions now use social network sites, intranet discussion investment in the career progression ofits employees.
boards and blogs by employees and managing directors.
Provident Financial plc is authorised by the Solicitors Regulation In addition, Vanquis Bank upgraded its sharepoint technology Authority and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England during 2015 to provide employees with access to a range of and Wales to issue training contracts to employees wishing to communications at both a departmental and organisational level.
qualify as solicitors or chartered accountants, respectively.
The group consults with employees regularly, including through employee forums, trade unions and employee surveys, so that their Equal opportunities views can be taken into account when making decisions that are The group is committed to employment policies, which follow likely to affect their interests.
CCD plans to relaunch its colleague best practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, forum in 2016 with an improved platform which will enable more irrespective of gender, pregnancy, race, colour, nationality, ethnic views andopinions to be heard.
They also plan to work with leaders or national origin, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital or civil in the business to improve the communication of decisions that partner status, gender reassignment or religion or belief.
The group create long-term growth for CCD and support the delivery of the gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment divisions strategic priorities.
from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued The group also provides a wellbeing programme designed employment and training, career development and promotion to promote physical and mental health within each division.
of disabled persons employed by the group including making Both Moneybarn and CCD have a gym in their head office facility.
If members of staff Vanquis Bank rolled out its wellbeing campaign throughout become disabled, every effort is made by the group to ensure 2015 which focused on a different wellbeing aspect each month.
their continued employment, either in the same or an alternative There was a high take-up rate and given the success of the position, with appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
campaign, the wellbeing programme is being further expanded in 2016 and will include the launch of a cycle to work scheme.
The group also has a number of community programmes in place.
Further detail of this is set out on pages 80 to 85 of the strategic report.
Employees are also able to share in the groups results through various share schemes as set out on page 109 of this report.
112 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Directors report continued Complied with IFRS as adopted by the Responsibility statement Auditor European Union, subject to any material Each of the directors listed below, confirms Deloitte, the auditor for the company, departures disclosed and explained in that, to the best of their knowledge, the was appointed in 2012 and a resolution thefinancial statements: and group financial statements which have proposing their reappointment will be Prepared the financial statements on been prepared in accordance with IFRS as proposed at the forthcoming Annual agoing concern basis of accounting.
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view GeneralMeeting AGM.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and The directors have also considered the profit of the group, the company and the review undertaken and the report provided AGM undertakings included in the consolidation by the audit committee and are satisfied that The AGM will be held at 10.00 am on 5 May taken as a whole, and that the strategic the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 at the offices of Provident Financial report contained in this Annual Report and 2015, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and plc, No.
1 Godwin Street, Bradford, West Financial Statements 2015 includes a fair understandable and provide the necessary Yorkshire, BD1 2SU.
The Notice of Meeting, review of the development and performance information for shareholders to assess together with an explanation of the items of the business and the position of the the companys position and performance, of business, is contained in the circular to company and group, and the undertakings business model and strategy.
The directors shareholders dated 1 April 2016. included in the consolidation taken as a have accepted the audit committee report whole, and a description of the principal risks on the basis of the review undertaken by it Approved by the board on 23 February 2016 and uncertainties it faces.
asset out on page 103 of the report.
and signed by order of the board.
Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman The directors are also required by the FCAs Kenneth J Mullen Malcolm Le May Senior Independent Director Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR to General Counsel and Company Secretary Alison Halsey Non-executive director include a management report containing a fair review of the business of the group Stuart Sinclair Non-executive director and the company and a description of the Rob Anderson Non-executive director principal risks and uncertainties facing the Peter Crook Chief Executive group and company.
Andrew Fisher Finance Director The Directors Report and the strategic report constitute the management report for Disclosure of information the purposes of DTR 4.1.
toauditor The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are In accordance with section 418 of sufficient to: theCompanies Act 2006, each person whois a director as at the date of this Show and explain the reportconfirms that: companys transactions: So far as they are aware, there is no Disclose with reasonable accuracy at any relevant audit information of which the time the financial position of the company companys auditor is unaware: and and group: and They have taken all steps that ought to Enable them to ensure that the have been taken as a director in order to financial statements and the directors make themselves aware of any relevant remuneration report comply with the audit information and to establish Companies Act 2006 and as regards the that the companys auditor is aware group financial statements, Article 4 of the ofthat information.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 will be published on the groups website in addition to the normal paper version.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
113 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Directors remuneration report 114 A nnual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee 115 Remuneration policy 121 Annual Report on Remuneration
