s g n i v a S n o i t c e t o r p d n a Our strategy Our clear and consistent strategy utilises our capabilities, footprint and scale to serve the global savings and Asian protection needs of an increasingly self-reliant middle class to create long-term value for our customers and our shareholders.
We focus on three markets, Asia, the US and the UK, where we see continued growing demand for our products.
The US baby   The UK has an ageing population which  affluentmiddle classwhichby2020is .
Asia Significant protection gap and investment needs of the middle class Self-reliant global middle class US UK Transition of Savings gap and baby boomers ageing population in need into retirement of returns and income To capture these opportunities we: Focus on customers Leverage strength and scale, Allocate capital with Provide balanced metrics and distribution and proactively manage risk discipline, focusing on and disclosures Our customers are at the heart of the Balance sheet strength and proactive long-term returns We aim to have clarity and consistency decisions we make.
We focus on risk management enable us to make We rigorously allocate capital to the internally and externally in the understanding our customers needs good our promises to customers and highest-return products and performance indicators that drive our and requirements in each of our are therefore key drivers of long-term geographical locations with the businesses.
Alongside this we develop chosen markets as we believe that in value creation and relative shortest payback periods, in line with our financial disclosures to enable our order to do well for our shareholders performance.
In spite of the our risk appetite.
This has had a stakeholders to fairly assess our we must first serve our customers.
challenging macroeconomic positive and significant impact on our long-term performance.
We have environment we continue to capital generative growing in-force three main objectives: We consistently develop our product strengthen our capital position portfolio and, in turn, has transformed portfolio, designing it around our To demonstrate how we generate through generation of organic the capital dynamics of our Group.
For customers needs and providing them profits under the different earnings and specific management example, the free capital generated with peace of mind, whether that be in accounting regimes: actions, which since 2010 include: from our in-force operations reached relation to saving for retirement or 3.8 billion in 2015 compared to To show how we think about insuring against the risks of illness, C ontrolling sales of US variable 2.4 billion five years ago on an actual capital allocation via measures death or critical life events.
Satisfied annuities in a manner that exchange rate basis.
This that highlight the returns we customers become our advocates, appropriately balances value, transformation enabled our business generate on capital invested in recommending our products and volume, capital generation and operations to remit 1,625 million to new business: and services to their friends and families.
balance sheet risk: and the Group in 2015, compared to To highlight the cash generation Distribution plays a key role in our L ongevity reinsurance and asset 1,105 million in 2011. of our business, which over time ability to reach, attract and retain portfolio optimisation in our UK is the ultimate measure these valued customers across our life businesses.
Building out and diversifying our distribution capabilities helps ensure that we fully capitalise on the opportunities available to us in each of our regions.
14 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
