Our approach A summary of our services We also run the Rathbone Unitised Portfolio Service, which represents an investment opportunity for clients Rathbones manages 29.2 billion for clients, making us one with fewer investible assets 25,000 or more who are still of the UKs leading private client investment managers.
We looking for a discretionary investment management service provide investment solutions to clients with as little as but who require a more model-based approach to portfolio 1,000 to over 10 million to invest.
This solution uses the Rathbone Multi Asset Management, we provide discretionary investment Portfolios funds see page 12 as building blocks and offers an management solutions to private clients, charities and attractive proposition for intermediaries requiring a service trustees.
We also provide other banking, financial advisory, for smaller investors.
tax, legal and trust services.
Through Unit Trusts, we provide unit trust and multi asset fund products, sold through Client account type by value of funds under management intermediaries, to the retail sector.
Funds under management by segment % Private clients 39.4 ISAs 15.3 % Trusts 12.0 Charities 13.2 Investment Management 89.4 Pensions 11.5 Unit Trusts 10.6 Other 8.6 Private clients Size of client relationship by value of funds under management We aim to provide a high-quality service that is relevant to clients and their advisers looking for a discretionary investment management service.
Our approach is to build face-to-face client relationships supported by online services and deliver a bespoke approach to investment management that tailors portfolios to individual needs by accessing the whole of the market without a bias towards in-house funds or services.
Our discretionary service is offered to clients with investible assets of 100,000 upwards, but our average client portfolio is around 500,000.
Over half of the money we manage is in client relationships of greater than % 1.0 million.
During 2015, we received the Gold Standard 100,000 2.0 Award for Discretionary Portfolio Management from 100,000 250,000 7.9 Investment Week as well as the Magic Circle award for 250,000 500,000 14.0 Private Client Asset Manager of the Year.
500,000 1m 17.5 1m 5m 32.4 5m 10m 8.4 10m 17.8 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 11 Strategic report Our approach Charities and specialist services Financial planning Rathbones currently services over 1,200 clients totalling For those clients who do not have advisers of their own, 3.5 billion through our charity business and manages we offer financial planning which provides whole of market investments from 10,000 to more than 50 million for advice to clients.
From 1 January 2016, Rathbone Pension charity organisations.
We are proud to have moved to fourth & Advisory Services will be integrated into Rathbone place in this years Charity Finance Fund Management Investment Management.
This transition reflects the Survey, up from sixth place in 2014.
We also received the increasingly important role that financial planning plays in Magic Circle award for Charity Investment Manager of the the wider business and aims to develop a more streamlined Year during the year.
Over time we expect that financial planners will be able to work more closely with Rathbone Our core team is diverse in both its experience and Investment Management investment managers to ensure expertise with nine of our team members being charity clients receive the best service possible.
trustees in their own right.
We provide clients with direct access to the charity team in order to deliver a suitably Unit Trusts tailored investment portfolio and ensure that we understand the challenges that our charity clients face.
Our independent Unit Trusts business is a leading UK fund manager providing a range of actively managed specialist Rathbone Greenbank Investments and multi asset unit trusts that are designed to meet core investment needs in the retail client market.
These funds are As concerns for ethical and sustainability issues rise, distributed mainly through independent financial advisers increasing numbers of people are seeking to reflect in the UK and purchased through financial supermarkets these values in their investments.
Since 1992, Rathbone and life assurance companies.
Greenbank Investments has worked with private individuals, trusts, charities and their professional advisers.
Importantly, The business has been growing successfully and as at they only manage ethical and socially responsible 31 December 2015, it managed 3.1 billion in funds under investment portfolios, and are supported by a dedicated management, an increase of 24.0% over 2014.
no incentive for private client investment managers to hold in-house unit trusts.
At 31 December 2015, just over Rathbone Greenbank Investments is a prominent activist 1% of Rathbone Investment Managements funds under on ethical and sustainability issues, engaging directly with management were held in our own unit trusts.
companies and government to improve business practices.
As one of the pioneers in the field of ethically focused During the year, we received a number of awards including investments, Rathbone Greenbank works with over 1,400 being named by Morningstar as a top 10 group for five year clients across the UK and manages over 760 million in risk-adjusted returns, receiving the Money Observer fund assets, an increase of 7.2% year-on-year.
award for best fund in the Ethical SRI Bond category for our Rathbone Ethical Bond Fund and receiving a five-star rating Private office award for online services by the FT Adviser Online Service Awards.
We began to build the Rathbone Private Office in October 2014 with the aim of combining many of the key business Multi asset funds capabilities we already offer to clients through our trust, tax, family office support and banking services.
Rathbone multi asset funds provide a useful investment solution for clients with smaller investment portfolios Nearly 18% of the portfolios we manage are worth, by value, from 1,000 to invest and are the building blocks for the over 10 million and there is a significant opportunity to collective investment management solution for smaller expand our reach within the super high net worth segment private clients delivered via the Rathbone Unitised Portfolio of the market 10 million 100 million, which appears service.
There are currently three multi asset strategies: to have been poorly served by international and UK private strategic growth, enhanced growth and total return.
These banks, and multi-family offices.
are all available to external investors and their advisers.
The third party platform arrangements essential to delivering a quality service have now been established and during 2016 we expect to hire private bankers to drive the initiative further forward.
12 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Our approach Our approach to distribution This targeted independent financial adviser strategy is now embedded and has attracted 10 new partnerships in the year.
The most important source of growth for our discretionary We are focusing on building relationships with important investment services comes through the networks of our lawyer and accountant groups and are building a more existing investment managers as well as referrals from targeted management information infrastructure to assist our existing clients.
These types of referrals account for with this.
We also operate a small international distribution approximately two thirds of new business.
team targeting adviser networks in Europe.
In addition, we also operate a more structured intermediary On 31 December 2015, we completed the acquisition of the approach to larger networks and groups.
A combined sales remaining stake in Vision Independent Financial Planning team approach formally commenced on 1 January 2015 Limited.
Vision will continue to operate independently with the amalgamation of our business development and providing access to distribution for Rathbones.
sales teams into a single unit.
This unit promotes both our discretionary and unit trust services to the UK independent financial adviser and intermediary market.
Our approach to larger intermediary networks and groups Organisation Segment Products and services Channels Single business Unit Trusts Unit trusts UK financial advisers development team Investment Onshore discretionary International financial Management investment management advisers Offshore discretionary Professional intermediaries investment management Vision network Competitive advantages Brand Local accountability and presence with consistency of outcome Consultative sales process Solutions that cover the wealth range Systems and infrastructure Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 13 Strategic report Our approach Other services How we deliver our investment service Banking and loan services One of the most important virtues that set us apart from our peers is our individual relationship approach.
Our clients As a licensed deposit taker, we are able to offer our clients have direct access to their investment managers who are loans directly secured against their investment portfolios, accountable for everything from portfolio performance or with a property element, as part of our portfolio to administration.
This means that clients know who is management service.
We maintain prudent lending ratios, managing their money, and the investment managers offering only short to medium-term loans.
We also provide know them.
After meeting with clients to understand their some payment services.
individual circumstances, requirements and objectives, UK trust, legal, estate and tax advice investment managers create personal investment plans that reflect individual circumstances.
In addition to our investment services, we also have an in-house team skilled at providing trust, and some tax and Once the investment managers have properly assessed the legal services to clients.
This advice is provided by Rathbone needs of their client, they draw upon our investment process Trust Company Limited, which is regulated by the Solicitors which is an important part of the service we provide.
This process collects guidance from a series of committees Proprietary operations and IT covering strategic asset allocation, stock selection, fixed income, third party or collective funds and corporate Our investment management and financial advisory governance.
These committees are supported by our businesses are supported by an in-house operations research team, investment managers and unit trust and IT team predominantly centred in our Liverpool managers.
Of our 273 investment professionals, around office.
We have a dedicated in-house custody settlement 110 are actively involved in the daily running of our central platform, which means that we benefit from not having investment process with many more contributing on a data reconciliation issues between multiple databases.
By more ad hoc basis in terms of the dissemination of ideas retaining the majority of functions in-house, rather than and research.
outsourcing them, we are able to control quality and service standards.
Where we cannot achieve service differentiation or economies of scale we have outsourced: for example, in unit trust administration.
During 2015, we improved our collective security settlement process and focused on streamlining and speeding up our client take-on processes.
14 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Strategic report s n S o t i t o F a t i c c x e k C e p C o r x s d o l e I e l r n e g i e d p v l a n c n e o e n t a s c r i t a c s a o v m d t m t e e e e m i s t e n o g t n n e c o s e t n o e c v n l m e e o e m c i t r c l s c o t n m m i e a g o i v m n n t n m i n t c d i I e e m t n e t a i t e t s r e t e e d n e U Our approach In addition to the strong and flexible framework for our Our investment process investment professionals to work within, we have also established an investment executive committee IEC which is responsible for monitoring the five investment 1 committees and also the performance of individual investment managers on a risk-adjusted basis over one, three and five year periods.
This includes the evaluation of overall performance against benchmarks and an assessment of portfolio risk.
In addition to these, the IEC is also responsible for ensuring the investment process Our 4 investment is appropriately resourced, and that the process can 2 process evolve to meet changing regulatory requirements and market conditions.
Our portfolios are usually based on our multi asset approach to investing, which provides us with the flexibility to meet individual needs.
Our strategic asset 3 allocation committee meets quarterly and is responsible for determining the weightings for our investment strategies.
Our asset allocation framework is forward looking and dynamic.
In order to construct portfolios effectively and manage risk, we divide assets into three building blocks, which play complementary roles: Liquidity, Equity-type risk and Diversifiers.
In 2014, Rathbone Investment Management received the Global Investment Performance Standards GIPS accreditation for our performance measurement systems which has added further credibility to the data and systems that support our investment teams.
In 2015, we were successfully verified for continued compliance with these standards.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 15 S t r a t e g i r c n e a o g i s a t s c n e u a t r S t m a s t l r n l t a o o t n c e c e g o a i m y t l i o t o f s t n e r o v c P n o I m m i t t e e Strategic report
