Directors Board committees Chairman The principal board committees are the audit, executive, nomination, Mark Nicholls remuneration, and group risk committees.
The board has delegated full Chairman authority to the executive committee, subject to a list of matters which Appointment: 01 12 2010 are reserved for decision by the full board.
The other board committees Age: 66 have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by Board committees: Re N the board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the companys registered office and on the group website.
A Audit committee: Full details of its role are set out in the audit committee report p85 E Executive committee: Full details of its role are set out in the executive committee report p67 Mark Nicholls is a lawyer and corporate financier.
After studying law at Cambridge he qualified as a solicitor at N Nomination committee: Full details of its role are set out in the nomination committee report p88 Linklaters before joining S G Warburg in 1976.
He became a director in 1984 and head of investment banking in 1994.
Re Remuneration committee: Full details of its role are set In 1996 he joined Royal Bank of Scotland and became head out in the remuneration committee report p70 of their private equity group, leaving in 2003 to pursue a Ri Group risk committee: Full details of its role are set out plural career.
He is currently chairman of the West Bromwich in the group risk committee report p69 Building Society and a non-executive director of Northern Investors Company PLC.
He became chairman following the Commitee membership annual general meeting AGM in May 2011 and is considered E A Re N Ri to be independent.
Mark Nicholls Philip Howell Paul Stockton Paul Chavasse David Harrel James Dean Sarah Gentleman Kathryn Matthews Committee member Committee chairman 58 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Governance Directors Executive directors Philip Howell Paul Stockton Chief Executive Finance Director Appointment: 01 12 2013 Appointment: 24 09 2008 Age: 60 Age: 50 Board committees: E Board committees: E Following an early military career, Philip spent over Paul Stockton qualified as a chartered accountant with Price 30 years in the investment banking and private banking Waterhouse now PwC in 1992.
In 1999 he joined Old Mutual sectors, undertaking a range of leadership roles as well as Plc as group financial controller, becoming director of finance gaining considerable general management experience.
He in 2001 and finance director of Gerrard Limited eight months was with Barclays for 24 years, which included leadership later.
Two years after the sale of Gerrard in 2005 he left to assignments in Asia and South Africa, and subsequently as work for Euroclear and, subsequently, as a divisional finance head of strategy and corporate development focused on the director of the Phoenix Group.
He joined Rathbones in 2008 international and private banking divisions.
He continued and is also a non-executive director of the Financial Services his involvement in private wealth management, firstly as Compensation Scheme.
chief executive of Fortis Private Banking and subsequently of Williams fide Bro before joining Rathbones in 2013.
Paul Chavasse Head of Investment Appointment: 26 09 2001 Age: 51 Board committees: E Paul Chavasse started his career working for the institutional fund management arm of NatWest, which was later merged with Gartmore.
After a period in the private client businesses of NatWest and Coutts, his final role was as head of NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol before joining Rathbones as chief operating officer in 2001.
He became head of investment in March 2012.
Following a management restructuring in July 2015, he now oversees our investment process, research and the development of our client services.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 59 Governance Directors Non-executive directors David Harrel Sarah Gentleman Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Independent Appointment: 01 12 2007 Age: 67 Appointment: 21 01 2015 Board committees: A Re N Ri Age: 45 Board committees: A Re N Ri David Harrel was one of the founding partners of S J Berwin Sarah Gentleman started her career as a consultant at LLP in 1982, and was made senior partner in 1992.
He McKinsey & Company and then worked for several years in relinquished this role in 2006 and is now a consultant to the telecoms and digital sectors, latterly as chief financial the firm.
David has a variety of other appointments.
He is officer of the LCR Telecom Group.
In 1999 she joined non-executive chairman of Fairpoint Group plc, a member the internet bank Egg, the internet banking subsidiary of the board of the English National Opera and a trustee of Prudential, where she was responsible for business of the Clore Duffield Foundation.
He is chairman of the development and strategy.
In 2005, she joined Sanford C. remuneration committee.
Bernstein & Co, the institutional research and trading arm of Alliance Bernstein as a banking analyst covering the James Dean European banking sector.
Sarah graduated from Cambridge Non-executive Director University with a degree in Natural Sciences and also has an Independent MBA from INSEAD.
Appointment: 01 11 2013 Age: 58 Kathryn Matthews Board committees: A Re N Ri Non-executive Director Independent Appointment: 06 01 2010 Age: 56 Board committees: A Re N Ri James Dean is a chartered accountant with over 30 years experience working in financial services.
James worked in a variety of roles at Ernst & Young over a period of 14 years, including holding the position of managing partner for the UK Financial Services Audit Practice for four years.
He holds Kathryn Matthews has spent her entire career in investment a number of other non-executive directorships including management, most recently as chief investment officer, Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society and is chairman of The Asia Pacific ex Japan for Fidelity International.
Prior to Stafford Railway Building Society.
He is chairman of the that, she held senior appointments with William M Mercer, audit committee.
AXA Investment Managers, Santander Global Advisers and Baring Asset Management.
She is a non-executive director of Hermes Fund Managers Limited, Aperam S. A. and J P Morgan Chinese Investment Trust Plc and chairman of Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc.
She is on the board of trustees of the Nuffield Trust and is a non-executive member of the Council of the Duchy of Lancaster.
She is chairman of the group risk committee.
60 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Governance
