Executive committee report Philip Howell Role and responsibilities of Chief Executive the committee The committee has been delegated the full powers of the board subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the board.
This list is reviewed annually and approved by the board.
What we have done Our main focus is on the implementation of the agreed strategy and on the day-to-day management of the group.
Executive committee chairmans We review and discuss the annual business plan and budget prior to its submission to the board for approval.
We statement discuss the management and performance of the operating Please see the chief executives statement on pages 4 to 6. businesses including their results compared to the budget, risks and regulatory compliance and growth initiatives such Committee members as possible acquisitions and new products and services.
Our current members and their responsibilities are Items of particular focus in 2015 were the launch of the new as follows: Rathbones brand, the issue of 20 million of subordinated loan notes by Rathbone Investment Management and the Board members London office move to 8 Finsbury Circus.
Philip Howell chief executive Our people are our main asset and so HR matters and Paul Stockton finance director learning and development are important agenda items.
Paul Chavasse head of investment The maintenance of, and investment in, our core IT and Investment management general managers operations infrastructure are key to the continuing success of the business and so are subject to close scrutiny.
The Rupert Baron head of investment management prioritisation of projects and allocation of resources are in London closely monitored.
Ivo Clifton head of specialist and charity business Andrew Morris head of UK investment management The chief risk officer reports on the work of the risk and outside London compliance teams and updates us on risk and internal Richard Smeeton head of investment control matters and on industry developments.
We receive management special projects and recruitment updates from internal audit on their work schedule and discuss any significant issues they raise following their work.
Other members The head of internal audit may attend any meeting.
We Mike Bolsover head of strategy and organisation also have oversight of banking matters, marketing, social development and environmental matters, business continuity and Andrew Butcher chief operating officer investor relations.
Sarah Owen-Jones chief risk officer Non-committee members are regularly invited to attend part Mike Webb chief executive of the unit trust business and of a meeting to report on a particular aspect of our business head of group marketing and distribution and non-executive directors may also attend meetings.
Mike Bolsover was appointed to the committee on 1 January 2015.
Rupert Baron, Ivo Clifton, Andrew Morris, Sarah Philip Howell Owen-Jones and Richard Smeeton joined the committee Chairman of the executive committee in July 2015.
23 February 2016 We formally meet each month.
These formal meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes are sent to committee members and to the board.
Details of attendance by the directors on the committee are set out on page 65.
Ad hoc and informal meetings are held as required.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 67 Governance Executive committee report Biographies Rupert Baron Andrew Morris Mike Bolsover Sarah Owen-Jones Rupert Baron is head of investment Andrew Morris is responsible for Mike Bolsover is head of strategy Sarah Owen-Jones joined Rathbones management in London.
He has the investment management offices and organisation development.
in March 2015 as chief risk officer.
over 31 years' experience within the in the UK excluding London.
He He has spent over 30 years in the She worked for NatWest and private client investment industry.
has spent his entire working career commercial and retail banking Royal Bank of Scotland group for at Rathbones in private client sectors, undertaking a range of over 30 years, including 13 years investment management.
roles with a bias towards strategy at Coutts.
Sarah has an MBA with and the management of people.
a dissertation on operational risk Following a lengthy career with management and she is a member Midland Bank and HSBC, he moved of the Institute of Risk Management.
into private wealth management, as director of strategy and human resources for Gerrard.
Before joining Ivo Clifton Rathbones, he worked for Euroclear, Ivo Clifton is head of specialist and Richard Smeeton the worlds largest post-trade charity business and continues to settlement infrastructure as director Richard Smeeton is responsible for manage charity and private client of corporate strategy.
He joined investment management special portfolios.
He joined Rathbones Rathbones in 2014. projects including the assessment Mike Webb in 1991 and was appointed as an of potential acquisitions and investment director in 1999.
Mike Webb is chief executive recruitment.
Having trained with officer of Rathbone Unit Trust County Bank, he joined Laurence Management.
He has over 25 Keen in 1988 prior to its acquisition years experience, previous roles by Rathbones in 1995. including chief executive officer of Invesco Perpetual, managing Andrew Butcher director of the retail division of GT Global Asset Management and Andrew Butcher is chief operating sales and marketing director of officer and is based in the Liverpool Prolific Financial Management.
Following an early military Before joining Rathbones he was career, he joined Charles Stanley in head of business development 1986 and initially acted as a partners at Hermes Fund Managers.
He assistant while qualifying as a joined Rathbones in 2010.
His other private client stockbroker, managing responsibilities include marketing client portfolios.
He subsequently and Rathbones distribution became involved in branch strategy.
acquisitions, project management and IT, and was appointed as their chief operating officer in 2008.
68 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Governance
