SECTION 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Members of TRIGs Board of Directors, all of whom are nonAustralia in banking, specialising in corporate and executive and independent of the Managers, are listed commercial credit and in private businesses as chief below.
Graduating from the University of Durham with a degree of Master of Business Administration in Helen Mahy CBE Chairman, appointed 1988, Jon also holds qualications from the Institute of 14 June 2013, aged 54, is an Chartered Accountants in England and Wales where he is experienced chairman and nona Fellow, the Chartered Institute of Marketing and the executive director.
Helen was Group Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Jon is a member Company Secretary and General of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, the Institute of Counsel of National Grid plc and was Directors and a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute a member of its Executive Committee for Securities and Investment.
Jon is a resident of Guernsey.
from September 2003 to January 2013 when she retired from National Grid plc.
She has also been Shelagh Mason Director, appointed appointed to the board of SSE plc from 1 March 2016.
Helen 14 June 2013, aged 56, is an English will step down at the end of February 2016 from her role at property solicitor with over 30 years the fellow Perth-based company, Stagecoach Group plc, for of experience in commercial property.
whom she has served as non-executive director since She retired as Senior Partner of Spicer January 2010 where she is Chairman of its Health, Safety and Partners Guernsey LLP on 30 and Environment Committee.
Helen was also Chairman of November 2014 and has taken up the the board of Obelisk Legal Support Services Ltd.
In October position of consultant with Collas Crill, 2013, Helen was appointed to the boards of Bonheur ASA specialising in English commercial property.
Her last and Ganger Rolf ASA which are currently proposing to merge position in the United Kingdom was as a senior partner of subject to shareholder approval during 2016 with Bonheur Edge & Ellison.
For two years until 2001, she was Chief ASA as the surviving entity.
Both companies are currently Executive of a property development company active listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange.
In July 2014 Helen was throughout the United Kingdom and the Channel Islands.
appointed to the Board of SVG Capital plc where she chairs Shelagh was a member of the board of directors of the Remuneration Committee.
She was also non-executive Standard Life Investments Property Income Trust, a director of Aga Rangemaster Group plc between March property fund listed on the London Stock Exchange for 10 2003 and December 2009.
In 2005 and 2006, Helen sat on years until December 2014.
She is also a director of Medicx the General Management Committee of the Bar Council and Fund Limited, a main market listed investment company chaired its Employed Barristers Committee in 2006 and was investing in primary healthcare facilities.
She is also nona Director of Bar Services Company Ltd between January executive Chairman of the Channel Islands Property Fund 2006 and February 2008.
Helen was Chair of the General Limited which is listed on the Channel Islands Securities Counsel 100 Group in 2007.
Helen qualied as a barrister Exchange and also holds other non-executive positions.
She and was an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute.
is a past Chairman of the Guernsey Branch of the Institute Helen was awarded a CBE for services to business in June of Directors and a member of the Chamber of Commerce, 2015.
Helen is a resident of the UK.
the Guernsey International Legal Association and she also holds the IOD Company Direction Certicate and Diploma Jon Bridel Director, appointed with distinction.
Shelagh is a resident of Guernsey.
14 June 2013, aged 51, is currently a non-executive chairman or director of Klaus Hammer Director, appointed listed and unlisted companies 1 March 2014, aged 60, is a graduate comprised mainly of investment of the University of Hamburg and funds and investment managers.
gained an MBA at IMD Lausanne.
He These include Alcentra European was previously Chief Operating Floating Rate Income Fund Limited, Ocer of the global combined-cycle Starwood European Real Estate Finance Limited, Sequoia gas turbine power plant business of Economic Infrastructure Income Fund Limited and Funding EON, and also served on a variety of Circle SME Income Fund Limited which are listed on the boards including EON Vrmekraft Sverige AB, Horizon main market of the London Stock Exchange, as well as DP Nuclear Power Ltd. and the UK Association of Electricity Aircraft I Limited, Aurora Russia Limited and Fair Oaks Producers.
Prior to EON, which he joined in 2005, he spent Income Fund Limited.
He was previously Managing Director 20 years with Royal Dutch Shell in a variety of roles in both of Royal Bank of Canadas investment businesses in the Europe and Africa.
Among his other recent roles, he was a Channel Islands.
Prior to this and after specialising in public member of Network Rail until mid-2014.
Klaus also corporate finance with Price Waterhouse, Jon served in advises investors in energy-related businesses.
Klaus is a senior management positions in the British Isles and resident of Germany.
54 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
