SECTION 2 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.1 INTRODUCTION CONTENTS This Strategic Report sets out: 2.2 the Companys Objectives: 2.3 the Strategy adopted to deliver these objectives: 2.4 the Companys Business Model: 2.5 the Investment Policy and Current Acquisition Strategy 2.6 the Operational and Financial Review for the year, including KPIs: 2.7 the Directors Valuation of the Groups portfolio as at 31 December 2015: 2.8 the current Outlook: 2.9 the Ten Largest Investments: 2.10 the key risks and mitigants relating to the Group and its investments: and 2.11 the policies, approach and achievements adopted in respect of Corporate Social Responsibility References in this report to the Company or TRIG mean The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited and together with its holding companies and investments, the Group.
OVERVIEW TRIG is a leading renewable energy infrastructure company investing in multiple renewable energy technologies, jurisdictions and climate systems in Europe.
A Guernsey company, TRIG was launched on the London Stock Exchange through an Initial Public Oering in July 2013, raising 300 million which was invested in an initial portfolio of 18 whollyowned projects in the UK, France and Ireland.
Since the IPO, the Company has raised approximately a further 430 million through equity issues and increased the portfolio by acquiring a further 33 projects creating a diversied portfolio of 51 onshore wind and solar photovoltaic 3 PV projects in the UK, France and Ireland.
TRIG continues to review a broad pipeline of projects with a view to further investment and diversication.
TRIG is targeting an attractive long-term yield with NAV upside with an annualised total return target of 8 to 9% net of expenses and fees supported by reinvestment of surplus cash ows available from the diversied portfolio after 4 payment of dividends.
With highly experienced Managers TRIG has access to leading resources in specialised investment and operations teams at InfraRed and RES which deploy resources together in the management of TRIG and its portfolio.
Shareholders benefit from a competitive and simple fee structure that is the result of the operating scale of both of the Managers, reecting their committed, long-term approach to the infrastructure and renewables markets.
3 The portfolio at 31 December 2015 comprised 36 projects valued at 712.3 million, which was increased by the investment by TRIG in January 2016 in a further 15 solar PV projects in France valued at approximately 44 million.
4 Achievement of these long-term targets is not guaranteed and may be dependent on a number of factors, not least the reversion of wholesale power prices, after their recent falls, to an expected long-term growth trend at a rate above prevailing ination.
8 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 TRIGS INVESTMENT MANAGER INFRARED CAPITAL PARTNERS LIMITED InfraRed, is a leading international manager in the alternative investment segments of infrastructure and property.
The total headcount of the InfraRed group is approximately 120 and the infrastructure team now comprises 50 sta in oces in London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris, Seoul and Sydney.
InfraRed has a core team of seven dedicated to advising the Group on financial management, sourcing and implementing new investments and providing capital-raising and investor relations services.
In addition, four InfraRed managing partners sit on TRIGs Investment Committee and the core team also has access to a range of other InfraRed partners and sta in both the infrastructure team and in central functions in support of the Group and its investments.
InfraRed has been investing in infrastructure and or managing infrastructure dedicated funds for over 18 years, including the established HICL Infrastructure Company Limited, which invests in predominantly social infrastructure both in the UK and internationally and is also listed on the London Stock Exchange.
InfraRed is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Strong, 18 year track record in raising and managing 15 infrastructure and real estate funds with over US$9 billion of equity under management Experience in managing a broad range of renewables investments since 2006 Also adviser to HICL Infrastructure Company Limited, InfraRed is a leading the largest of the London-listed infrastructure international investment investment companies with market capitalisation of manager specialised in c. 2.0 billion infrastructure and real estate Independent manager following successful spin-out from HSBC Group in April 2011 London based, with oces in Hong Kong, New York, Paris, Seoul and Sydney TRIGS OPERATIONS MANAGER RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS LIMITED RES, is a leading global developer, constructor and operator of renewable energy infrastructure projects with operations in 14 countries and over 1,300 employees globally.
The RES team has more than 30 sta providing portfoliolevel operations management, supporting the evaluation of investment opportunities for the Group and providing project-level services in the UK, Ireland and France.
RES has been developing, constructing and operating renewables for over 30 years.
One of the worlds leading renewable energy developers Privately-owned, RES is a sister company of Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd and a member of the 145 year old Sir Robert McAlpine group of companies Global footprint with head oce in Hertfordshire, UK, and operations in 14 countries RES has spent three decades at the forefront of the Over 1,300 employees engaged in renewables globally development of the Extensive, 30 year experience in developing, renewable energy market constructing and operating renewables including onshore and oshore wind, solar and biomass Proud recipient of the Queens Award for Developed constructed more than 200 wind, solar and Enterprise for energy storage projects totalling more than 10GW International Trade 2013 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 9 STRATEGIC REPORT continued expenses and fees on the issue price of its Ordinary 2.2 OBJECTIVES Shares to be achieved over the longer term via active TRIG was created in 2013 with the purpose of investing management of the investment portfolio and principally in a range of diversied operational assets which reinvestment of excess cash ow.
In considering the generate electricity from renewable sources, with an initial ability of the Company to achieve its long-term returns, focus on onshore wind farms and solar PV parks in the UK the Investment Manager uses its judgement to assess a and Northern Europe, and with a view to providing number of factors such as the potential for recovery of investors with long-term, stable dividends, while forecast power prices in the longer term, ination rates preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio and further movements in discount rates, as well as the through re-investment of surplus cash ows after payment potential upside from repowering and or otherwise of dividends.
enhancing the performance or extending the life of projects in the portfolio and from scale eciencies FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES across an expanding portfolio given the Companys The key financial objectives of the Group are set out as growth strategy: follows: To maintain focus on cash cover.
Cash cover over To provide shareholders with attractive long-term dividends paid in 2015 was approximately 1.2x.
TRIG aims to continue to pay attractive cover is expressed after accounting for cash utilised to dividends, with inationary increases over the medium pay down project-level debt within the investment term.
This assumes in particular the steadying of and portfolio equivalent in 2015 to 0.6x the dividends paid.
resumption of growth in UK and European wholesale This structured reduction in project-level debt benets power prices and a continuation of TRIGs on-target the NAV in each period.
Recent lower wholesale power operating performance.
Dividends are paid gross as the prices have reduced the level of cash cover in 2015.
TRIG Company is registered in Guernsey.
The Company also aims to maintain cash cover over the medium and longoers shareholders a scrip dividend alternative to cash term, although short-term levels of cover may vary dividends as this can be advantageous to certain based on factors such as weather conditions, prevailing investors: power market prices, foreign exchange rates, portfolio To target long-term annualised total return of 8% to asset mix and gearing levels.
TRIG seeks to mitigate the 9%.
At the time of the IPO, the Company targeted a total eects of variability through investment diversication internal rate of return IRR of 8% to 9% net of and some financial hedging: 10 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 To provide an investment return with positive 2.3 STRATEGY correlation to ination expected to be obtained through Portfolio Construction within the Renewables Market exposure to government support regimes which are TRIGs investment approach is based on accessing the generally ination-linked and to power prices, which are growing renewables market resulting from the long-term assumed in the long term to be positively correlated commitment of the UK and other Northern European with ination described in more detail in Section 2.7 : countries to increasing the supply of cleaner, more secure To maintain prudent financial management including and sustainable energy.
TRIG pursues this opportunity via the valuation policy for the existing portfolio and new managing and expanding a diversied portfolio of power investments, the analysis and utilisation of forecasts, generating assets across established technologies, dierent controls on project-level and Group expenditure, weather systems and electricity markets.
This strategy of nancing arrangements and foreign exchange hedging portfolio growth and diversication supports the long-term policy.
As the Group has overseas investments, it investment proposition of delivering stable dividends maintains a foreign currency hedging policy utilising together with NAV resilience.
forward contracts for euro-sterling in relation to the current portfolio explained in Section 2.6 : and The Renewables Market Growth Opportunity Growth of the renewable energy infrastructure market is To grow its investment portfolio to enhance supported by a long-term global shift in particular in the diversication, increase share liquidity and obtain OECD and the larger emerging economies towards further scale eciencies.
The Company nances this achieving economic growth with sustainability.
Continuing portfolio growth through internal cash generated but increases in human population, urbanisation, industrial and also by issuing further shares to existing and new agricultural production and consumption oset the investors at or above the current NAV per share plus benets of ongoing energy eciency improvements.
issue costs, thus avoiding NAV dilution.
Further Following the widely covered United Nations Framework acquisitions may achieve reduced portfolio risk by Convention on Climate Change or COP 21 round of additional diversication by geography, jurisdiction, discussions in Paris in late 2015, refreshed initiatives have power market and generation technology.
been launched to reduce or reverse the human impact on the climate and living environment from fossil fuel usage NON-FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES and to ensure a secure energy supply.
The Company sees The key non-financial objectives of the Group are: further global support for the promotion of To maintain a business model which benets from decarbonisation in 2016 and beyond, with widespread trends in energy and infrastructure with sustainable renewable energy generation being an important initiative opportunities for both portfolio management and alongside improved demand-side response, ecient backportfolio growth, based on the economies and societies up generation capacity and more exible grid networks.
of the countries in which the Company invests: The roll-out of renewable energy generation projects and To build and maintain strong relationships with key supporting technologies is expected to continue across all stakeholders of both the Company and the Groups major markets, supported by a range of government investments, including investors, national and local programmes as well as by increasing technological and governments, local communities, project developers, supply chain improvements and cost eciencies.
In 2015, vendors, key contractors and providers of finance.
for the first time, more than 50% of newly installed Consistent, eective engagement with a broad range of electricity generating capacity globally was in the form of key stakeholders and adopting a positive approach of renewable energy infrastructure.
partnership is expected to contribute meaningfully to the Companys ability to deliver targeted long-term Diversication Across Established Renewables investment returns: Technologies TRIG adopts a strategy focused on investing in operational To manage its aairs in accordance with the Companys renewable energy generation projects, with a current focus Corporate Social Responsibility statements and on the onshore wind and solar PV sectors we believe policies, as summarised in Section 2.11: and these represent established renewables technologies with To provide leadership in enhancing the understanding an eective combination of proven operating cost histories of investment in the renewables sector through and a healthy diversied pipeline of investment appropriate disclosure and engagement with existing opportunities.
In addition, although among other fastand potential investors, thereby further promoting growing technologies, oshore wind is now producing a interest in investment in TRIG as a benchmark significant share of renewable energy.
In the UK there are investment vehicle in this expanding sector.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 11 STRATEGIC REPORT continued operating oshore wind farms with a combined 5GW, and Cumulative installed renewables generation capacity in in Germany a further 3GW of operating projects with a the UK Q3 2013 Q3 2015 number of sites having now established an operating track 10,000 record of several years.
9,000 In the European Union, the majority of new power 8,000 generation installations are in wind and solar PV.
Data for 2013 2014 2015 7,000 new capacity installed in 2015 is illustrated in the chart below.
Of a total of 28.9GW of new capacity installations 6,000 across the EU, onshore wind and oshore wind 5,000 represented approximately one third and one-tenth or 9.8GW and 3.0GW respectively while solar PV represented 4,000 nearly another third 8.5GW.
All other renewables 3,000 accounted for less than 2% of new power capacity.
New gas and coal facilities represented the bulk of the 2,000 remainder with a combined 23%.
The bulk of new wind 1,000 installations in 2015 were in Germany 47%, with significant contributions from Poland 10%, France and the - Onshore Solar PV Oshore Biomass Other UK approximately 8% each.
wind wind 2015 Share of New Power Capacity Installations in the Source: DECC December 2015 EU Total 28.9GW The high capacity or load factors of wind compared to solar PV make it the leading contributor among renewable sources to total UK electricity production, reaching nearly 10% in the third quarter of 2015, as illustrated below: Share of UK electricity generation of key renewables technologies Q3 2016 10% 9.5% 9.1% 9% 8% 7% 6% 5.0% 5% 4.5% 4% 3.5% 3% Source: EWEA Annual Statistics 2015 Copyright: The European Wind 2% 1.4% Energy Association 1% 0% The UKs new annual capacity additions have been Wind Wind Wind Bioenergy Solar PV Hydro dominated by wind both onshore and oshore and, Total Onshore Oshore particularly in the last few years, solar PV, as shown in the Source: Department of Energy and Climate Change December 2015 chart below.
Onshore wind capacity is gradually TRIG is currently permitted under its investment policy to approaching the 2020 projected target of 11GW to 13GW invest up to 10% of the portfolio in technologies beyond as indicated under the previous Government in 2014, while onshore wind and solar PV.
The Investment Manager is solar PV has been on a faster upward trajectory that, if reviewing further technologies which would increase continued, would clearly have surpassed the equivalent diversication and where the risk-adjusted returns may target capacity of 11GW to 12GW by 2020.
Oshore wind become attractive as market dynamics evolve.
This may has considerable further capacity to be installed with include oshore wind for which the level of operational risk approximately 5GW of installed capacity towards a 2020 can now be more clearly dened based on the track record projection of 10GW Source: DECC 2 July 2015. of existing projects and improvements in technology and 12 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 the supply chain.
The UK Government projects total proportion of its revenue from power purchase investment in UK oshore wind projects of between 16 agreements with xed prices, feed-in taris and billion and 21 billion between 2014 and 2020.
In the longer term, technologies may also include other types of generation TRIG, based on its current portfolio, will have greater infrastructure e. g. hydropower or landll gas or exposure to future wholesale electricity prices.
TRIG also supporting technologies such as back-up power has the benefit of being diversied across three separate generation, storage or demand-side response, depending power markets of Great Britain, the Single Electricity on the availability of projects for investment which exhibit Market of The Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland sucient scale of opportunity, expected returns and risk and France.
The chart on page 39 illustrates the prole of prole appropriate for TRIG.
long-term power prices used by TRIG in its base case assumptions weighted for TRIGs investment portfolio Accordingly, the Board, with recommendation from the across the three markets.
Managers, proposes to put to shareholders a proposal at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2016 to Over the longer term, the world demand for power is amend the investment policy of the Company such that up expected to grow with population, economic growth and to 20% of its portfolio by value may be invested in sectors factors such as increased electrication of transportation.
other than onshore wind and solar PV see page 25 This, combined with Europes requirement to upgrade old Investment Policy Material Amendments.
power plants and grid networks, including the decommissioning of old generation facilities coal, gas and Diversication Across UK and Northern European nuclear, green subsidies both for generators and Power Markets consumers in the form of energy eciency grants and TRIGs investment strategy also provides for diversication carbon pricing for fossil fuel based generation are likely to across electricity markets.
TRIG has substantial protection mean UK and European prices will remain at relatively high in its revenues from movements in wholesale power prices levels, at least relative to the United States.
in the short and medium term as a result of receiving a high Four Burrows Solar Park, Cornwall, England.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 13 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Diversication Across Regulatory Regimes and Contract Types TRIG aims to invest across multiple energy markets in projects whose revenues are supported by a strong government commitment to renewable energy generation as a key part of their energy mix.
While investments in the UK, France and Ireland form the current portfolio, a number of other markets such as Scandinavia, Benelux and Germany oer a prole which may be attractive to TRIG.
TRIGs portfolio revenues reect the dierent regulatory jurisdictions in which TRIG is invested with revenue sources ranging from contracted feed-in taris FITs, renewables obligation certicates ROCs, embedded benets and a variety of wholesale power purchase agreements PPAs with contracting counterparties which are, for the most part, major utilities.
The chart below illustrates the split of revenues across dierent types of revenue over time.
Illustration of split of Project Revenues by Contract Type for the Portfolio 250m 200m 150m 100m 50m - 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 Fixed PPAs & FITs ROC Buyout ROC Recycle, Embedded Benets, Other PPA Floor PPA Market Revenue For 51 projects including the 31 December 2015 portfolio of 36 projects as well as the 15 projects comprising the Akuo investments made in January 2016.
In the current portfolio, the majority of near-term project revenues 2016 projected revenues: 71% are expected to come from xed-type, contracted revenues, for example feed-in taris, xed price PPAs, or the sale of ROCs with, accordingly, greater stability and predictability of revenues or other revenue sources not linked to wholesale power prices, while expected near-term project revenues linked to wholesale power prices 2016 projected revenues: 29% are in the minority.
Some of these revenues have oor price arrangements.
In the longer term in the absence of further contracting or re-contracting of the revenues, it is anticipated that the majority of revenues will be based on variable market prices although some of these may be contracted based on, for example, season-ahead or month-ahead pricing.
The UK, as part of its Electricity Market Reform, has been moving towards a new xed-type  programme for new renewables development, which, if extended beyond the initial auction round completed in early 2015, may provide further investment opportunities in the UK market.
The wholesale power element of PPAs is normally based on a combination of season and or month ahead pricing against established market indices and a small discount against the market price is applied.
Diversication Across Weather Systems From a meteorological perspective, while short-term volatility is to be expected, wind and solar resources demonstrate a high degree of predictability over the long term.
In addition, TRIGs portfolio demonstrates the benefit of diversity as a result of the geographical spread of the projects and the energy yield performance of solar and wind technologies not being positively correlated.
14 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Given the complexity of wind ows, even within a specic geographical area, energy yield outcomes do vary from location to location and from time to time but these tend to even out over the long-term.
For solar, the key factor driving irradiation levels is latitude, although the precise meteorological conditions prevailing local irradiation intensity, duration and temperature have a bearing on the energy output performance.
Weather risk can be reduced within a portfolio by combining a large number of plants spread over a wide geography and by combining wind and solar.
The chief dierences in yield outcome across the TRIG portfolio occurs because of 1 the inclusion of both wind and solar technologies which are not correlated and 2 the relative impact of the North Atlantic weather patterns on the British Isles more exposed to the prevailing oceanic winds and cyclonic systems from the south-west versus Southern France where the influence of the Mediterranean prevails.
specifically for wind, the dominant winds in Southern France such as the mistral are associated with gap ows which are formed when north or north-west air ow associated with cyclogenesis over the Gulf of Genoa accelerates in topographically confined channels such as the river valleys descending from the Alps, Pyrenees or the Massif Central.
With stronger summer solar irradiation counterbalancing the lower typical summer wind speeds versus the winter, the portfolio also has the benefit of a more balanced revenue mix through the year than would be the case for a fund investing only in either wind or solar.
In TRIGs portfolio in a typical year, approximately 70% of the total annual solar production is expected to occur in the six months between April and September against 40% for wind and approximately 30% between October and March against 60% for wind.
TRIG is able to mitigate the risk of miscalculating energy output and therefore mispricing by buying projects with some operating history the portfolio has on average more than 5 years of operating track record as well as by having acquisition price adjustment mechanisms based on yield performance on newer projects.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 15 STRATEGIC REPORT continued A PORTFOLIO OF LONG-TERM OPERATING PROJECTS As at 31 December 2015, the TRIG portfolio comprised 36 investments in the UK, Republic of Ireland and France, including 24 onshore wind projects and 12 solar photovoltaic projects: TRIGs Net Capacity 5 Project Market Region Equity Commissioning Turbine MW MW Interest ONSHORE WIND FARMS as at 31 December 2015 Roos GB England 100% 17.1 2013 Vestas 1.9 Grange GB England 100% 14.0 2013 Vestas 2.0 Tallentire GB England 100% 12.0 2013 Vestas 2.0 Crystal Rig 2 GB Scotland 49% 67.6 2010 Siemens 2.3 Hill of Towie GB Scotland 100% 48.3 2012 Siemens 2.3 Mid Hill GB Scotland 49% 37.2 2014 Siemens 2.3 Pauls Hill GB Scotland 49% 31.6 2006 Siemens 2.3 Crystal Rig 1 GB Scotland 49% 30.6 2003 Nordex 2.5 Green Hill GB Scotland 100% 28.0 2012 Vestas 2.0 Rothes 1 GB Scotland 49% 24.8 2005 Siemens 2.3 Rothes 2 GB Scotland 49% 20.3 2013 Siemens 2.3 Earlseat GB Scotland 100% 16.0 2014 Vestas 2.0 Meikle Carewe GB Scotland 100% 10.2 2013 Gamesa 0.85 Forss GB Scotland 100% 7.2 2003 Siemens 1.0-1.3 Altahullion SEM N. Ireland 100% 37.7 2003 Siemens 1.3 Lendrums Bridge SEM N. Ireland 100% 13.2 2000 Vestas 0.7 Lough Hill SEM N. Ireland 100% 7.8 2007 Siemens 1.3 Taurbeg SEM Rep. of Ireland 100% 25.3 2006 Siemens 2.3 Milane Hill SEM Rep. of Ireland 100% 5.9 2000 Vestas 0.7 Beennageeha SEM Rep. of Ireland 100% 4.0 2000 Vestas 0.7 Haut Languedoc France South 100% 29.9 2006 Siemens 1.3 Haut Cabardes France South 100% 20.8 2005 Siemens 1.3 Cuxac Cabardes France South 100% 12.0 2006 Vestas 2.0 RoussasClaves France South 100% 10.5 2006 Vestas 1.8 Total Onshore Wind as at 31 December 2015 532.0 NOTE: New onshore wind project investments made since 1 January 2015 are highlighted in blue.
5 Where a project has been commissioned in stages, this refers to the earliest commissioning date.
16 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 TRIGs Net Capacity 6 Project Market Region Equity Commissioning Turbine MW MW Interest SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC PARKS as at 31 December 2015 Parley Court Farm GB England 100% 24.2 2014 ReneSola Egmere Aireld GB England 100% 21.2 2014 ReneSola Stour Fields GB England 100% 18.7 2014 Hanwha SolarOne Tamar Heights GB England 100% 11.8 2014 Hanwha SolarOne Penare Farm GB England 100% 11.1 2014 ReneSola Four Burrows GB England 100% 7.2 2015 ReneSola Parsonage GB England 100% 7.0 2013 Canadian Solar Churchtown GB England 100% 5.0 2011 Canadian Solar East Langford GB England 100% 5.0 2011 Canadian Solar Manor Farm GB England 100% 5.0 2011 Canadian Solar Marvel Farms GB England 100% 5.0 2011 LDK Q.
Cells Puits Castan France South 100% 5.0 2011 Fonroche Total Solar PV as at 31 December 2015 126.2 Total Portfolio as at 31 December 2015 658.2 7 SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC PARKS investments post 31 December 2015 year-end Plateau France South 43% 5.1 2012 Sunpower R Chateau France South 43% 1.6 2012 Sharp R Broussan France South 49% 1.0 2012 Sharp Pascialone France Corsica 47% 2.1 2011 CSUN Olmo 2 France Corsica 49% 2.1 2011 CSUN Santa Lucia France Corsica 49% 1.7 2011 CSUN Borgo France Corsica 49% 0.9 2011 Suntech R Agrinergie 1 & 3 France Runion 47% 1.3 2011 Suntech CSUN Chemin Canal France Runion 43% 1.1 2011 CSUN Ligne des 400 France Runion 41% 1.1 2011 Canadian Solar R Agrisol France Runion 30% 0.5 2011 Sunpower R Agrinergie 5 France Runion 49% 0.7 2011 Sunpower R Logistisud France Runion 44% 0.6 2010 Sunpower Sainte Marguerite France Guadeloupe 42% 1.1 2011 Sunpower Marie Gallante France Guadeloupe 25% 0.5 2010 GE Additional Solar PV Investments post 2015 year-end 21.4 Total Portfolio as at 22 February 2016 679.6 NOTE: New solar PV project investments made since 1 January 2015 are highlighted in orange.
6 Where a project has been commissioned in stages, this refers to the earliest commissioning date.
7 All ground-mounted projects except where noted R for roof-mounted projects.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 17 STRATEGIC REPORT continued A DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO by geography, jurisdiction, energy market, technology and revenue source The TRIG portfolio comprises a diverse range of assets across dierent energy markets, regulatory jurisdictions, generating technologies, revenue contracts and or subsidy sources, as well as a variety of geographic areas with diering meteorological conditions aecting wind speeds and solar irradiation applicable to each of TRIGs projects, as illustrated in the segmentation analysis below, as at 31 December 2015 and also as adjusted for the addition to the portfolio in January 2016 of the investment in the Akuo Energy French solar portfolio valued at cost : Portfolio Portfolio As at 31 December 2015 Following Akuo Investment in January 2016 Republic of France France Ireland 6% Republic of 12% SEM England GB Northern Ireland England GB 2% 33% Ireland SEM 31% SEM 2% Northern 7% Ireland SEM 6% By Market By Market Jurisdicon Jurisdicon Scotland GB 52% Scotland GB 49% Onshore Wind Onshore Wind Atlanc Atlanc 64% 68% Solar Solar 31% 27% By Technology By Technology Weather System Weather System Onshore Wind Mediterranean 6% Onshore Wind Mediterranean 5% PPA Market Revenue PPA Market Revenue Fixed PPAs & FITs Fixed PPAs & FITs 16% 18% 23% 29% By Project By Project PPA Floor PPA Floor 14% 13% Revenue Type Revenue Type ROC Recycle, ROC Recycle, Embedded Benets, Embedded Benets, Other Other 5% ROC Buyout 5% ROC Buyout 37% 40% Notes: 1 Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland form a Single Electricity Market, distinct from that operating in Great Britain.
2 Segmentation by Jurisdiction Power Market and by Technology Weather System is calculated by portfolio valuation: segmentation by Project Revenue Type is by 2016 expected revenue received by the project companies.
3 Dominant winds in the British Isles are from the south-west and are generally driven by the passages of Atlantic cyclones across the country.
Dominant winds in Southern France are associated with gap ows which are formed when north or north-west air ow associated with cyclogenesis over the Gulf of Genoa accelerates in topographically confined channels.
18 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LOCATION OF TRIGS PROJECTS Forss Pauls Hill Rothes I & II Hill of Towie Green Hill Meikle Carewe Mid Hill Altahullion Earlseat Lendrums Bridge Crystal Rig I & II Lough Hill Tallentire Roos REPUBLIC OF Grange UNITED IRELAND Egmere Airfield KINGDOM Stour Fields Parsonage Beennageeha Parley Court Milane Hill Marvel Farms Taurbeg Tamar Heights Penare Farm Churchtown East Langford Manor Farm Four Burrows Onshore Wind Onshore Wind FRANCE Cuxac Cabardes Solar PV Solar PV Puits Castan Haut Languedoc Haut Cabardes Roussas-Claves French Overseas Departments GUADELOUPE LA RUNION Broussan Chateau CORSICA Agrisol Plateau Agrinergie 1 3 Sainte Borgo Marguerite Agrinergie 5 Olmo 2 Chemin Canal Marie Pascialone Ligne des 400 Gallante Logistisud Santa Lucia Asterisked locations indicate projects invested in after the 31 December 2015 year-end in January 2016 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 19 STRATEGIC REPORT continued 2.4 BUSINESS MODEL INTRODUCTION The Company is a Guernsey-registered investment company with an independent board of directors had with its shares listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Through the group structure, the Company owns a portfolio of renewable energy infrastructure investments in the UK, Ireland and France and is seeking to protect and enhance the income from and value of the existing portfolio through active management and sourcing of new investments which enhance the diversity and scale of the portfolio, utilising the expertise of market-leading Investment and Operations Managers appointed by the Company.
The Company has a 31 December year-end, announces interim results in August and full year results in February.
Having paid dividends semi-annually since IPO in 2013, the Company proposes to pay dividends quarterly commencing from the dividend with respect to the first quarter to 31 March 2016, payable in June 2016.
GROUP STRUCTURE TRIGs Group structure, including management structure and key service providers, is illustrated below.
The Company is a self-managed Alternative Investment Fund under the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
The Company has a board of four independent non-executive directors details of whom can be found in Section 3 whose role is to manage the governance of the Company in the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
In particular, the Board approves and monitors adherence to the Investment Policy, determines risk appetite of the Group, sets Group policies and monitors the performance of the Investment Manager, the Operations Manager and other key service providers.
The Board meets a minimum of four times per year for regular Board meetings and there are a number of ad hoc meetings dependent upon business need.
In addition the Board has four committees covering Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Management Engagement.
The Board takes advice from the Investment Manager, InfraRed, as well as from the Operations Manager, RES, on matters concerning the market, the portfolio and new investment opportunities.
Day-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is delegated to the Investment Manager and the Operations Manager, with investment decisions within agreed parameters delegated to an Investment Committee constituted by senior members of the Investment Manager.
The Company has management agreements in place with the Investment Manager and the Operations Manager which can be terminated at 12 months notice from 29 July 2018.
20 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 The key roles of the Investment Manager and the Operations Manager are set out below: Investment Manager InfraRed Operations Manager RES Monitoring financial performance against Group Day-to-day monitoring and oversight of the targets and forecasts operations of the Groups portfolio of investments Advising the Board on investment strategy and Appointment of directors to each project company portfolio composition to achieve the desired target board returns within the agreed risk appetite Monitoring of service providers to project investment Sourcing, evaluating and implementing the pipeline companies of new investments for the portfolio Facilitation of early resolution of operational issues as Managing the investment cash ows from the Groups they arise, including performance and disputes investments Management of project-level nancing including Minimising cash drag having un-invested cash on the implementation and project-level debt covenants balance sheet and improving cash eciency Management of power sales strategy including power generally purchase agreements Managing the process and analysis for semi-annual Assisting on technical and commercial due diligence valuations of the Groups portfolio submitted to the of projects being evaluated for acquisition by the Board for approval Group Ensuring good financial management of the Group, Seeking of cost savings through contract variations having regard to accounting, tax and debt covenants and extensions Hedging non-sterling investments Project level ESG co-ordination including community Managing the Companys investor reporting and relations and compliance with regulations aecting investor relations activities project companies Further details on the Investment Manager and the for investments within the Managers delegated authority Operations Manager are set out in Section 2.1 and in with agreed limits set by the Board, gives the final Section 2.6 with respect to fees.
Dexion Capital Guernsey approval before an investment may proceed.
These Limited provides Company Secretary and Administrator committees may meet on a number of occasions before an services.
investment is acquired by the Group.
Commercial and technical due diligence is undertaken by the Investment Other key service providers to the TRIG Group include Manager with support from the Operations Manager on Canaccord Genuity Limited and Liberum Capital Limited as aspects such as energy yield assessment, o-take contract joint brokers, Tulchan Communications LLP as financial arrangements, maintenance and other operational costs.
public relations advisers, Carey Olsen as legal advisers as Third party legal and technical due diligence is to Guernsey law, Norton Rose Fulbright LLP as legal commissioned as appropriate to support the acquisition.
advisers as to English law, Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited as registrars, Deloitte LLP as auditors, and National An important characteristic of the Group is that it is wellAustralia Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland as lenders to the positioned to acquire assets from its Managers, in Group via the 150 million revolving acquisition facility.
particular RES in relation to which TRIG enjoys a right of first oer for onshore wind and solar assets developed in The Board reviews the performance of all key service the UK and Northern Europe.
With no representatives from providers on an annual basis.
RES on the Investment Committee, decisions on acquisitions from RES under the Companys Right of First MAKING NEW PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS Oer Agreement are taken at arms length from the When seeking to acquire an investment, the proposition is Operations Manager, while any acquisitions from other subject to a two-stage process.
It is considered and funds managed by InfraRed would require prior unanimous recommended by the Advisory Committee which includes recommendation by the Advisory Committee and also representatives of both the Investment Manager and the approval by TRIGs independent board, together with an Operations Manager.
It is then fully assessed by the independent valuation, as well as utilising prudent internal Investment Committee of the Investment Manager which, conict management procedures established at InfraRed.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 21 STRATEGIC REPORT continued The Company is focused on owning operational, yielding and all projects were operational.
In respect of investments projects although the Managers expect that there will be in portfolio companies which have assets under opportunities where it will be advantageous for the development or construction including the repowering of Company to invest in projects prior to their completion and existing assets, the cost of works on such assets under grid connection.
While the Company is currently invested development or construction and not yet operational to in onshore wind and solar PV projects, there are which portfolio companies are exposed may not in investment opportunities in other maturing generating aggregate account for more than 15% of overall portfolio technologies in the UK and Northern Europe, notably value, calculated at the time of investment or commitment.
oshore wind, as well as back-up power, storage or Given the strong pipeline of available assets, the demand-side response infrastructure.
characteristics of new investments are not expected to The Companys investment policy does not permit the cost deviate materially from the underlying risk and reward of works on projects under development or construction characteristics of the existing portfolio, and therefore the and not yet operational to which portfolio companies are Managers do not expect that new investment cash ows exposed to exceed in aggregate 15% of overall portfolio would be subject to risk or revenue dynamics which are value.
At 31 December 2015 all construction was complete substantially dierent from the prole already established.
A generator exchange in progress 22 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 2.5 INVESTMENT APPROACH AND POLICY INVESTMENT APPROACH TRIGs investment approach is based on the following two factors: The renewables market opportunity long-term public and political commitment in the UK and other countries in Northern Europe towards creating a cleaner, more secure and sustainable energy mix shortfall in power generation capacity due principally to the reduction in coal-red and old nuclear generation facilities EU-wide renewables target requiring 20% of energy to be generated from renewable sources by 2020 as a milestone of a longer-term fide-carbonisation agenda, reinforced by further initiatives in connection with the United Nations COP 21 meetings in 2015 extensive opportunities for investment in the secondary market for generation assets as utilities and other developers nd it necessary to recycle their capital The ability to construct a diversied portfolio across established, low-risk technologies, electricity markets, weather systems and revenue types diversication across predominantly operational assets providing a sustainable long-term investment proposition, delivering stable income together with NAV resilience investing in established technologies, including wind and solar PV which dominate new power capacity installations in the EU proven operational track record including predictable operating costs future potential for incremental improvements in design, scale and eciency UK and Northern European focus markets with a robust long-term energy demand outlook and a well-established political regulatory commitment to renewables variability of weather patterns across Europe adds to diversication provided by exposure to wind and solar energy sources contracted revenues with utility counterparties and or state subsidies provide stability of revenues in early years before giving way to market power price exposure in later years THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 23 STRATEGIC REPORT continued companies or investment trusts that are listed on the INVESTMENT POLICY Ocial List maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority.
In order to achieve its investment objective, the Company invests principally in operational assets which generate In order to ensure that the Group has a spread of electricity from renewable energy sources, with a investment risk, it is the Companys intention that no single particular focus on onshore wind farms and solar PV parks.
asset will account for more than 20% of the portfolio value, calculated at the time of investment.
Investments will be made principally by way of equity and shareholder loans which will generally provide for 100% or The Group may enter into borrowing facilities in the short majority ownership of the assets by the holding entities.
In term principally to finance acquisitions.
Such short-term circumstances where a minority equity interest is held in nancing is limited to 30% of the portfolio value.
It is the relevant portfolio company, the holding entities will intended that any facility used to finance acquisitions is secure their respective shareholder rights including voting likely to be repaid, in normal market conditions, within a rights through shareholder agreements and other year through further equity fund raisings.
Wind farms and solar parks, typically with 25 year The Group aims to achieve diversication principally operating lives, held within portfolio companies generate through investing in a range of portfolio assets across a long-term cash ows that can support longer term project number of distinct geographies and a mix of renewable finance debt.
Such debt is non-recourse and typically is energy technologies.
fully amortising over a 10 to 15 year period.
There is an additional gearing limit in respect of such non-recourse Limits debt of 50% of the gross portfolio value being the total Investments will be focused in the UK and Northern enterprise value of such portfolio companies, measured European countries including France, Ireland, Germany at the time the debt is drawn down or acquired as part of and Scandinavia where the Directors, the Investment an investment.
The Company may, in order to secure Manager and the Operations Manager believe there is a advantageous borrowing terms, secure a project finance stable renewable energy framework.
Not more than 50% facility over a group of portfolio companies.
of the portfolio value calculated at the time of investment may be invested in projects that are located in countries Revenue outside the UK.
Generally, the Group will manage its revenue streams to moderate its revenue exposure to merchant power prices Investments will be made in onshore wind farms and solar with appropriate use of power purchase agreements, feedPV parks with the amount invested in other forms of in-taris and green certicates.
energy technologies such as biomass or oshore wind limited to 10% of the portfolio value, calculated at the time Hedging of investment.
See Material Amendments below for a The Group may enter into hedging transactions in relation proposed change to this investment limit from 10% to to currency, interest rates and power prices for the 20%.
purposes of ecient portfolio management.
The Group will In respect of investments in portfolio companies which not enter into derivative transactions for speculative have assets under development or construction including purposes.
the repowering of existing assets, the cost of works on such assets under development or construction and not Cash Balances yet operational to which portfolio companies are exposed Until the Company is fully invested and pending remay not in aggregate account for more than 15% of overall investment or distribution of cash receipts, cash received portfolio value, calculated at the time of investment or by the Group will be invested in cash, cash equivalents, 8 commitment.
near cash instruments and money market instruments.
The Company will not invest more than 15%, in aggregate, Origination of Further Investments of the value of its total assets in other investment Each of the investments comprising the portfolio complies with the Companys investment policy and further 8 Previously the Investment Policy limited the total investments in such portfolio companies to 15% which, when calculating the limit, would have included the total value of the portfolio company, including its operational components and not just the value attributable to the relevant development or construction.
The Board has made this change, taking into account advice from the Investment Manager and the Operations Manager, as it considers this better reects the intent of the restriction to manage development and construction risks.
The Board considers this change to be in the best interests of the Company and does not consider it to be a material change to the existing Investment Policy which would require the prior approval of shareholders in accordance with the Listing Rules.
This change is eective from the date of this report.
24 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 investments will only be acquired if they comply with the electricity generating equipment in relation to a project, Companys investment policy.
It is expected that further and the construction of new electricity generating investments will include operational onshore wind and equipment excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, repair, solar PV investments that have been originated and maintenance and refurbishment of existing equipment.
developed by Renewable Energy Systems Limited, the Where the Company determines to repower a project Companys Operations Manager.
The Company will also originally acquired from the Operations Manager, the review investment opportunities originated by third Operations Manager will have the first option to repower parties, including from investment funds managed or such assets in partnership with the Company, whilst the advised by the Investment Manager or its aliates.
Company will have the right to acquire the newly constructed assets on completion subject to satisfactory As a key part of the Companys investment policy is to due diligence and for a price determined in accordance acquire assets that have been originated by the Companys with a pre-agreed valuation mechanism and on normal Operations Manager by exercising the Companys rights commercial terms.
Repowering expenditure will be treated under the First Oer Agreement, the Company will not as development or construction activity for the purpose of seek the approval of Shareholders for acquisitions of assets the 15% development and construction limit described from the Operations Manager or members of its group in above, calculated at the time of investment.
the ordinary course of its Investment Policy.
Pursuant to the First Oer Agreement, the Company has a contractual Material Amendments right of first oer, for so long as the Operations Manager Material changes to the Companys Investment Policy may remains the operations manager of the Company in only be made with the approval of the Shareholders by way respect of the acquisition of investments in onshore wind of an ordinary resolution and for so long as the Ordinary and solar PV projects which the Operations Manager Shares are listed on the Ocial List in accordance with the wishes to dispose of and which are consistent with the Listing Rules.
The investment limits detailed above apply Companys investment policy.
It is envisaged that the at the time of the acquisition of the relevant investment.
Operations Manager will periodically make available for The Company is not required to dispose of any investment sale further interests in projects although there is no or to rebalance its investment portfolio as a result of a guarantee that this will be the case.
Investment approvals change in the respective valuations of its assets.
Nonin relation to any acquisitions of investments from the material changes to the Investment Policy must be Operations Manager will be made by the Investment approved by the Board, taking into account advice from the Manager through the Investment Committee.
Investment Manager and the Operations Manager where Furthermore, any proposed acquisition of assets by the appropriate.
Group from other funds managed by InfraRed the As noted in the Chairmans Statement, the Board is Investment Manager that fall within the Companys intending to put to shareholders a proposal at the Annual investment policy will be subject to detailed procedures General Meeting in May 2016 to expand the investment and arrangements established to manage any potential policy of the Company such that up to 20% of its portfolio conicts of interest that may arise.
In particular, any such by value may be invested in investments other than acquisitions will be subject to approval by the Directors onshore wind and solar PV.
This is in order to position the who are independent of the Investment Manager and the Company to be able to take advantage of opportunities in Operations Manager and will also be subject to an related sectors which are increasingly being seen by the independent private valuation in accordance with valuation Investment Manager, including in oshore wind, should the parameters agreed between the other InfraRed funds and Board, as advised by the Investment Manager with input the Company.
from the Operations Manager, consider the prospective Further investments will be subject to satisfactory due risk and reward appropriate.
Such investments may also diligence and agreement on price which will be negotiated include other generating infrastructure or supporting on an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms.
technology, such as back-up power generation, storage or It is anticipated that any further investments will be demand-side response.
acquired out of existing cash resources, borrowings, funds The proposed amendment will only be put to shareholders raised from the issue of new capital in the Company or a after the Company has obtained the Financial Conduct combination of all three.
Authoritys prior approval of the change in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Further details of the background to and Repowering reasons for the proposed change will be set out in the The Company will have sole discretion to repower projects notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May in its investment portfolio.
For these purposes, repowering 2016 which is expected to be dispatched to shareholders will include the removal of substantially all of the old in late March 2016.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 25 STRATEGIC REPORT continued 2.6 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Company sets out below its Key Performance Indicators KPIs which it utilises to track its performance over time against its objectives.
1 12 months to 12 months to Part year to Category KPI 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2013 6p Dividend per share declared 6.19p 6.08p annualised Share price 102.3p 104.00p 102.25p 2 Net Asset Value per share 99.0p 102.4p 101.5p 4.4% 7.5% 3 Total Shareholder Return FTSE All Share: FTSE All Share: for the year share price basis 1.0% 1.2% Financial 4 Portfolio Value 712.3m 472.9m 300.6m Year-on-year growth 51% 57% Number of projects 36 29 20 Market capitalisation 749.7m 432.1m 317.0m Year-on-year growth 73% 36% Number of shares in issue 732.8m 415.5m 310.0m 1.20% Ongoing Charges Percentage 1.20% 1.25% annualised Largest single investment 12% 10% 16% as % of portfolio by value Largest ten investments 56% 65% 79% as % of portfolio by value Risk & Operating history portfolio Operations 5.9 years 5.0 years 5.5 years average, weighted by net capacity Electricity Production 1,344.3GWh 814.2GWh 344.6GWh % increase 65% 136% since 1 August 2013 5 Average Revenue per MWh 78.6 MWh 84.0 MWh 84.9 MWh 1 For 2013, data is derived from the period from IPO on 29 July 2013 to 31 December 2013 unless otherwise stated.
2 NAV per share in 2015 was in particular aected by the removal in the UKs 2015 Summer Budget of the benefit to renewables generators of selling Levy Exemption Certicates, eective 1 August 2015.
3 Total Shareholder Return TSR measures the internal rate of return based on the share price at the beginning and end of the financial year together with dividends per share reinvested in the Company.
In both 2014 and 2015, TRIG outperformed the FTSE-All Share index which achieved TSRs of 1.2% and 1.0% respectively.
4 There have been acquisitions in the year with aggregate consideration of 255m as set out in more detail later in this section of the Strategic Report.
5 Average Revenue per MWh in 2015 was particularly aected by a range of factors, in particular the reduction in wholesale power prices in the UK, the removal of revenue from the sale of Levy Exemption Certicates from 1 August 2015 in the UK, reduced revenues from the ROC recycle element in 2015 and the inclusion mid-year of revenue contracts from the Fred.
Olsen portfolio which are expected to step-up after a few years, partially oset by an increased contribution from solar projects in the portfolio compared to 2014.
The average for 2013 relates to portfolio revenues for the IPO portfolio back-dated to May 2013 when TRIG was incorporated in order to provide as long as possible a period for the purposes of comparison.
26 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 TRIG PORTFOLIO UPDATE PORTFOLIO OPERATING PERFORMANCE The Groups portfolio continues to perform closely in line with expectations.
In a year of exceptional meteorological conditions 2015 was recognised as the warmest globally on record, surpassing the record set in 2014, the UK and Northern Europe saw further variability in weather patterns, including unseasonable weather in certain months.
In spite of this, TRIGs portfolio performed well, exhibiting the benets of a diversied portfolio.
During the year, the portfolio produced a total of 1,344 gigawatt hours GWh of electricity, an increase of 65% over the production of 814GWh in 2014, reecting the growth in the portfolios generating capacity in 2015 as well as an increase in the proportion of generation from onshore wind, which has a signicantly higher capacity factor than solar PV.
Overall production was 2.3% ahead of the P50 estimates for energy production assessed by TRIG prior to investment in each project and reected strong British Isles wind speeds overall during the year oset by weaker-than-expected UK sunshine and French wind.
The following table sets out the energy production performance of TRIGs portfolio by category for the year as a whole against the respective P50 central estimates: TRIGs Portfolio Analysis of Production Technology Region Electricity Generating Production Performance Capacity GWh vs. acquisition P50 estimates MW 2015 2015 2014 IPO to Dec 2015 Dec 2015 UK & Ireland 998.4 4% 8% 1% 458.8 Onshore Wind France 217.0 4% 5% 3% 73.2 Solar PV UK & France 128.9 1% 6% 5% 126.2 TOTAL PORTFOLIO 1,344.3 2% 6% 0% 658.2 It should be noted that while solar PV is less productive in terms of its average capacity factor versus onshore wind, it attracts a higher average subsidy and provides a higher average revenue per MWh as well as having lower operating costs.
Solar projects also tend to trade at lower valuation discount rates than wind.
In addition, the majority of the solar PV projects in TRIGs portfolio are unlevered.
This resulted in solar representing 27% of the total portfolio value at 31 December 2015 or 31% following the investment in 15 French solar projects in January 2016.
The chart below shows the monthly electricity production performance of the portfolio from August 2013 immediately following the acquisition of the initial portfolio at IPO to the end of December 2015.
The aggregate P50 central projection for the portfolio as a whole aggregating each projects pre-investment P50 estimate is shown for illustration.
TRIGs portfolio: monthly electricity production performance GWh against aggregate P50 projections THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 27 STRATEGIC REPORT continued The seasonal variability as well as the natural osetting feature of having both wind and solar projects in the TRIG portfolio is further illustrated below in the monthly capacity factors actually achieved for onshore wind and solar PV projects in the portfolio.
TRIGs portfolio: monthly capacity factors achieved by onshore wind and solar PV sectors Winter peaks in production correspond to when the wind is typically strongest.
Typically, summer troughs in total expected and actual portfolio production are created because, while solar is at its peak of production, the solar sectors lower capacity factors, compared to wind, together with its lower portfolio weighting, result in it not fully osetting the typically lower wind speeds experienced in the summer compared to the winter.
In 2015, several months saw unusually low wind speeds, including in particular September and October which had better than expected sunshine, while May and December saw exceptionally strong winds compared to seasonal averages.
Solar irradiation as a whole for the year in the UK where the bulk of TRIGs solar projects are located was slightly below the long-term average with a strong first half oset by a weaker second half.
The eects on TRIGs results of this variability are substantially reduced by the diversication across TRIGs portfolio, with weak performance in one sector oset by better performance in another sector in any given period of time as a result of geographical dierences in weather systems and the dierent generating technologies i. e. onshore wind and solar PV in the portfolio.
Availability for the portfolio as a whole was in line with expectations.
A number of turbines required gearbox and generator replacements or other equipment maintenance consistent with expected levels of maintenance and repair requirements for a portfolio of this size.
Some older sites had blade replacements performed as part of a remediation programme stemming from a manufacturer defect, which was known about and provided for at the time of investment in the project.
Much of the portfolio benets from manufacturer availability warranties which help protect the owner from any extended downtime.
Condition monitoring vibration data capture and analysis of key components continued to be utilised across the majority of the portfolio to help minimise downtime as well as the severity and cost of component failures.
Monitoring TRIGs portfolio at the RES control room in Glasgow 28 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 The broader market conditions in which the UK sector i. e. the majority of TRIGs portfolio operated are reected in the UKs overall renewable electricity generation statistics up to September 2015, as illustrated below.
The chart provides an indication of both the expansion in capacity of UK renewables over time and the variation in production between sectors in each quarter, depending on the seasonality of the production and specic weather conditions.
UK Electricity Production from Renewable Energy by Major Source GWh Source: DECC December 2015 ACQUISITIONS During the year, the Group invested in a further 7 projects 6 onshore wind and 1 solar PV in the UK, for a total consideration of approximately 255 million, bringing the total portfolio at the year-end to 36 projects and increasing TRIGs total portfolio generating capacity by 219MW to 658MW.
i On 20 March 2015, TRIG acquired a 100% interest in an operational solar asset, Four Burrows, for consideration of approximately 8.6 million.
The park has 7.2MW of rated generating capacity and is located near Truro, Cornwall in South-West England.
The asset was acquired from RES, who developed and built the site, under TRIGs Right of First Oer Agreement with RES.
The project uses Renesola PV panels and has been operational since January 2015.
Operations and maintenance services are provided by RES who took over from Oskomera Solar Power Solutions during the year, with a long-term power purchase agreement in place with an investment grade UK utility.
The asset is accredited under the renewables obligation regime at 1.4 ROCs per MWh.
The project has no project-level debt.
ii On 25 June 2015, TRIG acquired a 49% equity interest in a portfolio holding company, Fred.
Olsen Wind Limited, which wholly owns six operating onshore wind farm project companies spread over four dierent locations in Scotland, together with the provision by the Group of 100% of a mezzanine-level loan fully amortising by January 2021 which provides TRIG with additional cash ows ranking in priority to cash ows available to shareholders in Fred.
The acquisition was from the projects developer, Fred.
Olsen Renewables Limited, which continues to own the remaining 51%.
The total consideration was approximately 246 million, subject to certain performance-based value adjustments.
The following is a summary of the key data for the six projects the Projects comprising the acquisition from Fred.
Olsen Renewables Limited, which have an aggregate generating capacity of 433MW of which TRIGs 49% equity investment gives it a 212MW net capacity share : P THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 29 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Project Crystal Rig 1 Rothes 1 Pauls Hill Crystal Rig 2 Rothes 2 Mid Hill Location East Lothian, Moray, Moray, East Lothian, Moray, Aberdeenshire, Scotland Scotland Scotland Scotland Scotland Scotland Commercial Oct 2003 May 2005 May 2006 June 2010 June 2013 Jun Nov 2014 Operation Date COD Turbines 25 x Nordex 22x Siemens 28 x Siemens 60 x Siemens 18 x Siemens 33 x Siemens 2.5MW N80 2.3MW 2.3MW 2.3MW 2.3MW 2.3MW Generating Capacity 62.5 50.6 64.4 138.0 41.4 75.9 MWs ROCs per MWh 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 PPA counterparty e. on e. on e. on EDF Statkraft Statkraft and expiry May 2020 January 2020 January 2021 July 2017 March 2027 March 2027 The Projects were purchased with long-term project solar PV projects to approximately 31% of overall nancing in place totaling approximately 330 million portfolio value.
or approximately 44% of the Projects enterprise The transaction comprises the purchase of a 49% value.
Work is underway to replace the power equity interest in a portfolio holding company purchase agreement on Crystal Rig 2 prior to its together with a mezzanine-level loan.
The expiry in July 2017. consideration for the transaction was funded from Operational, maintenance and management services the Groups acquisition facility with Royal Bank of to the Projects are provided by Fred.
Olsen Scotland and National Australia Bank.
RES, TRIGs Renewables AS and its related company Natural portfolio Operations Manager, represents TRIG on Power Services Limited NPSL on arms-length the supervisory board managing the portfolio.
RES, TRIGs Operations Manager, will continue to provide detailed day-to-day represents TRIG on the board of the project administration as well as operations and companies and provides portfolio-level advice to maintenance through its directly employed teams TRIG in relation to the Projects.
As a significant across the projects.
The projects, commissioned from minority equity partner in the Projects, TRIG has December 2010 to May 2012, all benefit from power shareholder rights appropriate for investments of this purchase agreements of up to 20 years with EDF, nature in addition to board representation.
providing xed, index-linked revenues per MWh, and from broad geographical diversication between ii Post balance sheet acquisition: Shortly after the 2015 mainland France 3 projects, 17.9MW gross capacity, financial year end, TRIG also announced on Corsica 4 projects, 14.0MW, La Runion 6 projects, 5 January 2016 that it had exchanged contracts to 12.4MW and Guadeloupe 2 projects, 4.5MW invest 57 million approx.
44 million at completion hosting 36%, 32%, 25% and 7% of net capacity in a portfolio of 15 French solar ground-mounted and respectively pro rata to TRIGs equity interests.
The rooftop PV projects, alongside Akuo Energy Group, portfolio holding company has controlling equity one of Frances leading independent renewable interests in the underlying projects of between 51% energy producers.
The transaction was completed on and 100%, investing alongside local parties in 10 of 28 January 2016.
The projects have aggregate gross the projects.
The projects have been purchased each generating capacity of approximately 49MW and net with long-term amortising project nancing in place generating capacity pro rata to TRIGs equity representing on average approximately 65% of the interest of 21.4MW.
Nine of the projects are groundprojects enterprise value reecting the predictability mounted and six are roof-mounted.
The projects are of the revenue streams available under French feedlocated in mainland France, Corsica and two overseas in taris.
departments all operating under French jurisdiction, with revenues wholly derived from As a result of this transaction, the TRIG portfolios net French feed-in taris without exposure to power generating capacity increased to approximately price market uctuations for an average of 16 years 680MW.
The portfolio is now comprised of from acquisition.
The transaction increases TRIGs 51 projects with approximately 69% of the projects 30 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 by value being onshore wind and 31% being solar PV, 2015 equity fund raise which enabled the balance of with the portion of non-UK projects in the portfolio 79 million to be repaid.
The facility was undrawn at increasing to approximately 14% by value.
Since IPO, TRIG has acquired projects from eight dierent In January 2016 the revolving acquisition facility was vendors or vendor groups, including from RES under the 44 million drawn to fund the investment alongside Akuo Right of First Oer Agreement, demonstrating the breadth Energy in France.
of opportunities available to the Company.
During 2015 a total of 310.8 million of new equity capital As TRIG continues to expand its portfolio, the emphasis of was raised net of costs that alongside the reinvestment the Investment Manager will be on investing in a variety of of surplus investment income funded the repayments of projects in the UK, France and Ireland, while also the revolving acquisition facility of 272.7 million.
considering additional appropriate geographies for In addition to the revolving acquisition facility, the projects investment in Northern Europe maintaining a minimum may have underlying project level debt.
There is an investment of 50% of the portfolio by value in the UK, as additional gearing limit in respect of such debt, which is set out in the Companys Investment Policy.
With the non-recourse to TRIG, of 50% of the Gross Portfolio Value slowdown in potential UK opportunities expected in solar being the total enterprise value of such portfolio PV in particular in the medium-term and with the increased companies, measured at the time the debt is drawn down predictability of income ows from other maturing or acquired as part of an investment.
The Company may, technologies such as oshore wind, TRIG will review other in order to secure advantageous borrowing terms, secure technologies which may oer further geographical as well a project finance facility over a group of portfolio as technological diversication.
The project-level gearing at 31 December 2015 across the portfolio was 38% 2014: 35%.
The increase in FINANCING gearing within the Group during the year has arisen as a In February 2014, the Group entered into a three year result of the investment in Fred.
Olsen Wind in June 2015 80 million revolving acquisition facility with Royal Bank of where the projects came with existing long term Scotland and National Australia Bank to fund new amortising project finance debt in place with project level acquisitions and to provide letters of credit for future gearing slightly above the average level of the portfolio investment obligations should they be required.
Overall gearing may also change as February 2015 the facility was increased to 120 million a result of the purchase of further investments with or and in June 2015 to 150 million, reecting the growth of without project-level debt within them.
Long-term nonthe portfolio and the pipeline of acquisitions available.
recourse project-level debt in the portfolio has minimal To enable the 246 million investment alongside Fred.
renancing risk and has generally been secured during the Olsen Renewables made in June 2015, the facility was construction phase of the underlying investments.
temporarily increased to 204 million with the additional The composition of the portfolio is relevant in considering amount over 150 million being cancelled following the appropriate level of gearing to deploy within a repayment shortly after being drawn.
In considering the Companys This type of short-term nancing is limited to 30% of the portfolio alongside others it may be noted that, in the portfolio value.
It is intended that any facility used to opinion of the Managers: finance acquisition will be repaid, in normal market Certain of the Companys projects have no or very low conditions, within a year through equity fundraisings.
power price risk during the subsidy period, when project The acquisition facility was drawn down to fund debt is often in place, because of the design of the acquisitions twice in the year.
The facility, which was subsidy arrangements.
These include French feed-in 60.1 million drawn at the start of the year and then tari projects, projects with long-term xed price PPAs further utilised to fund the 8.6 million acquisition of the and, in due course, UK CfD projects.
Of the TRIG Four Burrows Solar Park in March 2015 was fully repaid portfolio, 19% by value falls into this category of which with the proceeds of the 102.3 million equity fund raise 12% are onshore wind projects and 7% are solar PV in March 2015.
The facility was then drawn to 204 million projects.
Olsen investment in June 2015 that was In respect of other operational risks, the Company is also nanced by 42 million of cash balances provided by invested in renewables technologies which are the March and April 2015 equity fund raises 110 million established and do not, for example, rely on feedstock combined total.
The revolving acquisition facility balance supplies or process engineering.
The portfolio includes was fully repaid by the July 2015 equity fund-raising which solar PV projects which typically enjoy lower variation enabled a 125 million repayment and the November to their periodic cash ows than wind projects as well THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 31 STRATEGIC REPORT continued as onshore wind which has less operational risk than ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL RESULTS oshore wind.
ACCOUNTING As at 31 December 2015, the Group had cash balances of At 31 December 2015, the Group had investments in 36 15.2 million, excluding cash held in investment project projects.
As an investment entity for IFRS reporting companies as working capital or otherwise.
purposes, the Company carries these investments at fair value.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE HEDGING At the year-end, 8% of the portfolio was located within BASIS OF PREPARATION France and the Republic of Ireland and hence is invested As first adopted in the annual financial statements of the in euro-denominated assets this proportion reduced Company for the year ended 31 December 2014, IFRS 10 during 2015 as a result of significant UK acquisitions made states that investment entities should measure all of their during the year.
In January 2016, as a result of the subsidiaries that are themselves investment entities at fair investment in French solar parks alongside Akuo, the value following the issuance of Investment entities: non-UK proportion increased from 8% to 14%.
Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28.
Being an investment entity, The Group enters into forward hedging contracts against The Renewables Infrastructure Group UK Limited TRIG its expected income from the euro-denominated UK, the Companys single direct subsidiary through which investments distributions over the short term, currently investments are purchased, is measured at fair value as approximately the next 18 months.
In addition the Group opposed to being consolidated on a line-by-line basis, enters into further forward hedging contracts such that, meaning its cash, debt and working capital balances are when combined with the income hedges, the overall included as an aggregate number in the fair value of level of hedge achieved in relation to the investments rather than the Groups current assets.
In euro-denominated assets is approximately 50%.
order to provide shareholders with more transparency into The Investment Manager keeps under review the level of the Groups capacity for investment, ability to make euros hedged, with the objective of minimising variability distributions, its operating costs and gearing levels, the in shorter term cash ows with a balance between results have been restated in the below pro forma tables.
managing the sterling value of cash ow receipts and markThe pro forma tables show the Groups results for the year to-market cash outflows.
ended 31 December 2015 and the comparative period on As well as addressing foreign exchange uncertainty on the a non-statutory Expanded Basis, where TRIG UK is conversion of the expected euro distributions from consolidated on a line-by-line basis, compared to the investments, the hedge also provides a partial oset to Statutory IFRS financial statements the Statutory IFRS foreign exchange movements in the portion of the portfolio Basis.
value relating to the euro-denominated assets.
The Directors consider the non-statutory Expanded Basis The impact on NAV per share of a 10% movement in the to be a more helpful basis for users of the accounts to euro exchange rate after the impact of hedges held by the understand the performance and position of the Company Group outside of the investment portfolio is 0.4p this is because key balances of the Group including cash and debt explained in more detail in Section 2.7 Valuation balances carried in TRIG UK and expenses incurred in TRIG Sensitivities euro sterling exchange rate.
This impact UK are shown in full rather than being netted o.
The increases to around 0.6p following the additional necessary adjustments to get from the Statutory IFRS Basis investment in euro-denominated assets in January.
to the non-statutory Expanded Basis are shown below.
Commentary is provided below on the primary statements of TRIG on this basis.
32 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 INCOME STATEMENT Year to 31 December 2015 Year to 31 December 2014 million million Statutory Expanded Statutory Expanded 1 1 Summary income statement IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis Operating income 15.9 11.4 27.3 23.1 7.0 30.1 Acquisition costs 1.1 1.1 1.5 1.5 Net operating income 15.9 10.3 26.2 23.1 5.5 28.6 Fund expenses 1.0 6.2 7.2 0.8 4.0 4.8 Foreign exchange gains 2.0 0.1 1.9 1.0 0.2 1.2 Finance costs 0.1 4.0 3.9 1.7 1.7 profit before tax 17.0 17.0 23.3 23.3 2 EPS 3.0p 3.0p 6.2p 6.2p 1 The following were incurred within TRIG UK: acquisition costs, the majority of expenses and acquisition facility fees and interest.
The income adjustment osets these cost adjustments.
2 Calculated based on the weighted average number of shares during the year being approximately 565.2 million shares.
Expanded Basis versus Statutory IFRS Basis The Statutory IFRS Basis nets o TRIG UKs costs, including overheads, management fees and acquisition costs against income.
Above we show the Expanded Basis, which included the expenses incurred within TRIG UK to enable users of the accounts to fully understand the Groups costs.
There is no dierence in profit before tax or earnings per share between the two bases.
Analysis of Expanded Basis financial results profit before tax for the year to 31 December 2015 was 17.0 million, generating earnings per share of 3.0p.
These results reect the adverse impact of the 8 July 2015 UK Summer Budget UK Summer Budget, in which the Chancellor announced the removal of the Climate Change Levy exemption for renewably sourced electricity from August 2015 and a reduction in future corporation tax rates to 19% from April 2017 and to 18% from April 2020, causing a net reduction of 20.2 million to TRIGs portfolio value, translating to a 3.9p loss per share.
Before the impact of the UK Summer Budget, profit before tax for the year to 31 December 2015 was 37.2 million, generating earnings per share of 6.6p, which compares to 23.3 million and earnings per share of 6.2p for the prior year to 31 December 2014.
The increases in net operating income before applying the impact of the Summer Budget and expenses in the year ended 31 December 2015 as compared to the previous year ended 31 December 2014 reect the increase in the size of the portfolio.
Acquisition costs, the costs to purchase new investments, represent 0.37% 2014: 0.83% of the cost of the assets acquired and are set out below.
Year to Year to 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 million million Acquisition costs 1.1 1.5 1 Purchase of new investments 299.3 179.8 Acquisition costs as % of investments 0.37% 0.83% 1 Purchase of new investments balance adjusted to include 57.2 million which relates to the investment in the Akuo French solar projects completed post balance sheet in January 2016 but with the acquisition costs for this investment having been incurred in 2015.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 33 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Fund expenses of 7.2 million 2014: 4.8 million, includes all operating expenses and 6.1 million 2014: 3.8 million fees for the Investment and Operations Managers.
Management fees are charged at 1% of Adjusted Portfolio Value as set out in more detail in Note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Foreign exchange gains on hedges held outside the portfolio of 1.9 million 2014: 1.2 million partially oset foreign exchange losses incurred on the value of Euro-denominated investments in the portfolio of 3.0 million 2014: 3.2 million resulting from the weakening of the Euro.
Portfolio value movements included in operating income are more fully described in Section 2.7 of this Strategic Report.
The net foreign exchange loss in the period is hence 1.1 million 2014: 2.0 million.
Finance costs relate to the interest and fees incurred relating to the Groups revolving acquisition facility and the increase in the year compared to the previous year reects the increase in the facility size to accommodate the investment in Fred.
Olsen Wind limited and the higher level of average drawings in the year.
ONGOING CHARGES Year to Year to 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Ongoing Charges Expanded Basis 000s 000s Investment and Operations Management fees 6,090 3,827 Audit fees 99 73 Directors fees and expenses 172 156 Other ongoing expenses 565 554 1 2 Total expenses 6,926 4,610 Average net asset value 576,136 370,273 Ongoing Charges Percentage OCP 1.20% 1.25% 1 Total expenses excludes 0.3 million of one-o professional fees incurred during the year.
2 Total expenses excludes 0.2 million of lost bid costs incurred during the year.
The Ongoing Charges Percentage is 1.20% 2014: 1.25%.
The ongoing charges have been calculated in accordance with AIC guidance and are dened as annualised ongoing charges i. e. excluding acquisition costs and other non-recurring items divided by the average published undiluted net asset value in the period.
The Ongoing Charges Percentage has been calculated on the Expanded Basis and therefore takes into consideration the expenses of TRIG UK as well as the Companys.
The reduction in OCP reects portfolio growth during the year as the Groups expenses are spread over a larger capital base.
There is no performance fee paid to any service provider.
BALANCE SHEET As at 31 December 2015 As at 31 December 2014 million million Statutory Expanded Statutory Expanded Summary balance sheet IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis Portfolio value 711.6 0.7 712.3 412.4 60.5 472.9 Working capital 0.1 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 Debt 60.1 60.1 Cash 14.9 0.3 15.2 12.4 0.5 12.9 Net assets 726.6 726.6 425.7 425.7 Net asset value per share 99.0p 99.0p 102.4p 102.4p 34 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Expanded Basis versus Statutory IFRS Basis The Statutory IFRS Basis includes TRIG UKs cash, debt and working capital balances as part of portfolio value.
There is no change to net assets as a result of the amended standard.
The majority of cash generated from investments had been passed up from TRIG UK to the Company at both 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
At 31 December 2015, TRIG UK had no drawings under its revolving acquisition facility 2014: 60.1 million drawn meaning the adjustment between the Statutory IFRS Basis and the Expanded Basis is fide minimis.
Analysis of Expanded Basis financial results Portfolio value grew by 239.4 million in the year to 712.3 million, substantially as a result of the two acquisitions in the year as described more fully in Section 2.7 of this Strategic Report.
Group cash at 31 December 2015 was 15.2 million 2014: 12.9 million and acquisition facility debt drawn was Nil 2014: 60.1 million.
Net assets grew by 300.9 million in the year to 726.6 million.
The Company raised 311.5 million after issue expenses of new equity during the year and produced a 37.2 million profit in the period before the impact of the Summer Budget, with net assets being stated after accounting for dividends paid in the period net of scrip take up of 28.3 million and the 20.2 million impact of the UK Summer Budget.
Other movements in net assets totalled 0.7 million, being Managers shares accruing in H2 2015 and to be issued on or around 31 March 2016.
Net asset value NAV per share as at 31 December 2015 was 99.0p compared to 102.4p at 31 December 2014.
NET ASSET VALUE NAV AND EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS RECONCILIATION Shares in issue Net assets NAV per share million million Net assets at 31 December 2014 102.4p 415.9 425.7 profit EPS to 31 December 2015 1 before impact of Summer Budget 6.6p 37.2 2 Impact of 8 July 2015 UK Summer Budget 3.9p 20.2 3 Shares issued net of costs 0.1p 312.5 311.5 Dividends paid in 2015 6.2p 32.8 4 Scrip dividend take-up 4.5 4.5 H2 2015 Managers shares to be issued 0.7 0.7 Net assets at 31 December 2015 99.0p 733.6 726.6 1 Calculated based on the weighted average number of shares during the year being 565.2 million shares.
2 Calculated based on the number of shares in issue at 8 July 2015 being 524.7 million shares.
If the 20.2 million UK Summer Budget impact had been divided by the weighted average number of shares during the year, 565.2 million shares, the EPS impact is 3.6p, which combined with the pre-UK Summer Budget EPS of 6.6p nets to the 3.0p EPS as reported in the Financial Statements.
3 Includes shares issued to Managers less costs during the year.
4 Scrip dividend take-up comprises 0.9 million shares, equating to 0.9 million, and 3.6 million shares, equating to 3.6 million, issued in lieu of the dividends paid in March 2015 and September 2015, respectively.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 35 STRATEGIC REPORT continued CASH FLOW STATEMENT Year to 31 December 2015 Year to 31 December 2014 million million Statutory Expanded Statutory Expanded Summary cash ow statement IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis Cash received from investments 24.0 18.4 42.4 25.6 9.7 35.3 Operating and finance costs 0.8 7.6 8.4 1.0 3.7 4.7 Cash ow from operations 23.2 10.8 34.0 24.6 6.0 30.6 Debt arrangement costs 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.7 Foreign exchange gains 3.2 0.1 3.1 0.2 0.1 0.3 Issue of share capital net of costs 311.7 0.9 310.8 103.5 0.5 103.0 Acquisition facility drawn repaid 60.1 60.1 60.1 60.1 Purchase of new investments including acquisition costs 307.3 51.7 255.6 103.0 76.8 179.8 Distributions paid 28.3 28.3 15.8 15.8 Cash movement in period 2.5 0.2 2.3 9.5 12.8 3.3 Opening cash balance 12.4 0.5 12.9 2.9 13.3 16.2 Net cash at end of period 14.9 0.3 15.2 12.4 0.5 12.9 Expanded Basis versus Statutory IFRS Basis The most significant dierences in the year between the Statutory IFRS Basis and the Expanded Basis cash ows arise because the Statutory IFRS Basis excludes the revolving credit facility debt repaid by TRIG UK during the year to 31 December 2015 facilitated by inter-company funding from the Company following equity fund-raisings.
Other dierences include income received by TRIG UK applied to reinvestment and expenses incurred by TRIG UK, including the debt facility arrangement costs and movements in TRIG UKs working capital that are excluded under the Statutory IFRS Basis.
Analysis of Expanded Basis financial results Cash received from investments in the period was 42.4 million 2014: 35.3 million.
The increase in cash received compared with the previous year reects the increase in the size of the portfolio.
Cash ow from operations of 34.0 million 2014: 30.6 million covers cash dividends paid in the period of 28.3 million 2014: 15.8 million, which excludes 4.5 million 2014: 4.3 million of scrip dividends, by 1.2 times.
The reduced dividend cover reects in particular the reduction in income during the year due to reduced power prices in the period.
The 34.0 million of cash ow from operations was after 16.9 million of scheduled repayments of project-level debt made by the portfolio project companies during the year which contribute to NAV.
Share issue proceeds net of costs totalling 310.8 million 2014: 103.0 million reects the net proceeds of the 250 million shares issued during the year under the Share Issuance Programme launched in December 2014 and a further 62.0 million shares by way of tap issue in November 2015.
In the year cash balances increased by 2.3 million and 255.6 million was invested in acquisitions.
This was funded through the net addition of 310.8 million of share capital raised and 7.2 million reinvestment of investment income less 60.1 million of acquisition facility debt repaid.
36 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 2.7 VALUATION OF THE GROUPS PORTFOLIO INTRODUCTION The Investment Manager is responsible for carrying out the fair market valuation of the Groups investments which is presented to the Directors for their approval and adoption.
The valuation is carried out on a six monthly basis as at 31 December and 30 June each year.
For non-market traded investments being all the investments in the current portfolio, the valuation is based on a discounted cash ow methodology, and adjusted in accordance with the European Venture Capital Associations valuation guidelines where appropriate to comply with IAS 39, given the special nature of infrastructure investments.
Where an investment is traded, a market quote is used.
The valuation for each investment reected in the portfolio valuation is derived from the application of an appropriate discount rate to reect the perceived risk to the investments future cash ows to give the present value of those cash ows.
The Investment Manager exercises its judgment in assessing both the expected future cash ows from each investment based on the projects life and the financial models produced by each project company and the appropriate discount rate to apply.
This is the same method as applied since the inception of the Company.
The Directors Valuation of the portfolio as at 31 December 2015 was 712.3 million.
This valuation compares to 472.9 million as at 31 December 2014 and 699.4 million at 30 June 2015.
VALUATION MOVEMENTS A breakdown of the movement in the Directors valuation in the year is illustrated in the chart and set out in the table below.
Valuation movement in the year to 31 December 2015 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 37 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Valuation movement during the year 31 December 2015 million million Valuation at 31 December 2014 472.9 New investments in the period 254.6 Cash distributions from portfolio 42.4 Rebased valuation of portfolio 685.1 Forex movement on euro investments 3.0 Change in forecast power prices 26.0 Change in economic assumptions interest rates 0.7 Change in economic assumptions discount rate 10.7 Impact of Summer Budget 2015 20.2 Portfolio return 65.0 Valuation at 31 December 2015 712.3 Allowing for investments of 254.6 million and cash hence 1.1 million after netting o the 1.9 million receipts from investments of 42.4 million, the rebased benefit of the foreign exchange hedge.
The valuation at 31 December The Investment Manager keeps under review the level 2015 is 712.3 million, representing an increase over the of exposure to the euro and utilises hedges, with the rebased valuation of 4.0% over the year or 4.8% when the objective of minimising variability in shorter term cash timing of acquisitions is taken into account, which would ows with a balance between managing the sterling increase to 8.5% if the impact of the UK Summer Budget value of cash ow receipts and potential was excluded.
Each movement between the rebased valuation and the ii Forecast power prices: Reductions in power price 31 December 2015 valuation is considered in turn below: forecasts during the year had the impact of reducing i Foreign exchange: Weakening of the euro versus sterling the valuation of the portfolio by a net 26.0 million.
has led to a 3.0 million loss on foreign exchange in the The valuation uses updated power price forecasts for period in relation to the euro-denominated investments each of the markets in which TRIG invests, namely the located in France and the Republic of Ireland or a GB market, the Irish Single Electricity Market, and the 1.1 million loss after the benefit of hedges as stated French market.
At 31 December 2014 euro-denominated As in the later months of 2014, during 2015 power investments comprised 13% and at 31 December 2015 price forecasts have continued to decline.
The main comprised 8% of the portfolio the reduction being drivers reducing the forecast power prices continue to largely due to the impact of acquisitions in the period be reduced short-term gas prices caused in part by a which were wholly in the UK.
warmer than average winter 2014 2015 and hence The Group enters into forward hedging contracts lower demand, combined with higher stocks of against its expected income from euro-denominated Liqueed Natural Gas LNG during the period, and investments over the short term, currently lower gas prices being forecast over the longer term.
In addition the The weighted average power price used to determine Group enters into further forward hedging contracts the Directors valuation is comprised of the blend of such that, when combined with the income hedges, the forecasts for each of the three power markets in the overall level of hedge achieved in relation to the which TRIG is invested after applying expected Power euro-denominated assets is approximately 50%.
Purchase Agreement power sales discounts.
The As the euro depreciated the currency hedge generated forecast assumes an increase in power prices in real a 1.9 million gain in the year to 31 December 2015 terms over time.
and serves to reduce the sensitivity to movements in the euro sterling exchange rate.
The negative impact on net assets of the foreign exchange movement is 38 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 1 Illustrative blended power price curve for TRIGs portfolio 1 Power price forecasts used in the Directors valuation for each of GB, the Single Electricity Market of Ireland and France are based on analysis by the Investment Manager using data from leading power market advisers.
In the illustrative blended price curve, the power price forecasts are weighted by P50 estimates of production for each of the projects in the Companys 31 December 2015 Portfolio.
iii Change in Economic assumptions interest rates: and the acquisitions in the period was to leave it A reduction in interest receivable payable rates has unchanged at 9.0%.
been applied to cash deposits and project level debt There have been no changes made to the discount rate not subject to xed rate swaps in the UK projects to methodology applied to the portfolio valuation.
The reect lower interest rate projections applicable in the discount rate used for valuing each investment UK rates now assumed are 1% until March 2019 and represents an assessment of the rate of return at a 2.5% rate thereafter previously 3% was assumed.
which infrastructure investments with similar risk This change in assumption leads to an increase in the proles would trade at on the open market.
valuation of the UK investments of 0.7 million.
v Portfolio return: This refers to the balance of valuation iv Change in Economic Assumptions discount rates: movements in the period excluding i to iv above and During the year, there has continued to be strong represents an uplift of 65.0 million.
This represents a demand for income-producing infrastructure assets, 9.5% increase on the rebased value of the portfolio.
including renewable energy projects, as the market The balance of portfolio return mostly reects the matures and more investors seek to gain exposure.
increase in the net present value of the projected This has resulted in a continued reduction in the future cash ows brought forward by a year at the prevailing discount rates applied for operating projects prevailing portfolio discount rate 9.0%.
which partially osets the reductions in power price vi Impact of UK Summer Budget 2015: The UK Chancellor forecasts.
Overall the Investment Manager, based on of the Exchequer announced on 8 July 2015 changes its experience of bidding and transacting in the to tax regulations which impacted the value of the secondary market for renewable infrastructure assets, portfolio as follows: has applied an average reduction of 0.3% in discount rates.
The removal, eective 1 August 2015, of the exemption for renewably sourced electricity from Without the impact of acquisitions in the period, the the Climate Change Levy a tax on some nonportfolio weighted average valuation discount rate domestic supplies of energy to help fund carbon would have slightly reduced.
However during the reduction initiatives and provide energy eciency period the Company made significant acquisitions in incentives.
Many renewables projects in the UK UK wind projects including in-place project finance derived benefit by way of the sale of Levy debt to enhance their returns the investment in Fred.
Exemption Certicates LECs which have been Olsen Wind.
The valuation discount rate of the Fred.
issued to accredited generators of renewable Olsen Wind investment is higher than the portfolio energy.
LECs were expected to provide applicable weighted average valuation discount rate.
The overall UK projects in the portfolio with incremental impact on the weighted average portfolio valuation annual near-term revenue of approximately 4 per discount rate of the market discount rate compression MWh and were expected to represent THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 39 STRATEGIC REPORT continued approximately 4% of the Companys current The combined impact on the portfolio valuation of the portfolio revenues, and removal of the projected income from the sale of LECs and the reductions in UK corporation tax is an adverse Future reductions in the rate of UK corporation tax impact of 20.2 million.
VALUATION SENSITIVITIES The Investment Manager has provided sensitivity analysis to show the impact of changes in key assumptions adopted to arrive at the valuation.
For each of the sensitivities, it is assumed that potential changes occur independently of each other with no eect on any other base case assumption, and that the number of investments in the portfolio remains static throughout the model life.
All of the NAV per share sensitivities assume 733.6 million Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2015 which includes those in issue as well as approximately 0.7 million shares due to be issued to the Managers in March 2016 as part-payment of the management fees.
The analysis below shows the sensitivity of the portfolio value to changes in key assumptions as follows: Discount rate assumptions The weighted average valuation discount rate applied to calculate the portfolio valuation is 9.0% at 31 December 2015.
The sensitivity shows the impact on valuation of increasing or decreasing this rate by 0.5%.
Discount rate sensitivity 0.5% Base 9.0% 0.5% Directors valuation 28.5m 712.3m 27.0m Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share 3.9p share 3.7p share Energy yield assumptions The table below shows the sensitivity of the portfolio value to changes in the energy yield applied to cash ows from project companies in the portfolio.
The terms P90, P50 and P10 are explained below.
Energy yield sensitivity P90 10-year Base P50 P10 10-year Directors valuation 78.5m 712.3m 77.0m Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share 10.7p share 10.5p share The base case assumes a P50 level of output.
The P50 output is the estimated annual amount of electricity generation in MWh that has a 50% probability of being exceeded both in any single year and over the long term and a 50% probability of being under achieved.
Hence the P50 is the expected level of generation over the long term.
The sensitivity illustrates the eect of assuming P90 10-year a downside case and P10 10-year an upside case energy production scenarios.
A P90 10-year downside case assumes the average annual level of electricity generation that has a 90% probability of being exceeded over a 10 year period.
A P10 10-year upside case assumes the average annual level of electricity generation that has a 10% probability of being exceeded over a 10 year period.
This means that the portfolio aggregate production outcome for any given 10 year period would be expected to fall somewhere between these P90 and P10 levels with an 80% confidence level, with a 10% probability of it falling below that range of outcomes and a 10% probability of it exceeding that range.
The sensitivity includes the portfolio eect which reduces the variability because of the diversication of the portfolio.
The sensitivity is applied throughout the life of each asset in the portfolio even though this exceeds 10 years in all cases.
Power price assumptions The sensitivity considers a at 10% movement in power prices for all years, i. e. the eect of adjusting the forecast electricity price assumptions in each of the jurisdictions applicable to the portfolio down by 10% and up by 10% from the base case assumptions for each year throughout the operating life of the portfolio.
Power price sensitivity 10% Base 10% Directors valuation 56.0m 712.3m 55.8m Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share 7.6p share 7.6p share 40 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Ination assumptions The projects income streams are principally a mix of subsidies, which are amended each year with ination, and power prices, which the sensitivity assumes will move with ination.
The projects management, maintenance and tax expenses typically move with ination but debt payments are xed.
This results in the portfolio returns and valuation being positively correlated to ination.
The portfolio valuation assumes 2.75% p. a. ination for the UK based on the Retail Prices Index and 2.0% p. a. for each of France and Ireland based on the Consumer Prices Indices.
The sensitivity illustrates the eect of a 0.5% decrease and a 0.5% increase from the assumed annual ination rates in the financial model for each year throughout the operating life of the portfolio.
Ination rate sensitivity 0.5% Base 0.5% Directors valuation 35.0m 712.3m 39.2m Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share 4.8p share 5.4p share Operating costs at project company level The sensitivity shows the eect of a 10% decrease and a 10% increase to the base case for annual operating costs for the portfolio, in each case assuming that the change to the base case for operating costs occurs with eect from 1 January 2016 and that change to the base case remains reected consistently thereafter during the life of the projects.
Operating cost sensitivity 10% Base 10% Directors valuation 23.0m 712.3m 23.2m Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share 3.1p share 3.2p share Euro sterling exchange rates This sensitivity shows the eect of a 10% decrease and a 10% increase in the value of the euro relative to sterling used for the 31 December 2015 valuation based on a 31 December 2015 exchange rate of 1.3569 to 1.
In each case it is assumed that the change in exchange rate occurs from 1 January 2016 and thereafter remains constant at the new level throughout the life of the projects.
At the year-end, 8% of the portfolio was located in France and Ireland comprising euro-denominated assets.
The Group has entered into forward hedging of the expected euro distributions for the next 18 months and in addition placed further hedges to reach a position where approximately 50% of the valuation of euro-denominated assets is hedged.
The hedge reduces the sensitivity of the portfolio value to foreign exchange movements and accordingly the impact is shown net of the benefit of the foreign exchange hedge in place.
Exchange rate sensitivity 10% Base 10% Directors valuation 2.6m 712.3m 2.6m Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share 0.4p share 0.4p share The euro sterling exchange rate sensitivity does not attempt to illustrate the indirect inuences of currencies on UK power prices which are interrelated with other inuences on power prices.
The impact of a 10% move in the euro sterling exchange rate increases to around 0.6p following the additional investment in euro-denominated assets made by TRIG in January.
Interest rates applying to project company debt and cash balances This shows the sensitivity of the portfolio valuation to the eects of a reduction of 1% and an increase of 2% in interest rates.
The change is assumed with eect from 1 January 2016 and continues unchanged throughout the life of the assets.
The portfolio is relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates.
This is an advantage of TRIGs approach of favouring long-term structured project nancing over shorter term corporate debt which is secured with the substantial majority of this debt having the benefit of long-term interest rate swaps which x the interest cost to the projects.
Interest rate sensitivity 1% Base 2% Directors valuation 1.0m 712.3m 2.3m Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share 0.1p share 0.3p share THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 41 STRATEGIC REPORT continued ILLUSTRATION OF KEY SENSITIVITIES The following chart illustrates the sensitivity of TRIGs NAV per share to changes in key input assumptions with the labels indicating the impact of the sensitivities on portfolio value : It should be noted that all of TRIGs sensitivities above are stated after taking into account the impact of project level gearing on returns.
42 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 In the UK, TRIGs core market, the recently-reduced levels 2.8 OUTLOOK of support from the current Government for new solar PV Market Conditions and Impact on TRIGs Operating and onshore wind developments, while not welcome for Portfolio developers, appear to be consistent with overall UK 2020 During 2015 and into early 2016, the UK and European renewables targets providing that oshore wind in renewables markets have continued to be aected by the particular fulls its targets.
With the exception of the same trends as in 2014 of lower current and forecast power unexpected removal in 2015 by the UK Treasury of the prices oset by a tightening in market discount rates for exemption for renewables generators from the Climate operating projects, as a wide range of investors continue Change Levy, the changes in 2015 have not aected TRIGs to exhibit demand for investment in large-scale renewable operating portfolio or its potential returns.
The UK energy infrastructure projects.
The ongoing weakness in Government continues to promote new developments in wholesale power prices to some degree influenced by low oshore wind relative to onshore wind and solar PV.
oil prices have fed through to lower wholesale power price To support oshore wind in the UK and possibly other forecasts for both the near and long term, which have technologies, it is expected that a second round Contractsweighed on the NAV as the portfolios electricity sales for-Dierence programme deferred from the end of 2015 linked to wholesale power prices are a significant will be launched in the year ahead.
This follows the first proportion of long-term portfolio project revenues.
round which was successfully completed in early 2015 and which achieved a more cost-ecient level of support for There are many factors at play in wholesale power pricing those projects that won contracts.
Beyond the near-term concerns such as lower levels of Chinese economic growth, TRIG also continues to monitor changes in other areas that recent warm winters and the potential for increased energy aect the growth and integration of renewables.
supply from Iran and others, longer-term power priceAs renewables are generally intermittent generators, it is related considerations have a greater impact on TRIGs essential for grid networks to have sucient back-up future cash ows and valuation.
These may include matters capacity which includes some fossil fuel generation that is such as long-term local and global economic growth rates, supported by the UK Governments Capacity Mechanism.
geopolitical changes, technological changes for both fossil TRIG also assumes a level of discount will continue to be fuels and renewable energy, deferral or cancellation of required in power purchase agreements negotiated by harder-to-access fossil resources, changes to the build-out renewables generators with electricity suppliers which help rate of previously-planned fossil fuel or nuclear generation to compensate suppliers for the costs of grid balancing.
projects, longer-term trends in seasonal temperatures, the Onshore wind projects in some locations are approaching rate of electrication of transport or heating as well as the grid parity i. e. viability of new developments without deployment of further local and international carbon subsidy, although achieving that may require further reduction initiatives including carbon taxes, demandexibility in national and local government policies to allow response projects and products, as well as public support new, larger turbines to be installed.
As some operating where required for additional generation or distribution projects begin to reach the end of their subsidy projects.
While wholesale power prices are notoriously arrangements in the years ahead, repowering with larger, dicult to predict, TRIG may benefit from upside in the more productive turbines also becomes an opportunity for investment portfolio if power prices rebound over time TRIG, in relation to its portfolio as well as new and indeed TRIGs assumption is that power prices will opportunities in its target markets.
stabilise and recover from todays relatively low levels at Based on the current outlook for the portfolio and TRIGs rates approximately 2% ahead of ination on average over assessment of the markets in which it operates, TRIG is the long term.
well-positioned to continue to deliver its target returns, On government support for renewables, the UN Paris although it should be noted that the long-term delivery of conference in late 2015 provided a boost for global the target IRR will require stabilisation and recovery in momentum in favour of a continued rollout of power prices from their current depressed levels as decarbonisation initiatives, on an increasingly coordinated discussed above.
The Board and the Managers also seek and ratcheted basis, including the further build-out of opportunities to improve the performance ahead of target renewables generation capacity and supporting through the delivery of additional operational scale technologies.
Further, the year 2015 has recently been eciencies and through prudent portfolio and financial confirmed as the warmest globally on record partly management.
exacerbated by the current El Nino eect, eclipsing the record set in 2014 and providing further impetus to overall decarbonisation eorts.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 43 STRATEGIC REPORT continued The declared interim dividend of 3.11p with respect to the In addition, the UK oshore wind market continues to six months to 31 December 2015 is due to be paid on 31 expand on the back of strong UK Government support, March 2016, producing an aggregate annual dividend for with the current approximately 5GW of installed capacity 2015 of 6.19p.
As noted in the Chairmans statement, in expected to double by 2020.
As highlighted in the 2016 TRIG plans to move towards a quarterly dividend Chairmans Statement, the increasing predictability of the from semi-annual, targeting 1.5625p per share per oshore wind sector in both revenues and costs, as the quarter amounting to an aggregate target dividend of early generations of installed projects establish meaningful 6.25p per share for the financial year to 31 December track records and the overall industry scale produces 2016.
This reects an inationary uplift on the aggregate increasing eciencies, results in this sector becoming dividend for 2015.
The first quarterly dividend is expected appropriate for consideration for investment by TRIG.
With to be paid in June 2016 with respect to the three months France and other European markets also driving to 31 March 2016. renewables growth across multiple technologies, TRIG will continue to assess an active pipeline of new investment TRIGs Investment Pipeline and Acquisition Approach opportunities beyond the UK.
InfraRed, as the Companys Investment Manager, continues With long-term secular momentum in the allocation of to report strong prospective deal ow following the capital to infrastructure as well as a continuation of the low approximately 50% increase in the portfolio scale by interest rate era, increasing competition for investment is generating capacity in 2015.
The UK solar PV pipeline for to be expected for operating projects across renewables in acquisition after 2016 is expected to reduce following the general.
This makes the continued careful management of reductions in support schemes for new developments the acquisition pipeline a critical factor.
TRIGs access to after several exceptional years of growth to about 9GW knowledge on broader energy and infrastructure markets, and a high rate of transfer to long-term owners.
For the provided by its Managers, InfraRed and RES, and TRIGs onshore wind sector it is a more positive story.
There is exibility to invest across dierent technologies and about 9GW of current installed onshore wind capacity in jurisdictions are both important advantages.
the UK, which is expected to increase to around 12 GW by 2020.
With development and construction cycles being much longer for onshore wind than solar PV and with project sizes generally being much higher with fewer investors active in this more complex technology, TRIG expects to see a broad range of onshore wind projects and portfolios available for sale in the years ahead as utilities and other developers gradually recycle capital invested in developments which have become operational.
44 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 2.9 TEN LARGEST INVESTMENTS Set out below are the ten largest investments in the portfolio.
As at 31 December 2015, the largest investment the Crystal Rig II Wind Farm accounted for approximately 12% of the portfolio by value.
In total, the 10 largest projects accounted for approximately 56% of the project portfolio by value 2014: 65%.
% of project portfolio % of project portfolio by value at by value at Project Location Type 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Crystal Rig II Scotland Wind 12% Hill of Towie Scotland Wind 6% 10% Green Hill Scotland Wind 5% 9% Rothes II Scotland Wind 5% Parley England Solar 5% 8% Pauls Hill Scotland Wind 5% Earlseat Scotland Wind 5% 8% Mid Hill Scotland Wind 5% Egmere Aireld England Solar 4% 7% Altahullion England Solar 4% 5% Stour Fields England Solar 5% Roos England Wind 5% Haut Languedoc France Wind 5% Grange England Wind 4% Total 56% 65% Further information on each of these investments and on other investments in the portfolio are set out in Section 2.3.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 45 STRATEGIC REPORT continued 2.10 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES While there are a broad range of risk elements that may potentially impact on TRIG including ones relating to general macro-economic factors, there are three particular categories of variables that may be particularly relevant, given the nature of its business: 1 portfolio energy production: 2 electricity price movements: 3 regulation, including levels of government support schemes for renewables.
These risks are long-term in nature, although other near-term risks exist, including those associated for example with the UKs relationship with the European Union.
TRIGs approach to risk is one of systematic assessment, on an investment project basis on acquisition, and as part of the overall portfolio management over time as external dynamics shift.
Major Risk Category Key Mitigants Portfolio electricity Established nature of onshore wind and solar PV technologies production Complementary seasonal bias of wind and solar production Number and diversity of portfolio projects by generating technology, weather system and specic locality Experience of RES as Operations Manager in monitoring and improving portfolio production Diversity of underlying equipment manufacturers and O&M suppliers Improvements in technology providing future opportunities for repowering and storage Electricity prices Approximately two-thirds of TRIGs current portfolio-level revenue is xed-type in nature, without power price exposure 9 Electricity is sold into three distinct electricity markets GB, Irish SEM and France Long-term nature of revenues and forward pricing mechanisms provides some protection against short-term uctuations Revenues from dierent projects shift towards greater power exposure at dierent times depending on support scheme, commissioning date and contractual arrangements Recent falls in electricity prices provide upside opportunity from economic growth, increased carbon taxes, generation supply constraints or other factors that may cause prices to rebound In the longer term, storage technologies may provide ability for renewables to become dispatchable and able to capture higher prevailing prices at times of higher demand Regulation government UK and Northern European economies expected to continue to demonstrate a robust support for renewables approach to grandfathering commitments to existing installed capacity Future subsidies generally tracking the fall in development costs of maturing technologies, providing appropriate public value-for-money Recent emphasis on energy security as a key item on the public agenda, in light of both dwindling North Sea fossil fuel production and broader geopolitical concerns Strong public and political momentum in TRIGs markets of focus towards maintaining a growth in the contribution of renewables towards long-term United Nations, European Union and national decarbonisation eorts.
9 Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland form a Single Electricity Market SEM distinct from that operating in Great Britain.
46 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Further comment on these categories is provided below: subsidies together with power price agreements PPAs with xed prices or price oors, as well as some xed price PORTFOLIO ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION feed-in taris FITs.
The Company has been structured to provide the In 2016, the portfolio expects to benefit from Investment Manager with the exibility to invest across a approximately two-thirds of its project-level revenues variety of markets and technologies, to enable coming from xed PPAs, FITs, renewables obligation diversication across weather systems, renewables certicates and other embedded benets, i. e. revenue technologies and regulatory regimes.
Onshore wind and sources other than those based on electricity market solar PV, the main focus, are well understood technologies, prices.
The Contracts for Dierence feed-in tari regime deployed extensively both in Europe and world-wide.
This launched in the UK with a successful first auction round operating experience provides a sound basis on which to completed in early 2015 and available for future predict energy yield performance based on average longcommissioned assets if further rounds are launched will term wind speed and solar irradiation data, as well as plant likely lead to further security over the revenue stream as availability and maintenance costs, especially when these more assets are added which benefit from this regime, technologies are deployed in a large geographically providing predetermined pricing for 15 years from diversied portfolio with an experienced Operations commissioning.
In general the expectation is that in the long-term Wind power and solar PV, while both termed European energy wholesale prices will increase in real intermittent sources of electricity, compared say to coal terms from current levels.
While the fall in oil prices has or gas whose energy outputs can be planned, in influenced gas prices, it should be noted that oil is not in combination provide a smoothing eect, with solar more itself a significant feedstock for electricity production.
productive in the summer and wind more productive in the Other factors have also contributed to lower recent power winter and with the absolute level of the two energy prices.
These include the mild recent winters experienced sources month by month being uncorrelated.
In addition, in the UK and Northern Europe causing a build-up in gas solar provides greater predictability through the year, supplies and the absence of major disruptions to European compensating for wind which is more variable in the short gas supply versus expectations.
While further power price term.
Wind also typically oers a slightly higher return on falls cannot be excluded, there are upside opportunities investment reecting this variability.
should the market experience any reversal of the recent The second element important for maintaining productivity trend.
is minimising operating downtime or maximising Higher wholesale power prices may arise from factors such availability.
RES, as Operations Manager, has over 30 as increases in demand for electrical power from growing years track record in both developing and managing economies, increases in carbon taxes following further renewables and has the experience of global operations, international cooperation in decarbonisation initiatives, bringing considerable expertise both to the prediction of trends towards greater electrical usage in the energy yields prior to acquiring assets, and to operation of transportation sector, the ongoing phasing out of heavily assets in order to optimise energy production.
This is done polluting coal-red power stations and the net reduction through careful planning and execution of project in nuclear energy generation expected in the EU over the operations and prompt repair works both directly and years ahead.
With the potential for further progress in through subcontractors.
As onshore wind and solar PV are storage technologies, intermittent producers of electricity now well-proven technologies with easy access to sites for like wind and solar generation plants may become partially maintenance compared to oshore wind, typical levels of or wholly dispatchable, which can increase the average availability in a given year are around 96% to 98%.
price received for power sales.
This can reduce the impact Adjustments are made to TRIGs cash ow assumptions in the Companys valuations of the cannibalisation eect prior to the acquisition of an asset for example a schedule which takes into account the expectation that multiple of panel degradation over time for solar PV assets or higher weather-correlated renewable sources provide the grid planned maintenance costs for older wind assets.
with supply simultaneously, thereby reducing spot prices for power.
ELECTRICITY PRICES In valuing the TRIG portfolio it is necessary to take a longWhile greater network interconnections and coordination term view on electricity prices particularly wholesale between EU regions can be expected, further convergence prices which is done in consultation with independent of wholesale or retail prices is expected to be gradual.
It should be noted that TRIG is TRIGs portfolio is split across several jurisdictions, the more concerned about long-term energy prices, as in the Company has the benefit of diversication across electricity near term its revenues comprise a large proportion of markets.
The Company further benets from the THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 47 STRATEGIC REPORT continued experience of the Managers in evaluating dierent contract by 195 nations on initiatives to support decarbonisation.
types typically with major utilities to provide While this summit fell short of a denitive global appropriate exposure to, or in some cases protection from, agreement on country-specic deliverables, with the level predicted price movements.
of burden on developed versus developing countries remaining a key point of debate, the outcome is a clear Finally, the impact of future power prices can be smoothed consensus for escalating activity via 5-yearly ratchet out through the portfolio mix and growth strategy.
The mechanisms which look beyond short-term individual portfolio valuation is based on wholesale prices in three country interests.
The outcome recognises the importance dierent European markets with diering future pricing of practical recognition of the need for continued dynamics.
With dierent portfolio projects commissioned international monitoring and adjusting of initiatives both at dierent times in dierent support jurisdictions and at country-level and internationally.
In the longer-term, technologies, the portfolio experiences a gradual transition future decarbonisation targets i. e. beyond the EUs current from subsidy-based to power price-based exposure over 2020 targets and supporting initiatives may provide a time.
Also, projects are purchased at dierent points in the further boost for renewables investment.
power price cycle, with the most recent power forecasts being incorporated for each acquisition, producing a costIn the UK, the Government views that solar PV and onshore averaging eect.
The Group may be expected to acquire wind technologies have developed to a volume already some portfolio projects at times when the long-term power nearing sector targets for 2020 and that recent roll-out price forecasts utilised turn out to be relatively high, levels risk over-delivery assuming other technologies also though these would be oset over time by projects meet their sector targets.
Accordingly it has implemented purchased when the power forecasts turn out to have been changes to incentives to curtail build-out of these at relatively low levels.
This is expected to lead to fewer pipeline opportunities for TRIG, most notably in solar, as assets here If materially lower long-term energy prices in our typically pass from developer to end-investor during or investment markets arise, a reduction in the valuation of soon after construction, but also over time in onshore the existing portfolio would be expected, although new wind, until these assets can be delivered without incentives assets may be available more cheaply.
Forecasts for future above those of competing fossil-fuel technologies.
energy prices evolve over time and whilst asset values may not directly follow any such re-forecast from selected thirdThe UK Government continues to support the roll-out of party providers at any given time, shareholders should oshore wind which remains underweight versus its expect some variation in asset valuation from period to targets.
While lower levels of Government support for period, as and when a material movement from prior further development of onshore wind and solar PV projects expectations is identied by the Investment Manager.
may in the medium-term reduce the volume of pipeline opportunities for TRIG to address in these sectors, a GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR RENEWABLES moderation in the rate of new development makes those The fundamental challenges for the future of the EU energy projects that proceed including further build-out in market, in which renewables play an increasing part, oshore wind easier for the electricity system to integrate remain in place.
These challenges include the imperative and absorb.
Ultimately this may lower the risk for TRIGs of reducing carbon dioxide and other noxious emissions, portfolio in the longer term and, additionally, may help the desire to improve energy security and the requirement support valuations.
to replace inecient or aging energy infrastructure.
The France is continuing its policy of reinforcing the build-out gradual emergence of local shale oil and gas opportunities of renewables, including solar, onshore and oshore wind.
may partially mitigate any reduction in North Sea oil and The French Government has stated its objective of gas production, but the expectation is that governments reducing its reliance on nuclear energy to 50% of electricity will continue to require a signicantly increased generated by 2025 from close to three-quarters today, contribution by renewables technologies to meet the with much of the deficit to be covered by renewable regions needs for energy security and carbon reduction.
The French market and other North European Geographically, the Company focuses its investments on markets provide considerable opportunity for further the UK and Northern Europe where there is a strong diversication of the TRIG portfolio.
emphasis on delivering versus challenging renewable Following the 2015 general election in the UK, the new energy deployment targets for 2020, and showing Government unexpectedly removed renewables consistency in grandfathering prior subsidy commitments generators exemption from the Climate Change Levy with to operating plants.
eect from 1 August 2015 and the associated revenues The United Nations COP 21 meetings in Paris in from the sale of Levy Exemption Certicates LECs.
This November and December 2015 culminated in agreement impacted TRIGs operating portfolio to the extent of 48 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 reducing medium-term revenues by 4% and NAV by a economies weigh on national budgets.
Adjustment for this removal was already on established financial commitments inevitably impact on fully reected in the Companys net asset value as set out the attractiveness of an economy and government creditin the Companys 2015 interim report in August 2015.
The worthiness and threaten access to cheap global capital Company had engaged in proceedings, along with other required to finance deficits.
participants in the renewables industry, for a judicial review BEPS: The OECD presented on 5 October 2015 a final regarding the insuciency of the notice period given by package of measures for a reform of the international tax HM Treasury when removing LECs.
On 10 February 2016, rules regarding the OECD G20 Base Erosion and profit the UK High Court of Justice dismissed an application for Shifting BEPS project that was then endorsed by judicial review to which the Companys proceedings were G20 Finance Ministers on 8 October 2015.
The Company does not assume any recovery of HM Treasury issued a consultation document on tax losses incurred and fully accounted for in 2015 as a result deductibility of corporate interest expense on 22 October of the removal of LECs.
2015 which sought feedback on the potential amendments to UK tax arrangements.
The Company, along with others OTHER RISK FACTORS in the infrastructure sector, has taken part in the There are a range of other risks, for example those that are consultation, and continues to engage with the UK tax more macroeconomic in nature, including the potential authorities as the proposals develop.
Having taken advice impact of material changes in market discount rates, from the Companys tax advisers, the Investment ination, interest rates, tax rates or exchange rates.
The Managers initial assessment is that, should the BEPS estimated impact of these on NAV, together with the proposals be incorporated into UK tax law within the range impact of power price, energy yield and operating cost of expected outcomes, the impact, if any, on the variability, is illustrated in the sensitivities section of the Companys net asset value is not expected to be material.
Companys portfolio valuation in Section 2.7.
It is also not expected that the new rules arising from the Other risk factors which TRIG has been monitoring closely BEPS project will be introduced in the UK to take eect include: before April 2017.
However, there can be no certainty that the eect of such rules will be in accordance with the Interest rates: While interest rates remain low in our Investment Managers assessment of the information markets of focus, the recent increase in US interest rates published to date.
As announced by TRIG in October 2015, have turned attention to the potential impact of higher the Company and its advisers will continue to monitor the rates elsewhere in due course.
Current low levels of potential impact of the BEPS project and will make further ination and modest European GDP growth rates suggest announcements, if required, in due course.
a slow and manageable trajectory of interest rate recovery over time.
To the extent that higher rates are correlated In addition, there are other risks also regularly assessed by with higher ination, the portfolio is protected by a natural TRIG including in the areas of operations, markets, hedge through exposure to ination-linked contracts and liquidity, credit, counterparties and taxation, and these are to power prices which can be expected over the long-term set out in the following section on risk management.
to have positive correlation with ination.
In addition, TRIGs project-level debt is generally structured including with swaps to x the levels of interest payments.
UK referendum on EU membership: 2016 promises extensive debate on the UKs membership or terms of it of the EU towards a planned referendum.
At this stage it is not clear what the precise impact on the UK renewables industry will be of an exit from the EU.
Amongst many potential consequences of a UK exit, should this be the outcome, is the possibility of momentum for a second Scottish independence referendum if Scottish politicians succeed in casting a vote for a UK exit from the EU as a trigger for a new Scottish vote.
Unchanged however would be the longer-term global imperative towards decarbonisation reected in the Paris initiatives, the need for fresh generating plant as well as the growing importance of the role of private capital in nancing infrastructure as demographics of maturing and aging THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 49 STRATEGIC REPORT continued monitoring by the Investment Manager and or Operations RISK MANAGEMENT Manager.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Boards Management Engagement Committee also The Company has put a risk management framework in reviews the performance of the Investment Manager and place covering all aspects of the Groups business.
Given Operations Manager as well as all key service providers the nature of the Company being an Investment Company annually and in particular this review includes a where the Company outsources key services to the consideration of the Managers internal controls and their Investment Manager, Operations Manager and other eectiveness and the creation of a risk control matrix.
service providers, reliance is placed on the Groups service providers own systems and controls.
Given the limited number of expected disposals from the portfolio and the similar risk prole of the investments The identication, assessment and management of risk are within the portfolio i. e. they are all renewable energy integral elements of the Investment Managers and the infrastructure projects in the UK or Northern Europe with Operations Managers work in both managing the existing broadly similar contractual structures, the type and nature portfolio and in transacting new investment opportunities.
of the risks in the Group are not expected to change The Managers have established internal controls to materially from period to period.
manage these risks and they review and consider the Groups key risks with the Board on a quarterly basis.
If a The following table summarises some important areas new risk arises or the likelihood of a risk occurring considered on a regular basis in the risk assessment increases, a mitigation strategy is, where appropriate, process by risk category as set out in the Alternative developed and implemented together with enhanced Investment Fund Management Directive: Category Key Elements Operational Health and safety, risk of regulatory changes or breaches, fraud and management override, valuation error, political regulatory changes, conicts of interest, key man and service provider failure, breach of company policies or contractual covenants, energy yield, technology risk, project-level availability, project insurance, grid curtailment and outage, sub-contractor failure, tax Liquidity Fund-level portfolio liquidity, fund-raising, project-level liquidity and gearing Counterparty Contractual concentration Credit Risk of counterparty failure Market Power price, macro-economic currency, interest rates, ination, share price, competition Tax Withdrawal of tax relief on interest deductions and other tax risks both wind and solar sectors, projects may also benefit from COUNTERPARTY EXPOSURES equipment provider warranties.
Given the importance of state subsidies for investment in renewables, TRIG has exposure to the creditworthiness of The chart below provides an analysis of the exposure to and policy commitments by national governments and is PPA counterparties, equipment providers and maintenance reliant on the consistency of government policy, for contractors as measured against the portfolio valuation example grandfathering within the UK whereby and against the number of projects in which the renewables generators continue to receive the same level counterparty is involved.
No supplier or o-taker is of subsidy, set upon commissioning, for the duration of the currently involved in more than 50% of the projects by incentive.
In addition, each project company enters into a value or number with the exception of RES, TRIGs commercial power purchase agreement PPA with a Operations Manager, which has project asset management utility or energy trading company to enable them to sell and or maintenance roles in relation to a number of the the electricity generated and to receive the feed-in tari projects in addition to the portfolio-level services it or Renewables Obligation Certicate ROC subsidy provides to TRIG.
Some project companies have more than payments.
The project companies have entered into PPAs one counterparty in each category where that is the case, with a range of providers.
Each project company enters into the relative valuation of the associated project in the a contract for the maintenance of the plant.
In the case of illustration below has been apportioned between wind, this is usually with the turbine manufacturer.
Further acquisitions are likely to provide further diversity of counterparty exposures.
50 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Illustration of the range of PPA counterparties, equipment manufacturers and maintenance suppliers as at 1 31 December 2015 by relative value of associated projects and number of projects: 2 Equipment Manufacturers Electricity O-Takers Maintenance 3 Suppliers 1 By value, as at 31 December 2015, using the Directors valuation.
Some projects have more than one counterparty in a category, in which cases the valuation of the associated project is apportioned.
2 Equipment manufacturers generally also supply maintenance services.
3 Where separate from equipment manufacturers.
Source: InfraRed THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 51 } } } STRATEGIC REPORT continued to seek appropriate disclosures on ESG issues by the 2.11 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND entities in which the investments are made: GOVERNANCE to promote acceptance and implementation of PRI within the investment industry: and to report on activities and progress towards implementing the PRI.
On the basis of the Managers recommendations the Directors have considered the existing ESG policies relative to good industry practice as applicable to an infrastructure investment company and believe them to be current and appropriate.
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance and keeps the Companys practices under review with respect to current best practice.
Further details of how the Company complies with the various Information board at Kelburn Green Hill Wind Farm corporate governance standards are set out in the section on Corporate Governance and Regulatory Matters.
Policy The Board wishes to be at the forefront of disclosure and The business of the Company is to make investments in reporting of the Companys performance and strategic renewable energy infrastructure assets.
The Board believes this is achieved by the As part of good practice and to mitigate risk, the Board has communications as follows: in place a set of Environmental, Social and Governance annual report and accounts: policies appropriate for a company investing in renewable energy infrastructure assets, which conform to current interim statement and accounts: good practice in relation to corporate responsibility.
detailed presentations to accompany the results: The Companys Environmental, Social and Governance announcements of all material acquisitions: and ESG policies cover: meetings with shareholders held by the Investment how the Company interacts with stakeholders, including Manager and the Operations Manager shareholders: The Companys website www.
TRIG-Ltd. com which what ESG considerations need to be made before a new includes the Companys prospectuses, financial disclosures investment is acquired: and and other announcements since launch provides further how the current portfolio is managed by the Investment information on TRIG and its investments.
Manager and Operations Manager to promote and Disclosure of key sensitivities and risks has been developed achieve good ESG practices.
by the Board working with the Managers.
The level and The Investment Manager adopts and implements the type of disclosure has been developed and rened in order Principles for Responsible Investment PRI an investor to assist in a full and fair analysis of the Company and its initiative in partnership with UNEP Finance Initiative and investments.
UN Global Compact which are widely recognised and highly regarded around the world.
The PRI can be summarised as follows: to showcase leadership in responsible investment to incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making: to be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into ownership policies and practices: 52 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Performance portfolio as well as acting as the interface with underlying Given the nature of the Companys investment portfolio, its third party asset managers or O&M contractors and with overall environmental contributions are substantial, with local government and communities.
With RESs long history the portfolio as at 31 December 2015 capable of producing of developing and operating assets in the renewable enough clean energy annually to power the equivalent of energy sector in the UK, France, Ireland as well as 330,000 homes in the UK, France and Ireland while avoiding elsewhere in Europe, the US, Australia, and a range of 2 the emission of 520,000 tonnes of CO annually.
other countries around the world, it has developed a reputation for establishing and maintaining best practices The integration of generating plants whether wind or in ESG matters and has sta dedicated to support its solar into the landscape is optimised to seek the operational management activities in these areas.
maximum renewable energy generation while minimising any local impacts through extensive consultation with During the year, TRIGs portfolio companies continued to statutory consultees, local authorities and the local be active in local engagement activities, including hosting communities.
Engagement with stakeholders once assets a number of education events for local schools and become operational is maintained at the highest standards.
In 2015, TRIGs projects supported more than 100 separate local social, cultural and environmental As Operations Manager, RES has responsibility for initiatives.
monitoring the operational performance of the asset This Strategic Report is approved by the Board of Directors of The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited 22 February 2016 Registered Oce: 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 1WD Institutional investors on-site at Green Hill Wind Farm, Scotland THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 53
