Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT POLICY CONTINUED The Company must at all times comply with Gearing its published investment policy.
For so long as the The Company can, but is not required to, incur Ordinary Shares are listed on the Official List, no indebtedness for investment purposes, to the material change may be made to the Companys extent that such indebtedness is a precursor to investment policy other than with the prior an ultimate equity investment, working capital approval of both the Companys Shareholders and requirements and to fund own-share purchases a majority of the independent Directors of the or retentions up to a maximum of 30 per cent.
Company, and otherwise in accordance with the of the last published NAV as at the time of the Listing Rules.
borrowing unless approved by the Company by an ordinary resolution.
This limitation does not apply to portfolio level entities in respect of which the Company is invested but it does apply to all subsidiary undertakings utilised by the Company or the Partnership for the purposes of making investments.
The consent of a majority of the Companys Directors shall be required for the Company or the Partnership to enter into any credit or other borrowing facility.
INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS The Company is subject to the following for so long as required by the Listing Rules, investment restrictions: not more than 10 per cent.
of the value of its total assets will be invested in other UK-listed for so long as required by the Listing Rules, closed-ended investment funds, except for it will at all times seek to ensure that the those which themselves have published Investment Manager invests and manages the investment policies to invest not more than Companys and the Partnerships assets in a 15 per cent.
of their total assets in other way which is consistent with the Companys UK-listed closed-ended investment funds: and objective of spreading risk and in accordance with the Companys investment policy: any investment restrictions that may be imposed by Guernsey law although no such for so long as required by the Listing Rules, restrictions currently exist.
it must not conduct a trading activity which is significant in the context of the Company Currency and interest rate hedging and its Investment Undertakings: transactions will only be undertaken for the purpose of efficient portfolio management and these transactions will not be undertaken for speculative purposes.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements The Company invests in the global energy sector, which is undergoing significant transformation driven in large part by a revolution in horizontal drilling and completion technology.
