| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Directors Report Directors Report: Statutory and Other Disclosures Board of Directors page 20 Corporate Governance................ page 24 Dividends................ page 4 Risk Management Business Review and Future Directors' Remuneration........... page 32 Developments........ page 3 and Internal Control.................... page 15 Directors Shareholdings................ page 37 The section above identifies where certain information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report, is shown within other sections of the Report and Accounts, starting on the page indicated.
Additional statutory disclosures are set out below.
Status of Company Investment Policy The Company is registered as a public company and is The Companys Corporate Objective is: to deliver longincorporated in England and Wales Company term capital growth, while preserving shareholders Registration Number 2129188.
It conducts its affairs so capital: to invest without the constraints of a formal as to qualify for approval as an investment trust for tax benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders increases in purposes, and has been accepted as an approved capital value in excess of the relevant indices over time.
investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs, subject to The Companys Investment Policy is: to invest in a continuing to meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are widely diversified, international portfolio across a range of the opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs of asset classes, both quoted and unquoted: to allocate in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for part of the portfolio to exceptional managers in order to continued approval as an investment trust under Section ensure access to the best external talent available.
1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Asset Allocation and Risk Diversification The Company is not a close company within the meaning The Groups assets continue to be allocated across a of Section 439 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. diversified range of asset classes, geographies, industries The Companys subsidiaries are mainly engaged in and currencies.
There are no external restrictions on the investment activities and the activities of the Group are allocation of assets.
The portfolio is further diversified principally undertaken in the UK.
through the use of external managers with different mandates.
Exposures are monitored and managed by Directors JRCM under the supervision of the Board.
The Directors at the date of this report are listed on pages 20 to 22.
Gearing The Company maintains structural gearing principally During the year ended 31 December 2015: through fixed rate private placement notes and revolving credit facilities.
At 31 December 2015, the Sterling Amy Stirling was appointed as a Director on equivalent of the drawn indebtedness was 400.2 million 26 February 2015: with debt held at fair value, representing net gearing Sandra Robertson retired as a Director at the calculated in accordance with AIC guidance of 12.1%.
Companys Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2015: and The maximum indebtedness that the Company is empowered to incur under its Articles of Association is John Makinson retired as a Director on 30 September five times its adjusted capital and reserves.
Further information is shown under Debt and Leverage There have been no changes in the composition of the on page 11.
After serving six years, Lord Myners is not standing for re-election.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 39 Directors Report Direct and Indirect Investment Management Fees The Company invests a significant proportion of the As at 24 February 2016, the voting rights in the above portfolio with external managers.
The majority of the table remained unchanged.
management and performance fees charged by such There are no restrictions or significant agreements that managers are incurred indirectly by the Company as they may restrict, on a change of control, transfer of securities are netted off within the investment valuations and in the Company or the voting rights attaching to those therefore form part of the investment return.
relatively small number of investments, these are structured as segregated or managed accounts.
Here the The shares of the Company qualify for inclusion within an fees are incurred directly by the Company and disclosed Individual Savings Account ISA.
as Investment Management Fees in the Income Statement.
Fee structures within the long-only equity Corporate Responsibility funds, whether structured as segregated accounts or The Board is responsible for ensuring that appropriate otherwise, typically involve a 1% per annum management standards of corporate responsibility are adopted within fee and in some cases a relative performance fee.
The the Group through appropriate Social, Environmental and hedge funds are slightly higher typically a 1% to 2% Ethical SEE policies.
Day-to-day responsibility resides management fee and a 20% performance fee.
equity fees are structured differently and will usually have a 1% to 2% annual charge, often based on commitments The Companys Corporate Objective and Investment in early years and declining over time with realisations, as Policy do not incorporate specific SEE requirements or well as a 20% carried interest above an 8% hurdle.
restrictions, and as an investment trust, the Board considers that the Companys direct SEE impact is low.
Share Capital We consider the largest environmental impact is the At 31 December 2015, the issued share capital emissions resulting from business travel and from our comprised 155,351,431 1 ordinary shares.
Where possible, executives will only travel details are shown in note 18 on page 57. where alternatives such as video conference facilities are During the year ended 31 December 2015, no ordinary not practical.
In relation to its premises, the Company shares were issued or repurchased and the shareholders monitors and has taken steps to reduce its emissions and authority to repurchase up to 23,287,179 shares granted at maximise the recycling of materials.
the AGM on 30 April 2015 remained valid at the end of the Emissions required to be reported in respect of the years year under review.
The existing authority for the repurchase ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 were of shares expires at the Companys AGM on 21 April 2016. calculated using fuel conversion factors provided by A replacement authority is to be proposed at the AGM, as 1 Defra, and were as follows: explained in the separate Notice of the meeting.
Intensity Ratio: Major Holders of Voting Rights CO2 tonnes As at 31 December 2015, the following notifications had Source CO2 tonnes per employee been received from the holders of 3% or more of the 31 December 2015: voting rights conferred through the direct or indirect Scope 1 Gas 50 0.7 holding of the Companys ordinary shares of 1 each.
of voting rights % of voting rights Major holders of voting rights Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Intensity Ratio: Five Arrows CO2 tonnes Source CO tonnes per employee 1,2 2 Limited 6,757,835 4.35 31 December 2014: Lord 1 Scope 1 Gas 39 0.5 Rothschild 3% 18,006,639 3% 11.59 Scope 2 Electricity 211 2.9 Hannah 1 Total 250 3.4 Rothschild 3% 13,619,569 3% 8.77 1 The Rothschild Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs.
1 Foundation 13,619,569 8.77 1 Some or all of these holdings form part of Lord Rothschild and Hannah Rothschilds interests disclosed on page 37 under Directors shareholdings.
2 Includes shares held by a subsidiary.
40 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Directors Report The Group operates an ethics policy which applies to all Other staff, including in relation to social and human rights The Company seeks to agree the best possible terms on issues.
The Board is also supportive of moves towards which business will take place with its suppliers.
It is the greater diversity.
At the year end, the RIT Board Companys policy to abide by such terms.
The Company consisted of 10 Directors, two of whom were women.
had no trade payables at the year-end year ended 31 Within the wider Group the senior management level December 2014: nil.
The overall employee The Company maintained a qualifying third party liability base is split between 53 men and 20 women.
insurance for its Directors and Officers throughout the Stewardship Code year and up to the date of approval of the financial report The Company supports the applicable principles of the and accounts.
Stewardship Code published by The Financial Reporting Disclosure of Information to Auditors Council.
The Companys Stewardship Policy may be With regard to the preparation of the Report and viewed on its website.
Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 Save for voting rights on the Companys investments held December 2015, the Directors have confirmed to the in segregated accounts by external managers who have auditors that: control on the voting of those shares, investment so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit department determines voting on resolutions of directlyinformation of which the auditors are unaware: and held investee companies and funds.
they have taken the steps appropriate as Directors in Monitoring of directly held investments is also carried out order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit by JRCMs investment department which is responsible information and to establish that the auditors are for elevating any matters of concern to the JRCM aware of that information.
Active intervention appropriate for the circumstances will be considered where it is in A resolution to re-appoint  LLP the Companys best interests.
as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company does not publish its voting record as it invests as principal rather than agent and due to the UKLA Listing Rules disclosures diversity of its securities held.
The following disclosures are in accordance with UKLA Listing Rule 9.8.
4: Cross Holdings The UKLA Listing Rules also require closed-ended Details of the long-term incentive scheme are investment companies to disclose quarterly all of their provided on pages 33 and 36. investments in other listed closed-ended investment funds... which themselves do not have stated The J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited investment policies to invest no more than 15% of their Employee Benefit Trust EBT has waived its rights to total assets in other listed closed-ended investment dividends paid on the ordinary shares of the Company funds.
In 2015, the net dividends waived amounted to 115,124 on the First Interim The Group discloses such investments when necessary, Dividend paid on 29 April 2015 and 142,849 on the but does not restrict its own investment policies in this Second Interim Dividend paid on 23 October 2015. manner.
The shareholders authority for the purchase of the Annual General Meeting Companys own shares is still valid at the end of the The Companys AGM will be held on 21 April 2016 at period under review is disclosed on page 40.
11:00 am at Spencer House, 27 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NR.
There are no further disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
The Notice is set out in a separate document circulated to shareholders, which may be viewed on the Company's website: www.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 41 Directors Report The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2015 Information on subsidiaries that is required to be disclosed under the above Regulations is disclosed in note 32.
Disclosable information in respect of other investments is contained in note 31.
Statement under the UKLA Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 20 to 22 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group and the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and the Directors Report contained in the Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited 42 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
