Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors hereby submit the Annual Report and Results and Dividend Audited Financial Statements for the Company for the The results of the Company for the year are shown in year ended 31 December 2015.
This Report of the the audited Statement of Comprehensive Income on Directors should be read together with the Corporate page 58.
Governance Report on pages 40 to 46.
The Net Asset Value of the Company as at 31 December 2015 was $1,347 million General Information 31 December 2014: $1,240 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited is a company limited by shares, The Directors do not recommend the payment of a which was incorporated on 23 May 2013 in Guernsey dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 with an unlimited life and registered with the Commission nor did they for the year ended 31 December 2014. as a Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme pursuant to the POI Law.
It has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 29 October 2013.
Share Capital The registered office of the Company is Heritage Hall, At incorporation on 23 May 2013, the Company PO Box 225, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, issued one founder Ordinary Share of no par value.
On 29 October 2013, the Company issued 71,032,057 Ordinary Shares of no par value at 10 per Ordinary Principal Activities Share in an initial public offering raising a total of $1,138 million.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as an investment entity through the Partnership and KFI, one of the Cornerstone Investors in the make privately negotiated equity investments in the Company, paid for and acquired 10 million Ordinary energy sector.
Shares in two equal tranches of 50 million.
The first tranche was paid on Admission and the second tranche The Companys investment objective is to generate was paid on 26 September 2014. long-term capital growth by investing in the global energy sector, with a particular focus on opportunities On 11 December 2015, the Company raised 1 in the global exploration and production and midstream 67.6 million $102.3 million through the energy sub-sectors.
issuance of 8,448,006 new Ordinary Shares at 8.00 per Ordinary Share.
Following admission of the new Ordinary Shares, Business Review the share capital of the Company is 84,480,064 Ordinary A review of the Companys business and its likely future Shares in aggregate.
development is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and in the Investment Managers Report The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares.
The issued nominal value of the Ordinary Shares represents 100 per cent.
of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
Under the Companys Articles of Listing Requirements Incorporation, on a show of hands, each Shareholder present in person or by proxy has the right to one vote at Since being admitted on 29 October 2013 to the general meetings.
On a poll, each Shareholder is entitled Official List of the UK Listing Authority, maintained to one vote for every share held.
by the FCA, the Company has complied with the applicable Listing Rules.
Shareholders are entitled to all dividends paid by the Company and, on a winding up, provided the Company has satisfied all of its liabilities, the Shareholders are entitled to all of the surplus assets of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares have no right to fixed income.
1 Gross of share issuance costs of $3.6 million Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED In accordance with the Companys Articles of Shareholdings of the Directors Incorporation and Companies Law, up to 10 per cent.
of The Directors with beneficial interests in the shares of the Companys Ordinary Shares may be held as treasury the Company as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are shares.
The Company did not purchase any shares for detailed below: treasury or cancellation up to the date of this report.
Shares held Holding at Shares held Holding at Directors and Officers Liability 31 31 31 31 December December December December Insurance 2015 2015 2014 2014 2 Sir Robert Wilson 20,000 0.024 20,000 0.026 The Company maintains insurance in respect of 2 3 Peter Barker 5,000 0.006 5,000 0.007 directors and officers liability in relation to their acts on 2 3 Patrick Firth 4,000 0.005 4,000 0.005 behalf of the Company.
2 4 Richard Hayden 10,000 0.012 10,000 0.013 1 Pierre Lapeyre 1 Substantial Shareholdings David Leuschen 2 5 Dr Tidu Maini 5,000 0.007 As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been 2 Claire Whittet notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure 5 Lord John Browne and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial James Hackett voting rights as Shareholders of the Company.
Nature of 1 Mr Lapeyre and Mr Leuschen, as well as other Riverstone senior Shareholder Shareholding Holding Holding management, have a beneficial interest in REL Coinvestment, LP, which as at the year end held 5,000,000 Ordinary Shares AKRC Investments 2 1 LLC 24,283,265 28.74 Indirect Non-executive Independent Director 3 Kendall Family Ordinary Shares held jointly with spouses 1 4 Investments LLC 10,000,000 11.84 Direct Senior Independent Director REL Coinvestment, LP 5,000,000 5.92 Direct 5 Stepped down from his duties on the Board on13 May 2015 1, 2 Hunt 4,996,109 5.91 Direct 1 Casita, L. P. 4,805,000 5.69 Direct There have been no changes to the Directors Shareholdings since 31 December 2015.
1 Held by a Cornerstone Investor 2 Held in aggregate by Hunt Directors Authority to In addition, the Company also provides the same Buy Back Shares information as at 25 February 2016, being the most At the AGM on 13 May 2015 in St Peter Port, Guernsey, current information available.
the Company renewed the authority to make market Per cent.
Nature of purchases of up to a maximum of 14.99 per cent.
of the Shareholder Shareholding Holding Holding issued share capital of the Company.
Any buy back of the AKRC Investments Companys Ordinary Shares will be made subject to 1 LLC 24,283,265 28.74 Indirect Companies Law and within any guidelines established Kendall Family from time to time by the Board.
The making and timing 1 Investments LLC 10,000,000 11.84 Direct of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of REL Coinvestment, LP 5,000,000 5.92 Direct the Board and not at the option of the Shareholders.
1, 2 Hunt 4,996,109 5.91 Direct Purchases of the Companys Ordinary Shares will only 1 Casita, L. P. 4,805,000 5.69 Direct be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary 1 Held by a Cornerstone Investor Shares as last calculated where the Directors believe such 2 Held in aggregate by Hunt purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased unless previously advised to Shareholders.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors confirm that there are no securities in AIFMD issue that carry special rights with regards to the control REL is regarded as an externally managed non-EEA AIF of the Company.
RIL is the Investment Manager The Companys issued share capital consists of of the Company as its non-EEA AIFM.
Under the Companys outlines the required information which has to be made Articles of Incorporation, on a show of hands, each available to investors in an AIF and directs that material Shareholder present in person or by proxy has the right changes to this information be disclosed in the Annual to one vote at general meetings.
On a poll, each Report of the AIF.
All information required to be disclosed Shareholder is entitled to one vote for every share held.
under the AIFMD is either disclosed in this Annual Report or is detailed in the Appendix entitled AIFMD Disclosures on page 178 in RELs latest Prospectuses Independent External Auditor which can be obtained through the Companys website Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external www.
The AIFM has no auditor since incorporation.
The Audit Committee remuneration within the current or prior year that falls reviews the appointment of the external auditor, its within the scope of Article 22 of the Directive.
effectiveness and its relationship with the Company, RIL provides AIFMD compliant management which includes monitoring the use of the external services to REL.
The AIFM acting on behalf of the AIF, auditor for non-audit services and the balance of audit wishes to appoint Heritage Depositary Company UK and non-audit fees paid.
Following a review of the Limited to provide depositary services to the AIF.
independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, a The appointment of the Depositary is intended to adhere resolution will be proposed at the 2016 Annual General to, and meet the conditions placed on the Depositary and Meeting to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP.
Each Director the AIFM under Article 21 and other related articles of believes that there is no relevant information of which the AIFMD.
The Depositary shall only provide depositary the external auditor is unaware.
Each had taken all steps services to the AIF should it admit one or more German necessary, as a Director, to be aware of any relevant audit and or Danish investors following marketing activity information and to establish that Ernst & Young LLP is towards them.
At that time, the Depositary shall observe made aware of any pertinent information.
This and comply with the Danish and German regulations confirmation is given and should be interpreted in applying to the provision of depositary services to a accordance with the provisions of Section 249 of the non-EEA AIF marketed in Denmark or Germany, Companies Law.
Further information on the work of the as the case may be, by a non-EEA AIFM.
external auditor is set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 47 to 50.
FATCA Articles of Incorporation The Company continues to comply with FATCAs requirements to the extent relevant to the Company.
The Companys Articles of Incorporation may only be amended by special resolution of the Shareholders.
Non-mainstream Pooled Investments The Board has concluded that the Companys Ordinary Shares are not non-mainstream pooled investments for the purposes of the FCA rules regarding the restrictions on the promotion to retail investors of unregulated collective investment schemes and close substitutes, meaning that the restrictions on promotion imposed by the FCA rules do not apply.
It is the Boards intention that the Company conducts its affairs so that these restrictions will continue to remain inapplicable.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED with section 4.1 a of the Partnership Agreement, General Partners Performance a distribution from the Partnership of $1.5 million is Allocation and Management Fees needed to meet the Companys liabilities as they fall due over the next twelve months.
An additional amount of The General Partners Performance Allocation is equal $4.0 million will be distributed from the Partnership for the to 20 per cent.
of all realised pre-tax profits without Companys forecasted liabilities over the course of 2016. regard to realised losses as disclosed in the Companys Both of these distributions will be made at the same Prospectuses.
In particular, taxes on realised gains from time by the end of Q1 2016.
In the event of the ECI investments, as shown in the Investment Managers Company requiring additional funds, it is expected Report, can be substantial at rates up to 40 per cent.
to receive another distribution from the Partnership.
The Company is not an umbrella collective investment As at 31 December 2015, the Partnership had $554 million undertaking and therefore has no gross liability.
of uninvested funds held as cash and money market fixed The General Partners Performance Allocation is deposits 31 December 2014: $830 million, and has no calculated under the terms of the Partnership Agreement material going concern risk.
and as described in the Prospectuses.
In light of the above, the Directors are satisfied that it The Performance Allocation is calculated on a quarterly is appropriate to apply the going concern basis in preparing basis, which is taken into account when calculating the the Financial Statements.
In reaching this conclusion, the fair value of the Companys investment in the Partnership, Board has considered budgeted and projected results of as described in Note 11.
The fair value of the Companys the business, projected cash flow, regulatory capital investment in the Partnership is after the calculation of requirements and the risks that could impact the Management Fees, as described in Note 11.
Companys liquidity over the next twelve months.
The financial effect of the General Partners As required by the AIC Code, the Directors have Performance Allocation, Management Fees and any also assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer taxes on ECI investments is shown in Note 6. period than the twelve months required by the going concern provision.
The Board has conducted this review for a period covering the next three years to December Change of Control 2018 as it determined that it would be most appropriate to follow the investment cycle of the Company, through There are no agreements that the Company considers the Partnership, which has historically been approximately significant and to which the Company is party that three to five years for previous Riverstone investments would take effect, alter or terminate upon change of prior to the launch of the Company.
At the conclusion control of the Company following a takeover bid.
of this three year period, the Directors will have strong visibility on the outcomes of the portfolio companies Going Concern and and the Company as a whole.
Viability Statement In making their assessment, the Directors have taken into account all of the principal risks and their mitigation The Companys Financial Statements are prepared in identified in the Principal Risk and Uncertainties section accordance with the AIC Code and presented on a going of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 45 and 46, concern basis.
As further disclosed in the Corporate the nature of the Companys business, including the Governance Report on page 40, the Company is a substantial reserve of cash and money market fixed member of the AIC and complies with the AIC Code deposits at the Partnership, the potential of its portfolio which was revised in February 2015 to reflect changes of investments at the Partnership to generate future to the Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors have income and capital proceeds, and the ability of the assessed the financial prospects of the Company for the Directors to minimise the level of cash outflows, should next twelve months from the date of approval of the this be necessary.
Of the identified Principal Risks and Financial Statements and made an assessment of the Uncertainties the most relevant potential impact of these Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
risks on viability was considered to be: The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational The change in the price of oil could adversely affect existence for the next twelve months, as explained below.
the investment valuations through the public market trading and transaction comparables, the discounted Of the $11.5 million of cash retained by the cash flow discount rates, and potentially limit exit Company in the IPO and Placing and Open Offer, opportunities.
$2.5 million remains at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014: $5.7 million.
In accordance Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements The regulatory and tax environment of the Companys Based on the aforementioned procedures performed target investments is potentially subject to change, in making this assessment and the internal control which may adversely affect the value or liquidity of processes of both the Company and Investment Manager, investments held by the Company or its ability to the Board has concluded that there is a reasonable obtain leverage.
expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over The Company will be exposed to increased risk by that period.
investing in build-up and early-stage investments and are comparably more vulnerable to financial failure than more established companies.
Financial Risk Management Policies On a quarterly basis, the Directors review the Companys and Objectives risk matrix to identify any changes required due to Financial Risk Management Policies and Objectives are recent developments with the Company and or the disclosed in Note 12 and the Investment Managers Report.
Although the Investment Manager has agreed to a Principal Risk and Uncertainties maximum commitment amount for each investment, the Company, through the Partnership, it is not contractually Principal Risk and Uncertainties are discussed in the obligated to fund any, or all, of the amount and will Corporate Governance Report on pages 45 and 46. continue to evaluate the ongoing suitability of the investment before each funding.
In the event that the Company, through the Partnership, does not have Subsequent Events adequate available capital or is otherwise barred from or Subsequent Events are disclosed in Note 16 and the unable to provide capital to an existing investment at the Investment Managers Report on page 25. time additional capital is required for such investment, Riverstone expects to revise the allocation ratio of the Riverstone holding vehicle to permit the Private Annual General Meetings Riverstone Funds, one or more other Riverstone funds The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.00 am or managed accounts, or any other person to provide GMT on 19 May 2016 at The Old Government House the necessary capital.
The Investment Manager continues Hotel, St Anns Place, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel to consider the future cash needs of the Company Islands.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the before executing a funding to a portfolio company.
AGM, together with explanations, will appear in the Furthermore, the Companys Board receives regular notices of meetings to be distributed to Shareholders updates from the Investment Manager on the Companys listed on the register as at 31 December 2015 together cash position, which allows both to maintain their with this Annual Report.
fiduciary responsibility to the Companys Shareholders and limit remaining investment on existing commitments Members of the Board, including the Chairman as required.
and the Audit Committee chairman, will be in attendance at the AGM and will be available to answer In order for the Board to be in position to conclude Shareholder questions.
on the Companys viability over the three year period, the Investment Manager completed a working capital By order of the Board cash flow model for the Company, including the Partnership, which forecasted base and worst case scenarios by stress testing key variables such as capital deployment rate, Gross IRR earned on investments, management fees and operating expenses.
To be conservative for this analysis, no capital raises or realisations were assumed to Sir Robert Wilson occur during the three year period.
Within the three year Chairman period, assuming all factors apart from capital deployment 25 February 2016 rate remain constant, a 40 per cent.
reduction in the capital deployment rate from 15 months to 21 months could result in an approximate 2 per cent.
reduction in the Companys NAV.
Only an unprecedented and long-term decline in global oil and gas consumption would threaten the Company.
