Board of Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Lord Rothschild OM GBE Jacob Rothschild has chaired RIT since its flotation in 1988.
Michael Marks joined the Board of the Company as a nonHe is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee, as well executive Director in September 2004 and became its Senior as Chairman of J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Independent Director in July 2010.
He is a member of the and of its Investment Committee.
Conflicts, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, Jacob developed He is Chairman of MR Capital Consultants and was Chairman RITs predecessor companies, co-founding companies in of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he founded in money management, insurance and investment, including 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of the Global Equities Global Asset Management and St Jamess Place Capital plc.
business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1995 and where He served as Deputy Chairman of BSkyB Plc for five years, he subsequently held positions as Chief Operating Officer of to 2008.
He is Chairman of Windmill Hill Asset Management Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa.
He was Limited WHAM, which manages the philanthropic subsequently named Executive Chairman.
He was also foundations connected with his family, as well as chairing his Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. own familys office and the Rothschild Foundation.
Jacob is Michael began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he also the Honorary Vice Chairman of Edmond fide Rothschild became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of Smith New Group S. A.
He was a non-executive director of Old Mutual In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a non-executive public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004. having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
Non-Executive Directors Independent Lord Myners CBE John Cornish John Cornish joined the Board of the Company as a Paul Myners joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of the non-executive Director in August 2010 and is a member of Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee and a the Valuation Committee.
After serving six years, Lord Myners member of both the Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
is not standing for re-election to the Companys Board.
He is a chartered accountant and was a partner at Deloitte LLP He is Chair of the Court of Governors and Council of the where he led the firms services to the investment trust industry.
London School of Economics and Political Science.
He is also Subsequently, John served as Chairman of Framlington a partner of Autonomous Research and Cevian Capital and a Innovative Growth Trust plc and as a director of a number of director of CQS Management.
Currently he is a director of Henderson EuroTrust plc and Allianz Technology Trust plc.
Paul is a former Chairman of Marks & Spencer and Land Securities.
He previously served on the Court of the Bank of England and was a member of the Investment Committee of Singapores sovereign wealth fund.
He was a Treasury minister in a previous British government.
20 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc Michael Marks CBE | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent Mike Power Amy Stirling Mike Power joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Amy Stirling joined the Board of the Company as a nonDirector in January 2014 and is a member of the Audit and Risk executive Director in February 2015 and is a member of the Committee and the Valuation Committee.
Audit and Risk Committee and Valuation Committee.
She is a chartered accountant and a non-executive member Mike is Professor of Accounting at the London School of of the Cabinet Office Board and Chair of its Audit and Risk Economics and Political Science and has written extensively on Committee.
She also serves as a director and Chair of the risk and governance issues.
He was also a non-executive director Audit Committee of Pets at Home Group Plc.
Amy is a at St. James's Place plc from 2005 to 2013 where he chaired the Trustee of The Princes Trust, having held the role of Chief Risk Committee and was a member of the Audit Committee.
He Financial Officer until December 2014. remains on the board of St James's Place International plc, which he joined in September 2012 and was appointed as its Chairman Amy served as the Chief Financial Officer of TalkTalk Telecom in 2014.
Group Plc until 2013, having been with the business since its start up as part of the Carphone Warehouse Group, which Mike has a number of other advisory positions, including the she joined in 2000.
Financial Reporting Lab of the Financial Reporting Council.
He is an FCA, an associate member of the UK Chartered Institute of Taxation and an honorary fellow of the Institute of Risk Management.
He also holds honorary doctorates from the Universities of Uppsala, Sweden and St Gallen, Switzerland.
The Duke of Wellington Mike Wilson CBE The Duke of Wellington formerly Lord Douro joined the Mike Wilson joined the Board of the Company as a nonBoard of the Company as a non-executive Director in July executive Director in October 2013 and is a member of the 2010.
He is Chairman of the Conflicts and Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committees and a member of the Nominations Committee.
He has broad experience in banking and finance, having He is Joint Founder and Life President of St Jamess Place served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings from plc and Chairman of the St Jamess Place Foundation.
He has 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from 1994 to worked in the financial services industry over many years and 2005.
He is currently a director of Compagnie Financire was a director of Allied Dunbar and BAT Industries before Richemont.
He served on the Board of Sanofi until May 2014 jointly founding J. Rothschild Assurance now St. James's and was until 2011 a director of Pernod Ricard and Abengoa Place in 1991.
Following 13 years as Chief Executive of St Bio-Energia.
James's Place he was appointed Chairman, a role he held until the end of 2011.
He is currently a member of the International Advisory Board of Abengoa SA.
He is Chairman of Richemont Holdings UK Mike was a non-executive director of Vendme Luxury Group Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Council of Kings College, plc and Chairman of the Mental Health Association for many London.
He is a member of the House of Lords and was a years.
In 2010 Mike became a director of the newly formed member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989. research charity MQ: Transforming Mental Health.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 21 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent Jean Laurent-Bellue Hannah Rothschild Jean Laurent-Bellue joined the Board of the Company as a Hannah Rothschild joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in March 2012. non-executive Director in August 2013.
Hannah has been involved with media for the past twenty He is Group Secretary General of Edmond fide Rothschild years.
An award winning documentary film maker, she also Holdings in Geneva and Board member of the Banque Prive writes articles, screenplays and books.
He joined LCF Edmond fide Rothschild Group in 2004 as a member of the Executive Board of La In addition, she is a non-executive director of WHAM, a Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Rothschild Banque.
He director of Five Arrows Limited and serves as a Trustee of was Chairman of the Executive Board of Edmond fide the Rothschild Foundation.
Rothschild Corporate Finance from 2004 until 2009 when he became General Secretary at Compagnie Financire Saint As well as her career in media, she has been involved in Honor.
public service, including acting as a Trustee of the National Gallery and of the Tate.
She became Chair of the Board of Previously, he was a member of the Executive Board of Trustees of the National Gallery in August 2015.
Clinvest the Investment Banking arm of the Crdit Lyonnais.
The Board has determined that he is not independent due to his senior role with the Edmond fide Rothschild Group, with which the Company has a joint venture.
Honorary Vice Chair Baroness Ariane fide Rothschild Ariane fide Rothschild was appointed as Honorary Vice Chair of RIT in March 2012.
She is the Chairwoman of the Executive Committee of the Edmond fide Rothschild Group.
She holds other various board positions across the group, including Edmond fide Rothschild Suisse SA, Edmond fide Rothschild France, SIACI SaintHonor, Edmond fide Rothschild Europe and Barons & Baronne Associs.
Ariane started her career as a trader in foreign exchange and metals with Socit Gnrale in Australia and in New York.
She then joined US insurance corporation AIG and successfully developed the groups trading operations in Europe.
The Honorary Vice Chair is not a Director of the Company.
22 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | J. Rothschild Capital Management JRCM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT and acts as RITs manager.
Directors of JRCM are listed below: Chairman Chief Executive Officer Lord Rothschild Francesco Goedhuis Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Andrew Jones Chief Financial Officer Roberto Ruhman Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer Rick Sopher Ron Tabbouche Chief Investment Officer Ben Legge Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee chaired by Francesco Goedhuis.
The biographies of the Executive Committee members can be found below: Francesco Goedhuis Andrew Jones Francesco Goedhuis is the Chief Executive Officer.
He joined Andrew Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk RIT as the Principal in the Chairmans Office in 2010.
Prior to joining RIT in 2008, he spent three years in Previously, he was in New York working for the Economics venture capital and four years at Nomura, advising on its Nobel Laureate Robert Merton and the former Vice Chairman private equity investments as well as risk, global corporate of J. P. Morgan, Roberto Mendoza at IFL, commercialising development and strategy.
He qualified as a chartered financial academic theory on both the buy and sell sides.
accountant with Deloitte LLP where he specialised in valuation advice.
Jonathan Kestenbaum Ron Tabbouche Ron Tabbouche is the Chief Investment Officer.
He joined Jonathan Kestenbaum is the Chief Operating Officer.
Until RIT in 2012 having previously been the Head of Investments 2011 he was Chief Executive of Five Arrows Limited.
He is for Managed Portfolios at GAM.
At the age of 26, he joined also an adviser to philanthropic foundations connected to GAMs Investment Committee, working with Gilbert fide Lord Rothschild and a non-executive director of WHAM.
Subsequently, he led the overall was previously Chief Executive of NESTA the National investment strategy of multi-billion Dollar funds across a Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
Prior to broad range of asset classes.
Ron is also the Chief that he was Chief of Staff to the Chairman of Apax Partners, Investment Officer of WHAM, the investment manager of Sir Ronald Cohen.
In January 2011 Jonathan was appointed philanthropic foundations connected to Lord Rothschild.
to The House of Lords and became Lord Kestenbaum of Foxcote.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 23
