| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model Introduction ince your Companys listing in 1988, we This section aims to provide a clear and succinct overview of our strategy and business model, in Shave participated in 76% of the market particular: upside but only 39% of the market declines.
This has resulted in our NAV per share total what we are trying to achieve Strategic Aims : return compounding at 11.4% per annum: a how we go about it Investment Approach : meaningful outperformance of global equity markets.
Over the same period the total how well we have done Measuring Performance return to shareholders was 12.8% per annum.
and KPIs : how we structure our remuneration Incentive opportunities and themes across asset classes, is more Structure : and likely to lead to long-term outperformance.
We would hope to display healthy participation in up markets, and our Governance and Group Structure.
reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, this should allow us to compound ahead of markets Strategic Aims throughout the cycles.
Our strategic aims are best illustrated by our Corporate Objective: Indeed, since your Companys listing in 1988, we have participated in 76% of the market upside but only 39% of to deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving the market declines.
This has resulted in our NAV per shareholders capital: to invest without the constraints of share total return compounding at 11.4% per annum: a a formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders meaningful outperformance of global equity markets.
increases in capital value in excess of the relevant Over the same period the total return to shareholders indices over time.
We believe this accurately reflects our long-term aim.
Investment Approach However a degree of clarification may assist shareholders The strategic aims are expressed in more practical terms in understanding what we are trying to achieve for them in our Investment Policy: over time in particular because we differ from many other large trusts who always aim to be fully invested in to invest in a widely diversified, international portfolio quoted equities.
across a range of asset classes, both quoted and unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to exceptional The most important objective is long-term capital growth managers in order to ensure access to the best external while preserving shareholders capital.
The essence of talent available.
our investing DNA is about protecting and enhancing shareholders wealth.
It is this policy which guides us as we manage your portfolio.
So, while we retain at our core an equity bias, There may be times when we will deliberately place we nonetheless have the freedom to invest your portfolio protection of shareholders funds ahead of growth as across multiple asset classes, geographies, industries happened during the latter stages of the dot-com era and and currencies.
This has been the basis of our style over also in the run up to the most recent financial crisis.
many years combining thematic investing with However we recognise that such market timing is individual securities, and private investments with public unlikely to be sustainable in the long term.
The long-term success of your Company has We believe that our active management of equity been drawn from a distinctive blend of individual stocks, exposure, combined with early identification of private investments, equity funds and currency positioning, all overlaid with macro exposure management.
Indeed, it is this diversified approach that e would hope to display healthy led the Association of Investment Companies AIC to transfer RIT into its newly created Flexible Investment Wparticipation in up markets, and sector at the beginning of 2016. reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, this should allow us to compound We believe the extent of our global reach and network of ahead of markets throughout the cycles.
contacts allows us to maximise our ability to deploy RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 5 Our Strategy & Business Model capital effectively.
We seek to capitalise on an optimal e believe the extent of our global reach blend of an in-house investment team working closely with our core external managers, the majority of whom Wand network of contacts allows us to are closed to new investors.
maximise our ability to deploy capital effectively.
We seek to capitalise on an Above all, our approach is long term.
For example, in optimal blend of an in-house investment relation to private investments, we are not constrained by the typical industry model of a limited life partnership.
team working closely with our core external This means we can hold such investments over an managers, the majority of whom are closed to extended period and choose to realise at an optimum new investors.
On quoted investments, we aim to avoid being forced sellers of stocks if we are comfortable with their 2015 Performance underlying fundamentals, even if it means incurring shortWe were pleased with our performance in 2015. term losses.
The NAV total return ended the year at 8.1%.
This Measuring Performance and KPIs compared to our first KPI RPI plus 3% at 4.2% for the While we believe our success can only really be year, an outperformance of 3.9% points.
We also measured over the long term, we also recognise that exceeded the relative benchmark the ACWI, which providing shareholders with a comparator against which returned 2.3% over the year, an outperformance of 5.8% to measure our performance over shorter periods is points.
At the same time, as a result of the significant change in The strategic aims highlighted on the previous page, our rating from a discount of 5.8% to a premium of 6.9%, reflect the desire to produce real capital growth and to the TSR over the year our third KPI reached 22.7%.
We therefore have established the following targets or Key Performance Indicators KPIs : Incentive Structure Our Remuneration Committee has sought to ensure that 1.
Absolute Outperformance: NAV total return in excess there is an appropriate incentive structure across the of RPI plus 3% per annum: Group to attract, motivate and retain the high quality 2.
Relative Outperformance: NAV total return in excess individuals we need to deliver our long-term strategic of the ACWI: and aims.
The remuneration policy is designed to align with, and reinforce, these strategic aims.
Share price total return or Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The Chairman of RIT, as well as management and key staff of JRCM, participate in two principal plans: The first of these KPIs reflects the desire to produce strong absolute returns with a meaningful premium 1.
The Annual Incentive Scheme AIS : and above inflation.
The second reflects our unconstrained global investment The AIS is designed to incentivise staff through a share in approach and the desire to outperform markets.
the total NAV outperformance of the Absolute Consistent with many investment companies, we use the Outperformance hurdle and the Relative Outperformance ACWI which we believe is an appropriate comparator for hurdle.
This is measured annually and includes longer our global, unconstrained approach.
On currency we use term features such as a three-year high water mark as a blended index consisting of 50% of the ACWI well as significant deferral into RIT shares.
In addition to measured in Sterling and 50% of the ACWI measured in this formulaic pool, AIS awards are also made for local currencies.
However, we also retain the flexibility to individual performance against qualitative measures.
The take an unconstrained approach to our currency Remuneration Committee retains the ability to clawback positioning: for example in early 2008 we had no elements of previous awards if necessary.
Payments exposure to Sterling ahead of its significant fall in value under this scheme are capped at 0.75% of NAV or 0.25% later that year.
Our subsidiary, JRCM, is tasked with managing the There is also an LTIP which provides a longer term portfolio to deliver a NAV return.
Ultimately however, the incentive of up to 10 years using Share Appreciation return to our shareholders is through share price growth Rights SARs, which vest if RITs TSR is above the hurdle and dividends.
We therefore also consider the TSR as our of RPI plus 3.0% per annum over three years.
6 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model Our other operational subsidiaries GVQ Investment We continue to focus on costs, whether our own direct Management Limited GVQ and Spencer House Limited costs or the fees charged directly or indirectly by external SHL have separate incentive schemes tailored to their fund managers.
The managers fee structure is a key respective businesses.
consideration of our investment diligence, with our assessment made on a net return basis.
In order to In reviewing the overall incentive structure and practice, provide investors with the ability to assess the costs of the Remuneration Committee determines the appropriate RITs own investment business we disclose an Ongoing balance between short-term and long-term aims, as well Charges % OC% calculated in line with the AIC as the need for robust risk management.
As such, the OC% assumes no change in the composition or value of the Further details of the remuneration for the RIT Chairman portfolio and therefore excludes any performance-related and Board are provided in the Directors Remuneration amounts whether external fees, or direct performanceReport on pages 32 to 38. related incentive payments.
Governance and Group Structure 2015 2014 Our Chairman, Lord Rothschild, is responsible for the 1 Ongoing Charges% 0.74% 0.74% leadership of the Board and the Company.
RIT is a selfmanaged investment company and the management of 1 The OC% reflects the costs incurred directly by RIT which are the investment portfolio has been delegated to JRCM, a associated with the management of a static investment portfolio.
Consistent with the AIC guidance, the OC% excludes: non-recurring wholly-owned subsidiary.
items: the majority of the costs associated with SHL: LTIPs and performance fees.
In addition, the NAV performance also includes JRCM is also chaired by Lord Rothschild, with the day-tothe costs incurred directly or indirectly by external fund managers.
day running of the business under the management of an Many of these managers net these costs off within their valuations and it is not practical to calculate an OC% from the information they Executive Committee led by the CEO.
However to assist shareholders, we have estimated that such direct and indirect external management costs amount to GVQ and SHL both have independent Chairmen, and approximately 1.03% per annum of the Companys average net JRCM executives represent RITs interests on the assets, excluding performance fees.
Further information on fee levels is provided on page 40. subsidiary Boards.
Corporate Responsibility Full details of the RIT Board and the JRCM Executive As an investment company, the impact on the Committee are provided on pages 20 to 23. environment is not material and the report on carbon The RIT Group employs 73 people, with 48 working for emissions and related matters is therefore presented in JRCM, our investment management subsidiary.
Our Real the Corporate Responsibility statement on page 40.
Assets portfolio includes Spencer House as well as other properties in St Jamess, London.
These are maintained by SHL which employs 15 people.
In addition to premises management, this subsidiary also operates a profitable events business.
The remaining 10 people are employed by our new investment management subsidiary, GVQ.
Francesco Goedhuis Chief Executive Officer As RIT is characterised under accounting standards as an J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited investment entity, its consolidated income statement includes the full income and expenses of both JRCM and GVQ.
Further information on the results of the respective businesses is set out in note 4 on page 53.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 7
