Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT RESILIENT PORTFOLIO AMIDST TURBULENT ENERGY MARKETS Energy prices were particularly volatile in 2015, following OPECs historic decision to maintain production in the face of surging North American unconventional supply.
Unsurprisingly, energy companies have responded to this uncertain environment by dramatically reducing spending, increasing efficiency and targeting lower-cost production.
However, opportunities are emerging for well capitalised companies in light of diminished capital markets and weakened balance sheets.
The energy industry is facing profound pressure As REL, through the Partnership, has full control after oil prices declined by an additional 30 per cent.
over the deployment of capital in its portfolio during 2015, resulting in prices more than halving companies, we have only invested in what we feel from levels before November 2014.
As in previous are the most attractive opportunities, which can commodity cycles, companies which have deliver attractive returns even amidst lower overextended themselves have been pushed commodity prices.
into distress, and in some cases, bankruptcy.
One such instance occurred in December, Riverstones scale, experience and diversified when REL took advantage of market turbulence investment approach both across sectors and by launching a tender for shares in CIOC with geographies differentiate us from industry peers funds raised through a 67.6 million Placing and and offer resilience to our investors.
REL invested $68 million of the The current oil price volatility is not new.
proceeds in the CIOC tender on very attractive Riverstones investment professionals have terms, bringing its ownership of the company to considerable experience operating through these 35 per cent on a fully diluted basis.
cycles, and apply a disciplined approach to With much of the North American E&P maintain the maximum amount of operational landscape lacking operational and or capital and capital flexibility under any commodity price flexibility, we believe that the current opportunity environment.
This is achieved by diversifying set in the North American upstream sector is across geographies and energy segments, focusing arguably more robust than it has been at any time on build-up strategies which deploy capital in recent history.
Our flexible strategy and strong gradually across the cycle, partnering with capital position enables us to take advantage of the experienced,  management market dislocation, while at the same time not teams, hedging cash flows from producing assets, deviating from the core tenets of our investment using moderate levels of debt with flexible strategy: backing best-in-class management covenant structures, and maintaining sufficiently teams, building or acquiring premier assets, high levels of liquidity to take advantage of hedging commodity price risk and maintaining attractive acquisition opportunities which often conservative capital structures.
We are confident that the long term outlook Over the past year, we have remained focused for the sector remains favourable.
The Company, on ensuring the resilience of our portfolio to through the Partnership, is well resourced to be market volatility whilst also seeking to act on disciplined and patient, with significant capital to opportunities driven by this environment.
deploy in the form of committed but uninvested capital within the existing portfolio companies.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements The Investment Manager, through its affiliates, Investment Strategy has an outstanding track record of building The Investment Managers objective is to achieve businesses with exceptional management teams superior risk adjusted returns by making privately and of delivering consistently strong returns and negotiated control investments primarily in the significant outperformance against both crude oil exploration and production and midstream energy and natural gas benchmarks.
The Company aims sectors, which is a significant component of to capitalise on the opportunities presented by virtually all major economies.
Long-term market Riverstones pipeline of investments.
drivers of economic expansion, population The Investment Manager utilises its extensive growth, development of markets, deregulation, industry expertise and relationships to thoroughly and privatisation allied to near-term commodity evaluate investment opportunities and uses its price volatility are expected to continue to create significant experience in conducting due opportunities globally for Riverstone.
diligence, valuing assets and all other aspects of Key Drivers: deal execution, including financial and legal structuring, accounting and compensation design.
Capital constraints among companies with The Investment Manager also draws upon its high levels of leverage: network of relationships with industry-focused Industry distress and pressures to rationalise professional advisory firms to assist with due assets: diligence in other areas such as accounting, tax, legal, employee benefits, environmental, Growing success rates of deepwater engineering and insurance.
exploration and other technology-driven sources of reserves: and Investment Portfolio Summary Historical under-investment in energy infrastructure.
As of 31 December 2015, fourteen exploration and production investments, one midstream investment and one credit investment have been completed as further discussed below.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED CIOC non-ECI CIOC is a private E&P company focused on unconventional oil and gas resources in Western Canada.
Since its establishment in 2010, CIOC has aggregated one of the largest and most advantaged land positions in the emerging Montney and Duvernay formations of Western Canadas Deep Basin.
The company controls and operates 100 per cent.
of this asset base, and since the time of Riverstones initial investment, it has succeeded in reducing drilling and completion costs by more than half and more than tripling production capacity to over 10,000 boepd.
During the year, REL raised 67.6 million via the Placing and Open Offer to increase its stake in CIOC by $68 million to $232 million, pursuant to a tender offer.
Following this additional investment, CIOC is the largest position in RELs portfolio.
It is also the one with the highest valuation uplift in the 2015 financial year.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in CIOC, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.4x Gross MOIC or $330 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements Rock Oil ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $98 million of its $150 million commitment to Rock Oil following a $63 million investment in August 2015.
This additional investment was associated with Rock Oils acquisition of an additional 6,700 acres in Howard County, Texas, leading to a total position of approximately 23,000 net acres in that county as of the end of December 2015.
By the end of 2015, Rock Oil had begun its horizontal drilling program.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Rock Oil, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.3x Gross MOIC or $130 million.
1 Gross MOIC is Gross Multiple of Invested Capital before transaction costs, taxes, carried interest, management fees and other expenses.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Liberty II ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $93 million of its $100 million commitment to Liberty II.
In 2014, Liberty II acquired approximately 53,000 net acres with net production of approximately 4,000 boepd in North Dakotas Williston Basin.
Later in the year, it divested approximately 31,500 non-core net acres in McKenzie County from this portfolio to Emerald Oil in exchange for approximately 4,175 core net acres in Williams County and $78 million in cash.
In the first half of 2015, Liberty II agreed to acquire approximately 15,000 net acres in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming, securing an inventory of drilling locations in a formation with significant development potential.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Liberty II, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 0.9x Gross MOIC or $84 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements CNOR non-ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $73 million of its $90 million commitment to CNOR.
CNOR is a Calgary-based oil and gas company focused on the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin.
CNOR is currently investing actively in new wells through its joint venture with Tourmaline Oil in the Peace River High area, which exited 2015 with approximately 19,000 boepd of gross production.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in CNOR, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $73 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Castex 2005 ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $48 million of its $50 million commitment to Castex 2005.
Castex 2005 is a partnership focused on a portfolio of properties in Southern Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico Shelf which produce approximately 105 mmcfe d, as well as a seismic-driven exploration program which, for the year ended 31 December 2015, had a 100 per cent.
discovery rate on six wells drilled.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Castex 2005, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $48 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements Fieldwood ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $54 million of its $82 million commitment to Fieldwood.
Riverstone formed Fieldwood in partnership with CEO Matt McCarroll and his team in December 2012 with a commitment from Riverstone Global Energy and Power Fund V. Fieldwood is focused on the acquisition and development of conventional oil and gas assets in the Gulf of Mexico shelf region.
In the fourth quarter of 2015, the fair market valuation for Fieldwood was reduced to 0.8x invested capital.
This was primarily driven by a deterioration in the market valuations of publicly-traded peers operating in the shallow waters of Gulf of Mexico.
Fieldwood had another active year in 2015, with five successful wells out of six wells drilled, 44 recompletions, and significant decommissioning activity including 140 wells, 60 pipelines, and 40 platforms.
The company was also awarded a block in Mexicos offshore tender, which comprises of two proven but undeveloped fields.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Fieldwood, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 0.8x Gross MOIC or $43 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Eagle II ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $43 million of its $50 million commitment to Eagle II.
Eagle IIs primary strategy is to accumulate acreage for delineation and development in the Mid-Continent region of the United States.
To date, the company has acquired approximately 11,400 net acres in the South Central Oklahoma Oil Province SCOOP and approximately 17,000 net acres in the Mississippi Lime.
These assets are currently producing approximately 2,100 boepd.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Eagle II, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 0.8x Gross MOIC or $35 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements Carrier II ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $31 million of its $33 million commitment to Carrier II.
Carrier II is focused on the acquisition and exploitation of upstream oil and gas assets by partnering with select operators that are developing both unconventional and conventional reservoirs in North America.
Shortly after its establishment in May 2015, Carrier II entered into a joint venture agreement with a highly experienced operator group made up of Henry Resources and PT Petroleum targeting 19,131 net acres for development in the southern Midland Basin.
Additionally, during the fourth quarter Carrier II acquired a 14 per cent.
working interest in an approximately 1,000 gross acre AMI operated by Marathon Oil in Karnes County, Texas.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Carrier II, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $31 million.
After the end of the year, in January 2016, Carrier announced two separate acquisitions within the Sugarloaf project in the Eagle Ford in Texas.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Castex 2014 ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $30 million of its $67 million commitment to Castex 2014.
Castex 2014 is a Houston-based oil and gas company focused on testing and developing the current and future portfolio of exploration opportunities in the U. S. Gulf Coast Region, in partnership with Castex 2005.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, Castex 2014 partnered with Castex 2005 on two successful wells.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Castex 2014, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $30 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements ILX III ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $29 million of its $200 million commitment to ILX III.
ILX III, based in Houston, Texas, is a repeat joint-venture with the same management team of Ridgewood Energy Corporation.
The new entity is a continuation of the same strategy of acquiring non-operated working interests in oil focused exploration projects in deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Of the fourteen deepwater exploration projects that Riverstone has participated in with Ridgewood, only two projects have resulted in the discovery of non-commercial levels of hydrocarbons 86 per cent.
As of the end of 2015, ILX III was participating in the drilling of two exploration wells, with results expected in the first quarter of 2016.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in ILX III, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $29 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED RCO As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $76 million of its $125 million commitment to RCO, of which $40 million has been realised to result in $36 million of remaining unrealised invested capital.
RCO was formed in January 2015 to take advantage of the dislocation in the leveraged capital markets for energy companies.
Since its inception, RCO has made a total of 21 investments, four of which have already been fully exited.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in RCO, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 0.9x Gross MOIC or $65 million Realised: $40 million, Unrealised: $25 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements Meritage III non-ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $17 million of its $33 million commitment to Meritage III.
RELs investment to date is related to the ongoing construction of gas gathering, gas processing, and oil gathering infrastructure in support of CIOCs drilling program in western Canada.
The company expects to have the gas pipeline fully in-service and begin making deliveries by the Spring of 2016.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Meritage III, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $17 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Three Rivers III ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $11 million of its $167 million commitment to Three Rivers III.
Similar to Riverstones two prior successful partnerships with this management team, Three Rivers III focuses on oil and gas acquisition and development opportunities in the Permian Basin.
In the second quarter of 2015, the company acquired approximately 17,000 gross acres from BHP Billiton in the Permian Basin and has subsequently drilled its first horizontal well.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Three Rivers III, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $11 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements Origo non-ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $6 million of its $67 million commitment to Origo.
Origo is a Norway-based oil and gas company focused on exploration on the Norwegian and UK continental shelves.
In 2015, the company reviewed approximately 150 opportunities and completed three Farm-in transactions in Norway and one in the UK.
As of year-end these investments had resulted in two discoveries and two dry holes.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Origo, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $6 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Sierra non-ECI As of 31 December 2015, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $3 million of its $75 million commitment to Sierra.
Sierra is an independent Mexican energy company established to pursue select upstream and midstream opportunities in Mexico.
In July 2015, Sierra secured two oil and gas exploration blocks in Mexicos initial shallow Gulf of Mexico tender.
Sierra and its partners are currently undertaking subsurface assessments on these blocks ahead of initiating a drilling campaign.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in Sierra, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $3 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements CanEra III non-ECI On 21 January 2015, REL, through the Partnership, committed $60 million to CanEra III.
A total of $1 million has been invested as of 31 December 2015.
CanEra III is a private Calgary-based oil and gas company formed to pursue oil and gas exploration and production opportunities in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin.
CanEra III focuses on the acquisition, exploitation and exploration of large hydrocarbon deposits in the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin.
As of 31 December 2015, RELs interest in CanEra III, through the Partnership, 1 was valued at 1.0x Gross MOIC or $1 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone values its investments using Valuation common industry valuation techniques, including The Investment Manager is charged with comparable public market valuation, comparable proposing the valuation of the assets held by merger and acquisition transaction valuation, and REL through the Partnership.
The Partnership has discounted cash flow valuation.
directed that securities and instruments be valued For development-type investments, at their fair value.
RELs valuation policy follows Riverstone also considers the recognition of IFRS and IPEV Valuation Guidelines.
Riverstone appreciation or depreciation of subsequent values each underlying investment in accordance financing rounds, if any.
For those early stage with the Riverstone valuation policy, the privately held companies where there are other IFRS accounting standards and IPEV Valuation indicators of a decline in the value of the Guidelines.
The value of RELs portion of investment, Riverstone will value the investment that investment is derived by multiplying its accordingly even in the absence of a subsequent ownership percentage by the value of the financing round.
If there is any divergence between the Riverstone valuation policy Riverstone reviews the valuations on a and RELs valuation policy, the Partnerships quarterly basis with the assistance of the proportion of the total holding will follow Riverstone investment committee as part of the RELs valuation policy.
There were no valuation valuation process.
adjustments recorded by REL as a result As stated within the Annual Report and of differences in IFRS and U. S. Generally Financial Statements, the Audit Committee Accepted Accounting Policies for the year ended reviews the valuations of the Companys 31 December 2015 or in any period to date.
investments held through the Partnership, and Valuations of RELs investments through the makes a recommendation to the Board for formal Partnership are determined by Riverstone consideration and acceptance.
and disclosed quarterly to investors, subject to Board approval.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements Uninvested Cash Subsequent Events and Outlook 2 Of the $1,320 million of cash raised in the In January 2016, REL, through the Partnership, Companys IPO and Placing and Open Offer, increased its commitment to Carrier II by 3 $1,309 million has been invested into the $33 million, to fund two acquisitions in the Partnership, of which $845 million has been Eagle Ford.
The larger includes a 10 per cent.
invested into the underlying portfolio companies.
non-operating working interest in Marathons The Partnership maintains deposit accounts with 25,873 gross acre position located in the Eagle several leading international banks.
In addition, Ford in Texas.
The acreage is well understood by the Partnership invests a portion of its cash Carrier II based on the extensive drilling of over deposits in short-term money market fixed 300 wells which have been drilled to date.
RELs treasury policy seeks to protect The careful execution of Riverstones proven the principal value of cash deposits utilising investment strategy has helped the REL portfolio low risk investments with top tier counterparts.
remain resilient amidst extraordinary energy Uninvested cash earned approximately 35 basis market turbulence.
With a strong capital position points during the year ended 31 December 2015. and access to sixteen management teams, REL is In connection with the listing of REL on well placed to benefit from opportunities in the the London Stock Exchange, all proceeds of the current commodity price environment.
offering were converted to U. S. dollars at an average rate of 1.606 at inception.
All cash deposits referred to above are denominated in U. S. dollars.
Additionally, RELs functional Riverstone International Limited currency and Financial Statements are all 25 February 2016 presented in U. S. dollars.
The Partnerships commitments are denominated in U. S. dollars, except CIOC, CNOR and CanEra III which are denominated in Canadian dollars.
2 Includes KFIs second tranche of 50 million 3 The Company retained $11.5 million of cash raised in the Companys IPO and Placing and Open Offer to meet liabilities over the Companys going concern horizon, of which $2.5 million remains at 31 December 2015
