32 Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the viability of the bank taking account of the current position of the bank, the Boards assessment of the banks prospects, and the banks principal risks, as detailed on pages 30 and 31.
Given the bank is subject to process, a realistic downside discussed in the Risk Factors: regulatory oversight, we are scenario a variant of the base contained on pages 134 and 390 also required to meet regulatory case, not a stress scenario is to 414, respectively, and include standards of capital and liquidity also presented.
The bank also political, legal, macroeconomic, adequacy and stress test has sufficient capital and liquidity regulatory, operational and thresholds under severe but resources under this downside execution risks.
plausible conditions, which have scenario.
On the basis of this robust The banks base plans are also assessment of the principal risks The assessment has been made tested in a series of robust facing the bank, the Boards over a period of three years.
The downside financial scenarios review of the business and time period has been selected as part of internal and external strategic plans and other matters taking into account that the level stress testing, including the considered and reviewed during of uncertainty relating to the Internal Capital Adequacy the year, and the results of the assessment increases the longer Assessment Process ICAAP and stress tests undertaken, the Board the period chosen, particularly the Individual Liquidity Adequacy has a reasonable expectation that in the markets and regulatory Assessment ILAA.
These are the bank will be able to continue environment in which the bank summarised in the Capital and in operation and meet its liabilities operates: the directors consider Risk Management section on as they fall due over the period of a period of three years to be an page 150 and 160. the assessment.
Assessments of the risks of the The banks business and strategic greatest concern are captured plans provide long term direction through the banks processes and are reviewed on at least an for continuously identifying annual basis, including multi-year and effectively managing the forecasts showing the expected principal top and emerging risks, financial position throughout the as detailed on pages 30 and 31. planning horizon.
The base plans These assessments provide a show that the bank has sufficient view on the impact of the top risks capital and liquidity resources crystallising, individually and in over the three year assessment combination.
As part of the planning in the Risk Overview and further
