Business model and strategy 17 Our Strategy Our plan to build the best bank in the UK & RoI has three phases.
Phase 1 2014 Building financial strength Rebuild capital strength CET1 ratio 260bps during 2014 fide-risk US ABP, RCR, NPLs, liquidity portfolio Start cost reduction plan 1.1 billion savings achieved Simplify our organisational structure Improve our core businesses and deal with Citizens, Capital Phase 2 2015 16 Resolution, and Williams & Glyn exits Accelerate the transformation of our core businesses Achieve material RWA reduction from our Capital Resolution exit Discussions around resumption Address other material remaining issues 1 of dividends buy-backs Pay out surplus capital above 13% CET1 ratio subject to PRA Phase 3 2017 to 2019 Becoming No.
1 1 approval Cement customer-centric positioning #1 for customer service, trust and advocacy by 2020 Achieve attractive, balanced and sustainable financial returns target 12 % RoTE in 2019 Note: 1 Earliest possible timing is likely to be later than Q1 2017, subject to Board and PRA approval.
Our Priorities Our Plan Key milestones before seeking PRA approval for capital distributions would include, among other We have a long way to go to be the Our overarching ambition is to become considerations, maintaining the 13% CET1 ratio bank that our customers deserve.
But the number one bank for customer target, passing regulatory capital requirements, pass 2016 Bank of England stress test including we are in a period of very significant, service, trust and advocacy.
We have set Individual Capital Guidance hurdle and operating positive change.
We have millions of out how we track our progress towards within capital risk appetite, peak of litigation and conduct costs passed including US RMBS, great customers, tens of thousands of this goal on page 19.
We also track a confidence in sustainable profitability, and Williams outstanding employees.
By building on this number of other performance measures & Glyn exit assured.
foundation, we can achieve our ambition and have set long-term targets for these to be number one for customer service, to keep us on track.
trust and advocacy in all our chosen markets.
Our long-term targets Our 2016 goals Performance measures 1 CET1 ratio of 13% Maintain bank CET1 ratio of 13% Strength and sustainability RoTE 12% No.
1 for service, trust and advocacy Narrow the gap to No.
1 for NPS Customer experience in every primary UK brand Cost:income ratio 50% Reduce operating expenses Simplifying the bank 2 by 800 million Leading market positions in Net 4% growth in PBB and Supporting growth every franchise CPB customer loans Employee engagement in upper Raise employee engagement to Employee engagement quartile of GFS norm within two points of GFS norm Notes: 1 During the period of restructuring.
2 Excluding litigation and conduct costs, restructuring costs, write down of goodwill and other intangible assets and the operating costs of Williams & Glyn.
