Our progress in 2015 9 Our progress in 2015 We have a clear ambition to become No.
1 for customer service, trust and advocacy.
In 2015, our focus has been on Cost, Capital, Restructuring and Resilience.
We have also begun the process of making RBS a simpler place to work and an easier bank to do business with.
Reward Account Innovation Supporting % 3 employment New banking proposition First UK bank to enable Increased the launched: Reward offering customers to login to number of apprentices customers 3% cashback on their their mobile banking app from 50 to over 300. household bills.
Fair Banking Online diary Determined Launched an Launched an online to make a innovative new home insurance diary where customers difference product offering customers a can book an appointment with Comprehensive campaign started fixed premium for three years, an advisor from the comfort of in October 2015 placing emphasis which we believe is a positive their own home.
on personal determination and departure from industry accountability.
went through our Determined to Lead training programme to Entrepreneurial ensure a consistent approach to Hubs Account opening decision making.
In partnership with efficiency Entrepreneurial Spark, RBS has New automated account opened four Entrepreneurial opening process has increased Hubs across the UK, increasing our onboarding process Real time our involvement to seven, efficiency, with end-to-end registration enabling entrepreneurs and account opening times falling This enables customers small businesses to access free by 50% for business customers to have access to mobile office space, mentoring and and 30% for Commercial banking as they open their financial support, with a further customers.
Active five hubs to be opened in 2016. mobile users have increased 27% to 3.7 million.
Simple IT 370 Core technology Accessible platforms continued Branches banking to be simplified with 370 refurbished First banking product applications and over 6,000 Branch Transformation to be awarded RNIB approved as servers decommissioned.
programme 322 branches RBS launched new cards specifically refurbished, 922 ATMs replaced.
designed for blind and partially sighted customers.
Financial inclusion Launched the fee-free Independent Foundation account to Lending Review ILR better support unbanked individuals in the UK.
progress is available on rbs.
