24 24 Commercial & Private Banking Alison Rose CEO, Commercial & Private Banking Commercial & Private Banking CPB serves commercial and % corporate customers, operating principally through the NatWest 33 and Royal Bank of Scotland brands, and high net worth individuals, Contribution to income through Coutts and Adam & Co.
In Jersey, Guernsey, the Isle of Man and Gibraltar, RBS International serves a range of retail, commercial, corporate and financial institution customers.
CPB aims to support the UK and Western European economies through its provision of credit and banking services to help businesses grow.
Performance overview net new lending of 3.6 billion, while by becoming easier and simpler to Adjusted operating profit of 1,708 continuing to run down some nondo business with through operational million was down 11%, with lower strategic portfolios.
Pressure on new investment and process simplifications income partially offset by reduced business lending margins was partially Continued enhancements within the litigation and conduct costs.
Operating offset by deposit repricing.
business contributed to commercial profit of 1,001 million was impacted Total expenses of 3,182 million lending growth in 2015. by a goodwill impairment charge included 146 million of restructuring Opened four Entrepreneur Hubs across of 498 million attributed to Private costs up 26% from 2014 and 63 the UK, increasing our involvement to Banking.
million of conduct and litigation costs seven, enabling entrepreneurs and small Total income declined by 3% to down 69% from 2014.
Adjusted businesses to access free office space, 4,265 million, driven by a loss of 34 operating expenses increased by 3% to mentoring and financial support, with a million from the sale of non-strategic 2,475 million.
further five hubs to be opened in 2016. asset portfolios, the transfer of the Impairment losses were 82 million, Private Banking is being refocused on its commercial cards business to UK PBB in line with the modest impairments UK connected customers, with a simpler in 2014 and reduced fee income in experienced in 2014. operating model and new customer Private Banking.
propositions for wealthy individuals and Good growth was achieved in lending Building a better bank that families.
Closer links with Commercial to UK businesses.
Adjusting for internal serves customers well have driven an increase in client transfers, Commercial Banking achieved Commercial Banking made progress referrals.
towards improving customer experience Case study A campus fit for a king Established in 1829, Kings College London has an illustrious history, with alumni including John Keats and Florence Nightingale.
The University wanted to raise 135 million to invest in its Strand campus, and returned to the private placement market to deliver.
Since our foundation weve banked with RBS, so we have a long and trusted relationship, explains Stephen Large, Director of Finance at Kings College London.
Im proud of the difference the redevelopment will make to the University, future generations of students and the local community.
This strong relationship helped the bank and the University work together to raise the funding to redevelop the campus and create a new business school.
For further Business review 25 information - 107 113 Commercial & Private Banking see pages Performance highlights 2015 2014 Case study Return on equity % 5.8 10.6 Net interest margin % 1.92 1.99 Home sweet home Cost:income ratio % 75 62 Net loans and advances to customers bn 109.8 103.1 Moving house can be stressful.
Then, once you Customer deposits bn 133.3 128.0 find the right home, you then need to switch energy supplier, set up your broadband and Loan:deposit ratio % 82 81 manage your home.
Risk-weighted assets bn 89.3 79.4 Zoopla Property Group ZPG is a digital media and lead generation platform that owns and operates some of the UKs most widely recognised and trusted digital brands including Zoopla, uSwitch and PrimeLocation.
Its mission is to be the most useful resource for consumers and the most effective marketing channel for related business partners.
Acquiring price comparison website uSwitch in June 2015 allowed ZPG to develop its combined services and become the consumer champion at the heart of the home.
RBS supported the acquisition by acting as Mandated Lead Arranger in a 150 million four-bank arrangement.
Thanks to the successful deal, ZPG can now help its consumers make smarter decisions when finding, moving or managing their home.
