6 Strategic report Business model RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Business model Our business model provides the framework for us to win for each of our stakeholders.
OUR RESOURCES OUR DIFFERENTIATORS Best-in-class Insights Financial Relationships Natural ambition We understand 5bn of capital is and partnerships We have three that our business employed within core regions in our Our values and Relationships across operates in a broader RSA to support business and operate culture support a our value chain are market context.
operating activities across c. 200 offices.
high-performing a key resource for By adapting to our and generate and inclusive RSA.
We rely on environment we shareholder returns.
Technology The collective drive relationships with ensure we maintain of everyone at RSA brokers and partner RSA is harnessing the a robust business Intellectual raises the Groups organisations to power of technology model, relevant to ambition and distribute c. 75% of Technical expertise through e-enabled our customers and potential to improve.
our business and is crucial to gaining distribution, increased market place.
relationships with our competitive advantage operational efficiency supply chain enable us Brand quality in insurance.
Our in policy and claims Balance of scale to provide an efficient intellectual capital administration and With over 300 years claims service.
and focus is stored in the enhanced data and of experience we have underwriting expertise pricing analytics.
developed trusted Our unique mix of People of our people that has and recognisable scale and focus across built over our history brands in our markets, three core regions RSA is a peopleand is enhanced supporting our strong enables us to operate centred business, with through our technical customer franchises.
in market-leading c. 14,000 employees academies.
positions and benefit across our core from diversification business ensuring in capital and returns.
Payments to charities, fundraising and value of volunteering.
RSA has insured 89.8% of global operational offshore wind farms by capacity at some point in the projects lifetime.
6 9 0 4 s e g a p E C N A N R E V O G Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Business model RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7 OUR SHORT-TERM PRIORITIES AND LONG-TERM STRATEGY Read more on pages 12-21 FOCUSED STRONGER BETTER A leading general Operating with Improving business insurer, focused on capital strength performance and the UK & Ireland, the capacity to Canada and sustain it Scandinavia Efficient product Understanding each Global expertise Prudent investments Serving customers distribution via risk and pricing and geographic that protect well and proactively select channels effectively diversification policyholders and capital managing claims HOW WE CREATE VALUE OUR SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES See more on our corporate website rsagroup.
com  RESPONSIBLE SAFE SECURE THRIVING SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS WORLD COMMUNITIES FUTURE First and foremost Developing products, Giving back to Mitigating the risks we act responsibly in and programmes that our communities posed by climate everything that we do give our customers through education, change through confidence to lead employability, sustainable their lives enterprise and business practices entrepreneurship OU OUR R Financial value Social value Environmental value IMP IMPA AC CT T 6.8bn 1.6m 20k tonnes CO e 2 Net written premiums Value of community Carbon credits supporting 1 of the Group contributions environmental projects globally 523m 7,158 90% Operating profits Volunteer hours in RSA involvement in coverage 2 generated our local communities of offshore wind production 10.5p 10 79% Total dividend per share Number of countries in which RSAs waste recycling rate, for the year we ran road safety campaigns versus 60% benchmark rate Our impact and value creation in 2015.
