4 Strategic report RSA insights RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RSA insights Our strategic response to market dynamics.
Economic Social Our strategy is highly influenced by As an insurer we must anticipate and economic context, which directly adapt our products and services to impacts both the insurance and reflect social trends.
As a business financial markets, in which we operate.
we must also be conscious of and meet societys expectations of us.
Response: At RSA we believe Modest growth Low interest rates Pop ulation growth in equal opportunities and and urban living What: We operate in markets What: In response to low value diversity.
During 2015 that are characterised economic growth, interest What: Today, 50% of the 22% 2 of our Board by modest economic rates have been cut to worlds population live in members were female growth following the record lows to encourage cities.
In our core markets, 7 male and 27% 231 of the global financial crisis.
spending and investment urbanisation is above Groups Senior Managers in the economy.
The UN predicts that were female 615 male.
Impact: This translates into population growth and We seek greater female a slow-down in emergence Impact: For investors, urbanisation will add representation at a senior of new insurable risks and lower rates mean an a further 2.5bn to the level but base all hiring and a competitive pricing increased focus on worlds population by 2050. promotion decisions on environment, making sustainable and growing merit.
Females represented profitable growth yields on equity investments.
Impact: The increased 53% 9,147 of employees more challenging.
For the company, it means demand on infrastructure, overall male 8,143. less investment income, such as road networks, Response: We are focusing in a significant element housing and natural We also support our areas where we have strong of RSAs revenues.
resources will lead to greater communities.
Employability customer franchises and on risks to safety and security.
workshops with local building a balanced business Response: We are simplifying schools deliver education, across select distribution our business and we are Response: RSA continues inclusion and accessibility channels and customer focusing on operational to proactively educate on and our partnership with segments, where we can excellence in underwriting the risks presented by urban the School for Social maintain competitive to maintain and increase living, for example through Entrepreneurs promotes advantage.
We are working profitability in our road safety campaigns financial participation.
hard to operate more chosen markets.
efficiently to achieve more We also innovate, creating Trust in business from our business activities.
products that reflect new ways of living, such as What: Public trust in telematics, our data-driven businesses remains low car insurance product.
Eldermans trust barometer Inequality, shows financial services unemployment and are among the least trusted.
financial exclusion Impact: Trust is crucial to What: Inequality based success.
Our customers trust on age, gender, ethnicity us to be there when things or background remains a go wrong and shareholders significant social issue in the trust us to deliver against workplace and more broadly.
Impact: According to Response: We dont take research by the OECD, trust for granted.
We earn it, inequality harms economic by placing customers at growth.
Education is a the heart of our business, key factor and a lack of constantly improving our investment in education products and services a major contributor to meet their needs, and to inequality and by providing open and financial exclusion.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report RSA insights RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5 Our strategic response to market dynamics.
Natural environment Customer Our business relies on energy and resources Good business simply starts with provided by the natural environment.
our customers, and we strive to keep Its our duty to ensure that we operate customers at the heart of what we do.
in a way that preserves the sustainability of our business, our communities and the natural environment.
Response: Responding to Response: RSA is harnessing Climate change, Digital and technology major events and protecting the power of digital extreme weather What: Digital technology our customers when they innovation where we can and resource scarcity is re-configuring the way need us most is what we do.
best improve the customer What: Climate change poses that customers interact As extreme weather events experience: Through this risks to both people and with insurers and the way have become more frequent we are delivering e-enabled the natural environment.
that insurers understand we have expanded our distribution processes, According to PwCs their customers.
resources and capabilities to increased operational megatrends report, by 2030, manage them.
We constantly efficiency in policy and Impact: Digitisation has the world will need 50% monitor weather patterns claims administration and empowered customers more energy and 35% more and predictions to ensure enhanced data analytics to make more informed food than it does today.
we are prepared when the and pricing capability.
insurance purchase This will increase pressure worst happens, and our decisions.
In the UK, on finite natural resources.
claims teams have developed according to Swiss Re Sigma, Event Plans to ensure the Impact: Climate change is over 35% of motor insurance business is ready to respond already having an impact policies are purchased when our customers need on our environment, The online.
To read more about our frequency of catastrophic search and pre-sales activity response in action during weather events is on the rise, is increasingly performed the winter flooding in the UK and related insured-losses online by the customer and Scandinavia see page 29. have increased fourfold who will complete via over the past 30 years.
broker, telephony or As well as responding to With growing pressure other sales channels.
specific events, RSA is also on resources, people are committed to doing its bit Technology has also having to do more with less.
to reduce carbon emissions, re-wired customer If you would like to targeting a 12% reduction read more about how expectations of service we are responding to by 2018.
Also, RSA is a leading levels.
Customers now social and environmental insurer of renewable energy, trends then please expect a more bespoke access our Corporate having been involved approach to products and Responsibility report via in coverage of 90% of the corporate website: services and more direct rsagroup.
com corporateoperational off-shore engagement from insurers.
