12 Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our strategic priorities Demonstrating how were: Focused By the end of 2015, our Groups strategic refocus was nearly complete.
After agreeing the sales of our Latin American and Russian businesses, we can now concentrate on improving Strategic refocus: Latin America performance in our three core regions.
Following careful consideration by the Board the decision was taken in 2015 to sell RSAs Latin American operations.
It was determined that the Group would benefit from the greater capital and operational flexibility offered by a sale, which enables management 0.5bn 1.2bn to focus attention on the three largest markets of UK & Ireland, Scandinavia Total disposal gains to date Total proceeds to date and Canada.
The sale was agreed in September for total proceeds of 403m, and 19 403m is expected to complete in stages Countries or business units disposed Proceeds from Latin America during 2016.
Solvency II: Three pillars Stronger Customers and shareholders rely on RSA to operate with financial strength.
Following the financial overhaul in 2014, our capital position has remained strong throughout 2015.
Governance and Risk Management Additional strategic disposals and improving ORSA operational profits have helped to stabilise Disclosure and Capital adequacy Transparency capital and return the business to paying a regular dividend to shareholders.
Solvency II A key priority for 2015 was completing preparations for Solvency II: Solvency II is a fundamental review of the capital 10.5p 2014: 2.0p adequacy regime for the European insurance industry.
It has established Total dividend a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards that came into force on 1 January 2016.
2.8bn 13 14 15 A Stable For further information see risk section TNAV 2013-15 Credit Rating S&P on pages 36-39 1,665 2,900 2,838 Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Our strategic priorities Better Our business made excellent progress in 2015.
We further strengthened our customer franchises and invested in our future.
We look forward to 2016 and beyond with increased ambition and prospects for further improvement.
Better value for customers Better for our customers means providing consistent support and excellent service.
We are focusing on being proactive and Find out more digitally enabled and providing tailored on page 14-15 products that meet evolving customer requirements.
Better value for employees For employees we are simplifying processes and upgrading tools to make it easier to get things done.
We are maintaining our focus Find out more on developing people across our businesses on page 16-17 and we are committed to rewarding and recognising people appropriately for the work they do.
Better value for society and the environment We have four key priorities as part of our Corporate Responsibility programme: Find out more to be a responsible business: to help on page 18-19 to create a safe world: to contribute to thriving communities: and to help secure a sustainable future.
Better value for shareholders Our strategy is designed to maximise value for shareholders.
We have simplified the Find out more business.
We are also investing in the future on page 20-21 and streamlining the cost base to build the foundations for attractive shareholder returns.
14 Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Value for customers Better for our customers means providing consistent support and excellent service.
We are focusing on being proactive and digitally enabled and providing tailored products that meet evolving customer requirements.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 SM RT WHEELS telematics product, Wow!
I could not believe that we now insure around 30,000 anyone could be that efficient young drivers.
One hour and forty three Were also active in telematics across minutes from initial call to final our other regions, targeting a broader settlement.
I will be staying with customer base.
During 2015, we were John Lewis for some time.
the first to market with a mobile appJohn Lewis home insurance customer based proposition in our Johnson insurance provided by RSA business in Canada called AvenU and in Great customer service is consistently Norway, our Codan business completed We cant say that all claims are handled making RSA a partner of choice and an exciting mobile app pilot during that fast but it demonstrates our a market-leading home insurer the year, rewarding drivers that commitment to providing the best During 2015 we proudly announced demonstrated good driving.
In both possible service for all our customers, an exclusive, five-year contract with Canada and Norway, were taking whether coming to us direct, from Nationwide, the UKs largest building advantage of the increasing capability brokers or through our affinity partners.
society, to underwrite their home that mobile technology provides and insurance portfolio.
Throughout the transferring the insights we have Rapid digitisation boosting process RSAs customer obsession and developed from the UK market.
customer experience commitment to affinity partnerships In Canada we are improving customer proved to be the differentiating factors.
and broker experience by investing We are pleased that this significant win in digital technology.
During 2015 we makes RSA a market leader in UK home developed an app within our Johnson insurance, a firm endorsement of our business, making it easier for customers customer proposition.
to manage elements of their policies online, via their laptop, desktop or smartphone.
The app, which launched in January 2016, went from design to implementation within 16 weeks and received fantastic customer feedback.
This will be the first place I turn to make changes to my policies.
Retired teacher As well as making commercial Johnson customer and app tester sense for RSA, whats really The rapid-digitisation programme will great is that were helping young continue to build momentum during drivers to be safer on the roads, 2016.
This will include using and hopefully instilling great sophisticated analytics to improve our RSA has a strong track-record as a driving habits for life.
customer offering, enhancing our trusted affinity partner to leading retail Kenny Leitch customer support capabilities and brands, including John Lewis Home Global Telematics Director upgrading digital marketing capabilities Insurance, which was the focus of for our Johnson affinity partners to the heart-warming Tiny Dancer Our Telematics products reward drivers improve customer insight.
ad campaign during the year.
for driving safely, providing easy to understand driver feedback scores via Telematics using technology to The call centre, which we operate a web-based dashboard or mobile app, develop innovative insurance products on behalf of John Lewis, was also which can lead to discounts on their RSA is proud to be one of the UKs recognised for outstanding customer insurance premium.
leading insurers for young and service in 2015 when it was ranked inexperienced drivers.
Back in early number one in the Which?
call centre 2012 we didnt write insurance for customer satisfaction survey.
However, Particularly valued were the staffs we believed that, by combining motor knowledge, politeness and helpfulness.
insurance with monitoring devices This same centre was also featured in cars sometimes called black box on the BBCs Watchdog programme as insurance or Telematics there was a rare positive example of excellent an opportunity for us to offer great customer service after a claim was innovative products to young drivers settled in phenomenal time: and to be commercially successful.
With For more information visit: www.
com the success of our own MORE TH N 16 Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Value for employees For employees we are simplifying processes and upgrading tools to make it easier to get things done.
We are maintaining our focus on developing people across our businesses and we are committed to rewarding and recognising people appropriately for the work they do.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Talent at RSA The programme provided RSA is committed to developing talent me with the opportunity to across the organisation.
Every member step away from my role and of staff is encouraged to identify and spend time developing my explore learning and development style, leadership and strategic opportunities with their leaders.
thinking with a group of talented In addition, RSA runs a number of development programmes people.
We were encouraged to for high-performing colleagues challenge the way we view our at all levels of the organisation: business, challenge each other and of course, to build a strong Fastrack network of contacts across Fastrack is the starting point for the company.
I believe focused career development and the programme has helped planning.
The programme includes elements of the mini-MBA and covers me to develop greater business fundamentals as well The STA programme provided perspective and succeed.
valuable insight into what is Gavin Wilkinson Group head office required to lead with impact Director of Capital, FP&A and at a senior level and has armed Performance Management me with the knowledge required to meet this challenge.
Upgrading technology During 2015 RSA embedded its largestThe programme illustrated ever global technology programme.
the importance of adapting my The Big Upgrade enabled colleagues to strategic thinking and approach work faster and more efficiently, while to innovation, in the face of providing them with greater flexibility.
evolving competitive threats Weve introduced social media solutions and increased organisational such as Yammer and SharePoint to drive complexity, to continue to collaboration between colleagues on add value to our organisation.
a global scale and enable the business Kellie Haslam Canada to operate more efficiently.
Yammer Director, SME Central Region in particular has seen adoption rates H aving joined RSA on the of well over 50%, and has contributed Global Graduate Scheme, to a reduction in emails.
It has also been Executive Development Programme EDP used to improve interaction with Senior career development has been The EDP programme focuses on Leadership through Town Hall events building the commercial acumen encouraged from the start.
where colleagues can participate and strategic thinking of senior people The Fastrack Scheme has been online and ask questions directly to regarded as having the potential to a great example of this and Management teams via Yammer.
be amongst the top leadership of has enabled me to develop the organisation.
The Big Upgrade has seen us bring negotiation and influencing c. 17,000 employees globally under skills, enhance my network one virtual roof via the BT One internally and help deliver Cloud network.
It has also seen change to the School for three UK teams move into one place Social Entrepreneurs charity.
in the Walkie-Talkie building at 20 Fenchurch Street.
Nick Brown UK Portfolio Lead Construction, Engineering and Renewable Energy Senior Talent Acceleration STA STA is designed for high potential leaders with the capability to step up to more senior leadership roles.
For more information visit: www.
com 18 Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Value for society and the environment We have four key priorities as part of our Corporate Responsibility programme...... To be a responsible business: to help to create a safe world: to contribute to thriving communities: and to help secure a sustainable future.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 Safe, Secure World Promoting road Renewable energy has an important safety across our regions part to play in the transition to a low This year, we focused on making young carbon future.
We have been insuring people more visible on our roads and renewable energy projects since the helping young drivers be safer drivers.
1970s and are now one of the leading insurers of renewable energy globally, As in previous years volunteers from having been involved in the insurance Codan in Denmark handed out of 90% of off-shore wind energy.
thousands of high visibility vests to We provide insurance across the full commuters.
Also in 2015, following lifecycle, working with developers research in Denmark that showed from the start to provide effective young people would wear reflective risk management advice to reduce clothes if they were cool, Codan energy costs.
and the Child Accident Prevention Foundation teamed up with designer, We continue to be at the Nick Brown, Fastrack candidate and Michelle Soulland, to create a reflective forefront of renewable Benson, Development Director of the School collection for young people.
In the UK we launched a film warning SSE supports individuals to establish Brendan Reed young people of the devastating businesses with a social purpose that Global Portfolio Manager, consequences of driving when not in address inequalities and social exclusion Wind Energy UK control.
MORE TH N also released the in our local communities.
In Canada We have set ourselves an ambitious Safe In Sound campaign to identify and the UK we are supporting students new carbon reduction target to reduce the safest song to drive to, helping development by sharing our business our Group carbon footprint by 12% raise awareness about the impact skills and knowledge.
We provide per full time employee FTE by 2018. of music on our driving styles.
senior mentors from the business, introduction to risk workshops We have delivered a reduction in our and half-day workshops helping emissions per FTE over time, as a result social entrepreneurs tackle their of improved operational efficiency, business issues.
buying sustainable alternatives where possible and empowering employees In 2015 we supported SSE and their to work more sustainably.
fellows though our Fastrack leadership development programme.
Small groups Acting responsibly of our future leaders were tasked with Responsible business is at the core helping entrepreneurs on projects that of what we do.
We engage openly with addressed strategic challenges they customers, employees and suppliers were facing.
remaining transparent in how we manage our operations and deliver B y supporting social our products and services, helping Thriving Communities Supporting the entrepreneurs, we are having a us to build and sustain trust.
growth of social enterprise in the UK real impact in the communities Our award winning partnership with B eing a responsible business where we operate.
the School for Social Entrepreneurs is about providing insurance Mark Edgar SSE delivers both community and for our customers, and financial Human Resources Canada commercial benefits.
It aligns with return to our shareholders our strategy to support the SME sector Sustainable Future without negatively damaging and provides opportunities for our Insuring a low carbon future people to share and develop their skills the environments we operate We play a role in tackling climate change by supporting social entrepreneurs in.
Operating in this way is good by helping our customers adapt to to succeed.
for our reputation, good for changing environmental risks and the planet and good for the opportunities and by reducing the emissions from our own operations.
bottom line its just good business sense.
Darren McKenzie UK and Western Europe COO For more information visit: www.
com  20 Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Value for shareholders Our strategy is designed to maximise value for shareholders.
We have simplified the business.
We are also investing in the future and streamlining the cost base to build the foundations for attractive shareholder returns.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Our strategic priorities RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Case Study: Canadian Case Study: Scandinavian operational excellence country based organisation The Canadian transformation effort The Scandinavian transformation has is focused on consolidating our office two stages.
The first is designed to footprint, implementing lean end-toprovide the region with the right end processes and rapid deployment foundations for success, whilst the of customer-centric digital technology.
second focuses on optimising and future-proofing the business model.
Weve been doing business in Canada for over 300 years and during that time During 2015 we successfully completed we have grown into a trusted market stage one of the transformation, which Investing in your business leader.
However, as we grew, both involved restructuring the businesses Our ambition for RSA is to create organically and through acquisition, we into country-based organisations, a business capable of supporting developed an inefficient office footprint resetting the strategy and streamlining best-in-class performance levels across 75 separate locations.
in each of our key regions.
2015 we made significant progress Previously Scandinavia was managed consolidating this down to just 35, We are deploying transformation with separate Personal and Commercial including two regional hubs, focused programmes in each region and at the product divisions which each spanned on operations and customer care.
With Group head office, aimed at improving the region.
The change to countrythis structure we can bring employees customer service, increasing process based organisation better recognises together to share best-practice and efficiency and optimising costs.
the different market and customer increase efficiency whilst also making dynamics in Denmark, Sweden and significant savings on property costs.
Norway, enabling each country to We are also implementing lean tailor its approach to local demands.
management principles to drive staff The change has increased local engagement, customer service and managements ownership and process efficiency.
Since adopting lean accountability leading to increased techniques in our policy servicing teams operational agility.
For example, call-handling times have reduced by in Sweden the change enabled the 26% while also improving service for business to identify an opportunity customers and brokers.
to consolidate the small business call centre into one for Personal Lines, which has led to increased sales and improved customer satisfaction scores as well as cost savings.
Towards the end of 2015 the Scandinavian businesses moved in to In a world where investment the second stage of the transformation, returns are low and markets which will continue in earnest during resilient to price increases, we 2016.
This stage has several key areas of focus: digitisation and customer are investing in cost reduction journey: operational efficiency and and improvements to customer automation: underwriting and claims experience to secure growth excellence and infrastructure and IT and profitability.
These areas are designed Paul Whittaker to future-proof the business model Group Chief Operating Officer and enable us to pursue our ambition O ur transformation journey has of best-in-class.
proved that we can improve We achieved a lot in 2015: we efficiency and effectiveness at started with high ambitions, the same time as enhancing which we raised significantly our customer experience.
Sid Chopra Sara Lemke Canada Chief Operating Officer Head of Strategy PMO lead Scandinavia For more information visit: www.
