Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Group Nomination and Governance Committee report Introduction Committee composition The Committee plays an important role in setting the I am supported on the Committee by Alastair Barbour, Hugh tone from the top by ensuring that the Board comprises Mitchell and Johanna Waterous.
Attendance at Committee of individuals with a diverse yet relevant set of skills, meetings is shown in the table below.
Derek Walsh, the knowledge and experience who will work well together Group General Counsel and Company Secretary regularly to lead the Group.
The Committee also monitors the attends Committee meetings.
In addition to the four Groups compliance with the Code to ensure that there scheduled meetings, two ad-hoc meetings were held are clear governance processes in place to aid effective, during the year in relation to the ongoing recruitment efficient and risk-aware decision-making.
Meetings Attended During the year, the Committee considered candidates for the role of Group Chief Financial Officer, following Richard Martin Scicluna 6 6 Houghtons resignation, and was pleased to recommend Alastair Barbour 6 6 Scott Egans appointment to the Board.
Hugh Mitchell 6 6 We announced at the 2015 AGM that the Board would benefit Johanna Waterous 6 6 from two additional independent Non-Executive Directors Committee Chairman with a proven track record in insurance, particularly in the Groups core markets and in transformation.
A search Key activities during 2015 is ongoing and any appointments will be announced in Board Composition due course.
The Committee monitors the balance of skills, experience, The Committee has also reviewed succession plans for independence and knowledge on the Board as well as gender Executive Committee members, noting that the simplification diversity.
The Board currently comprises 78% male and 22% of the Group and spans of control could lead to greater gaps female directors.
We remain committed to Lord Davies target in succession planning.
To address this, we are ensuring for female board composition however, all appointments that tailored development plans are created for those are made on merit against the agreed selection criteria.
individuals that we believe could join the Executive On reviewing the diversity on the Board, the Committee Committee in the future.
agreed that there was no evidence during the year to suggest that a lack of gender diversity had compromised Role and responsibilities Board debate.
However, as we announced at the 2015 AGM, The Committee is responsible for: we feel that the Board could benefit from two additional independent Non-Executive Directors.
We are seeking Managing the process to identify Board candidates and individuals whose skills complement and strengthen the advising and making recommendations to the Board Board.
Major shareholders have been engaged to understand on Board membership, Committee membership and their views on the skills required on the Board and The Zygos related appointments Partnership have been appointed to conduct the search.
Ensuring appropriate succession plans are in place for Zygos has no other connection with the Group.
They are members of the Board and certain senior executive roles accredited by the Davies Review under the Enhanced Code Monitoring the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate of Conduct for Executive Search Firms as they have a strong Governance Code track record in assisting boards to enhance their gender Evaluating Board members performance.
A search is ongoing and any appointments will be announced in due course.
Skills and experience of the Board Following Richard Houghtons resignation, the Committee instructed Korn Ferry to search for suitable candidates for a.
Insurance Industry the role of Group Chief Financial Officer.
Financial c. Strategic Management was agreed and both the longlist and shortlist of candidates d. Sales Marketing included women.
Shortlisted candidates were interviewed e. Risk and Governance by me, the Group Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee was pleased to recommend Scott Egans appointment to the Board.
Korn Ferry are regularly engaged by the Group to provide executive search services for roles across the Group but have no other connection with the Group.
They follow the Code of Conduct for Executive a b c d e Search Firms.
The graph above shows the percentage of the Board with each of the skill categories listed.
33% 78% 56% 11% 22% 56 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Nomination and Governance Committee report continued Hugh Mitchell and I concluded our first three-year terms of Board Tenure as at 31 December 2015 appointment during the year.
0 to 3 years 44.5% each of our contributions to the Board and how our skills, b.
3 to 6 years 44.5% c knowledge and experience complemented those of the other c. 6 to 9 years 11.0% directors.
The Committee concluded that both Hugh and I continued to add value to the Board and that Hugh remained independent and therefore recommended that we both a be re-appointed for a further three-year term commencing September 2015 and January 2016 respectively.
Hugh b absented himself during discussions on his appointment and Johanna Waterous chaired the Committee and Board in my absence during discussions on my re-appointment.
The Committee considers that each Non-Executive Director devotes sufficient time to discharging their duties and Board and Committee Evaluation remains independent of mind and judgement, and therefore During the year, the Committee has tracked progress against recommended each Non-Executive Directors re-election the actions agreed from the 2014 internal evaluation of to the Board.
The recommendation to re-elect Johanna the Board, Committees and directors.
Further information Waterous was subject to particularly rigorous review as she on these can be found on page 52.
For 2015, an internal has served on the Board for over six years.
The Committee evaluation was carried out using questionnaires.
The results further recommended the Chairman and Executive Directors were reported to the Committee and discussed.
It was agreed for election or re-election to the Board at the 2016 AGM.
that the Board should spend more time engaging with the We have also considered new external appointments to business, both formally through the Board and informally ensure that they did not give rise to conflicts of interests through individual site visits and meetings with management.
and did not impact the directors time commitment to the It was also agreed that, the Board should re-focus on Company.
In each case the Committee was satisfied that the Groups longer-term strategy as it is coming out external appointments could be authorised.
Increased focus of the Board would be given to customer, people, brand and culture issues.
Breakdown of topics discussed at Committee Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code meetings held during 2015 The Committee reviews the Groups compliance with the a.
Governance 20% Code through an assessment carried out by the Company b.
Succession Planning 30% Secretary twice a year.
Any non-compliance is discussed d c. Recruitment 40% a and it is agreed whether action is required to remedy the d. Other 10% non-compliance, or if there are circumstances which justify the non-compliance.
The Company has complied with the principles and provisions of the 2014 version of the Code throughout the year, or implemented the new requirements c during the year.
b Martin A. Scicluna Chairman and Chairman of Group Nomination and Succession Planning Governance Committee In addition to succession planning for the Non-Executive 24 February 2016 Directors through the ongoing recruitment described above, the Committee reviews succession plans for Executive Committee members to ensure that there are candidates internally that could provide short-term cover or replace each Executive Committee member.
The aim of the succession plans is to develop a pipeline of talented individuals in each region in which the Group operates.
The succession plans were utilised during the year when Ralph Daals, an internal candidate, was appointed as the Group Chief Auditor, and more recently with Charlotte Heiss forthcoming appointment as Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary to succeed Derek Walsh.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Board Risk Committee Introduction Committee composition I am pleased to present to shareholders the Board Risk I am supported on the Committee by Alastair Barbour, Enrico Committee Report for 2015.
The key function of the Cucchiani, Hugh Mitchell and Martin Scicluna, and attendance Committee is to advise the Board on risk management issues, at Committee meetings is shown below.
The Group Chief oversee the risk management arrangements of the Group Executive, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Financial and recommend the Group framework of risk limits and risk Officer, Group Chief Auditor, Group Underwriting Director and appetite for Board approval.
The Committee ensures that the Group and UK Regulatory Compliance Director are regular the material risks facing the Group have been identified attendees at Committee meetings by invitation with other and that appropriate arrangements are in place to manage members of management and external advisers also being and mitigate those risks effectively.
In addition, private meetings are held ahead of each Committee meeting to discuss issues on During the year, Solvency II implementation and the Internal which to concentrate with management and advisers.
Model Approval Process IMAP have been a key focus for the The Committee has held four private meetings without Committee.
I am pleased to confirm that, following a detailed management being present as well as a private meeting exercise, the Groups Internal Model was approved by the PRA with the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The approval covered the Company and Meetings Attended its principal subsidiaries.
Kath Cates 5 5 The Committee has also considered the success of the Alastair Barbour 5 5 Global Programme set up to enhance the effectiveness of Enrico Cucchiani 5 5 the Internal Control System and activities carried out as part 1 of the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA, including Hugh Mitchell 4 5 close monitoring of the risks associated with the Groups Martin Scicluna 5 5 turnaround and change programme.
Committee Chairman Note: Role and responsibilities 1.
H ugh Mitchell was unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing The Committee is responsible for: commitment.
Reviewing the output from risk appetite assessments on The Committee has been assisted in carrying out its duties a quarterly basis, including capital adequacy assessments, by a Control and Governance Advisory Committee which and where necessary approving actions to bring capital meets quarterly, and is responsible for considering and within appetite approving all revised policies in addition to monitoring any gaps in compliance.
Reviewing the outputs and key assumptions from the Internal Model validation process as recommended by the The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the Internal Model Governance Committee and, where satisfied, outcome of Committee meetings with the Board receiving making recommendations to the Board the minutes of Committee meetings.
Reviewing Solvency II compliance as recommended by the Solvency II Steering Committee, and making Breakdown of topics discussed at Committee recommendations to the Board as the Committee meetings held during 2015 may deem appropriate a.
Risk and Compliance Updates 20% Considering and approving the Group framework of risk b.
Capital and Solvency II 30% appetite and risk limits for recommendation to the Board e c. Specic Risk Deep Dives 20% a d. Regional Deep Dives 20% Carrying out an annual review of the Groups System of e. Governance 10% Governance and recommending it to the Board for approval d Working with the Group Remuneration Committee to ensure risk is properly considered in setting the remuneration policy for the Group b c Ensuring that the material risks facing the Group have been identified, including emerging and potential risks, and where appropriate, actions have been implemented to maintain risks within appetite On behalf of the Board, reviewing the Group ORSA approach and report, including the selection of appropriate stress and scenario tests and, if satisfied, recommend formal approval to the Board.
58 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board Risk Committee continued Key activities during 2015 Further information on the Groups risk strategy and appetite can be found in the Risk Management section of the Strategic Solvency II and IMAP Report on pages 36 to 39.
With Solvency II going live in January 2016, the new regime has been a key area of focus in 2015.
In preparation the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA Committee have been receiving regular updates on the Throughout the year, the Committee considered a range of Groups progress towards implementation as well as initial activities in order to assess the risks and solvency needs of outputs including the Solvency II Balance Sheet and solvency the Group which constitutes the ORSA process.
A summary positions, updated policies and IMAP.
of these activities and associated decisions taken during An ad-hoc meeting was held in April 2015 to approve the ORSA assessment were reviewed by the Committee.
the Internal Model application for recommendation Business Risk review to the Board and submission to the PRA.
The Group Chief Risk Officer provides a quarterly update to Effectiveness of the enhanced Global Internal Control System the Committee on the key risks and risk themes impacting I am pleased to confirm that the Group has successfully the Group including an assessment of whether risks are embedded the first phase of the enhanced Global Internal within appetite and any actions deemed necessary to bring Control System during the year and is making solid progress risks within appetite.
This review is supplemented by subject on phase two.
The success of this programme was noted by matter expert assessments of the risks impacting the the Committee and supported by external assurance, with business including insurance risk, financial risk, operational ongoing sustainability ensured through the establishment of risk and reinsurance risk and strategy.
As an example with regional control committees and biannual integrated three respect to insurance risk, the Committee discussed specific lines of defence reporting to the Group Audit Committee.
themes, such as catastrophe risk and pricing capabilities, whilst focussing on remediation progress on specific risk The Control and Governance Advisory Committee has portfolios and considering the reinsurance options available, delegated authority from the Committee to approve all which in 2015 included the purchase of group volatility revised policies and continually monitors any gaps in reinsurance cover.
The monitoring of IT risk and controls compliance which it reports to the Committee for approval.
will remain an area of key focus, particularly given the increasing level of external threat and the extensive level of Risk Management System transformational change being rolled out across the Group, The Risk Management System is designed to identify, measure, manage, monitor and report risk and is underpinned In addition, key emerging risks and trends were considered by the three lines of defence model.
The Committee oversees with a focus on geo-political tensions, dependence on critical the Groups Risk Management System to ensure it is robust infrastructure and increasing cyber threats.
Alongside the and operating effectively throughout the year.
The Risk core stress and scenario testing programme the potential function is part of the second line of defence and plays impact of a coordinated cyber-attack on the power grid was a key role in providing assurance to management and the also examined in detail.
In June a deep dive on financial risk Committee on the effectiveness of the Risk Management was presented to the Committee, which provided further System as well as advising on emerging risks.
insight into the exposure and effectiveness of asset liability management and hedging for equity, interest rate, credit The overarching Risk Management Policy, approved spread and inflation risk.
Pension risk had also been a key annually by the Board on the Committees recommendation, focus during the year.
establishes a framework of standard risk management processes which are embedded throughout the Group.
It also The Committee reviewed the Groups risk strategy and defines the dependencies and interactions with the Groups appetite where updates were made to the setting of capital ORSA and the Groups approach to stress and scenario appetite to maintain effectiveness during transition of the testing.
There are further policies setting out risk assessment business to Solvency II.
standards and risk appetite and detailed procedures which set minimum requirements, internal controls and details of Kath Cates controls testing.
Senior Group executives own each policy Non-Executive Director and and are responsible for ensuring they are embedded through Chairman of the Board Risk Committee regional, local and functional owners who are responsible 24 February 2016 for identifying and reporting any non-compliance through rigorous assessments.
The results of these assessments are reviewed and challenged by local and Group risk teams, the responsible senior Group executives, regional risk committees and the Committee.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Group Investment Committee Introduction The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the The Group Investment Committee is authorised by the outcome of Committee meetings and the Board also receives Board to manage all aspects of investment policy and the minutes of Committee meetings.
strategy for the Group and provide oversight of the operation of the Groups investment portfolios within Breakdown of topics discussed at Committee established strategy and risk frameworks.
meetings held during 2015 Role and responsibilities a.
Governance 15% The Committee is responsible for: b Managing all aspects of investment policy and strategy for the Group.
Providing oversight of the operation of the Groups investment portfolios within established strategy and risk frameworks.
a Committee composition I am supported on the Committee by Alastair Barbour, Martin Scicluna, Stephen Hester and Scott Egan who became a member on his appointment to the Board.
Richard Houghton was a member of the Committee until he ceased to be Chief Key activities during 2015 Financial Officer on 10 July 2015 and I would like to thank him Investment portfolio for his participation.
The Group Investments Director attends The combination of sales of businesses and a further all meetings of the Committee to provide an update on the strengthening of sterling against the currencies used by economic and market background and outlook affecting the Groups subsidiary operations saw the total size of the the Group, the investment activities carried out since the Groups investment portfolios decline by 1,219m over 2015.
Committee last met and any portfolio actions which require Despite the relatively significant change in size, the core the Committees approval.
structure of the Groups investment portfolios remained Meetings Attended broadly unchanged with the portfolios continuing to be Joseph Streppel 2 2 heavily concentrated in fixed interest and cash assets with a limited exposure to equity and property.
Alastair Barbour 2 2 Stephen Hester 2 2 The low interest rate environment has continued to dominate 1 the behaviour of investment markets, with bond yields Richard Houghton 1 1 remaining close to record low levels.
Low yields have placed Martin Scicluna 2 2 a sustained downward pressure on the income of the Group 2 Scott Egan 0 0 as maturing bonds are reinvested at the prevailing low yield Committee Chairman level.
This economic and market backdrop continues to Notes: create a challenging environment for the investment 1.
R ichard Houghton ceased to be a member of the Committee with effect portfolios of all insurance companies including the Group.
S cott Egan became a member of the Committee on 1 October 2015.
Against this background the Committee has continued to review strategy alternatives to enhance the return of the portfolios.
In particular, the Group has continued to make measured allocations towards less liquid credit investments.
These investments have been targeted to take advantage of the additional yield offered for illiquidity relative to traditional quoted bonds whilst maintaining a strong underlying credit quality and have included loans backed by property and trade receivables.
In total the Group now has commitments to these assets approaching 1bn with around 700m of this invested at the year end.
Investment in these assets has been subject to extensive due diligence with reporting to the Committee agreeing strategy limits and reviewing progress on implementation.
60 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Investment Committee continued While the Group has taken measured steps to enhance returns, the core philosophy of maintaining a low risk and high quality investment structure remains in place.
This is reflected both in the high allocation to bonds and cash and the very strong quality of the bond portfolio.
In a year where there has been downward pressure on both yields and credit ratings the Group has maintained its very high quality credit rating structure.
Total assets as at 31 December 2015: 13.0bn a.
Fixed Income 86% e d a c c. Property Investment 3% d. Equities 1% e. Alternatives and other 4% b Details of the Groups investments are contained in note 10 on page 131.
Joseph Streppel Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Group Investment Committee 24 February 2016 Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee Reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Group Audit Committee Report Introduction Committee composition, skills and experience I am pleased to present the Group Audit Committee Report The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive for 2015, which sets out the Committees responsibilities Directors and the Board is satisfied that the Committee has and its key activities during the year.
recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The members bring diverse experience, knowledge During the year the Committee has reviewed all scheduled and skills to the Committee, which enables the members results announcements: the 2014 Annual Report and collectively to act as an effective Committee.
In particular, Accounts: and management proposals to improve the Joseph brings financial, governance and industry experience clarity and conciseness of the financial statements in through his former role as CFO of Aegon and as Chairman the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
of the Dutch Corporate Governance Monitoring Committee.
The Committee has continued to monitor the effectiveness Kath has in-depth knowledge of controls, governance and of the Groups Systems of Internal Control, particularly to risk management through roles including Chief Operating ensure that the enhancements to risk policies and control Officer, Wholesale Banking at Standard Chartered.
Johanna processes made through a Group-wide project in 2014 have brings expertise in sales and marketing as well as her been implemented, embedded, and are operating effectively.
experience as a chairman and non-executive director.
I bring audit experience and knowledge of financial The Committee has considered the new Code requirement reporting requirements through my former career at to publish a viability statement, including reviewing and KPMG.
In addition, Kath and I are members of the Board approving managements proposals for the appropriate Risk Committee, ensuring that risk is taken into account time period to be covered by the statement, the content in the Committees decisions and that information of the statement and the information to be provided by flows appropriately between the two Committees.
management to the Committee and the Board to provide assurance for the statement made.
The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the year and has held private meetings with the Group Chief Auditor, Ralph Daals appointment as Group Chief Auditor was the Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director and the approved by the Committee during the year.
This was external auditor without other members of management an internal appointment based on the succession plan being present.
The Committee members regularly met for senior executive roles.
privately to discuss issues on which to concentrate with During the year the Committee was internally evaluated management and advisers in the meeting.
as part of the wider review of the Board and its Committees, The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer, the outcome of which can be found on page 51. the Group Chief Auditor, the Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer and Role and responsibilities representatives of the external auditor, KPMG, are regular The purpose of the Committee is to: attendees at Committee meetings.
Other members of Coordinate and oversee the integrity of the financial management and external advisers may attend at the reporting process invitation of the Committee.
A management level Disclosure Monitor compliance with relevant regulations, industry Committee regularly considers any matters that may require codes and legal requirements disclosure in financial results announcements and makes recommendations to the Committee.
Oversee the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external auditors Details of membership and attendance at Committee Monitor the effectiveness of the systems of internal meetings are shown in the table below.
controls Meetings Attended Provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness Alastair Barbour 6 6 of the Groups financial and regulatory risk management Kath Cates 6 6 arrangements.
1 Joseph Streppel 5 6 The Committee has unrestricted access to management, Johanna Waterous 6 6 information and external advisers as required in order to fulfil its duties, and is satisfied that it has received sufficient, Committee Chairman Notes: reliable and timely information during 2015 in order to 1.
J oseph Streppel was unable to attend one meeting due to a family discharge those duties.
62 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee Reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Audit Committee Report continued The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the Breakdown of topics discussed at Committee outcome of Committee meetings and the Board also meetings held during 2015 receives the minutes of Committee meetings.
Financial results 15% i Key activities during the year c. Reserving 10% a h d. External Audit 15% In addition to the significant issues in relation to the g e. Governance, controls, Annual Report and Accounts set out below, the Committee b compliance 18% f considered the following issues during the year: f. Internal Audit 10% g. IT Matters 5% The results of an external review of the Groups h. Solvency II 7% reserving and claims processes, conducted by i.
Other 5% c e  LLP, and monitored d managements progress in implementing actions recommended in the review.
The Groups approach to reserving margin levels was assessed and compared to peers through work carried out on the Committees Financial reporting and significant financial issues behalf by Towers Watson.
The Committee attaches considerable importance to the The capital position and strength of reserves in the Groups work, opinions and findings of the external auditor, KPMG Irish business was monitored particularly closely, including who participate in all Committee meetings and who met with managements interaction with the Central Bank of the Committee in private on two occasions during the year.
Ireland which regulates insurance entities in Ireland: The principle interactions with KPMG during the year were: Monitored compliance with the Groups reserving policy Consideration of the strategy and plan for the audit of the by each business to ensure that the Groups reserve margin financial statements including discussion and challenge in remained adequate and that the uncertainty considerations relation to materiality levels set: the scope of the proposed were appropriate: coverage by business unit: determination and approach to the audit of key areas of risk: understanding the oversight Reviewed the Groups interim Solvency II returns to the by the group audit team of subsidiary business unit audit European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority: teams and visits by the group team to business units Monitored the proposals to implement the Senior Insurance At the half-year and year end, detailed discussion and Manager Regime in the UK: consideration of their findings and opinions in relation Monitored the Groups compliance with anti-money to the key risk areas, judgements made, any changes laundering requirements and anti-bribery and corruption to the plan and to materiality and discussion of the laws, including the progress in implementing new screening underlying reasons software across the Group and approving new Anti-Money Consideration of their wider comments on governance, Laundering and Sanctions: and Fraud Policies: financial reporting processes and efficiencies and Monitored the sustainability of control improvements, information systems and controls, with particular including the number of risk acceptances in place and focus on general IT controls their cumulative impact on the Groups risk appetite, Consideration of their observations on controls and and the Groups risk and control culture: processes as reported to management and follow up Reviewed management proposals to revise the with relevant management to be satisfied that the presentation of the financial disclosures in the 2015 Annual observations are being appropriately actioned.
Report and Accounts to make it clearer and more concise.
The main matters and primary areas of judgement addressed The Committee considered whether it was appropriate and concluded on by the Committee were as follows: to adopt the going concern method of accounting for the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended Valuation of insurance liabilities to the Board that this was appropriate.
The Committee has ensured that management exercised The Committee considered the new viability statement appropriate judgement in estimating insurance contract requirement in the Code and concluded that the statement liabilities including assessing the impact of claims trends and should cover a period of three years which aligns to the other influencing factors consistent with the prior year.
year the Committee again examined the appropriateness of discount rates on certain long-tail liabilities and assumptions on indexation particularly in light of falling bonds yields.
The Committee received and reviewed actuarial reserving reports which described the basis for judgement in valuing insurance liabilities.
Particular areas of focus for the Committee were the reserving and reinsurance recoveries arising from the UK winter storms and large claims impacting the Group aggregate reinsurance cover and reserve strengthening for adverse development on prior year claims Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee Reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 in connection with Swedish personal accident claims.
of IT testing processes and improvements in documentation The Committee satisfied itself that management reflected and standards together with regular reporting from Group available and reliable information when setting the Internal Audit on the results of their review and testing.
reserves and that an appropriate margin was maintained.
With respect to financial reporting controls the Committee received detailed updates from KPMG on their assessment The Committee considered the results of an external review of general IT controls including information on areas where of the Groups reserving practices and governance in respect additional controls or substantive testing was required, of setting and monitoring reserves together with reports the reasons behind them and the conclusions reached in from the Group-wide project undertaken to review support of the audit.
After consideration and discussion and enhance control processes and concluded that with management and KPMG the Committee concluded the processes in place are appropriate.
that the financial results as prepared from the IT systems The Committee received and considered detailed written was appropriate and reliable.
and verbal reporting from KPMG setting out their At the request of the Board, the Committee considered observations and conclusions in respect of the recorded whether the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, insurance contract liabilities based on their audit procedures balanced and understandable, and whether the disclosures as further described in their report on pages 99 to 102. were appropriate.
To ensure that new accounting standards were understood and appropriately reflected in the financial Valuation of deferred tax assets statements, the Committee received quarterly updates of all The Committee reviewed the key assumptions and relevant accounting standards that could impact the financial financial projections supporting the UK deferred tax asset.
The Group has not made any significant changes The Committee assessed the forecasts presented by to its accounting policies during 2015 and has complied with management and in particular, the longer-term projections new IFRSs as required during the year.
Taken as a whole, of profitability in light of the changes to business plans as the Committee is satisfied that the 2015 Annual Report and a result of the strategic review, revisions to restructuring Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and provide activities and other management actions in progress or the information necessary for shareholders to assess the contemplated.
After discussion and challenge, the Committee Companys position and performance, business model concluded that managements proposed assessment and strategy.
as to the recoverable deferred tax was reasonable.
Financial Control Framework Employee benefits and retirement obligations The Financial Control Framework aims to deliver a consistent During 2015, the Committee received reports on the valuation approach to finance-related controls across the Group that is of the pension schemes.
As the pension schemes are sensitive fit for purpose for all regions, embedding a control culture to changes in key assumptions, management completed an that strengthens the Groups finance environment and assessment as to the appropriateness of the assumptions ensures financial processes are managed effectively in order used, including where appropriate benchmark data, and to mitigate the risk of financial misstatement.
The process reported their findings to the Committee.
The Committee involves documenting and testing the operation of key supported the conclusion that the assumptions used financial controls, thereby providing an acceptable degree were appropriate and in line with other companies with of assurance around the financial control environment.
In addition, any non-standard changes The effectiveness of the Framework is regularly assessed in assumptions and judgements are reviewed by the by an independent team and any deficiencies in controls Committee: management reviewed the methodology identified and remediation plans agreed with the local used to assess the fair value of the longevity arrangements management and their progress monitored.
It also addresses and recommended a change to the basis on which underlying deficiencies identified by the external auditor during the cashflows are valued.
audit process and monitors progress to remediate these.
During 2015, the Committee also discussed with management During the year the Committee received quarterly updates the key conclusions reached as part of the triennial funding on the assessment and testing of controls including breaches review.
Areas of particular interest included the experience and the action taken as a result.
The Committee considered analysis carried out by the external scheme actuaries on the and discussed with management rectification of any schemes membership and consistency with the demographic deficiencies in controls and further action to be taken assumptions that were adopted by management for example as appropriate.
The Committee was satisfied that the experience analysis supported the assumptions used Internal control by the Group.
The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness of Internal Control Systems, with the implementation and IT Systems and controls maintenance being delegated to the Executive Directors The Groups IT infrastructure, including retained legacy and senior management.
systems, is complex and financial reporting is dependent on the operational and financial IT systems operating correctly.
The Committee reviews the performance of internal control This is a key area of focus for both Audit and Risk Committees systems quarterly, with an annual review undertaken by the and during the year they received updates from management Board.
This system includes governance, financial controls, on the progress to enhance IT general controls, the oversight the risk management framework and processes to deliver 64 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee Reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Audit Committee Report continued regulatory and compliance requirements.
In addition the Regulatory risk and compliance Board, through the Board Risk Committee, considers reports The purpose of the Regulatory Risk and Compliance function from risk specialists across the Group and reviews Groupis to ensure that the Group meets all relevant regulatory level risk management information.
The systems are designed requirements in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
They to identify and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the potential are an influencer in ensuring a strong regulatory compliance risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can culture and ensure mechanisms are in place to monitor the only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance regulatory environment, identify, report and resolve issues against material financial misstatement or loss.
to avoid or minimise business impact and surprises.
The function is part of the Groups second line of defence which In February 2016, the Committee and the Board reviewed monitors and validates first line activities.
The Group and the Systems of Internal Control in operation during 2015.
UK Regulatory Compliance Director provides regular reports The Board concluded that the System of Internal Control to the Committee.
was appropriate and operated effectively during the year.
The Group team leads and develops the relationship between The Committee received regular reports from the Group the PRA, Group and businesses to achieve a mutually Chief Auditor on the integrity of the control environment, beneficial relationship.
It also updates the FCA regarding and from the external auditor based on its audit work.
relevant Group level strategic matters.
The Committee discussed findings and recommendations arising from internal and external audit work, together During the year, the Committee has monitored the Senior with any control improvements recommended.
Insurance Manager Regime and how it is being implemented in the UK business and at Group level: overseen the functions During 2015, the Committee received updates from the Group progress in developing and implementing a new Financial Chief Risk Officer on the assurance process improvements Crime Framework and implementation of new anti-money identified in 2014 and implemented during the year, including laundering screening software: and received updates on the progress in updating all Group-wide policies in line with regulatory issues.
the revised Internal Controls System.
The functions annual Compliance Plan sets out the Business managers across the Group complete a quarterly compliance work to be undertaken in the upcoming year self-certification process which requires them to confirm to ensure compliance, maintain an open, constructive and the adequacy of controls and their compliance with Company cooperative relationships with the Groups regulators, policies, local laws, rules and regulations.
ensures the Board and employees understand their regulatory responsibilities and provides assurance, advice The reporting framework, including reports to the Committee and guidance to the Board and the business.
The Committee from management on the Financial Control Framework: approved the 2016 Compliance Plan in late 2015. the external auditor: Group Internal Audit: and Group Regulatory Risk and Compliance, delivers information to Group Internal Audit enable the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal Group Internal Audits GIA primary role is to help the Board control to be evaluated.
The Board considers that an effective and management to protect the assets, reputation and and appropriate ongoing process for identifying, evaluating sustainability of the Group.
GIA does this by evaluating the and managing the significant risks faced by the Group effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control and has been in place during 2015 and up to the date of governance processes.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
For more information about the Groups Risk Management Framework, GIA is an independent and objective function reporting to the see pages 36 to 39.
The Group Chief Auditor is a member of the Executive Committee and has a primary reporting line to the Chairman Whistleblowing of the Group Audit Committee, with a secondary line to The Groups whistleblowing policy and its effectiveness were the Groups Chief Executive.
Regional Chief Auditors report reviewed by the Committee which was satisfied that the directly to the Group Chief Auditor, while recognising revised policy implemented in 2014 remained appropriate and local regulation.
fit for purpose and that it was sufficiently embedded across the Group.
The aim of the policy is to provide employees GIAs scope is unrestricted and includes first line of defence with a confidential forum to raise concerns in good faith control validation and second line of defence assurance where they either do not feel comfortable raising the matter activities, as well as the risk and control culture of the Group.
with local management or are not satisfied with the local GIAs planning process is risk based and takes into management response.
Concerns can be raised by contacting consideration the key strategic and emerging risks facing local or Group senior management, including the Group Chief the Group.
In 2015, GIA evolved its planning process from an Auditor, or via an externally provided website and helpline.
annual to a six monthly rolling audit plan, allowing for a more A summary of all whistleblowing incidents, underlying frequent and dynamic risk assessment and the Committee investigations and actions undertaken is provided to the requests additional audits during the year as required.
GIAs Committee on an annual basis.
Any incident considered 2016 plan was reviewed, challenged and approved by the material would be reported to the Committee immediately.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee Reports RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Semi-annually, GIA provides a formal assessment of Fees and non-audit services the effectiveness of the risk management, control and The audit fee for the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts was governance processes.
Quarterly, GIA reports on the discussed between the Committee and the external auditor outcome of its work and managements progress in and approved by the Committee on behalf of the Board.
Its report includes any thematic The fee for the statutory audit and audit-related services issues arising and root-causes identified.
The Committee is responsible for the approval of GIAs plans The Group operates a non-audit services policy to assist and budget, and reviews and confirms annually that GIA is with maintaining the independence of the external auditor staffed appropriately and operating effectively.
The results and its personnel.
The policy only permits certain services of the latest assessment were reviewed by the Committee considered to be audit related to be performed by the in December 2015 and it was satisfied that GIA remained auditor.
All permitted activity must be authorised in advance independent, was operating effectively and that the risk by the Committee Chairman and subsequently ratified by to their independence and objectivity was low.
In addition, the total value of non-audit fees incurred by the external auditor is capped at 25% of total Compliance of audits with the professional standards is audit fees for the relevant financial year.
In exceptional monitored within GIA through an independent quality circumstances the auditor will be considered for additional assurance process, outsourced to Deloitte and operated on services where there is an overwhelming business rationale, a continuous basis.
The function is governed by an Internal but only with full Board approval.
A summary of the policy is Audit Charter which sets out the functions role, mandate and available on the Companys website at www.
com authority, and includes independence and objectivity criteria.
External auditor Each quarter, the Committee receives and reviews a report on non-audit services, together with information on fees Appointment, tenure, independence and objectivity agreed and billed by the other major accounting firms.
KPMG were appointed as the Groups external auditor in During the year KPMG provided non-audit services totalling 2013 following a formal competitive tender process and have 0.9m 2014 1.6m which is equal to 17% of the audit fee.
been reappointed at each subsequent AGM.
The external auditor forms part of the third line of defence.
The current Effectiveness audit partner is Stuart Crisp who has been the Groups audit The Company undertakes a thorough review of the engagement partner since KPMGs appointment.
In line with effectiveness of the external auditor on an annual basis, Financial Reporting Councils standards, KPMG will rotate usually on completion of the audit process.
In the year under the audit engagement partner at least once every five review, the process has been amended to incorporate the years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting latest guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
the Companys choice of external auditor and there is The review has covered the mind-set and culture, skills and no limitation of liability in the terms of the appointments knowledge, quality control and judgement of the external of KPMG LLP as auditor to the Company.
auditor through an assessment of their perceived quality, The Committee has provided clear guidance to KPMG on effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
It was the Committees expectations of them as part of their role as conducted by both a questionnaire distributed to and auditor: that the Committee, not management, is their client: completed by the Committee, senior management and that they are expected to challenge appropriately: that members of the Group financial reporting team, sought they are expected to raise issues and concerns with the opinions against set criteria and the performance of the Committee as soon as is appropriate: and on material matters external auditor against those criteria: and through Group they are expected to indicate their agreement to the position Audit Committee meetings with the external auditor.
taken by management, or to explain why they do not, and the The Committee challenged the auditors planning, strategy, implications.
The Committee has met with the external risk identification process and conclusions.
On the basis auditor twice during the year without management present of the review, the Committee is satisfied with the work of to ensure that the external auditor has an opportunity to KPMG and that they are effective, objective and independent.
raise any concerns they may have and to ensure they remain Accordingly the Committee has recommended to the independent and objective.
Board that a resolution be put to the 2016 AGM for the It is the intention of the Committee that the Company will reappointment of KPMG LLP as external auditor, and the adhere to the Code requirement of tendering for the external Board has accepted this recommendation.
auditor at least every 10 years.
The Company also complies with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services Alastair WS Barbour FCA for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee of Group Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to the frequency 24 February 2016 and governance of tenders for the appointment of the external auditor and the setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit services.
