Governance Directors report Directors report Directors share interests The information contained in the sections of this Annual Report The interests in the securities of the Company of the Directors who and Accounts identified below forms part of this Directors report: were on the Board as at 31 December 2015 can be found in the Strategic report which includes the Financial review contained Remuneration report on page 84. on pages 91 to 101 Board of Directors Share capital Corporate governance report, including the Nominations The Companys share capital is comprised of ordinary shares of Committee report and the Audit and Risk Committee report 1 each and non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each.
Both are listed The Statement of Directors responsibilities.
on the London Stock Exchange.
Ownership 226,022,400 ordinary shares 80 per cent.
of the total issued share Schroders has developed under stable ownership for more than capital were in issue throughout the year.
The Company has no 200 years and has been a public company listed on the London authority to issue or buy back any ordinary shares.
Each ordinary Stock Exchange since 1959.
The Schroder family interests are in share carries the right to attend and vote at general meetings of shares owned directly or indirectly by trustees of various trusts the Company.
settled by family individuals, in shares owned by family individuals, and in shares owned by a family charitable trust.
If aggregated, these The non-voting ordinary shares were created in 1986 to facilitate the interests amount to 108,323,711 ordinary shares 47.93 per cent.
of operation of an employee share plan without diluting the voting rights the Companys ordinary shares.
These interests include the shares of ordinary shareholders.
The non-voting ordinary shares carry the subject to relevant statutory and regulatory disclosures, being shares same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not provide the held by the trustees, and which are set out in the table below.
right to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company and that, on a capitalisation issue, they carry the right to receive non-voting Following changes made to the UK Listing Rules in May 2014, ordinary shares rather than ordinary shares.
companies with a shareholder or shareholders who could, when acting in concert, exercise 30 per cent.
or more of the voting rights When the non-voting ordinary shares were created the ratio of ordinary of a company at a general meeting, are required to enter into a binding shares to non-voting ordinary shares was 4:1.
The Company has at agreement with that shareholder or shareholders.
This is intended times issued non-voting ordinary shares, principally in connection with to ensure that the parties to the agreement comply with certain the Groups employee share plans.
The Company has not intended independence provisions as set out in the Listing Rules.
Accordingly, and does not intend to increase the issued non-voting ordinary share on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into such an agreement capital over the medium term and therefore has, at times, bought back the Relationship Agreement with a number of shareholders who non-voting ordinary shares.
own or control the ordinary shares and associated voting rights referred to above.
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave approval for the Company to buy back up to 14,100,000 non-voting ordinary In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14, the Board confirms that shares.
Shareholders also renewed the Directors authority to issue for the year ended 31 December 2015: non-voting ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of i the Company has complied with the independence provisions 5,000,000 in order to provide the Directors with the flexibility to issue included in the Relationship Agreement: and non-voting ordinary shares or to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert ii s o far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions securities into, non-voting ordinary shares.
Renewal of these authorities included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by will be sought at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The 2016 Annual the other parties to the Relationship Agreement and their associates.
General Meeting will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 28 April 2016.
The deadline for appointing a proxy is 11.30 a. m. on 26 April 2016.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2015, the Company had received notifications, At the start of the year there were 56,505,600 non-voting ordinary in accordance with rule 5.1.
2R of the Disclosure and Transparency shares in issue, none of which were held in treasury, with the ratio Rules, of interests in 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights attaching of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares in issue being to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table below.
During the year no non-voting ordinary shares were issued There had been no changes to these notifications as at the date of or bought-back such that as at 31 December 2015, 56,505,600 this report.
non-voting ordinary shares 20 per cent.
of the total issued share capital remained in issue.
of voting rights held % of voting rights No further transactions were undertaken between 1 January 2016 Notifier Class of shares indirectly held indirectly and 1 March 2016 inclusive, being the latest practicable date before 1 Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,724,609 26.87 the publication of this Annual Report and Accounts.
1 Veritas Limited Ordinary 36,795,041 16.28 2 Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 2 Fervida Limited Ordinary 40,188,706 17.78 3 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 11,260,552 4.98 1 Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family and are party to the Relationship Agreement.
2 The interests of Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are interested as trustees.
Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited are party to the Relationship Agreement.
3 Harris Associates L. P. is not party to the Relationship Agreement.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 65 Directors report continued Under the terms of the Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Corporate responsibility Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust ordinary and non-voting Details of the Companys employment practices, including diversity ordinary shares are held on trust on behalf of employee share plan and employee involvement can be found in the Strategic report on participants.
The trustees may exercise the voting rights in any way pages 22 and 23. they think fit.
In doing so, they may consider the financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries and their dependents.
We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of As at 1 March 2016, being the latest practicable date before the our operations and to delivering continuous improvement in our publication of this Annual Report, the Schroders Employee Benefit environmental performance.
See page 24 for more details on Trust and the Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust together held our total CO e emissions data.
2 9,743,223 ordinary shares and 356,479 non-voting ordinary shares.
Indemnities and Insurance Under the terms of the Restricted Growth Share Plan and the Share At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised Incentive Plan as at 1 March 2016, 951,663 ordinary shares and the Company to provide indemnities to, and to fund defence costs 480,215 non-voting ordinary shares were held in trust on behalf for, Directors in certain circumstances.
All Directors at the time of plan participants.
At the participants direction, the trustees shareholder approval was received were granted specific deeds can exercise the voting rights over ordinary shares in respect of indemnity and any Director appointed subsequently has been of participant share entitlements.
This means that, on their appointment, new Directors are granted an indemnity as defined in the Companies There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares Act 2006 in respect of any third party liabilities that they may incur save for: as a result of their service on the Board.
All Directors indemnities Restrictions imposed by laws and regulations were in place during the year and remain in force.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares imposed under the Companys Articles of Association or under Part 22 of the UK Directors and Officers Liability Insurance is maintained by the Companies Act 2006, in either case following a failure to supply Company for all Directors.
information required to be disclosed following service of a request under section 793 of the UK Companies Act 2006 As part of the integration of Cazenove Capital, the Cazenove Restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee Capital Management Limited Pension Scheme was merged with the share plans while they remain subject to the plan Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme with effect from 31 December 2014.
Pursuant to that merger, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 provided for which may restrict the transfer of securities or voting rights.
the benefit of the directors of Cazenove Capital Management Pension Trustee Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, was put in place at that Dividends time and remains in force.
This indemnity provision covers, to the The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 58 pence per extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred by the share which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General directors of Cazenove Capital Management Pension Trustee Limited in Meeting, will be paid on 5 May 2016 to shareholders on the register connection with that companys activities as trustee of the Cazenove of members at the close of business on 29 March 2016.
Details on Capital Management Limited Pension Scheme.
the Companys dividend policy are set on page 96.
Dividends payable in respect of the year, subject to this approval, along with prior year payments, are set out below.
2015 2014 Ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares pence m pence m Interim 29.0 79.0 24.0 64.7 Final 58.0 158.0 54.0 146.0 Total 87.0 237.0 78.0 210.7 Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust have waived their rights to dividends paid on both the ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares in respect of 2015 and future periods.
See notes 8 and 22 to the accounts.
66 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Change of control Going concern Directors and employees employment contracts do not normally The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result affect its future development, performance and position are set out of a change of control.
However, the provisions of the Companys in the Strategic report.
In addition, the financial statements include employee share schemes may cause awards granted to employees information on the Groups approach to managing its capital and under such schemes to vest on a change of control.
financial risk: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
The Group has considerable financial resources, a broad range of products and a geographically diversified business.
Political donations As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure placed to manage its business risks in the context of the current incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2014: nil economic outlook.
and there is no intention to make or incur any in the current year.
Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR compliance with Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in LR 9.8.
4C operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are not continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual applicable to Schroders.
The table below sets out the location Report and Accounts.
of the disclosures for those requirements that are applicable: In addition, the Directors have assessed the Companys viability over a period of five years.
The results of this assessment are set out on Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
12 Details of any arrangements under which See page 66 a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
13 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future See pages 66, 109 dividends, details of such waiver together with those and 130 relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
Graham Staples 14 A statement made by the Board that the See page 65 Company Secretary Company has entered into an agreement under 2 March 2016 LR 9.2.
2A, that the Company has, and, as far as it is aware, the other parties to the agreement have, complied with the provisions in the agreement.
Post year end events Between 1 January 2016 and the date of this report there have been no material events that require disclosure.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 6 67 7
