Business model At Schroders, Client need Building long-term asset relationships management In todays environment of low interest Our success is linked to the success rates and changing demographics, of our clients.
It is only by meeting is our only which require greater long term or exceeding their objectives that savings, our ability to create value we can grow our business.
for clients is vital in helping them meet their future financial needs.
As one of the largest investment firms By understanding and addressing our clients in Europe, we play an important role in needs and expectations, we can help them helping our clients meet their financial achieve their investment aims.
We are proud goals as they seek to: to have client relationships which in some Provide for retirement cases exceed 40 years.
Offset future liabilities Build pools of capital We help a broad range of clients across three channels: Institutional pension schemes, sovereign wealth funds and insurance companies Intermediary banks, independent financial advisers and investment platforms Wealth Management high net worth Trustee training We run training sessions for pension individuals, charities and family offices scheme trustees to support trustees and scheme managers in See page 16 for more on our structure.
Gross sales in 2015 Net sales in 2015 84.1bn 13.0bn See Glossary.
14 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Creating long-term value for our clients Delivering returns for all stakeholders We believe that active management Investment gains for our We are committed to acting clients since 2009 can generate significant incremental responsibly, supporting our clients, value over the long term by delivering value for our shareholders compounding returns in excess and making a wider contribution 75.7 bn of what can be achieved by to society.
We design innovative products to meet Percentage of assets We earn management fees charged as a outperforming over specific client needs and outcomes across percentage of assets under management.
three years the economic and market cycle.
See page 28 We may also earn performance fees and for more on our product development.
transaction related fees on certain products.
In Wealth Management, we may also 72% Consistent and above average generate net interest income and fees investment performance for specialist banking services.
Consistent performance is key to helping our clients achieve their aims and For shareholders to generate new business Seed capital employed Our progressive dividend policy in line in new strategies 72 per cent.
of our assets outperformed with profitability has seen a 12 per cent.
their benchmark or peer group over three increase to 87.0 pence and a payout ratio years to the end of 2015 of 49 per cent.
229m Investing in future growth For clients Investment capital of 942 million was Strong investment performance available for organic and inorganic growth Exemplary client service opportunities at the end of 2015 229 million of seed capital was deployed For our people to support the development of new More than 3,700 people employed investment strategies 93 per cent.
of employees proud to be associated with Schroders See page 21 for more on our Group operations.
of highly-rated employees retained See pages 22 and 23 for more on our approach to retaining and developing our people and details on our Employee Opinion Survey.
Outcome oriented solutions For society Client demand is shifting towards We create value for society by acting outcome oriented strategies that as good stewards of capital and using our address specific client needs, for influence as a shareholder to encourage example income, inflation protection, businesses to act responsibly wealth preservation or absolute return.
This shift requires us to Engagement with company management engage with our clients, understand is an integral part of our role as an their requirements and build the active investor in managing, protecting right solutions.
and enhancing the value of our clients investments See page 19 for information on our approach to ESG investing and page 24 for information on our community impact.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Business model Our structure As one of the largest investment firms in Europe, we play an important role in helping a broad range of investors meet their financial goals as they provide for retirement, seek to offset future liabilities or build pools of capital to fund their investment needs of the future.
Asset Management Wealth Management We offer a broad range of products and solutions that meet the demands We offer private clients a complete of Institutional and Retail investors throughout the economic and market cycle.
wealth management service, Our clients include: including wealth planning, portfolio management and banking and Institutional clients: Intermediary clients: treasury services.
We are the Corporate pension plans Banks leading manager of charities Local government pension schemes Independent financial advisers portfolios in the UK.
Wealth Defined contribution pension plans Insurance companies Management clients include: Endowments Online platforms Insurance companies Private banks Sovereign wealth funds Private wealth managers High net worth individuals Family offices We provide client service through offices in 33 locations globally.
Charities Intermediaries Asset Management has two divisions: We have a Wealth Management presence Investment Distribution in 15 locations.
Comprises portfolio management, Comprises: research and dealing functions across: Product development Equities Sales Fixed Income Client service Multi-asset Marketing and communications Emerging Market Debt, Commodities and Real Estate Assets under Assets under Employees management Employees management 3,146 281.9bn 626 31.6bn Group The Group segment includes the offices of the Chairman, Investment capital Seed capital Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and employees involved in the management of the Groups investment capital and liquidity.
942m 229m Infrastructure Information technology, operations, finance, risk management, 1,600 people in Infrastructure provide critical support human resources, legal, compliance, governance and to the business across a number of functions: internal audit.
16 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Asset Management Investment All our investment strategies are actively We believe that active management can decisions, our starting point is to think managed with the objective of outperforming generate significant incremental value over long term, to gain a deep understanding a benchmark or target agreed with the client.
the long term by compounding returns in of a companys strategy and to support excess of what can be achieved by matching management, where possible, in the a benchmark index.
In making investment delivery of their strategy.
Equities Fixed Income Multi-asset Emerging Market Debt, Equities includes single country, Fixed Income employs Multi-asset offers a comprehensive Commodities and Real Estate regional and global funds, small fundamental and quantitative range of customised solutions, We manage Absolute Return and mid-cap funds, growth, value approaches and is based pooled products and advisory Emerging Market Debt, and quantitative strategies, and on research intensive, services.
We specialise in Commodities and Agriculture defensive strategies to reduce globally integrated credit providing a consultative, solutions funds.
Our Real Estate business market risk.
manages a wide range of open and closed end funds.
129.9bn 60.3bn 78.0bn 13.7 bn 2014: 129.6 billion 2014: 51.1 billion 2014: 72.0 billion 2014: 16.2 billion Asia Pacic 18% US 32% Risk-controlled growth 41% Real estate 75% Quantitative equities 16% Global 22% LDI 22% Emerging market debt 12% UK 14% Europe 21% UK traditional balanced 14% Agriculture and commodities 8% Global 13% Income 9% UK 8% Private equity 5% Emerging markets 12% Ination protection 6% Asia Pacic 7% Europe 11% GAIA 4% Australia 6% Japan 6% Risk mitigation 3% Convertibles 2% US 4% Wealth preservation 1% Insurance linked 2% Australia 4% Other 2% Fixed Income Fixed Income attracted the greatest share of net inflows with net new business of 9.1 billion.
Flows were driven by client demand for European credit in Intermediary and Global, European and US bond strategies in Institutional.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Business model Our structure continued Distribution Countries Distribution employs more than 640 people of our clients.
We monitor gaps in our product globally, specialising in sales, client service, range, work with Investment to launch new marketing, product development and product products and retire products that are no 19 management, serving both the Institutional longer in demand.
operate fund ranges and Intermediary sales channels.
The majority of our assets in fund ranges Distribution works closely with Investment are in Luxembourg and UK domiciled funds.
and is responsible for the development of Domestic ranges in other countries are More than our investment products, focusing particularly designed to address local tax, regulatory on the risk and reward features that deliver or client requirements.
the intended results and meet the needs For more information on the financial performance 590 of Asset Management, see page 100. funds Institutional clients Intermediary clients We manage segregated accounts and assets We manage collective investment vehicles in pooled vehicles for a range of institutional across a wide range of investment strategies clients, including local authorities, corporate on behalf of a variety of intermediary clients pension plans, defined contribution pension including financial advisers, discretionary schemes, insurance companies and managers, private wealth managers and sovereign wealth funds.
181.0bn 100.9bn 2014: 171.1 billion 2014: 97.8 billion Location by client domicile Location by client domicile Europe 34% UK 42% Asia Pacic 28% Asia Pacic 28% Americas 16% UK 27% Europe 14% Americas 11% Strategic Solutions management of liability risks, setting long term Institutional clients are increasingly looking to fide-risking plans or Flight Paths and assisting invest in solutions to meet a particular investment institutions to implement specialist strategies, such outcome, rather than selecting investments in as insurance linked securities.
The team carries individual component products.
They expect their out sophisticated modelling of clients assets and fund managers to provide strategic input and, in liabilities and also provides tailored training sessions some cases, advice to help inform their strategy.
To be successful in this changing environment, it is important that we build and maintain close The Strategic Solutions team has been at relationships with our clients to fully understand the forefront of a number of important product their investment objectives.
One example is Flight Path Swift, which is designed to help smaller The Strategic Solutions team consists of former UK defined benefit pension funds achieve full investment consultants and actuaries with specialist funding with a fide-risked investment strategy.
skills in long-term strategic investment.
The team Flight Path Swift provides access to a range works closely with institutional clients to understand of Schroders investment strategies, a tailored their needs, build tailored investment solutions and liability risk management strategy, daily funding to help foster long term trusted partnerships.
level monitoring and trigger based fide-risking in an accessible and affordable package.
Specific challenges which the team has helped pension scheme clients solve include the 18 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Environmental, Social and Governance Increasingly we are able to use data as a tool Delivering added High standards of governance and corporate to understand ESG risk.
For example, we are and social responsibility are important to developing a capability to monitor the carbon value through us and we believe they are likely to lead to footprint and asset exposure of portfolios outperformance in the long term.
We therefore and the climate change risk management analysis of engage actively with the companies in which strategies of portfolio constituents.
we invest and in 2015 we voted on resolutions Environmental, at more than 5,000 company meetings.
Company resolutions voted on Social and % Responsible Investment has also become 2011 85 increasingly important to many of our clients.
Governance 2012 90 We believe that integrating Environmental, 2013 96 Social and Governance ESG analysis into factors.
2014 97 our decision-making processes and 2015 92 considering how these longer term trends impact financials will help us make better Producing thematic reports is an important part investment decisions.
of integrating ESG and educating investors.
We published a joint thought leadership piece, We have a long and successful track record Intentional Investing, with the Association of managing exclusion mandates against of Charitable Foundations in May 2015. clients ethical criteria and manage 30 billion of assets in this area.
Clients are also The United Nations Principles for Responsible increasingly asking us to provide education Investment UN PRI annual assessment rates around ESG.
We welcome this ongoing and ranks investment managers of a similar dialogue as this area of investment size and comprehensively assesses their continues to evolve.
Schroders achieved the highest possible ESG score of Research shows that companies with good A this year for our overarching ESG practices.
ESG management benefit from a lower cost of capital.
It is essential to establish a dialogue with companies to assess how they are managing ESG risks and responding to change.
We encourage open discussions on best practice.
During 2015 our fund managers and analysts across Equities and Fixed Income held more than 16,500 company meetings which provided a platform to discuss ESG topics.
Specifically, our ESG team engaged with more than 400 companies on ESG issues.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 19 Business model Our structure continued Wealth Management Wealth Management assets We provide wealth planning, portfolio Our approach to portfolio management is under management management and banking and treasury an active one that focuses on the long term.
services to a range of clients including high We are aware that our clients objectives will net worth individuals, family offices and their change through time as their personal and 31.6bn advisers.
We also have a market leading financial circumstances develop, which is 2014: 31.1 billion offering in investment management for reflected in our portfolio construction.
For more information on our banking and treasury services enable us to proposition for charities and charitable provide a range of deposit taking and lending trusts, see page 35. services to clients to assist in the overall management of their financial affairs.
Our largest business is in the UK, with significant businesses in the Channel Islands Our approach and Switzerland.
We also have a Wealth Our clients benefit from the investment Management presence in Frankfurt, Gibraltar, capabilities of over 680 investment Milan, Madrid, Hong Kong and Singapore.
professionals globally across the Group, wealth planning advice and banking services.
Client service proposition Understanding our clients specific needs and Our investment proposition remains focused building solutions for them through dedicated on delivering strong risk adjusted returns, relationship management is at the heart of our tailored to meet our clients specific investment offering.
Our experienced team aims to deliver objectives.
We select best of breed products an uncompromising quality of service to our from across the whole of the market, with clients, all of whom have dedicated portfolio both Schroders and third party funds managers and, where appropriate, wealth subjected to the same level of scrutiny planning advisers.
This allows us to develop and rigorous selection process.
and maintain close client relationships, For more information on the financial performance ensuring that the solutions that we offer of Wealth Management, see pages 100 and 101. represent the best possible fit for their investment objectives.
Wealth Management Operating from 15 locations globally, our Wealth Management teams work with high net worth individuals, family offices and charities to provide high quality client service across wealth planning, portfolio management and banking and treasury services.
20 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Information Security The threat from hacking, viruses, technical failures and fraud creates a growing risk that has the potential to cause significant operational and reputational damage to the firm.
Led by the Information Security team and with Board level review, we have invested considerable resources into ensuring that we have an effective governance structure and oversight process to minimise this risk.
We have reviewed our security culture and introduced training for all employees.
This is an area of growing activity and our increased investment will ensure that we remain vigilant and focused on minimising risk.
The Audit and Risk Committee report provides more information on this on page 63.
Group Infrastructure The Group segment includes the offices Infrastructure comprises 1,600 people across of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief information technology, operations, finance, Financial Officer, and employees involved in risk management, human resources, legal, the management of the Groups investment compliance, governance and internal audit, capital and liquidity.
supporting our activities in Investment, Distribution and Wealth Management.
We are Group capital comprises operating capital investing to support our investors evolving required for regulatory and operating needs, enhance our client service capabilities, purposes and investment capital surplus advance our risk management processes, to operating requirements.
meet new regulatory requirements and increase the effectiveness and efficiency Investment capital is managed consistent of our processes.
with the objective of a low risk, low volatility, cash plus return, implemented across a range of principally internally managed portfolios.
Individual investments are diversified across asset classes and are subject to limits approved by the Board.
For more information on the financial performance of the Group segment, see page 101.
Total global taxes incurred Our economic contribution Risk Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer is and collected At Schroders we are committed to responsible for management of the tax affairs conducting our tax affairs in an open of the Group with oversight from the Audit and transparent way.
430.2m We are committed to complying with our tax Our global footprint is driven by the locations obligations and maintaining good relationships of our clients.
Corporate tax rates in these with the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in locations vary significantly and we apply a which we operate.
To do this we only engage consistent global approach to allocate profit in reasonable tax planning that is aligned with to the territories in which it is earned, in line our commercial, economic and reputational with OECD principles.
We keep HM Revenue & Customs informed of business activities, results and Our economic contribution includes corporate key developments and proactively disclose taxes paid as well as the taxes we collect on and resolve significant issues, risks and behalf of, and pay to, tax authorities.
Our total UK taxes incurred 89.1m uncertain tax positions.
We follow a similar tax contribution shows our overall contribution UK taxes collected 157.7m approach with other tax authorities.
to society in the regions in which we operate.
Europe taxes incurred 52.2m Europe taxes collected 25.5m We continually assess our tax obligations In 2015 our total tax contributions from Asia Pacic taxes incurred 44.1m against a backdrop of increasing global global activities was 430.2 million, of which Asia Pacic taxes collected 28.9m complexity by monitoring changes to applicable 190.1million relates to taxes incurred by Americas taxes incurred 4.7m tax laws, double tax treaties, regulations the Group.
An additional 240.1 million relates Americas taxes collected 28.0m and OECD guidance.
We have committed to to taxes we have collected on behalf of tax complying with the UKs Code of Practice on authorities, primarily through our employee Taxation for Banks and we will follow the CBIs payroll.
Further information on the taxes Seven Tax Principles for UK business.
Our tax we pay can be found on our website at strategy is reviewed annually by the Audit and www.
com taxtransparency and on page 108.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Business model Our people People Our approach to business is defined in our Attracting, Our people are our most important asset.
guiding principles, which we share with all As at 31 December 2015, we employed over employees and external parties including retaining and 3,700 talented individuals who are committed clients, combined with our values of to putting clients first and delivering the right integrity, passion, teamwork, innovation and developing a outcome for their financial needs.
They are a key part of Schroders culture and define the high standards of deep pool of Attracting, retaining and developing a deep behaviour we expect from our people.
pool of talent is key to our strategy.
We are talent is key to dedicated to providing our employees Highest ethical standards with the opportunities and fulfilling work We promote high ethical standards and our strategy.
experience they need to achieve their potential, have an internal whistleblowing policy, whilst developing their knowledge, skills and whereby employees can raise concerns capabilities.
Competitive remuneration is about behaviour or decisions that could important in delivering this and our approach indicate potential wrongdoing.
A 24-hour is explained in the Remuneration report on hotline is available to employees to Employees by region page 68 to 86. anonymously report any concerns and this is publicised widely to employees.
Personal The diversity of our people globally is a key securities trading by employees is subject strength, reflects the background of our to clearly defined internal policies.
clients and the communities in which we operate and strengthens our local Employees are not permitted to solicit or UK 52% market knowledge.
accept any inducements that are likely to Asia Pacic 21% conflict with their duties.
We have policies Europe 18% We have an experienced and stable in place and ensure all employees are Americas 9% workforce, with overall turnover unchanged trained in relation to anti-bribery, anti-money at 11 per cent.
We focus on retaining laundering, terrorist finance, market integrity, our most talented employees and as shown data protection and treating customers fairly.
Employees by length of service on page 11 our retention of high performing Due diligence is undertaken before entering employees is 94 per cent.
2014: 94 per cent.. a new client relationship and this is enhanced in high-risk countries.
Assets under management have tripled since 2008 and our headcount has grown Developing our people by 31 per cent.
Appointments to roles are based on merit, 3 years 43% of employees have been at Schroders experience and performance.
We are 4-5 years 13% for less than three years.
However, this is committed to recruiting, retaining and 6-10 years 25% complemented by a depth of experience and developing a deep pool of talent that shares 10 years 19% knowledge with 44 percent.
of employees our core values.
We promote internal career having over six years service, up from 33 per progression to motivate and retain our most cent.
This demonstrates the stability talented people and help them achieve Age prole of employees of our workforce since the financial crisis.
Our culture and values Employees have access to a range of We are proud of our reputation as an learning and development programmes employer of choice.
We encourage an open, in order to maintain and increase technical collaborative and meritocratic working competence in their roles and align Under 30 19% environment in which everyone has the behaviours with our values.
31-40 39% opportunity to deliver their best.
41-50 29% 50 13% Our values We strive for We work with We have Excellence Innovation Teamwork Passion Integrity We want to excel at We challenge how We work as one team We share a deep rooted We build strong what we do.
things are done and for our clients.
We enthusiasm for what we relationships based We continually strive anticipate future value the contribution do.
We demonstrate this on trust and forbetter.
of individuals and through the dedication confidentiality.
encourage healthy and energy we bring to debate.
22 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Gender diversity Engaged and highly-motivated with the Company, promoted a range of Appointments to roles are based on merit, employees initiatives throughout the year, covering LGBT, experience and performance and we do not In 2015 we conducted a firm-wide gender and mental health, and offered a support quotas.
The gender diversity within Employee Opinion Survey.
The results networking opportunity for minority groups.
were encouraging, clearly demonstrating that our employees are engaged with the Equal opportunities 2015 2014 Female Male firm, understand our values and believe that We are committed to providing equal Directors 2 1 11 11 we have a culture of behaving responsibly employment opportunities and avoiding Senior managers 176 167 523 459 towards our clients.
There are also areas for unlawful discrimination.
We expect our Subsidiary improvement, including reducing complexity workforce to reflect the diversity of the many directors 9 9 26 26 and streamlining processes.
communities in which we operate.
Where Total senior possible, we monitor the ethnicity, age and management 185 176 549 485 Good communication is key to delivering gender composition of our existing workforce All employees 1,530 1,473 2,254 2,083 high levels of engagement and to ensuring and those applying for jobs.
that employees are committed to our strategic objectives.
We communicate regularly through Our policy is to give fair consideration a variety of channels, including management to all employment applications, including Employee Opinion Survey results briefings, an internal magazine, video from disabled people, considering particular channels and a social intranet.
If employees become Recommend Schroders employee townhall meetings are held with disabled, employment continues wherever as a good place to work senior management to discuss the progress possible, with retraining given if necessary.
In the UK, an Employee For the purposes of training, career Forum provides an additional channel for development and progression, all 90% representing employee views to management.
Diversity We are committed to creating a work Proud to be associated We take a proactive and coordinated approach environment free of harassment and bullying, with Schroders to attracting, retaining and developing a diverse where everyone is treated with dignity and workforce.
Schroders is highly diverse in respect.
We have a policy in place to assist in terms of the nationalities employed in our treating everyone fairly regardless of their age, 93% local offices globally.
This is a key strength that gender, race, sexual orientation, disability, provides us with local market knowledge and religion or beliefs.
The effectiveness of this a deep understanding of our clients needs.
Believe Schroders behaves responsibly towards our clients Training is provided to managers on diversity Our London based employees, including issues and unconscious bias.
We also provide contractors, are paid above the London internal and external mentoring programmes Living Wage and we are an accredited 93% to encourage diversity.
This includes maternity London Living Wage Employer.
and paternity coaching and shared parental Believe their colleagues leave, and flexible working policies to help Human rights uphold our values ensure that we support employees who Our business model is intended to be fully return to work after having children.
compliant with appropriate human rights legislation in the countries in which we operate.
95% We also have a Diversity and Inclusion Our business is undertaken predominantly in group, with employee representatives from countries with a clear commitment in this area.
This group, together We also encourage our business partners to adopt the same standards.
Human Resources team Our Human Resources team supports the business in attracting, retaining and developing adiverse workforce.
We expect our workforce toreflect the diversity of the many communities inwhich we operate and we employ people in 38locations worldwide.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 Business model Community and environmental impact Community We use DEFRAs conversion factors each In 2015, we donated 1.3 million 2014: year to calculate our CO e emissions for all 2 1.1million to charitable causes around the office locations.
Our data has been externally world.
Our focus remains on employee led verified and will be consistent with our Carbon Received Payroll Giving Member of the London Quality Mark Platinum Benchmarking Group LBG.
charitable giving, supporting our people in Disclosure Project submission later in 2016 Award.
their charitable efforts through our matching which will undergo a AA1000 assurance programmes, and we increased our employee review.
Our total recorded carbon output matching donations in 2015 to reflect this.
has increased by 17 per cent.
this year, reflecting enhancements to the data capture Where possible, we promote payroll giving methodology and significant growth in schemes and encourage our people to our business.
Included in the Dow Jones Included in the support the charities that matter to them.
For 2015 we have used the internationally of employees donated through payroll giving, accepted GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and the firms payroll matching donations for reporting.
Previous years have been increased to 538,000 2014: 372,000, restated accordingly, although 2013 does not reflecting an increase in the rate of employee include CO e emissions for employees using 2 matching.
We received the Payroll Giving their own vehicles for business purposes, Quality Mark Platinum Award from the as this data was not captured in that year.
Member of Heart of the Participates in the Carbon Charities Aid Foundation for the fourth year Citys alumni programme.
running, recognising our efforts in this area.
Total CO e emissions 2 tonnes 2013 7,515 6,522 659 14,696 We encourage our employees to share 2014 9,055 7,229 659 16,943 their knowledge, skills and capabilities with 2015 12,798 6,496 539 19,833 charitable organisations through volunteering, as well as financial donations, as we Scope 1: Natural gas, oil and company recognise the benefits that it offers to both owned vehicles Accredited London Living Asset Manager of the Year Wage Employer.
2015 at Charity Times Better parties.
Through our volunteering policy, Scope 2: Electricity Society Awards.
we offer up to 15 hours of paid volunteering Scope 3: Business travel leave each year, and provide a volunteer time matching charitable donation for volunteering which takes place outside of working hours.
CO e emissions per employee 2 tonnes 2013 4.4 Environmental impact 2014 4.9 We are committed to minimising the 2015 5.5 environmental impact of our operations and to delivering continuous improvements More information on People, Community and in our environmental performance.
Environmental impact can be found on our website www.
For the first time, we have set targets to purchase electricity from renewable sources.
of our global electricity supply to be from renewable sources by the end of 2016 and aim to reach 75 per cent.
Investment 2020 Schroders supports Investment 2020, a programme that provides opportunities for school leavers and graduates in asset management.
As part of this programme, we recruited across all areas of the business in 2015.
Nichola Pease, a non-executive Director of the Group, is the chairman of Investment 2020.
24 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015
