Market developments Long-term trends in Asset Management Massimo Tosato Executive Vice-Chairman Changing client demand Opportunities in evolving sub-channels We have seen As clients look to provide for retirement, offset As global pools of assets continue to liabilities or build capital, we have continued grow, opportunities for growth in specific a number of to see a material shift in client demand, sub-channels have developed.
away from funds aiming to outperform a long-term trends benchmark and towards products designed The pre and post-retirement space remains to meet a specific outcome.
one of the largest opportunities for Schroders.
through 2015 We have already developed a number of This change requires asset managers to strategic partnerships with insurance which we expect build closer relationships with their clients, companies across the globe as they have to fully understand their changing investment become increasingly important distribution to continue objectives and to construct products which partners.
More information on our team are best suited to achieving these.
We have dedicated to client service and sales in the to grow in achieved success in recent years with insurance sector, and how it is focused on outcome oriented solutions across all asset further developing partnerships and expanding importance.
classes but most notably in Multi-asset, our presence, can be found overleaf.
where our product range is specifically designed by outcome.
Public policy and regulation We welcome regulation that increases transparency, improves trust, enhances market stability and results in better outcomes for clients.
Led by our Head of Public Policy, we seek to actively engage with policymakers at all stages of regulatory development to help promote the best outcome both for our clients and for the Group.
We have been actively engaging with the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of the Asset Management Market Study, which is taking place in 2016.
32 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Defined benefit DB schemes have continued Changing relationships with clients Our approach towards product development to mature.
Trustees are seeking to improve These changes, and increasing competition has also evolved this year.
We established the funding levels at relatively low risk, with many from passive providers, mean that active Market Intelligence team which consists of employing liability driven investment LDI asset managers must demonstrate the individuals experienced in data science, strategies.
This is a growing area and we value they are providing to their clients, investment and product development.
have seen 2.6 billion of net inflows into LDI whether through investment performance or They analyse global trends and changes mandates in 2015. innovative product design, such as outcome in client demand to ensure new solutions oriented solutions or developing areas like are developed to meet clients evolving As corporate pensions move away from DB liquid alternatives.
More information schemes, the industry has seen a growth on this team can be found on page 30. in defined contribution DC plans.
The vast Our relationships with our clients are also majority of assets under management in changing.
Our value added is not just in Within Investment, we also looked for DC schemes are invested in the default the provision of investment products, but in innovative ways to analyse new and option provided.
The opportunity for asset sharing information and producing insightful unstructured data points.
There are managers is in working with scheme providers, content to support, educate and inform our huge pools of data being produced every platforms and consultants to provide clients.
This year we launched the Schroders second of every day and the real winners appropriate solutions.
The UK market has IncomeIQ tool, which educates both advisers in active management will be those that can seen a charge cap imposed on DC workplace and end clients on behavioural biases structure and use data to generate alpha, schemes of 75 basis points, so the challenge exhibited when investing.
for asset managers is to develop innovative, More information on the work of our Data outcome focused, competitively priced Digital innovation and improving Insights team can be found on page 27. solutions in an increasingly fee sensitive client experience channel.
Details on our product launches Adoption of new technology could have a While there are many internal initiatives in this space can be found on page 28. significant impact on the industry, having ongoing throughout Schroders, we are also already changed how we interact with engaging with financial technology Fintech The shift of responsibility for savings to clients and construct portfolios.
Through our shareholding in the individual, and the inadequacy of DC Nutmeg and our seat on the board, we saving levels, has also led to growth in The improvement of the client experience lies continue to learn about the millennial the complementary savings market, with at the heart of many of our digital projects.
generation, their expectations of client service a growing trend of clients wishing to invest This year saw the roll out of our new web and their approach to investing.
This year has in products directly provided by the platform globally which has been optimised been marked by an explosion in robo advisors asset manager.
for smart phones and tablets and includes with challengers appearing in the US and personalised content.
We believe the winners In order to access this portion of the market, in this space are going to be those that build a number of asset managers are adapting a hybrid model, combining digital service their business models to one of vertical with traditional face to face advice.
This allows a closer relationship with the end client and greater control throughout the value chain, but may pose regulatory questions over potential conflicts of interest as the lines between investment and advice can be unclear.
Insurance In the UK many insurance companies are looking A focus within Distribution has been to develop our to outsource their core asset management function, business and strategic partnerships with insurance driven by the need to modernise the investment companies around the world.
We have a number proposition for policyholders and to manage of key relationships, including with Prudential and capital efficiently.
MetLife Advisors, LLC in the US, Zurich Financial Services in the UK and Nippon Life in Japan.
New solutions we have developed using our innovative Advanced Beta Multi-asset and Fixed Our specialist Insurance Asset Management team Income investment capabilities had particular is focused on expanding our presence in this appeal and we have been appointed on a number channel and have had a successful year.
of significant new mandates this year.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Market developments Long-term trends in Wealth Management Philip Mallinckrodt Group Head of Wealth Management There are a number of developments in the Technology We offer a Wealth Management sector which we see as Evolutions in technology mean that important and which will influence the future expectations of client service have greatly combination direction of our business.
As a result of increased over recent years.
Our clients demographic changes, pools of assets demand greater transparency, increased of investment globally are growing, but the investment personalisation and improved speed and environment remains challenging.
Client ease of access to online services.
expertise, wealth expectations are increasing, asset class returns have been at the lower end of We have continued to develop our online planning and historical norms and regulation continues portal, which allows clients access to their to develop.
portfolio information at any time and on any banking services.
We continue to invest in technology Investment to complement, but not to replace, our Although we have recently seen a rise in personalised market leading client interest rates in the US, we still remain at relationship management.
historically low levels which, along with subdued global growth and heightened Regulation market volatility, have led to a gradual shift As we continue to see regulatory developments in client demand.
Many of our clients have across the industry, we seek to engage with moved away from focusing on a benchmark regulators globally and to develop open and relative return and towards specific, tailored, cooperative relationships.
We aim to conduct outcome oriented solutions which reflect our business in an ethical, compliant and their own circumstances.
In 2015, a conduct risk framework was fully implemented and all Our focus on maintaining and developing regulatory change initiatives were either strong client relationships allows us to implemented on time or are at an understand their investment aims and to appropriate stage of preparation.
construct portfolios best suited to them.
To help us in this process, we have access In this rapidly changing environment, to Schroders global investment expertise, not Schroders is well placed to continue to grow only in Equities, Fixed Income and Multi-asset, due to our global resources, investment in but also in growing areas such as Alternatives technology and, most importantly, our and constructing ESG portfolios.
continued focus on client service across wealth planning, investment management and banking and treasury services.
34 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Charities Investment Management We offer investment management services 2015 Charity Cazenove Capital Charities, our specialist to the full range of potential charity investors, team that manages assets on behalf of from smaller charities to large foundations, Investment UK registered charities, foundations and and from those charities focused on holding endowments, is the largest investment reserves against any income shortfalls to Manager of manager of charity assets in the UK.
A those grant making charities with a multidedicated team of 25 manage 7.9 billion generational time horizon.
of assets across the sector.
Our charity investment specialists understand We have been working with charities since the sector, the regulation and the fiduciary the 1930s, and are delighted that we still duty of trustees, and many are trustees look after a number of clients who have themselves.
We regularly collaborate with been with us since we started to build our industry bodies, such as the Association of expertise.
We offer one of the broadest range Charitable Foundations, to produce original of investment management services to the research to promote and enhance best charity sector and are pleased to work with practice in charity investment management.
almost 800 charities, which range in size, Our most recent publication drew on the investment approach and charitable purpose.
largest survey of UK charity investors and considered the increasing popularity of Our success is dependent on continued responsible investment RI approaches strong investment performance for our in the sector.
clients and the team is able to access a broad range of investment resource from Our expertise in both the governance and across Schroders.
Investment strategy is implementation of RI approaches has been tailored to the individual charitys investment widely recognised, as has our RI teams objectives, and we offer both segregated engagement in the fossil free and living and pooled approaches.
Clients can choose to have a portfolio We are proud to have won the 2015 Charity consisting of entirely Schroders funds or Investment Manager of the year award from adopt a broader open architecture approach Charity Times and were commended for which allows the Multi-Manager team to our leadership over many years through select funds across the market, whether from various forums, sponsorships and policy Schroders or third party managers.
We look forward to building to our segregated portfolio service we also on that success in 2016 and beyond.
manage five Common Investment Funds CIFs across a range of asset classes which further reflects our commitment to the sector.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
