Board of Directors Chairman and executive Directors The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
It is responsible for the oversight of the management of the business and for ensuring high standards of corporate governance.
Andrew Beeson Michael Dobson Richard Keers Chairman 71 Chief Executive 63 Chief Financial Officer 52 Appointed Chairman in May 2012, having been Chief Executive since November 2001, having joined Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer a non-executive Director since October 2004 the Board as a non-executive Director in April 2001.
and the Senior Independent Director from will stand down as Chief Executive on 4 April 2016 Experience: He is a chartered accountant and was a May 2010 to May 2012.
He will retire from when he will become Chairman.
Senior Audit Partner of  LLP the Board on 4 April 2016.
Experience: He was previously Chief Executive of PwC until May 2013.
He became a partner of PwC Experience: He was the founder and Chief Executive Morgan Grenfell Group and a member of the Board of in 1997 and has 25 years experience in the audits of the Beeson Gregory Group and subsequently Managing Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
of global financial services groups.
His experience Chairman of Evolution Group plc, following its merger includes time spent in PwCs New York, Sydney, External appointments: Member of the FCA Practitioner with Beeson Gregory.
He was a founder Director of Edinburgh and London offices.
Panel and the Presidents Committee of the IP Group plc, and also founded what is now known Confederation of British Industry.
External appointments: He will become a as the Quoted Companies Alliance.
non-executive member of Lloyds Franchise External appointments: Trustee of the MCC.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Peter Harrison Philip Mallinckrodt Massimo Tosato Head of Investment 49 Group Head of Wealth Management 53 Executive Vice-Chairman and Global Head of Distribution 61 Appointed a Director and Head of Investment Appointed a Director in January 2009. in May 2014.
He will become Chief Executive on 4 April Appointed a Director in August 2001, having joined Experience: He started his career with Credit Suisse 2016.
He will retire from the Board at First Boston.
He joined Schroders in 1994, and then the end of 2016.
Experience: He began his career at Schroders in 1988 worked for Citigroup from 2000 to 2002.
He rejoined and subsequently held roles at Newton Investment Schroders in 2002.
Experience: He was a founding partner and Chief Management as Portfolio Manager, JP Morgan Executive Officer of Cominvest SpA.
and a partner External appointments: Member of the International Asset Management as Head of Global Equities and and Managing Director of Euromercantile SpA.
Advisory Council of the Brookings Institution.
Multi-asset and at Deutsche Asset Management as He was Vice President of the European Fund and Global Chief Investment Officer.
He was Chairman Asset Management Association from 2011 until 2013. and Chief Executive of RWC Partners before re-joining External appointments: Member of the Board of Schroders as Global Head of Equities in March 2013.
Overseers at Columbia Business School, Trustee of External appointments: Non-executive Chairman the Parasol Unit Foundation for Contemporary Art, of RWC Partners and Director of the Investment London and a non-executive Director of Nutmeg Association.
He is also a member of the Forum of European Asset Managers.
46 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Non-executive Directors Lord Howard of Penrith Ashley Almanza Robin Buchanan Senior Independent Director 70 Independent non-executive Director 52 Independent non-executive Director 63 Appointed Senior Independent Director in April 2015, Appointed a non-executive Director in August 2011.
Appointed a non-executive Director in March 2010. having been a non-executive Director since November He will stand down from the Board at the conclusion Experience: He was the Senior Partner of Bain & 2008. of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Company Inc. in the UK for 12 years and remains a Experience: He was previously Deputy to the Chairman Experience: He held a number of executive positions Senior Adviser.
Most recently he served as Chairman of Lehman in Europe until 1998 and was thePartner in at BG Group including Executive Vice President UK, of PageGroup plc until December 2015.
He was charge of international fixed income at Phillips & Drew.
Europe and Central Asia and Chief Financial Officer Dean and President of London Business School.
He was also Chairman of Tarchon Capital Management from 2002 to 2011.
He is a chartered accountant and He is a chartered accountant and holds an MBA LLP from 1998 until March 2013. holds an MBA London Business School.
External appointments: Senior Advisor at Beazley plc External appointments: He is Chief Executive Officer External appointments: Non-executive Director of having previously held the position of Chief Investment of G4S plc and a non-executive Director of Noble LyondellBasell Industries N. V. He is Chairman of the Officer until the end of 2015.
Investment Committee of Access Industries, and a Senior Adviser to Coller Capital Ltd. Committee membership: Chairman of the Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Risk Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee membership: Member of the Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees.
He was a member of the Remuneration Remuneration, Nominations and Audit and Committee from May 2012 until October 2014.
Rhian Davies Nichola Pease Bruno Schroder Independent non-executive Director 51 Independent non-executive Director 54 Non-executive Director 83 Appointed a non-executive Director in July 2015.
Appointed a non-executive Director in September 2012.
She will stand for election at the 2016 Annual Experience: She has over 30 years experience in the Experience: He is the great-great-grandson of General Meeting.
asset management and stock broking industries.
She John Henry Schroder, co-founder of the Schroders Experience: She is a chartered accountant and was was the Chief Executive and then Deputy Chairman businesses in 1804.
He joined the Schroder Group in a partner at Electra Partners, an independent private of J O Hambro Capital Management Ltd from 1998 London where he worked in the Commercial Banking equity fund manager, until June 2015 and remains a until 2008.
She was a trustee and Chairman of the and Corporate Finance divisions of J. Henry Schroder Senior Adviser.
She previously worked in PwCs audit Investment Committee and Member of the Audit Wagg & Co Ltd. and insolvency practice until joining Electra in 1992.
Committee of Guys and St. Thomas Charity until External appointments: Director of a number of private June 2013 and a non-executive Member of the External appointments: Senior Adviser of limited companies.
Executive Committee of the Army Board and Electra Partners.
Chairman of the Army independent Assurance Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committee until March 2015.
Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committee.
and Audit and Risk Committee.
She will become External appointments: Founder and Chairman of Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee at the Investment 2020 and a Member of the Eton College conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 47
