Group Management Committee and Company Secretary Executive Directors Michael Dobson Richard Keers Peter Harrison Chief Executive 63 Chief Financial Officer 52 Head of Investment 49 Responsible for the management of the overall Responsible for financial management, risk Responsible for the Groups global Investment division.
business and the strategic development of the Group.
management, tax, capital and treasury, corporate development, human resources and corporate services.
Other GMC members Geoff Blanning Karl Dasher Philippe Lespinard Head of Emerging Market Debt and Commodities 53 Head of North America and Co-Head of Fixed Co-Head of Fixed Income 52 Income 46 Experience: He joined Schroders in 1998 and Experience: He joined Schroders in 2010 as Chief developed the Commodity and Currency investment Experience: He joined Schroders in 2007 as Global Investment Officer for Fixed Income.
He previously managed Global Bond Funds at Head of Product and became Head of Fixed Income a partner at Brevan Howard and Chief Investment N M Rothschild and Bankers Trust before developing in October 2008.
He previously worked at SEI Officer at BNP Paribas Asset Management.
and managing Morgan Grenfells first Emerging Market Investments in various investment roles, including Responsibilities: He is Co-Head of Fixed Income within Debt Fund in 1993.
Chief Investment Officer between 2004 and 2007. the Investment division.
Responsibilities: He is responsible for the investment Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups performance of the Emerging Market Debt, operations in North America and is also Co-Head Commodities and Currencies team within of Fixed Income.
Andrew Ross Markus Ruetimann John Troiano Deputy Head of Wealth Management 56 Chief Operating Officer 57 Global Head of Institutional 57 Experience: He joined Schroders in 2013 having been Experience: He joined Schroders in 2004 from UBS Experience: He joined Schroders in 1981 as an Chief Executive of Cazenove Capital Management Global Asset Management where he was Global Head investment analyst and became Head of the US equity since 2001.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive of of Technology and Portfolio Services.
He established Schroders emerging HSBC Asset Management Europe Limited between was Chief Operating Officer for Phillips & Drew in market equity capability in 1991.
Global Head of Institutional Business in 2003 and became Deputy Head of Distribution in September 2012.
Responsibilities: He is responsible for the UK, Channel Responsibilities: He has global responsibility for the Islands and Asia within Wealth Management.
strategy and management of information technology, Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups information security, institutional portfolio services, fund global Institutional business within Distribution.
As services, enterprise data services as well as change Deputy Head of Distribution, he shares responsibility and project management.
for the Distribution division, including sales, marketing, product development and product management.
48 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Philip Mallinckrodt Massimo Tosato Group Head of Wealth Management 53 Executive Vice-Chairman and Global Head of Distribution 61 Responsible for the Groups Wealth Management business, Real Estate Investment team and Responsible for the Groups global Distribution corporate responsibility.
function, including sales, marketing, product development and product management.
Nico Marais Richard Mountford Nicky Richards Head of Multi-asset 52 Head of Asia Pacific 57 Global Head of Equities 49 Experience: He joined Schroders in March 2011 from Experience: He joined Schroders in 1980 as a UK Experience: She began her investment career at BlackRock, where he was Head of Global Active equities analyst and held a number of investment roles Schroders in 1987 as an assistant fund manager.
She Portfolio Management in the Multi-asset client solutions before becoming Regional Managing Director for South went on to hold a number of senior roles in the firm group in London.
His investment career began in 1989 East Asia in 1991.
In 2004, he was appointed Head of including Head of Australia and Head of Hong Kong.
She at the South African Reserve Bank before joining the UK Distribution and in 2008 became Global Head of was subsequently appointed Group Investment Officer World Bank in 1994.
He joined Barclays Global Intermediary Sales.
of Fidelity International and Chief Executive and Chief Investors in 2000 and held various investment roles.
Investment Officer of MLC Investment Management in Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups Australia.
She re-joined Schroders in 2014 as Global Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Multioperations in the Asia Pacific region.
Head of Equities and was appointed to the GMC.
asset business within the Investment division.
Responsibilities: She is responsible for the Equities business within the Investment division.
Howard Trust Graham Staples General Counsel 61 Group Company Secretary 54 Experience: He joined Schroders in 2003 from Experience: He joined Schroders in 2004.
Previously, Barclays where he held various roles including Group he held senior company secretarial, compliance and General Counsel and Board Secretary.
business development roles at NatWest, Barclays, TSB and Computershare.
Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups Compliance, Legal and Governance functions.
Responsibilities: Secretary to the Board of Schroders plc and the GMC.
He is responsible for the Groups governance framework and advising the Board and GMC on all governance matters.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 49
