Directors Report directors have elected to prepare the financial statements Directors in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The companys policy on the appointment of directors is Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards shown on the companys website, www.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they The directors of the company and their biographical details give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company are shown on page 5.
and of the returns and cash flows for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: The performance of each director was appraised by the nomination committee during the year.
The chairmans select suitable accounting policies and then apply them performance was appraised in his absence by the other consistently: directors and the results were communicated to him.
The make judgements and estimates that are reasonable board believes that each director is independent of the and prudent: management in character and judgement and there are state whether applicable accounting standards have been no relationships with the company or its employees which followed subject to any material departures disclosed and might compromise this independence.
The Board does explained in the financial statements: and not consider the use of an external agency would provide prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis meaningful benefit to the evaluation process.
However, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will the option to do so is kept under review.
The companys directors are subject to annual election The directors are responsible for keeping adequate by shareholders.
Douglas McDougall and Hamish Buchan accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain have served as directors for more than nine years.
After formal the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable performance evaluation, the board confirms that Douglas accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and McDougall and Hamish Buchan continue to perform effectively enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply and with great commitment.
Douglas McDougall retires at with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible the AGM on 29 January 2016.
Ian Hunter was appointed for safeguarding the assets of the company and for taking to the board in December 2014 on the recommendation reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud of the nomination committee and elected at the AGM and other irregularities.
James MacLeod retired from the board on 30 January 2015.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included The appointments of Douglas McDougall and Hamish Buchan on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom as directors run for one year at a time.
Russell Napier was governing the preparation and dissemination of financial appointed in July 2009, James Will was appointed in May 2013 statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and Ian Hunter was appointed in December 2014.
Russell Napiers appointment was renewed in July 2012 and July 2015.
The directors have considered the Annual Report and Accounts and believe that taken as a whole it is fair, balanced and Jane Lewis and Mick Brewis were appointed as directors in understandable and provides the information necessary for December 2015, each for an initial term of three years subject shareholders to assess the companys performance and strategy.
to election by shareholders at the AGM on 29 January 2016.
Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the AGM.
No external agency was used in the selection Corporate Governance process as the nomination committee was itself able to Compliance identify a long list of high quality and diverse candidates The board has reviewed the principles set out in the UK with the skills, knowledge and experience required.
Corporate Governance Code and believes that the way the company is governed is consistent with these principles.
The company maintains insurance in respect of directors Throughout the year, the company complied with the provisions and officers liability in relation to their acts on behalf of the of the UK Corporate Governance Code except that: company.
The companys articles of association provide that any director or other officer of the company may be there is no senior independent director: and indemnified out of the assets of the company against any the chairman is a member of the audit committee.
liability incurred by him as a director or other officer of the company to the extent permitted by law.
The directors consider that, as all directors are independent and non-executive, there is no compelling case for having Directors responsibilities a senior independent director.
The board considers the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report chairman to be independent in character and judgement and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and therefore there is no reason for Douglas McDougall not and regulations.
to be a member of the audit committee.
The UK Corporate Governance code is available from the Financial Reporting United Kingdom company law requires the directors to Council, www.
uk prepare annual financial statements.
Under that law, the 16 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Directors Report continued Conflicts of interest it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys internal controls and risk management: The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of the it has reviewed the need for a separate internal audit function: company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might it has recommended to the board that a resolution be have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of the external interests of the company.
Each director submits a list of auditor and it has considered the proposed terms of potential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other board their engagement: members consider these and recommend whether or not it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the external each potential conflict should be authorised.
No situation auditor: and arose during the year whereby an interest of a director it has satisfied itself that the terms of the Strategic Report conflicted with the interests of the company.
are consistent with the financial statements.
The Board Further details are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee The board normally meets eight times throughout the year on pages 19 and 20.
The terms of reference are available from while the audit and remuneration committees each meet three the companys website.
The nomination committee meets at least annually.
Nomination committee The following table shows the attendance of directors at board and committee meetings for the year to 31 October 2015.
There is a nomination committee comprising the whole board.
The committee is chaired by Douglas McDougall.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The committee meets at least annually to review the structure, size and composition of the board.
It has written terms of Number of meetings 8 3 3 3 reference which are shown on the companys website.
Douglas McDougall 8 3 3 3 The nomination committee is responsible for nominating, for Hamish Buchan 8 3 3 3 the approval of the board, candidates to fill board vacancies James MacLeod 1 1 1 as and when they arise.
The committee will evaluate the Russell Napier 8 2 3 3 skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity of the board and, subject to the aforementioned, prepare James Will 8 3 3 3 a description of the role and capabilities required to fulfil Ian Hunter 8 3 3 3 the appointment.
When board positions become available as a result of He attended all possible board and committee meetings prior retirement or resignation, the committee will ensure that a to retirement.
diverse group of candidates is considered.
In order to recruit relevant candidates, the identification of such candidates may There is a schedule of matters reserved for the board which be carried on in conjunction with the board by an independent includes investment strategy, accounting and financial firm of consultants.
If such a process is not used, the committee controls, dividends and announcements, capital structure, will disclose the reasons in the Directors Report in the next gearing and major contracts.
The board of SIT appointed the companys wholly-owned The committee will consider candidates on merit and against subsidiary, SIT Savings Limited, as its Alternative Investment objective criteria having regard to the benefits of diversity, Fund Manager AIFM.
Day to day management of the company including gender.
is delegated to the companys executive management which reports directly to the board.
Unless nominated by the board, a person nominated as a director is not eligible for election at a general meeting unless Prior to each board meeting, directors are provided with a shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting gives the a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information company secretary at least six clear days written notice of his on the companys transactions, financial position and intention to propose the relevant nominee for election, along performance.
There is a procedure for directors to seek with a notice in writing signed by the nominee confirming his independent professional advice at the expense of the willingness to be elected.
company and training is available to directors as required.
Remuneration committee Committees The board has appointed a remuneration committee to Audit committee recommend pay and conditions for the board and employees.
It has written terms of reference which are shown on the The audit committee comprises the whole board and is companys website.
The committee is chaired by Hamish chaired by Ian Hunter.
It has reviewed the matters within Buchan.
Further details of directors remuneration are included its terms of reference and reports as follows: in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 21 and 22. it has approved the financial statements for the year to 31 October 2015: Report & Accounts 2015 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 17 Directors Report continued The company aims to provide levels of employee remuneration liabilities, it is expected that the company will continue in which reward responsibility and achievement and are operational existence for the foreseeable future.
comparable with other fund management organisations operating in Scotland.
Annual General Meeting Venue Every employee is entitled to a salary and other benefits The companys 128th AGM will be held at The Royal College of including a contributory pension scheme.
In addition, Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ there is a discretionary performance-related bonus scheme.
For investment staff, bonuses payable depend, inter alia, on individual performance, the companys NAV total return Board recommendation and the NAV total return relative to comparator indices and The board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at peers.
For other staff, bonuses depend, inter alia, on individual the AGM are all in the best interests of the company and of performance and share price total return.
Notice periods shareholders as a whole and recommends that shareholders for all members of staff range from three to six months.
Diversity Policy Resolutions 1 to 11 are self explanatory.
Resolution 12, set out The company recognises the need to consider the diversity in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 48, seeks of its staff and its board of directors.
As a general principle, to renew the authority to repurchase shares until 29 April 2017. the company will show no bias for age, gender, race, sexual The principal reasons for such repurchases are to enhance the orientation, marital status, religion, nationality, ethnic or NAV of the shares by repurchasing shares for cancellation at national origins, or disability in considering the appointment prices which, after allowing for costs, improve the NAV for of staff or board members.
remaining shareholders and to allow implementation of the companys share buyback policy.
The structure, size and composition of the board of directors are reviewed at least annually by the nomination committee Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the ensuring an appropriate balance of skills, experience, maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the independence and knowledge.
In considering new authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average appointments to the board, the committee recognises the of the middle market quotations for the shares as derived from benefits of diversity on the board, including gender.
The the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over the committee will consider both male and female candidates five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ensure appointments are made on the basis of merit and, ii the higher price of the last independent trade and the against objective criteria.
As all appointments will be based highest current independent bid.
The minimum price which on merit and in view of the small size of the board, the board may be paid is 25p per share.
does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets.
Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution that Relations with Shareholders requires to be passed by a three-quarters majority of votes The company recognises the value of good communication cast at the AGM.
The management meets regularly with private client stockbrokers and the companys major Voting Policy institutional shareholders.
The board receives regular Management reviews resolutions put to general meetings of briefings from the companys broker.
Newsletters are sent the companies in which it invests and, wherever practicable, to shareholders during the year and are posted on the will cast its vote, usually by proxy.
Carbon Emissions The annual general meeting of the company is the main The companys carbon emissions result predominantly from forum at which shareholders can ask questions of the board its consumption of electricity at its single office.
Using Defra and the management.
All shareholders are encouraged to DECCs GHG conversion factors for company reporting 2015, attend the AGM and to vote on the resolutions which are emissions for the year to September 2015 were 55.8 tonnes of contained in the Notice of Meeting on page 48 and which CO e 2014: 56.40 tonnes CO e. This equates to 0.13 tonnes is posted to shareholders at least 21 days prior to the 2 2 of CO e 2014: 0.13 tonnes of CO e per square metre.
Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are 2 2 encouraged to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
Proxy By order of the board.
voting figures are given at the end of the meeting.
Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at another time should write to the chairman.
Steven Hay Going Concern Company Secretary The accounts of the company have been prepared on a going 14 December 2015 concern basis.
It is the opinion of the directors that, as most of the companys assets are readily realisable and exceed its 18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015
