Strategic Report the levels of gearing and gross gearing are monitored closely Status by the board and the manager.
The company applies a ceiling The company is a self-managed global growth investment on gearing of 20%.
While gearing will be employed in a typical trust and is an investment company within the meaning of the range of 0% to 20%, the company retains the ability to lower Companies Act 2006.
HM Revenue & Customs approved the equity exposure to a net cash position if deemed appropriate: company as an investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 the company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of total of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010.
The company continues to assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds: and satisfy the conditions for such approval.
the company may not make investments in respect of which there is unlimited liability except that the company may sell Investment Objective and Policy index futures for efficient portfolio management purposes.
The company carries on business as a global growth investment trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, over the longer term, Investment policy implementation with above-average returns through a diversified portfolio of international equities and to achieve dividend growth ahead During the year under review, the assets of the company were of UK inflation.
invested in accordance with the companys investment policy.
In order to achieve this objective, the company invests in an A full list of holdings is disclosed on page 15 and detailed analyses integrated global portfolio constructed through an investment of the spread of investments by geographic region and industry process whereby assets are primarily allocated on the basis sector are shown on pages 8, 9 and 14.
Further analyses of changes of the investment merits of individual stocks rather than those in asset distribution by industry and region over the year, including of regions, sectors or themes.
the sources of appreciation depreciation, are shown on pages 8 and 9.
Attribution of NAV performance is shown on page 10.
The companys portfolio is actively managed and typically will contain 70 to 120 listed international equity investments.
At the year end, the number of listed holdings was 74.
The top The portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial sector ten holdings comprised 24.1% of total assets 2014: 21.2%.
and geographic location of investments in order to spread investment risk.
Details of the extent to which the companys objective has been achieved and how the investment policy was implemented Whilst performance is compared against major global and are provided in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the UK indices, the composition of indices has no influence on Managers Review on pages 8 to 12. investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
As a result, it is expected that the companys investment portfolio Additional limitations on borrowings and performance may deviate from the comparator indices.
Under the companys articles of association, the directors control the borrowings of the company and its subsidiaries Since the companys assets are invested globally and without to ensure that the aggregate amount of borrowings does not, regard to the composition of any index, there are no restrictions unless approved by an ordinary resolution of shareholders, on maximum or minimum exposures to specific geographic exceed the aggregate of the reserves excluding unrealised regions, industry sectors or unlisted investments.
However, capital profits of the company and its subsidiaries, as published such exposures are reported in detail to, and monitored by, in the latest accounts.
In addition, the directors are authorised the board at each board meeting in order to ensure that to incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary course of business adequate diversification is maintained.
of up to 10% of the companys issued share capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no longer than six months.
Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its Principal risks and uncertainties investment objective, from time to time the company will The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are hold certain financial instruments comprising equity and as follows: non-equity shares, fixed income securities, interests in limited partnerships, structured products and cash and investment and market price risk: liquid resources.
The company may use derivatives, other interest rate risk: than in relation to the sale of index futures, for hedging or liquidity risk: tactical investment purposes.
The company may only sell foreign currency risk: and index futures for efficient portfolio management purposes.
For the avoidance of doubt, any derivative instrument may only be used with the prior authorisation of the board.
These and other risks facing the company are reviewed regularly by the audit committee and the board.
A detailed risk map, which The company has the ability to enter into contracts to hedge identifies significant risks relevant to the company, is assessed against currency risks on both capital and income.
These risks include corporate strategy, investment decisions, financial and regulatory activities, business continuity The companys investment activities are subject to the following and service providers.
Further information on risks is detailed limitations and restrictions: in note 17 to the accounts on pages 39 to 44 and on internal controls in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 19. under the companys articles of association, up to 40% of the companys total assets on the last audited balance sheet may be used to make investments of up to a maximum Performance of 8% of the value of total assets in any one company, Management provides the board with detailed information at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, individual on the companys performance at every board meeting.
investments may not exceed 3% of the value of total assets, Performance is measured in comparison with the companys at the time the investment is made: peers and comparator indices.
6 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued Key Performance Indicators are: each representing 2.3% of shares in issue at 31 October 2014, at a cost of 15,426,000.
NAV total return: NAV total return against comparators: At the AGM on 30 January 2015, authority was granted to NAV and share price total return against peers: repurchase up to 14.99% of shares in issue on that date.
The discount with debt at market value: number of shares authorised for repurchase was 16,193,985. dividend growth against UK inflation: and Share buybacks from the date of the AGM to the companys year ongoing charges ratio.
end amounted to 2,444,500 shares or 2.26 percentage points of the 14.99% authority.
Dividends The board may declare dividends, including interim dividends, Viability Statement but no dividend is payable except out of the companys revenue The directors have assessed the prospects of the company returns or in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
for a period of five years.
The board believes this time period is Neither unrealised appreciation of capital assets nor realised profits appropriate having consideration for the companys: principal arising from the sale of capital assets are available for the dividend.
risks and uncertainties outlined on page 6 : its portfolio of liquid listed international equity investments and cash balances: and its The directors recommend a final dividend of 7.50p and a ability to achieve the stated dividend policy and to cover interest special dividend of 3.50p per share, payable on 4 February payments on the companys debt in note 5 to the accounts on 2016.
With the interim dividend of 5.00p already paid in July page 35.
2015, this makes a total of 16.00p for the year.
Based on shares in issue at 31 October 2015, the final and special dividend will cost In making this assessment, the directors have considered 11,615,000.
The total dividend for the year will cost 16,981,000. detailed information provided at board meetings which includes the companys balance sheet, gearing level, share price discount, asset allocation, income and operating expenses.
Share Capital General Based on the above, the board confirms it has a reasonable The company had 105,587,426 shares in issue on 31 October 2015. expectation that the company will be able to continue in The rights attaching to shares in the company are set out in the operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the companys articles of association which may be amended by five year period of this assessment.
the passing of a special resolution of shareholders, that is, by the approval of a majority of not less than 75% of votes cast.
Substantial Shareholdings The Financial Conduct Authority rules in relation to non-mainstream At 9 December 2015, the company had been notified of the investment products do not apply to the company.
following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
% Rights to the capital of the company on winding up Shares held Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the company Aviva PLC 10,338,840 9.8 in the event of a winding up after the companys other liabilities Lloyds Banking Group PLC 6,346,524 6.0 had been satisfied.
AXA Investment Managers SA 3,450,050 3.3 Voting On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or Socially Responsible Investing by proxy has one vote and on a poll every member present When investments are made, the primary objective is to achieve in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
the best investment return while allowing for an acceptable degree of risk.
In pursuing this objective, various factors that Deadlines for exercising voting rights may impact on the performance are considered and these may include socially responsible investment issues.
If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote at a meeting on his behalf, a valid appointment is made when the form of proxy together, where relevant, with a notarially Companys Directors and Employees certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority under The table below shows the breakdown of directors, senior which the form of proxy is signed is received by the companys managers and employees.
registrar not less than 48 hours before the start of the meeting 31 October 2015 31 October 2014 or the adjourned meeting at which the proxy is appointed to Male Female Male Female vote or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, no later than 24 hours before the time appointed Directors 5 0 5 0 for taking the poll.
In calculating these time periods, no account Senior Manager 1 0 1 0 is taken of any day or part thereof that is not a working day.
Employees 10 5 10 7 Buybacks The companys buyback policy is intended to keep the discount to ex-income NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating the NAV for the purposes of the buyback policy, the companys borrowings are taken at their market value so as to ensure that future repurchases Douglas McDougall of shares will take into account changes in the value of the Chairman borrowings brought about by movements in long-term interest 14 December 2015 rates.
During the year ended 31 October 2015, the company bought back for cancellation a total of 2,479,500 shares of 25p Report & Accounts 2015 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 7
