Strategic Report Managers Review There has been little change in the essentials of the portfolio.
Twenty seven of the last years top 30 holdings are still owned.
The top 5 holdings are in the same companies.
Our aim continues to be to identify and then faithfully support outstanding and differentiated companies with open-ended growth opportunities for as long as their virtues remain intact and their advantages underestimated.
The time horizons of these processes are long and beyond the patience of most investors.
Over the last ten years, Scottish Mortgage has steadily moved towards being a true global growth portfolio rather than a collection of individual regional mandates managed with reference to local indices.
As this process has developed we have been driven by our core investment beliefs once again set out on page 14 but we have also been guided by three observations that have remained intact over this decade.
We thought that a market scarred by the memory of the apparent bubble of the late 1990s was structurally unable to grasp the power of technological change.
We believed that China was transforming the global economy and increasingly that it was profoundly different from Facebooks Mark Zuckerberg.
We feared that the flaws of the Western NBCUniversal Getty Images.
financial system threatened much that was encouraging in the global economy and markets.
We were disconcerted by quite Yet still it appears to us that seemingly shocking exponential how right this anxiety turned out to be in 200809.
So these change is actually more predictable than most market themes have served us well.
From Moores Law in semiconductors to Yet we are concerned that we need to renew our thinking.
It Carlsons Curve projecting genomic improvements the pattern of seems to us that all three themes have been sufficiently important price and performance gains are well-established but much that they have in turn altered the investment world.
In doing so ignored by static financial modelling.
Moreover, by the time we their own meaning has changed irrevocably.
We would like to tend to have large holdings in companies creating and exploiting explore this topic by topic.
these improvements, the underlying trends have normally been securely established.
We are not gamblers on speculative Accelerating Change and the Redundancy of conjunctures but respectful observers of the powers of Technology as a Sector foundational technologies and the application of time and capital.
Our original contentions surrounding the attractions of technology investing are close to exhaustion.
Most of those who vowed never We believe it to be of paramount importance for investors to recognise that the scale of the changes driven by Moores Law, again to invest in technology have retired or forgotten their promises.
Others simply sulk in their tents.
In a world in which the sophisticated software, mobile communications and the internet are just too all encompassing to be defined and confined as a youthful and controversial Uber can be valued at over $40bn as a private company it is hard to contend that animal spirits are still discrete sector.
This is the way of successful technologies.
Electricity went through the same process once upon a time.
What we now have is almost every business exploiting foundational electronics technologies to develop and often revolutionise their industries.
It seems misguided to classify the companies leading such surges of productivity and improvement as a separate technology sector.
Thinking in such terms all too often unduly narrows the perception of the opportunities on offer to the beneficiaries and the dangers to the incumbents.
The potential revolutions we see looming in healthcare as genomic science and gene therapies drive towards personalising medicine, improving clinical outcomes and even cutting costs are securely based on deep scientific and technological progress.
So too is the strength of Teslas challenge to the automobile and utility sectors.
For retailers it makes no sense to ignore Amazon and Alibaba just because their challenges are driven by Moores Law.
Any temptation for newspaper and advertising executives to dismiss Google, Tencent and Facebook because they are internet technology companies has proven deeply dangerous.
Yet investors indulge in such mental tangles through their preoccupation with index definitions.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 09 Strategic Report Reinventing the Financial System There is still precious little evidence that the financial system has meaningfully reformed itself.
Indeed the saga of corrupted incentives and unjustified greed continues apace.
Banks that once had some claim to relative moral authority and practical leadership such as HSBC and JPMorgan have shown themselves to be as out of control as their presumed inferiors.
What may have changed is that traditional banks and investment banks may be becoming less central to the economic system.
This is partly the result of regulatory pressures that may have been too limited but have demanded sufficient new equity to make previous methods unprofitable even in normal times.
But it is also that the banks are rapidly being undercut by new methods.
Finance itself is being attacked by innovation of a rather more profound and promising nature than it has itself supplied.
An example of this is Lending Club which is the worlds largest online marketplace for consumer credit.
We participated in the IPO in late 2014.
We believe that it can provide a better system with lower credit spreads than 3D printing for travel to Mars.
With Alibaba and Tencent making significant Bloomberg Getty Images.
progress in their own financial services efforts we think this is a global trend.
China, Emerging Markets and Corporate Success Emergent Themes of the Future Five years ago we argued that China was profoundly different We can only conclude that we need to abandon our previous from other emerging markets in its ability to sustain fundamental themes.
We would suggest that three new sets of issues will be economic improvements.
From education to life expectancy crucial in the next five years.
improvements to a huge middle class, it displays an unparalleled Will major and accelerating improvements in core scale and significance.
The Trust once offered a fairly broad technologies lead to progress in healthcare, energy and exposure to emerging markets but subsequently moved to a transportation analogous to those in information technology concentration on Chinas most promising domestic companies.
Or will secular stagnation and limited Five years later, it is very striking that it has been Chinas mobile productivity gains dominate?
These questions are already communications, advertising and e-commerce companies that inherent in our thoughts above.
Our current answers are have built imposing businesses and enjoyed exceptional share markedly more optimistic than those espoused by most price performance whilst much else has fallen shy of initial practitioners and commentators.
Tencent, for example, now enjoys a market value higher Which companies will prove to have the greatest profitability than HSBC or IBM and a multiple of that of its erstwhile emerging market peers such as Petrobras and Gazprom.
The success of resilience and longevity?
There has long been a presumption in markets that some industries are the epitome of steady Tencent, Alibaba and Baidu has only been equalled by the global giants of the West Coast of the USA.
This is a remarkable earnings and cash flow growth whilst also offering the prospect of enduring as businesses for decades if not achievement.
Our concern at this point is that these forces of modernity and voices of vibrant communication are increasingly centuries.
The allure of such stocks has been particularly great since 200809 as investors have sought low volatility so discordant with the conservative and repressive tenor of the government.
There has been an equal and opposite horror of companies that historically and industrially have been Whilst the fall from economic and investment grace of Russia and perceived to be volatile, cyclical or subject to competitive Brazil has been dramatic and terrible to behold, the Indian stock boom and bust.
market has suffered no such setback.
The election of the questionable Mr. Modi has been greeted with prolonged acclaim.
Our hypothesis is that the years ahead may prove to be very different.
It seems to us that several industries, such as healthcare, In order to check whether my scepticism is justified our colleague Peter Singlehurst has recently spent several months in Delhi, oil majors and utilities, which have been havens of stability may face dramatic change.
Global brands may follow national grocers Mumbai and Bangalore.
In general Peters trip has not dispelled my concerns.
But we have been persuaded that a younger into a margin storm.
At the same time all too many traditional quoted companies have failed to reinvest in their businesses in generation of business leaders carries evidence of a more dynamic and enlightened model of capitalism.
We bought a holding in order to produce earnings to the satisfaction of the financial industry.
As aggressive unquoted enterprises and founder run Flipkart, the Indian unquoted e-commerce leader, which we think exemplifies the improvement but which will also ultimately require a competitors with less pressure to generate immediate earnings become ever more prominent, the complacent incumbents will be broader creation and distribution of wealth to succeed.
10 Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Old infrastructure will be challenged by new technology.
Equally we believe that the long-term Concluding Comments ambitions and visions, network strengths, low capital In the course of the year I was delighted that the Board promoted requirements, technological strength and sheer intelligence of the Tom Slater to Joint Manager.
Tom has contributed hugely to our aggressors may mean that their longevity is more akin to that of investment record in recent years.
His involvement provides an General Electric than that of Socks.
Future vulnerabilities will excellent justification for confidence that we can investigate and have little in common with the dictates of risk models.
navigate the emergent themes in the years to come.
Since the late Plainly we have much to think about in the decade to follow and 1970s capital has enjoyed ideological and practical beyond.
But the challenges and uncertainties should not be dominance over labour.
Almost everywhere and almost allowed to obscure the excitement and opportunities that the regardless of political labels the state has encouraged and current investment world offers us.
We are lucky enough to meet endorsed this situation.
It is unclear whether this pattern will remarkable companies, both quoted and unquoted, often with remain intact in the coming decade.
Many strains are already extraordinary leaders and frequently offering almost unimaginable apparent.
From concern over marked inequality in the opportunities and rewards.
It is an extraordinary era for growth developed world to rising wages in China the compact seems investors.
At the same time relations between most states and many corporations has been frayed by battles over tax James Anderson versus globalisation, and security versus freedom of expression.
It is unclear to us where the arguments and economics will settle or whether the populaces of the world prefer the offerings of consumer and electronic capitalism to the paternalism and resources of the state.
This is not just an issue for the West.
Irans future will be a fascinating if unusual example of such evolving controversies whilst a revolution in China might prove the most important possibility of all.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 11 Strategic Report Scottish Mortgages Approach to Investment Risk This paper outlines the approach used by the Managers and past ten years exhibits a clear pattern.
We have made mistakes Board to identify and mitigate the risks that we take for Scottish and losses in individual holdings.
We have also had some very Mortgage in pursuit of long-term returns.
Thankfully the maximum we have been looking for a straightforward answer or a single number to able to lose is the capital that we have invested.
The returns from summarise this multifaceted topic will be disappointed.
the winners have been several times our investment and it is this asymmetry which has been crucial.
The primary risk is the potential for permanent loss of capital.
There are many other definitions but our objective is to generate longThis outcome is not unique to Scottish Mortgage.
The structure of term capital growth for our shareholders.
To achieve this objective returns is also present in the broader market.
Looking at the we must assume risk and accept the possibility that this may lead rolling five-year returns for each stock in the S&P 500 in the thirty to a reduction rather than growth in the Trusts capital base.
years between 1984 and 2013 gives around eighteen thousand investment opportunities.
This data set doesnt follow a normal This may sound obvious.
The investment management industry distribution.
The best 1% of stocks returned 13-fold over five and academic community have found many ways of describing years, the top 5% returned just over 5-fold and the top 20% and measuring risk that have little to do with this fundamental returned just over 2.5-fold.
Investing in about one quarter of the aim.
One part of the explanation for this is that risk is incredibly opportunities resulted in a loss.
difficult to perceive or quantify.
The fortunes of individual companies are tied up in the complex system of the global Percentile Five year return Per annum economy over which is layered the self-referential voting machine of the stock market.
Consequently, many choose to view volatility 99% 13.0x 67% as an easily quantifiable heuristic for risk.
We do not think that this 95% 5.4x 40% is a good substitution.
90% 3.8x 30% 80% 2.6x 21% Stock price volatility reflects many factors which have little to do 50% 1.5x 8% with the profitability and outlook for a company in five or ten 30% 1.1x 2% years time.
This is where we believe real investment risk resides, 20% 0.9x -3% not in the daily fluctuations of the market.
The focus on volatility is 10% 0.6x -10% damaging.
It increases the pressure to listen to the overwhelming clamour of stock markets and act on the associated newsflow.
To benefit from this return structure, we have to maximise the Avoiding this temptation is difficult.
More difficult though is to chances of identifying stocks with the potential to return a multiple answer the real question: what are the risks we are taking and of the initial investment.
We then have to maximise the chances of how can we understand and manage them?
owning the shares for long enough for the Trust to benefit from this Effective Number of Stocks return.
This shines a different light on the task of managing risk.
Central to our view of how to manage risk is the requirement to Most investments are mediocre, some will destroy capital and have a diverse portfolio.
In pursuit of attractive returns we want to losses are almost inevitable.
Consequently one of the significant assume a number of different risks and not several versions of the risks is failing to identify big winners.
Equally, we must guard same one.
This means owning a collection of assets that have against fear of concentration and volatility prompting us to reduce different fundamental drivers.
We are frequently wrong about the or sell those winners prematurely.
Not owning, or aggressively opportunities we are presented with.
Acknowledging this, we reducing, our holding in Amazon would have significantly lowered the returns we would have generated for shareholders over the want to try to understand the effect of misjudgments and ensure that they dont unintentionally undermine a broad range of past ten years.
This is the tension we work with on a day-to-day holdings simultaneously.
basis as we seek to maintain diversity but also continue to back the great management teams that run the Trusts successful holdings.
The first step in doing this is to ensure there are a sufficient number of positions in the portfolio.
This is more complex than Concentrations in the Portfolio simply counting the number of holdings.
We need to consider the Having established a practical way of quantifying the number of effective number of holdings.
To understand this, consider a positions we then consider how these positions relate to one portfolio with two holdings.
One accounts for 99.9% of the assets another.
We do not attempt to do this by crunching the data on and the other for 0.1%.
Whilst this portfolio has two holdings it is the relative movements of stock prices.
Observing that a pair of essentially a one-stock portfolio it has an effective number of share prices has been correlated in the past does not, in our view, holdings which is very close to one whereas a portfolio with 50% in each holding is a genuine two-stock portfolio it has an effective number of holdings of two.
So, the effective number of holdings in the portfolio can be thought of as the number of holdings the 1 portfolio would have if each of the positions were equally sized.
The Board looks at the effective number of holdings on a regular basis as a guide to the degree of concentration in position sizing.
It is necessary to consider the effective number of holdings because the portfolio is a long way from being equally weighted.
There is good reason for this.
The structure of returns over the 1 n 1 2 For those of a mathematical orientation: Effective number of stocks w i i 1 Diversity is in the detail.
Where w represents the portfolio weights in each of the n stocks in a portfolio.
i 12 Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report The Index is risky.
tell us a great deal about the risks of owning them.
Instead, we industries represent a large proportion of indices and will be an assess the business models of the companies in the portfolio, the important determinant of market returns.
environment in which they operate and the drivers of growth.
We Companies with new business models underpinned by do not separate the process of evaluating risks from the process technology and run by founder-owners are investing aggressively of making investments.
Whilst we appreciate the views and at a time when many listed entities are diverting their cashflows to advice from our colleagues in Baillie Giffords risk team, we dividends and share buybacks.
There is a good chance that the strongly believe that, as managers, we must challenge ourselves newcomers will reshape much of what is currently considered to to think critically about risk.
We also benefit greatly from having a be safe.
We think this is a significant risk for investors and not one board with a broad range of experience that can offer different that we wish to take.
perspectives on the issues and help us to refine our approach.
We believe it is very important for an actively-managed portfolio to We consider carefully where companies are benefiting from the offer a very different exposure to that provided by investing in the same underlying trends in order to identify concentrations within market index.
Whilst it is appropriate to measure the performance the portfolio.
For example, we believe the largest concentration in of the fund over longer periods of time by comparing it to a proxy the portfolio at present is in companies that are benefiting from for the overall market, we find it unhelpful to consult an index advertising moving from traditional forms of media to the Internet.
We dont decide upon our exposure The scale and pace of this change reflects a massive shift in to countries, sectors or companies by considering how they are consumer behaviour which is throwing up some of the most categorised or ranked by index-makers.
Given the returns we think can One way to measure the degree of difference from the index is to be achieved, this is a risk we want to take acknowledging that if look at active share.
The active share of a portfolio is the proportion consumer behaviour changes or advertising budgets stop making of the portfolio that differs from the benchmark index.
As a simple this transition, it will have a deleterious effect on several of our example, if the index contained only a single stock then the active holdings.
We will continue to think carefully about the size of this share of any portfolio would be the proportion of the portfolio that exposure relative to our expectations for returns.
Other was not in that one stock.
Generally, the less overlap a portfolio has concentrations we have identified include those companies with its benchmark, the higher its active share will be.
Scottish benefiting from increasing use of computers and mobile devices Mortgages active share is over 90%.
In practice this means that for commerce, those whose business is driven by consumption in the returns we deliver are likely to be very different from the index what we believe are structurally growing economies, those and academic studies would suggest that high active share has a western brands with appeal in developing markets and companies positive association with investment performance.
whose prospects are tied closely to global industrial growth.
We regularly discuss the applicability of these groupings and they Summary also feed our research agenda.
Companies that bring new The risk we seek to minimise is the loss of our shareholders growth-drivers and associated risks are welcome as they increase capital.
The structure of market returns is such that losses in our diversity.
Equally, having identified the powerful underlying individual stocks are inevitable so we must also ensure we find dynamics that are driving the portfolio, finding stocks which and hold on to stocks that can return us a multiple of our benefit from more than one of these drivers and therefore sit at investment.
We do this whilst trying to maintain diversity through the intersection of our risk groupings is also appealing.
having a sufficient number of effective holdings and employing a qualitative process to review continually the concentrations of The Index is Risky underlying business drivers.
A high level of active share means We believe that our limited overlap with the index is an important that the risks inherent in the portfolio are likely to be very different component of reducing risk.
In his report, James Anderson from those present in a broad market portfolio.
In pursuing this highlights the issues we think will be crucial over the next five approach we hope to deliver attractive returns over the long term years.
He raises the question of whether progress in important for our shareholders.
core technologies will lead to changes in healthcare, energy and transportation.
Similarly he touches on the growing threat of new entrants in the financial services industry.
Taken together these Tom Slater Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 13 Strategic Report The Managers Core Investment Beliefs Whilst fund managers claim to spend much of their careers visions that are barely noticed by the markets.
There is more in the investment world than the Financial Times or Wall Street assessing the competitive advantage of companies they are notoriously reluctant to perform any such analysis on themselves.
The tendency is to cite recent performance as evidence of skill We are global in stock selection, asset allocation and despite the luck, randomness and mean-reverting characteristics attribution.
We are active not passive or far worse index of most such data.
If this does not suffice then attention turns to a plus in stock selection.
Holding sizes reflect the potential discussion of the high educational qualifications, hard work and upside and its probability or otherwise rather than the exotic remuneration packages that the fund manager enjoys.
combination of the market capitalisation and geographical Sometimes the procedural details of the investment process are location of the company and its headquarters.
We do not have outlined with heavy emphasis on risk sufficient confidence in our top-down asset controls.
Little attention is given to either allocation skills to wish to override stock the distinctiveness of the approach or the selection.
We do not have enough strategic advantages the manager might confidence in our market timing abilities to enjoy in order to make imitation wish to add or remove gearing at frequent improbable.
We think we should try to do intervals.
We do, however, have strong better than this.
conviction that our portfolio should be We are long term in our investment comparatively concentrated, and that it is of decisions.
It is only over periods of at little use to shareholders to tinker around least five years that the competitive the edges of indices.
We think this advantages and managerial excellence produces better investment results and it of companies becomes apparent.
It certainly makes us more committed is these characteristics that we want shareholders in companies.
We suspect to identify and support.
We own that selecting stocks on the basis of the companies rather than rent shares.
past their current market capitalisation is a We do not regard ourselves as experts policy designed to protect the security of in forecasting the oscillations of tenure of asset managers rather than to economies or the mood swings of build the wealth of shareholders.
Indeed we think that it is hard Companies that are large and established to excel in such areas as this is where tend to be internally complacent and We are growth investors.
so many market participants focus and inflexible.
They are often vulnerable to Frans Lanting Corbis.
where so little of the value of assault by more ambitious and vibrant companies lies.
Equally Baillie Gifford is newcomers.
more likely to possess competitive advantages for the good of We are Growth stock investors.
Such has been the preference shareholders when it adopts a long term perspective.
We are for Value and the search to arbitrage away minor rating a 100 year old Scottish partnership.
We think about our own differentials that investors find it very hard to acknowledge the business over decades not quarters.
Such stability may not be extraordinary growth rates and returns that can be found exciting but it does encourage patience in this most impatient today.
The growth that we are particularly interested in is of an of industries.
We only judge our investment performance over explosive nature and often requires minimal fixed assets or five year plus time horizons.
In truth it takes at least a decade indeed capital.
We think of it as Growth at Unreasonable to provide adequate evidence of investment skill.
Prices rather than the traditional discipline of Growth at a The investment management industry is ill-equipped to deal Reasonable Price.
We need to be willing to pay high multiples with the behavioural and emotional challenges inherent in of immediate earnings because the scale of future potential todays capital markets.
Our time frame and ownership and returns can be so dramatic.
On the stocks that flourish structure help us to fight these dangers.
We are besieged by the valuation will have turned out to be derisorily low.
On the news, data and opinion.
The bulk of this information is of little others we will lose money.
significance but it implores you to rapid and usually futile We believe that it is our first duty to shareholders to limit fees.
This can be particularly damaging at times of stress.
Both the investment management fee 0.30% and ongoing Academic research argues that most individuals dislike charges ratio 0.48% as at 31 March 2015 are low by financial losses twice as much as they take pleasure in gains.
comparative standards but at least adequate in absolute We fear that for fund managers this relationship is close to terms.
We think that the malign impact of high fees is tenfold.
Internal and external pressures make the avoidance of frequently underestimated.
The difference between an loss dominant.
This is damaging in a portfolio context.
We ongoing charges ratio of 0.48% and one of 1.5% may not need to be willing to accept loss if there is an equal or greater appear great but if the perspective is altered to think of costs chance of almost unlimited gain.
as a percentage of expected annual returns then the contrast We are very dubious about the value of routine information.
If annual returns average 10% then this is We have little confidence in quarterly earnings and none in the the difference between removing approximately 5% or 15% of views of investment banks.
We try to screen out rather than your returns each year.
Nor do we believe in a performance incorporate their noise.
In contrast we think that the world fee.
Usually it undermines investment performance.
It offers joyous opportunities to hear views, perspectives and increases pressure and narrows perspective.
