Governance Report Directors and Management Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Directors JPHS Scott Professor JA Kay John Scott, the Chairman, is a former international John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, investment banker.
John was appointed a Director in 2001 academic, author and commentator on business, and became Chairman on 31 December 2009.
He is also government and economic issues.
John was appointed a Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is a former executive Director in 2008, he is a Visiting Professor at the London School director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty of Economics and Investment Officer, St Johns College, years with Lazard, he was involved with the merchant banks University of Oxford.
He is a director of Value and Income Trust corporate advisory activities and its Asian businesses.
He is PLC and The Investor Forum Cic.
currently Chairman of Impax Environmental Markets plc and Alpha Insurance Analysts Limited, as well as being a director of various companies including Bluefield Solar Income Fund Limited, JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc and Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc.
MM Gray FC McBain Michael Gray, the Senior Independent Director, joined the Fiona McBain is chief executive of Scottish Friendly Board in 2004 after a successful career in printing and Assurance, a Glasgow based and mutually owned financial technology industries where he gained valuable global services group with over 1,000,000 policyholders.
As chairman and chief executive he led appointed a Director in 2009.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in the growth of McQueen International over a 17 year period as it 1998, Fiona, a chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential evolved from being a printing company into a global enterprise plc and Arthur Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some providing a range of support services to technology companies.
time working across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK On McQueens acquisition, he became senior vice president of and in the United States.
She is also a director of the Association Sykes Enterprise Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted outsourcing of Financial Mutuals and a trustee of Save the Children UK.
He retired from Sykes in 1999 and has many business, community and sporting interests including being an advisor to the Scottish Enterprise Rural Leadership Programme and chairing a community group Energise Galashiels.
22 Annual Report 2015 Governance Report Managers and Secretaries The Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management services to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co is an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries to the Company since its formation in 1909.
Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust managers in the UK and currently manages seven investment trusts.
Baillie WG McQueen Gifford also manage unit trusts and open ended investment Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of brings to the Board first class financial and banking pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the expertise, as a former finance director of Bank of Scotland.
Funds under the management or advice of Gordon was appointed a Director in 2001.
Until 2003 he was an Baillie Gifford total around 125 billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is executive director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, one of the leading privately owned investment management firms where his main role was chief executive, Treasury.
He is a director in the UK, with 40 partners and a staff of around 860. of JPMorgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc and The Edinburgh The managers of Scottish Mortgages portfolio are James Investment Trust plc.
James Anderson is a partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and Head of the Long Term Global Growth team.
Tom Slater is also a partner and a member of the Long Term Global Growth team.
Baillie Gifford & Co and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited are both authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Dr P Subacchi Paola Subacchi is the Director of International Economics Research at Chatham House in London and an expert on the functioning and governance of international financial and monetary systems as well as being an advisor to governments and non-profit organisations.
Paola was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2014.
Paolas recent publications include Breaking the Vicious Circle: Restoring Economic Growth and Flexibility in Italy, The Connecting Dots of Chinas Renminbi Strategy: London and Hong Kong, and Shifting Capital: The Rise of Financial Centres in Greater China.
Paola, an Italian national, studied at Universit Bocconi in Milan and at the University of Oxford.
She is a governor of St Marylebone School in London.
All Directors are members of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 23
