Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring the statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2015.
Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
The Depositary has delegated the custody function Corporate Governance to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV the Custodian.
The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 27 to 29 Directors and forms part of this Report.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant Manager and Company Secretaries experience, can be found on pages 22 to 23.
All Directors will In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers retire at the Annual General Meeting and, with the exception of Directive AIFMD, the Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Mr MM Gray, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election.
Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as Following formal performance evaluation, the Board considers its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM with effect from that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective 1 July 2014.
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited was also appointed and each remains committed to the Company.
Their contribution Company Secretary with effect from the same date.
The to the Board is greatly valued and the Board recommends their Investment Management Agreement with Baillie Gifford & Co has re-election to shareholders.
been terminated and the Company has entered into a new agreement with Baillie Gifford & Co Limited.
The management fee Director Indemnification and Insurance and notice period are unchanged under these new arrangements.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated investment management each of its Directors.
The deeds were in force during the year to services to Baillie Gifford & Co: therefore the Companys portfolio 31 March 2015 and cover any liabilities that may arise to a third continues to be managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of The Investment Management Agreement between the AIFM and the Company sets out the matters over which the Managers have liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Investment the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In Management Agreement is terminable on not less than six months notice.
The annual management fee is 0.30% of total addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent that it is recovered from another person.
assets less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings for investment purposes.
Careful consideration has been given by The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.
the Board as to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that maintaining a low ongoing Conflicts of Interest charges ratio is in the best interests of all shareholders as lower Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the costs mean higher returns, particularly when compounded over Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Board is also of the view that calculating the fee considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances with reference to performance would be unlikely to exert a surrounding them and makes a recommendation to the Board on positive influence over the long term performance.
whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Board authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered the The Board as a whole fulfils the functions of the Management lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave rise Engagement Committee.
The Board considers the Companys to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted with investment management and secretarial arrangements on a the interests of the Company.
continuing basis and a formal review is conducted at least annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following Dividends topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned to handle The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.55p per ordinary the Companys affairs: the investment process and the results share which, together with the interim of 1.38p already paid, achieved to date: the administrative services provided by the makes a total of 2.93p for the year compared with 2.90p for the Secretaries and the marketing efforts undertaken by the previous year taking account of the five for one stock split on Managers.
Following the most recent review and the good 30 June 2014. performance particularly over the long term, it is the opinion of If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary the Directors that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & shares will be paid on 6 July 2015 to shareholders on the register Co Limited as AIFM and the delegation of investment management at the close of business on 12 June 2015.
The ex-dividend date is services to Baillie Gifford & Co, on the terms agreed, is in the 11 June 2015. interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan Depositary see page 59 and the final date for elections for this dividend is In accordance with the AIFMD, the Company appointed BNY 15 June 2015.
Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited as its Depositary with effect from 1 July 2014.
Share Capital The Depositary Agreement replaced the custody agreement Capital Structure with the Bank of New York Mellon SA NV.
The Depositarys On 30 June 2014 the Companys ordinary shares of 25p each responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping of the were sub-divided into five ordinary shares of 5p each.
The Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership and Companys capital structure as at 31 March 2015 consists of 24 Annual Report 2015 Governance Report 1,421,730,880 ordinary shares of 5p each, of which to existing Shareholders pro-rata to their existing holdings, up to a 1,245,674,485 are allotted and fully paid and 176,056,395 are total nominal amount of 9,456,933.60 representing held in treasury.
There are no restrictions concerning the holding approximately 15% of the Companys total issued Ordinary Share or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares and there are no capital excluding treasury shares as at 8 May 2015. special rights attached to any of the shares.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by Resolution 12 is advantageous when the Companys shares Dividends trade at a premium to net asset value and the natural liquidity is The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim unable to meet demand.
The Directors do not intend to use this dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed authority to sell or issue Ordinary Shares on a non-pre-emptive final dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
basis at a discount to net asset value on the basis of debt valued Capital Entitlement at fair value.
The attention of Shareholders is drawn to the information set out under Resolution 13 below.
On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion While the level of the authority being sought is greater than the to their shareholdings.
5% recommended by the Pre-Emption Group in their Statement of Principles on disapplying pre-emption rights, it is specifically Voting recognised in the Statement of Principles that, where an Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is investment trust is seeking authority to issue shares at a premium entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one to the underlying net asset value per share, this should not vote for every share held.
normally raise concerns and the Directors consider the greater Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be flexibility provided by this authority to be justified in the found on page 57. circumstances.
The level of authority sought is also consistent with that granted by Shareholders at last years annual general Major Interests in the Companys Shares meeting.
of ordinary Resolution 13 Authority to issue shares at a discount to 5p shares held at 31 March % of net asset value Name 2015 issue As noted above, the Directors do not intend to sell Ordinary Shares held in treasury or to issue new Ordinary Shares on a BlackRock Inc Indirect 124,866,379 10.0 non-pre-emptive basis at a discount to net asset value on the D. C. Thomson & Company Limited Direct 51,530,000 4.1 basis of debt valued at fair value.
The Directors are aware that LR Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Indirect 49,670,950 4.0 15.4.
11 of the Listing Rules prohibits the issue of Ordinary Shares including Ordinary Shares held in treasury for cash at a price There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys below the net asset value per share of those shares without such shares intimated up to 8 May 2015 except the holding of Investec shares first being offered to existing Shareholders pro-rata to their Wealth & Investment Limited which increased to 50,275,295 ordinary shares.
Ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
It is a general market understanding in this context that net asset value is determined on the basis of debt valued at fair value, but, Annual General Meeting for the purposes of LR 15.4.
11, the term net asset value is not Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares specifically defined.
As a result, having regard to guidance previously received from the UKLA and consistent with the Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that the approach adopted last year, the Directors wish to ensure that any Directors may not allot new shares without Shareholder approval.
sale of Ordinary Shares held in treasury or any issue of new Resolution 11 seeks to renew the Directors authority to allot Ordinary Shares will not result in an inadvertent breach of the shares, up to a maximum nominal amount of 21,015,408.05 Listing Rules by virtue of the UKLA determining that net asset representing approximately 33.33% of the Companys total value should be calculated on the basis of debt valued at par issued Ordinary Share capital excluding treasury shares as at value.
Resolution 13 seeks to renew and extend the authority 8 May 2015. granted to the Company at the 2014 annual general meeting to The Directors have no present intention of exercising this issue shares at a discount to net asset value, in order to continue authority.
The authority will expire on 30 September 2016, or, if to protect against any such inadvertent breach.
The Directors earlier, at the end of the annual general meeting of the Company wish to reiterate that they will in no circumstances seek to issue to be held in 2016, unless previously cancelled or varied by the Ordinary Shares including Ordinary Shares held in treasury for Company in general meeting.
cash at a price below the net asset value per share on the basis As at 8 May 2015, the Company held 160,806,395 of Ordinary of debt valued at fair value.
Shares in treasury, representing approximately 12.8% of the Resolution 14 Market purchase of own shares by the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Company Resolution 12 Disapplication of pre-emption rights The Directors are seeking Shareholders approval at the Annual Resolution 12, which is being proposed as a special resolution, General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% seeks to renew the Directors authority to allot equity securities, or of the Ordinary Shares in issue excluding treasury shares as at sell treasury shares, for cash without having to offer such shares 8 May 2015 or, if less, up to 14.99% of the Ordinary Shares in Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 25 Governance Report issue excluding treasury shares on the date on which the Recommendation Resolution is passed.
This authority will expire on 30 September The Board unanimously recommends you to vote in favour of the 2016, or, if earlier, at the end of the annual general meeting of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as, in Company to be held in 2016.
Such purchases will only be made its opinion, they are in the best interests of the shareholders as a at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
hold bought back shares in treasury and then: Greenhouse Gas Emissions a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The under the Companies Act 2006 : or Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report b cancel such shares or any of them.
from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Shares will only be sold from treasury at or at a premium to the Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. net asset value per Ordinary Share on the basis of debt valued at fair value, in accordance with Resolution 13.
Bribery Act Treasury shares do not receive distributions and the Company will The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price exclusive of policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
expenses that may be paid on the exercise of the authority shall be an amount equal to the higher of: i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London By order of the Board Stock Exchange of an Ordinary Share over the five business John Scott days immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and 11 May 2015 ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy back programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments No.
The minimum price again exclusive of expenses that may be paid will be the par value of an Ordinary Share.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will be made within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
The Company does not have any warrants or options in issue.
The Directors intend that this authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so would result in an increase in net asset value per Ordinary Share for the remaining Shareholders and if it is in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Independent Auditor The Auditor, KPMG LLP, is willing to continue in office and in accordance with section 489 and section 491 1 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Post Balance Sheets Events The Directors confirm that there have been no post Balance Sheet events up to 11 May 2015.
