MARKET OVERVIEW ADDRESSING AN UNMET NEED The Group has delivered exceptional growth and risk-adjusted returns over the five years since its formation through building a strong franchise and carefully assembling a balance sheet of 4 billion against a backdrop of uncertain, ambiguous and challenging economic circumstances.
The Group regards its target market as the UK and is therefore exposed to the impact of key drivers to and influences on the UK economy.
Overall we believe that whilst there remain a number of economic headwinds in the UK, we are confident we can adapt and manage through these and that overall the outlook for Shawbrook is positive.
MACRO-ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE The UK continues to benefit from low interest rates, the maintenance of the Quantitative Easing Programme QE and the Funding for Lending Scheme FLS which encourages investment by businesses and underpinning positive consumer sentiment: these factors contributed to resilient GDP growth of 2.2% in 2015, notwithstanding a softer outlook for the global economy as evidenced by a series of downward revisions to short and medium term growth from the IMF.
The Group has benefited from the continued recovery in the UK economy with our 2015 cost of risk at 0.24%, below the anticipated through the cycle loss rates.
Originations have benefited from continued business investment whilst consumer demand for credit has also been resilient and we organically originated 1.7bn of new loans in 2015 2014: 1.4bn.
The improvements in the UK economy have seen greater liquidity enter the market and in certain market segments this has impacted margins.
The Group recognises the potential for the UK economy to be impacted by second level effects from the weaker global outlook these could manifest themselves in lower demand from the supply chain, impacting future investment, corporate activity and employment with the resultant adverse impact on sentiment and demand for credit.
Longer-term this could impact borrower performance as well as asset values.
14 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS POLITICAL imbalance whilst commercial valuations are of 2013.
The Group continues to utilise the The EU Referendum in June 2016 creates supported by increased underlying cash flows Funding for Lending Scheme FLS which was additional uncertainty that may negatively reflecting broader economic growth: whilst extended in November 2015 for a further two impact investment and sentiment and we are clearly property values will not be immune from years and the scheme is scheduled to remain planning for a range of economic outcomes, the trajectory of future economic growth or open until 31 January 2018, with the funding which may impact the core economic forecasts sentiment, the UK residential market should having a four year duration.
As a participant the Group has used in its planning process.
remain resilient over the cycle given the in the FLS the Group borrows highly liquid structural imbalances in the market and we have UK Treasury Bills at a fee of 25 basis points MONETARY POLICY planned on the basis of the current slower provided the Group maintains or expands its The Group recognises that the economic direction of house price growth, albeit with lending over the reference period, in exchange environment appears benign with the levels of regional variations.
for eligible collateral, which has been preConsumer Price Inflation levels significantly positioned with the Bank of England.
The Group below the Bank of England target of 2%, There has been a significant amount of pledges collateral supported by assets from with the most recently available data in regulatory and political intervention in the BTL both the Commercial Mortgages and Asset January 2016 showing the CPI rate at 0.2%, sector during 2015 and we are supportive of the Finance Divisions.
As at 31 December 2015 underpinned by significant shifts in commodity underlying sentiment of ensuring a sustainable approximately 33% 270m of the Groups pricing and the positive impact that this has UK residential property market over the long liquid assets totalling 821m comprised UK on discretionary spending.
We have built a diversified and Treasury Bills borrowed under the FLS.
whilst muted, has outpaced CPI reversing the conservative Balance Sheet that is only c. 25% previous shortfalls between these metrics.
weighted towards the UK BTL sector.
Our OUTLOOK exposure is to professional, long-term investors Whilst the UK economy is forecast to continue It is the Groups view that the level of CPI will and we have operated with a prudent risk its growth trajectory and this remains our increase over the medium term and will be appetite over the past five years.
We remain core assumption, we acknowledge the risk a key driver in the timing of the first and any cognisant of the measures being put in place created by conflicting signals in the global subsequent changes in the Bank of England removal of higher rate tax relief, SDLT reforms, and UK economies.
Whilst there are a number Base Rate by the Monetary Policy Committee potential changes to macro-prudential of positive factors that should create stability MPC.
The timing of the first increase in regulation by the FPC and potential changes to and confidence: low levels of inflation and interest rates by the MPC has been subject risk weightings for BTL exposures and we unemployment, low interest rates and to debate and conflicting views during 2015, caution against a series of measures that in reduced commodity prices, there is evidence impacting to a degree the levels of business aggregate adversely impact a market that is on a global perspective that confidence activity and consumer confidence.
is reduced as uncertainty on many levels impacts confidence.
In light of these factors The Groups Balance Sheet remains positioned LIABILITY MANAGEMENT our underwriting approach remains disciplined for a rising rate environment, however we have Consumer savings balances, which represent and risk appetite has not been extended.
planned on the basis of a slow and gradual the supply of savings held by depositors and increase in the Bank of England Base Rate available for banks as a source of funding, and The Group expects the UK economy to post commencing in the second half of 2016 and which are the Groups primary source of funding, modest and more normalised growth with the rising gradually thereafter.
The impact of lower have also grown recently, reflective of both withdrawal of monetary support dependent rates for longer will provide some insulation the level of discretionary cash flow available to on external factors such as the EU Referendum to the Groups customers, but equally can be consumers and the increased liquidity in the and the broader slowdown in the global distortive in impact.
As a result we continue to market that has arisen as a consequence of economy which has and will continue to create take a conservative approach to risk across our the changes in the way that pensions can be more challenging trading conditions.
Whilst core businesses so that we are not exposed accessed.
In 2015 the Group launched ISA and more challenging times could see the run rate to a significant shift in sentiment and thus Easy Access Savings products to widen its access cost of risk closer to the normalised view, we valuations.
The Group has an interest rate to larger segments of the UK Savings Market and remain confident that our diversified portfolio swap portfolio in place to manage further increase the diversity of its funding sources.
of businesses and conservative approach to risk downside risk in the interest rate outlook.
management will support our future growth The Funding for Lending Scheme FLS, trajectory and strong risk adjusted returns.
REGULATORY alongside the UK Governments Help to Buy Valuations in the UK residential property market scheme have, in part, helped to support UK continue to benefit from a supply demand property prices, particularly since the middle Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 15 ww OUR STRATEGY THINKING AHEAD LONG-TERM OBJECTIVES NEAR TERM INITIATIVES PROGRESS & OUTLOOK Increase organic originations whilst identifying and Our operating divisions have delivered strong In Consumer, focus on building relationships PROGRESSIVELY INCREASE carefully entering adjacent specialist markets.
To achieve with strategic partners in a market worth Diversification is at the heart of this initiative and our end 2019 objective of doubling customer 200bn and leverage our technology platform: we will not be reliant on single markets that can be balances from 3.4bn we will: and ORIGINATIONS ACROSS ALL subject to influences outside our control.
In Property, focus on further diversification into Our Savings franchise and central functions will new areas such as retirement lending solutions: 1 LENDING DIVISIONS The originations target of 2bn in 2017 will evolve to underpin this profitable growth.
maintain focus on good quality assets generating Bring together our Asset Finance and Business strong risk adjusted returns.
Credit divisions as one Business Finance working capital solutions provider: Continue to identify specialist lending sectors to We see opportunities arising from our core and The Groups underlying profit before tax has ACHIEVE STRONG RISK ensure we can maintain strong risk-adjusted adjacent markets.
We use our knowledge and improved significantly from 49.1m in 2014 to returns whilst maintaining our high quality capabilities to identify opportunities which meet 80.1m in 2015 due to both the growth in the underwriting standards.
our risk appetite profile, offering strong risk Banks lending portfolios and increased efficiencies ADJUSTED RETURNS adjusted returns.
In addition to organic of scale.
originations of 1.7bn in 2015, we successfully 2 We have improved our net interest margin to 6.2% acquired 0.3bn of assets from loan portfolios that and remain focused on managing the returns match our high risk adjusted returns thresholds in profile against the backdrop of a prudent late 2015. approach to risk.
Ensure that the Banks lending in the current We have maintained robust asset quality with low As we observe the external environment today we MAINTAINING THE CREDIT benign environment is sustainable over the long levels of arrears and impairment and a high level of do not see changes in lead indicators that would term.
suggest an imminent reversion to a more normalised position.
QUALITY OF THE LENDING Our 2015 cost of risk of 0.2% is benefitting from the current benign environment and remains below 3 BOOK our view of through the cycle loss rates.
Our conservative approach to risk management Our maiden public Tier 2 issuance of 75m We continue to be funded through a stable base GENERATE OUR STRONG ensures we are able to position our risk appetite enhanced and optimised the Banks regulatory of retail deposits and access to the FLS, which appropriately against our lending assets.
We will capital position, however we will always consider maintains a prudent term structure, thereby ensure the Banks balance sheet remains prudently how to manage the balance sheet appropriately.
RETURNS WHILST MAINTAINING positioned in terms of capital, funding and With a total capital ratio of 18.0%, we are liquidity.
4 A CONSERVATIVE FOUNDATION well-capitalised and in 2015 demonstrated strong returns on our lending portfolio.
Shawbrook was established to be the SME Our 2015 customer insight survey reported a net It is important that we maintain our key MAINTAINING AND ENHANCING Champion and we meet the needs of underserved promoter score of 34, up from an already high differentiators including the ability to attract and markets, particularly in the SME sector.
We also score in 2014 and underlined the value of the retain talented, customer-focused people.
In serve specialist consumer sectors where our customer-focused approach that has always been addition, we will focus on digital technology to OUR CUSTOMER FOCUS products and high degree of choice can the hallmark of Shawbrook.
build on our online and in-store offering.
5 We exploit leading edge technology to drive efficiencies and market penetration in all our markets.
16 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015
