ww STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS LONG-TERM OBJECTIVES NEAR TERM INITIATIVES PROGRESS & OUTLOOK Increase organic originations whilst identifying and Our operating divisions have delivered strong In Consumer, focus on building relationships PROGRESSIVELY INCREASE carefully entering adjacent specialist markets.
To achieve with strategic partners in a market worth Diversification is at the heart of this initiative and our end 2019 objective of doubling customer 200bn and leverage our technology platform: we will not be reliant on single markets that can be balances from 3.4bn we will: and ORIGINATIONS ACROSS ALL subject to influences outside our control.
In Property, focus on further diversification into Our Savings franchise and central functions will new areas such as retirement lending solutions: 1 LENDING DIVISIONS The originations target of 2bn in 2017 will evolve to underpin this profitable growth.
maintain focus on good quality assets generating Bring together our Asset Finance and Business strong risk adjusted returns.
Credit divisions as one Business Finance working capital solutions provider: Continue to identify specialist lending sectors to We see opportunities arising from our core and The Groups underlying profit before tax has ACHIEVE STRONG RISK ensure we can maintain strong risk-adjusted adjacent markets.
We use our knowledge and improved significantly from 49.1m in 2014 to returns whilst maintaining our high quality capabilities to identify opportunities which meet 80.1m in 2015 due to both the growth in the underwriting standards.
our risk appetite profile, offering strong risk Banks lending portfolios and increased efficiencies ADJUSTED RETURNS adjusted returns.
In addition to organic of scale.
originations of 1.7bn in 2015, we successfully 2 We have improved our net interest margin to 6.2% acquired 0.3bn of assets from loan portfolios that and remain focused on managing the returns match our high risk adjusted returns thresholds in profile against the backdrop of a prudent late 2015. approach to risk.
Ensure that the Banks lending in the current We have maintained robust asset quality with low As we observe the external environment today we MAINTAINING THE CREDIT benign environment is sustainable over the long levels of arrears and impairment and a high level of do not see changes in lead indicators that would term.
suggest an imminent reversion to a more normalised position.
QUALITY OF THE LENDING Our 2015 cost of risk of 0.2% is benefitting from the current benign environment and remains below 3 BOOK our view of through the cycle loss rates.
Our conservative approach to risk management Our maiden public Tier 2 issuance of 75m We continue to be funded through a stable base GENERATE OUR STRONG ensures we are able to position our risk appetite enhanced and optimised the Banks regulatory of retail deposits and access to the FLS, which appropriately against our lending assets.
We will capital position, however we will always consider maintains a prudent term structure, thereby ensure the Banks balance sheet remains prudently how to manage the balance sheet appropriately.
RETURNS WHILST MAINTAINING positioned in terms of capital, funding and With a total capital ratio of 18.0%, we are liquidity.
4 A CONSERVATIVE FOUNDATION well-capitalised and in 2015 demonstrated strong returns on our lending portfolio.
Shawbrook was established to be the SME Our 2015 customer insight survey reported a net It is important that we maintain our key MAINTAINING AND ENHANCING Champion and we meet the needs of underserved promoter score of 34, up from an already high differentiators including the ability to attract and markets, particularly in the SME sector.
We also score in 2014 and underlined the value of the retain talented, customer-focused people.
In serve specialist consumer sectors where our customer-focused approach that has always been addition, we will focus on digital technology to OUR CUSTOMER FOCUS products and high degree of choice can the hallmark of Shawbrook.
build on our online and in-store offering.
5 We exploit leading edge technology to drive efficiencies and market penetration in all our markets.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 17
