BUSINESS MODEL SHAWBROOKS CONSERVATIVE FOUNDATIONS SHAWBROOKS GOOD GOVERNANCE STRONG BALANCE SHEET CONSERVATIVE We believe that a strong, capable and The Groups balance sheet is prudently diverse management team and Board positioned and sufficiently diversified to FOUNDATIONS ensures the Bank is managed effectively, in ensure we are able to execute our risk the best interests of stakeholders appetite against our lending portfolios including shareholders, customers, whilst protecting our depositors.
employees and regulators, and in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
PROPERTY BUSINESS FINANCE Property includes our Commercial Mortgages Business Finance is a proven leader in the and Secured Lending propositions.
provision of funding to UK SMEs across many different sectors, competing on quality of The diversified product range includes: services, range of financing solutions and Mortgages to property professionals speed of delivery.
in both residential and commercial investment markets, across short term and This diversified product range includes: more traditional mortgage terms Leasing Finance: lending principally against business critical assets Secured loans predominantly to super prime and prime owner occupier Block Discounting and Wholesale Finance: borrowers.
The majority of loans are lending to SME finance companies secured by a second charge against secured against receivables within their primary residential property.
portfolios, with the security given by the ultimate borrower taking the form of a hard asset or residential property and lending to other small specialist lenders secured against a pool of loan receivables Healthcare: operating leases for healthcare equipment to NHS trusts and finance leases to private healthcare partners Invoice discounting is at the core of our asset based lending facility, in addition to plant, machinery, stock and cash flow loans.
These facilities are mainly secured against accounts receivables.
20 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS ROBUST RISK MANAGEMENT STRONG RISK VALUE CREATION High earnings visibility is driven FRAMEWORK ADJUSTED RETURNS by significant repeat business, We continue to invest in our risk management We deliver a strong and stable net retention and long-standing framework to ensure it is robust and embedded interest margin alongside stable and customer relationships.
Our individual business units sustainable credit quality metrics, and functions tailor risk management policies, together with low levels of arrears and procedures and controls to their specific needs.
These are reviewed and approved through the Risk Committee structure.
CONSUMER SAVINGS CENTRE Consumer provides unsecured loans to good Savings provides simple and straight The central function provides the lending quality UK borrowers.
forward savings products to personal and savings franchises with the retail depositors, businesses, trusts and conservative spine against which we can The diversified product range includes: charity customers.
meaningfully operate in our carefully Home Improvement: working with chosen markets.
selected leading national and regional The diversified product range includes: home improvement companies Fixed rate bonds for terms of up to five Capital strength years Our maiden public Tier 2 debt issuance Holiday Ownership: working with carefully enhanced our regulatory capital base to chosen holiday ownership companies to ISAs deliver a 18.0% Total Capital Ratio, one of offer customers holiday ownership finance the strongest in the sector.
in the UK and Europe Easy access savings Funding base Retail: working with in-store and online Notice accounts We are funded predominantly through retailers.
stable, fixed rate retail deposits with an Whilst the business attracts deposits average contractual deposit duration of Consumer Personal Loans from all customer demographics, 12 months.
nearly two thirds of the deposit base continues to be sourced from affluent Liquidity customers with a wide range of savings We have limited risk appetite in respect of needs and high average balances.
The vast majority of liquidity is held in cash at the Bank of England Reserve Account or as UK Treasury Bills.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 21 INVESTING IN INNOVATION Shawbrooks commitment to innovation has created a bespoke and highly efficient service for Bang & Olufsen and its customers.
Store owners benefit from expert support and the promise of high levels of customer satisfaction.
Visit our Business Model on page 20 for more information Shawbrook Bank provided us with a simple, elegant and efficient solution for our in-store finance needs.
It has proved hugely popular with our customers and as such has been a great driver for our business.
Andrew Macer, Head of Sales UK & Ireland 22 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BANG & OLUFSEN BANG & OLUFSEN HAS A MARKET-LEADING REPUTATION FOR HIGH-END AUDIO AND TV TECHNOLOGY.
CONSUMER CASE STUDY DELIVERING TECHNOLOGY Through a relationship first established in 2013, our Consumer Lending business provides in-store finance to enable Bang & Olufsen to sell its leading edge products to high net worth customers.
We work with Bang & Olufsen across all of the Company-owned stores as well as the majority of its franchises.
Technology is a major competitive advantage for Shawbrook and one of the key drivers behind this relationship.
Bang & Olufsen use our state-of-the-art eSignature technology to provide a fast and efficient service.
eSignature enables the frontline sales staff to gain instant approval of loan applications, thereby closing sales, ensuring a positive customer experience and supporting the Bang & Olufsen brand.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 23
