CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS Iain Cornish Steve Pateman Tom Wood Stephen Johnson Robin Ashton Graham Alcock David Gagie Sally-Ann Hibberd Paul Lawrence Roger Lovering Lindsey McMurray Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board in July 2015 in January 2016 in March 2015 in May 2015 in March 2015 in March 2015 in January 2016 in November 2015 in August 2015 in March 2015 in April 2010 Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank Limited in July 2015 Limited in January 2016 Limited in October 2012 Limited in May 2015 Limited in December 2011 Limited in April 2007 Limited in January 2016 Limited in November 2015 Limited in August 2015 Limited in January 2013 Limited in January 2011 Role Chairman and Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Deputy Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Officer and Managing Director Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Director of Commercial Member of the Chairman of the Nomination Mortgages Audit Committee Chairman of the Chairman of the Chairman of the Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee Member of the Member of the Remuneration Nomination Committee Member of the Member of the Member of the Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Risk Committee Member of the Risk Committee Skills & Experience Iain was a founding Steve joined Shawbrook Tom has significant Stephen has 14 years Robin has extensive Graham has been with the David has global Sally-Ann brings a wealth Paul was formerly Global Roger has over 25 years of Lindsey has over 20 years of member of the PRA Board from Santander UK, where experience of banking and experience in building experience of retail financial Group for nine years, having experience in consumer of experience in financial Head of Group Internal Audit experience in the Consumer experience as a private equity at its formation in 2013.
He he was Executive Director financial management.
He specialist lending businesses, services in both the U. K. been a Non-Executive lending, banking, credit services having held senior for HSBC.
Finance industry, focussing investor with a particular holds a degree in Business, and Head of UK Banking, is ACA qualified and holds a across commercial and and internationally.
He is a Director of Whiteaway card, payments and risk roles at Prudential, LloydsTSB on lending to individuals.
focus on the financial Economics and Statistics from running the banks Corporate, LLB Hons in International consumer lending markets Chartered Accountant and Laidlaw Bank.
Prior to Extensive knowledge of services sector.
Commercial, Business and Law from Glasgow University.
He is qualified as a holds a Bachelor of Arts a Senior Advisor at the becoming a Non-Executive secure and unsecured first class honours degree in Retail Banking operations as From May 2015 to December Chartered Accountant.
Hons in Economics and Law Financial Conduct Authority Director she worked for lending, both on fixed and Accounting and Finance from well as Wealth Management.
2015, Tom acted as Interim from Durham University.
and member of the Willis where she served in revolving term nature via Strathclyde University.
He joined Santander in Chief Executive Officer as well Payments Systems Regulator two separate roles over a six Credit Cards.
Roger is a 2008 with responsibility for as Chief Financial Officer.
Executive he focused on year period, firstly as Chief member of ICAEW and has building an SME franchise.
He regulatory conduct issues Operating Officer of the a degree in Accountancy is a Fellow of the Chartered relating to retail banking, International Division and and Financial Analysis from Institute of Bankers in consumer credit and latterly as Group Operations Warwick University.
Other External Iain is currently Senior None None None Robin has been a NonNone David Gagie is a NonSally-Ann is currently a None Roger is also a NonLindsey is managing Directorships Independent Director of both Executive Director of Leeds Executive Director of Prize Non-Executive Director Executive Director of Caswell partner of private equity Arrow Global Group PLC and Building Society since Ventures Ltd and of MWS of NFU Mutual and sits on Consultancy Limited, Logic fund manager Pollen Street St Jamess Place plc.
April 2011 and Chairman Technologies Ltd.
He is the Governing Body of Glue Limited and Amigo Capital, an affiliate of the SOF since March 2013.
He is also also a Director of Populus Loughborough University.
General Partner Guernsey currently a Non-Executive Consulting Ltd. LP the Major Shareholder.
Director of Non-Standard Pollen Street Capital is an Finance plc.
independent private equity manager that focuses on investing in high quality financial services businesses across Europe.
She is also currently an executive director of Pollen Street Capital Limited and a director of Freedom Acquisitions Limited, Honeycomb Holdings Limited, Honeycomb Finance plc and Capitalflow Holdings Limited.
Former Appointments Iain spent 19 years between Before joining Santander Prior to joining the Group, Stephen was part of the Robin spent 24 years at Graham is an experienced David was a Senior Advisor Prior to joining Willis, SallyDuring a 31 year career with Roger was Chief Executive Prior to her time at Pollen 1992 and 2011 at Yorkshire UK, Steve spent eight years Tom was the Finance Director founding team of the Group Provident Financial plc, corporate banker, having at the Financial Conduct Ann was International Chief the bank, Paul was CEO of Officer at Santander Street Capital Lindsey Building Society, including at RBS, where he was Chief of NBNK Investments plc and was also a founding joining the board in 1993 spent 37 years in a variety Authority and a member Operating Officer of Guy HSBC Bank, North America, Cards UK Limited, Head of was head of RBS Equity eight as Chief Executive Executive Officer of Business and Group CFO of Skipton member of the management initially as Finance Director, of senior posts with Royal of the Payments Systems Carpenter for two years and Head of Global Banking & European cards at HSBC Finance where she led the Officer between 2003 and Banking, Retail Markets Group.
He began his career in team at Commercial First.
then Deputy Chief Executive Bank of Scotland plc prior to Regulator Executive held a number of senior Markets USA, CEO of HSBC and Chief Operating Officer management of the RBS 2011. and Managing Director of financial services with Barclays Prior to this Stephen worked in 1999 and Chief Executive his retirement in 2005, when Committee.
He was also executive roles at Lloyds TSB Singapore, and CEO of HSBC and Director at HFC Bank Special Opportunities Funds, Commercial Banking and where he held a number of in corporate finance advisory.
in 2001, leaving in early he was Senior Director of an Advisory Board Director over a ten year period.
a 1.1 billion private equity Corporate Banking, Corporate senior roles in finance, risk 2007.
He was Non-Executive commercial banking for the for ING Direct, Managing fund.
Prior to this she was Markets.
Chairman of the original Manchester region.
Director of Consumer at Cabot Square Capital, Ltd.
Subsequently he was Group holding Company for what Lending for Lloyds TSB, for six years where she was a CFO of Derbyshire Building is now the Groups secured Chairman of MasterCard UK, partner.
Society playing a key role in lending business, and was and a Director of Visa UK and its merger with Nationwide, previously a Non-Executive of Link Ltd. and played a leading role in Director of Albemarle & Bond the restructure of Northern Holdings plc.
Committees RI RI RI RI 48 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination & Governance Committee Risk Committee RI Iain Cornish Steve Pateman Tom Wood Stephen Johnson Robin Ashton Graham Alcock David Gagie Sally-Ann Hibberd Paul Lawrence Roger Lovering Lindsey McMurray Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board in July 2015 in January 2016 in March 2015 in May 2015 in March 2015 in March 2015 in January 2016 in November 2015 in August 2015 in March 2015 in April 2010 Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank of Shawbrook Bank Limited in July 2015 Limited in January 2016 Limited in October 2012 Limited in May 2015 Limited in December 2011 Limited in April 2007 Limited in January 2016 Limited in November 2015 Limited in August 2015 Limited in January 2013 Limited in January 2011 Role Chairman and Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Deputy Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Officer and Managing Director Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Director of Commercial Member of the Chairman of the Nomination Mortgages Audit Committee Chairman of the Chairman of the Chairman of the Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee Member of the Member of the Remuneration Nomination Committee Member of the Member of the Member of the Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Risk Committee Member of the Risk Committee Skills & Experience Iain was a founding Steve joined Shawbrook Tom has significant Stephen has 14 years Robin has extensive Graham has been with the David has global Sally-Ann brings a wealth Paul was formerly Global Roger has over 25 years of Lindsey has over 20 years of member of the PRA Board from Santander UK, where experience of banking and experience in building experience of retail financial Group for nine years, having experience in consumer of experience in financial Head of Group Internal Audit experience in the Consumer experience as a private equity at its formation in 2013.
Committees RI RI RI RI Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED LEADERSHIP identifies the time commitment expected of them.
The terms and The Board considers that its primary role is to provide leadership to the conditions of appointment of Non-Executive and service contracts of Group, to set the Groups long-term strategic objectives and to develop Executive Directors are available to shareholders for inspection at the robust corporate governance and risk management practices.
Groups registered office during normal business hours.
The Board has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group is As a result of all of the changes as described above, the Board currently managed effectively and in the best interests of the shareholders, consists of eleven members, including the Chairman, six Independent customers, employees and other stakeholders including regulators.
The Non-Executive Directors, three Executive Directors and one NonBoard operates within a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
Biographical details of all Directors schedule is reviewed and updated on a regular basis The Board meets are given on page 48. regularly and provides direction, oversight and detailed review challenge of the Groups business.
The composition, skills and effectiveness of the Board are reviewed annually.
The Non-Executive Directors have strong and relevant experience A summary of the key matters reserved for the Board are set out below: across all aspects of banking and specifically have relevant skills in credit Strategy and Management assessment and pricing, liability management and conduct matters.
The Financial reporting and controls Board ensures a diverse pool of candidates is considered for any vacancy Structure and capital which arises and any appointments are made based on merit, having Oversight of regulatory compliance and internal controls regard to the skills, competencies and experience of the candidate.
Oversight of risk management Corporate Governance All Directors are required to disclose to the Board any outside interests Remuneration Policy for Directors and senior executives which may pose a conflict with their duty to act in the best interests of the Approval of communications to shareholders Bank.
The Board is required to approve any actual or potential conflicts of Board membership and other appointments interest and they are recorded in a central register.
Directors are also required, on an annual basis, to confirm that they are not aware of any The Board delegates specific powers for some matters to committees, circumstances which may affect their fitness and propriety and therefore details of which are set out below.
The outputs from each committee their ability to continue to serve the on the Board.
meeting are reported to the Board, thus ensuring the Board maintains the necessary oversight.
More detail on the committees and their work is MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE described in the section headed Committees below.
The Board holds meetings at regular intervals, at which the Groups financial and business performance is reviewed, along with risk, Prior to Admission the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, Chief compliance, IT, human resources and strategic matters.
There is a Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and six Non-Executive Directors.
comprehensive Board pack and agenda which is circulated beforehand so that Directors have the opportunity to consider the issues to be discussed, On Admission the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, Chief and detailed minutes and any actions are documented.
The regular Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and four Non-Executive Directors.
meetings are scheduled up to a year in advance, and if any Director is Following the IPO there has been considerable change to the Board as set unable to attend then they may provide comments on the papers to the out below: Chairman before the meeting.
Meetings are structured so that appropriate time is devoted to all agenda items.
In addition to these regular, scheduled BOARD CHANGES meetings, ad hoc Board meetings are held outside the published cycle On 20 March 2015 James Scott resigned as Director: where circumstances require for example, to approve appointments to On 20 March 2015 Robin Ashton was appointed as Senior Independent the Board, any material transactions, the signing of the Financial Report to the Board: and Accounts or the approval of regulatory submissions.
In particular On 21 May 2015 Tom Wood was appointed as Interim Chief Executive.
This during 2015, such additional meetings were held in connection with appointment was to cover for Richard Pyman who took a leave of absence matters relating to the IPO.
due to ill health and who subsequently resigned on 2 October 2015: On 21 May 2015 Stephen Johnson was appointed as Deputy Chief During 2015 the Board has devoted significant time to considering: Executive Officer: The IPO: On 6 July 2015 Sir George Mathewson resigned as Chairman: Business and financial performance including a three year strategic On 6 July 2015 following the resignation of Sir George Mathewson, Iain financial plan: Cornish was appointed as Chairman: Risk management framework and risk policies: On 24 August 2015 Paul Lawrence was appointed as an Independent Capital and liquidity adequacy: Non-Executive Director: Target Operating Model: On 5 November 2015 Sally-Ann Hibberd was appointed as an Regulatory developments in particular the application of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: Managers Regime and the impact of the Mortgage Credit Directive: On 1 January 2016 Tom Wood stepped down as Interim Chief Executive Corporate development opportunities: Officer following the appointment of Steve Pateman as Chief Executive Information Security: Officer: and NED and senior management recruitment: On 1 January 2016 David Gagie was appointed as an Independent HR strategy: Non-Executive Director.
The control environment: and Project and IT investment.
Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
On joining the Board, Prior to Admission, the governance arrangements were operated by the Non-Executive Directors receive a formal appointment letter, which trading subsidiary, Shawbrook Bank Limited.
This reflects the fact that the 50 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Companys main asset up to Admission was the Bank.
This governance report therefore sets out the governance arrangements of the Bank, rather than the Company, during the period from 1 January 2015 up to the date of Admission.
References to the Board are to the Board of the Bank.
As indicated above, this table includes reference to meetings of the Board and delegated committees of the Board held on behalf of Shawbrook Bank Limited during the period of 1 January 2015 up to the date of Admission.
Individual meeting attendance is set out below.
The number of meetings held during the period that the Director held office is shown in brackets.
Regular Additional Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Director Board Meetings Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Iain Cornish 5 5 4 4 3 3 5 5 Sir George Mathewson 5 6 5 8 1 1 2 2 Graham Alcock 11 11 10 12 11 11 5 5 8 8 6 7 Robin Ashton 10 11 10 12 11 11 5 5 8 8 6 7 Sally-Ann Hibberd 2 2 0 1 Sir Brian Ivory 2 2 4 5 5 5 1 1 Stephen Johnson 7 7 4 5 Paul Lawrence 4 4 1 2 2 2 3 3 Roger Lovering 10 11 11 12 11 11 7 7 Lindsey McMurray 11 11 10 12 Richard Pyman 4 8 6 10 Tom Wood 11 11 11 12 Sir Brian Ivory was not a Director of Shawbrook Group plc but of Shawbrook Bank Limited.
He resigned from the Board of the Bank on 31 March 2015.
Sir George Mathewson resigned as Chairman of the Bank on 6 July 2015.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly defined in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
THE ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN The Chairman, Iain Cornish is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The key responsibilities of the Chairman are set out below: to build and actively maintain an effective and complementary Board: to ensure Directors are provided with accurate, timely and clear information: to ensure the Directors have sufficient time to consider critical issues and obtain answers to their questions and concerns ahead of decision-making: to facilitate and encourage the effective contribution and decision making of all members of the Board: to manage the Board in a way which allows enough time for discussion of complex or contentious issues: to ensure shareholders and other interested parties are effectively communicated with, in particular major shareholders: to ensure that the views of all shareholders are communicated to the Board: to ensure there are constructive relations between the executive and Non-Executive Directors: to hold meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors or senior management present: to ensure there is appropriate delegation of authority from the Board to executive management: to chair Board and general meetings of the Company and the Nomination Committee: to ensure a clear structure for, and the effective running of, Board Committees: to ensure new Directors participate in a full, formal and tailored induction programme and that their subsequent development needs are identified and met: to ensure, with the support of the Company Secretary, that the development and ongoing training needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole are reviewed at least annually and agreed: to ensure that the performance of the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors are evaluated at least once a year and to act on the results: to ensure high standards of corporate governance are adhered to: to arrange for all Directors to attend, and for the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to be available to answer questions at, the Companys Annual General Meeting: to ensure a robust management succession plan is in place: and to handle relationships with governments, authorities, regulators and stakeholders.
Throughout the relevant period the Chairman has held regular meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED THE ROLE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER During the relevant period, the SID met with the Non-Executive Directors, The Chief Executive Officer, Steve Pateman is from 1 January 2016 the without the Chairman being present, to appraise the Chairmans executive responsible for the day-to-day running of the business and is performance.
accountable to the Board for its operational and financial performance.
The key responsibilities of the Chief Executive are set out below: COMPANY SECRETARY to recommend the strategic direction of the Group to the Board: Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary to implement strategy as approved by the Board: at all times, as well as independent professional advice where needed in to ensure appropriate internal controls are in place, including to manage order to assist them in carrying out their duties.
the Groups risk profile in line with the extent and categories of risk identified as acceptable by the Board: BOARD AND COMMITTEES to regularly review the performance of the Group and its organisational The Board has a number of committees: Audit, Risk, Nomination and structure: Remuneration.
The written terms of reference of the committees, including to report to the Board regularly on the Groups performance: their objectives and the authority delegated to them by the Board, are to present to the Board an annual budget and financial plan: available upon request from the Company Secretary or via the Groups to approve the appointment and termination of members of the senior website at www.
All committees have access to executive team and to formalise the roles and responsibilities of its independent expert advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The members: Chairman of each committee reports to the Board.
The constitution and to supervise and develop senior teams within subsidiaries: terms of reference of each committee are reviewed annually to ensure that to conduct the affairs of the Company in accordance with the highest the committees are operating effectively and any changes considered standards of integrity, probity and applicable principles and rules of the necessary are recommended to the Board for approval.
UKLA and the Companys Articles of Association in effect from time to time and to also have regard to the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board also has a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for together with resolutions of the Board: monitoring, evaluating and enhancing disclosure controls and procedures to ensure, with the executive team, that board decisions are of the Group.
In particular, responsibilities set out in the terms of reference implemented effectively and that significant decisions made by the include the identification of inside information and maintenance of insider Executive Committee are communicated to the board: lists, the design, implementation and evaluation of disclosure procedures to ensure, with the support of the Company Secretary, that the and the resolution of any questions concerning the materiality of certain Executive team complies with the terms on which matters are information.
The Disclosure Committee is also required to help the Group delegated by the Board, and the terms of reference of Board to make timely and accurate disclosure of all information where disclosure Committees, and to ensure matters outside the authority of the is required to meet legal and regulatory obligations.
The Terms of executive team are escalated to the Board: Reference of the Disclosure Committee cover issues such as membership to lead communications with shareholders and other stakeholders, and frequency of meetings, together with the requirements for a quorum ensuring that appropriate, timely and accurate information is disclosed and the right to attend meetings.
to the market, with issues escalated promptly to the Disclosure Committee where appropriate: and The Board delegates daily management responsibility for the Group to the to provide, together with the Chairman, coherent leadership of the Executive Committee, which meets monthly.
The Executive Committee is Company, including representing the Group to customers, suppliers, responsible for developing the business and delivering against a Boardshareholders, financial institutions, employees, the media, the approved strategy, putting in place effective monitoring and control community and the public, and keeping the Chairman informed on all mechanisms and setting out a framework of reporting to the Board.
There are also a number of committees below the main Board committees SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR and these assist the Executive in executing their responsibilities.
A table The Senior Independent Director SID is Robin Ashton.
The SID is available showing the governance structure is set out overleaf: to shareholders should they wish to discuss concerns regarding the Company.
In addition key responsibilities also include: to chair the Nomination Committee when it is considering succession to the role of Chairman of the Board: to provide a sounding Board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: to meet other Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present at least once a year to appraise the Chairmans performance, taking into account the views of Executive Directors, and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate: and to provide feedback to the Board on the Independent Non-Executive Directors collective views on the following: the perceived quality of the relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer: the degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer and the Board: the visibility of checks and balances within the executive team: and whether all questions asked by the Non-Executive Directors in the Board have been adequately addressed.
52 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The following committees are sub-committees of the Board or the Executive: GROUP BOARD NOMINATION REMUNERATION BOARD AUDIT BOARD RISK DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE NomCo RemCo BAC BRC DISCO Executive Committee Exco Asset & Credit Product & Conduct & Change Liability Committee Pricing Operational Risk Management Committee Committee Committee Committee ALCO CC PPC CORC CMC Credit Provisions Approval Committee Committee CAC PC BOARD BALANCE, INDEPENDENCE AND TIME COMMITMENT The Board comprises individuals with wide business skills and experience and considers that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate to the requirements of the business.
The Board considers that the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors allows it to exercise objectivity in decision making and proper control of the Companys business.
Each member of the Board has had access to all information relating to the Group, the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and, as required, external advice at the expense of the Group.
The Board has reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board together with an evaluation of the Boards balance of skills, knowledge and experience : the membership of the various Board committees and the expected time commitment: and the policy for Board appointments for Executive and Non-Executive Directors throughout the year.
Following on from this during 2015 and 2016 a number of appointments have been made including Iain Cornish as Chairman and Steve Pateman as Chief Executive Officer.
The Directors aim is to ensure that the balance between Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors of the Board reflects the changing needs of the Groups business.
On his appointment as Chairman, Iain Cornish did satisfy the independence criteria as set out in the Code.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board throughout the financial year and the relevant period and concluded that Robin Ashton, Graham Alcock, Roger Lovering, Paul Lawrence and Sally-Ann Hibberd are independent.
David Gagie, who was appointed on 1 January 2016 is also considered independent.
Lindsey McMurray, who represents the Groups largest shareholder, is not considered independent.
Except for a short period of non-compliance between 21 May 2015 following the appointment of Stephen Johnson as an Executive Director and the appointment of Paul Lawrence on 24 August 2015, during the relevant period, the Board, together with the other two Executive Directors, Richard Pyman and Tom Wood has satisfied the Code requirements that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Richard Pyman, whilst still an Executive Director during this period, took a leave of absence due to ill health on 21 May 2015 and subsequently resigned on 2 October 2015.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be of sufficient calibre and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the decision making process.
The Board has satisfied itself that Robin Ashton is independent notwithstanding his interest in shares in the Group.
It has done this by observing the way he has discharged his duties as Chair of the Board Risk Committee, his contribution to and challenge in Board and Committee meetings and the way he interacts with the Chairman in his role as Senior Independent Director, including conducting an evaluation of the Chairmans effectiveness at the end of 2015.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors specify the amount of time they are expected to devote to the Companys business.
They are currently required to commit to a minimum of five days per month 4 days per month for Robin Ashton, David Gagie and Sally-Ann Hibberd which is calculated based on the time required to prepare for and attend Board and Committee meetings, meetings with shareholders and training.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED CONFLICTS OF INTEREST INTERNAL CONTROL All Directors have a duty to avoid situations that may give rise to a conflict of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal interest.
Formal procedures are in place to deal with any conflict of interest.
control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee and Risk Directors are responsible for notifying the Chairman and the Company Committee have been in operation throughout the relevant period and Secretary as soon as they become aware of any actual or potential conflict overseen the Groups system of internal control.
Material risk or control of interest for discussion by the members of the Board who will take into matters, together with the appropriate remedial action, are reported by the account the circumstances of the conflict when deciding whether or not to Audit Committee and Risk Committee to the Board.
The Board monitors waive the potential conflict or impose conditions on the Director in the the ongoing process by which Top Risks to the Group are identified, interests of the Company.
In addition Directors are required to seek the measured, managed, monitored, reported and challenged.
This process is Boards approval of any new appointments or changes in commitments.
consistent with the Risk Management Framework, Internal Control and related Financial and Business reporting guidance issued by the Financial INDUCTION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Reporting Council in September 2014, and has been in place for the On appointment all new Directors receive a comprehensive and tailored relevant period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual induction, having regard to any previous experience they may have as a Report and Accounts.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal Director of a public company or otherwise.
The Company also provides control include regular meetings of the Executive and Risk Management additional induction materials and training for those Directors who are also Committees together with annual budgeting, monthly financial and Committee Chairmen.
The content of our Director induction programmes is operational reporting for all businesses within the Group.
Conduct and designed, and the timing planned, with input from the new Director.
The compliance is monitored by management, the Groups Risk department, induction information is delivered in a variety of formats: this includes face to Internal Audit and, to the extent it considers necessary to support its Audit face meetings with the Chairman, Board members and senior management Report, the external auditor.
together with the use of external advisers and training courses as appropriate.
This is supplemented by the provision of our key governance The Board assesses the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal documents as reading material, including policies, procedures, Board and controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk committee minutes, Board meeting schedule and plans, Group structure management systems on the basis of: charts and copies of the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency rules, the established procedures, including those already described, which are in 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and information on Directors duties place to manage perceived risks: and responsibilities under the Companies Act 2006. reports by management to the Audit Committee and Risk Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal The Board receives detailed reports from executive management on the control and any resultant control issues: performance of the Group at its meetings and other information as under the direction of the Chief Risk Officer, the continuous Group-wide necessary.
Regular updates are provided on relevant legal, corporate process for formally identifying, evaluating and managing the governance and financial reporting developments and Directors are significant risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives: and encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role.
reports from the Audit Committee on the results of internal audit reviews and work undertaken by other departments.
Appropriate training is made available to any newly appointed Director, having regard to any previous experience they may have as a Director of a The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than public company or otherwise.
An ongoing programme of training is eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives and can only available to all members of the Board to include professional external provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material training, internal online training and bespoke Board training on relevant misstatement or loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, topics such as regulatory developments, changes in the Companies Act the Board considers the materiality of financial and non-financial risks and 2006 or accounting requirements.
Directors are also encouraged to devote the relationship between the cost of, and benefit from the system of an element of their time to self-development.
This is in addition to any internal control.
During 2015 the Group continued to invest in its risk guidance that may be given from time to time from the Company Secretary.
management capability to ensure that it remains relevant, appropriate and scalable to support the Groups objectives over the duration of the BOARD EFFECTIVENESS strategic plan.
This ongoing investment will continue during 2016 with the The Board undertook a self-evaluation of its effectiveness at the end of 2015. embedding of these improvements in the Groups Risk Management A questionnaire was issued to each member of the Board for completion and Framework.
results submitted to the Chairman.
In addition the Chairman also held one to one meetings with each of the Directors to ascertain their views on the The Board regularly reviews the actual and forecast performance of the Board.
The Chairman has reviewed the responses received from both the business compared with the annual plan, as well as other key completed questionnaires and the one to one meetings and reported on the performance indicators.
conclusions to the Board which were discussed in early 2016.
The process provided the Board with useful feedback on a number of issues such as the Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly defined.
The need to improve on Board Management Information to support the Board Groups policies and procedures are regularly updated and distributed when focusing on the strategic issues facing the business in future.
The Audit Committee and Risk Committee receive Board also intends to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation in 2016. reports on a regular basis on compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
The SID in discussions with other members of the Board has assessed the performance of the Chairman.
They are satisfied that the Chairman was devoting a significant amount of time to the Groups business and that he had performed effectively since his appointment during 2015.
In particular they were satisfied that the Chairman has ensured that the Board focused on the key issues facing the Group.
54 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Shawbrook Bank Limited the main operating subsidiary of the Group is The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the communication are established between the Chief Executive Officer and Financial Conduct Authority FCA and as such undertakes an Internal the other Executive Directors and shareholders and ensuring that the Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and an Individual Liquidity views of the shareholders are made known to the Board: this includes Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP on a regular basis.
These processes feedback prepared by the Groups brokers on meetings held with benefited from ongoing improvements in risk assessment during 2015 institutional shareholders.
including, in the case of the ICAAP, an update to reflect the latest guidance from the PRA on approaches to the calculation of Pillar 2.
The ICAAP and The Company recognises the importance of ensuring effective ILAAP are approved by the Board and reviewed by the PRA from time to communication with all of its shareholders.
An annual financial report is time.
The process involves an assessment of all the risks that the Group distributed to all shareholders and to other parties, who may have an faces in their operating environment, the assessment of the likelihood of interest in the Groups performance.
This report, together with a wide the risks crystallising and their potential materiality and the effectiveness of range of other information, including the half-yearly financial report, the control framework in mitigating each risk.
This includes a thorough interim management statements, regulatory announcements and current evaluation of how the Group would be impacted by severe, but plausible, details of the Companys share price, are made available on the periods of stress in its stress testing programme.
The purpose of the process is to establish the level and quality of capital COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE resources that the business should maintain, both under current market The Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with the conditions and under a range of stressed scenarios, in order to ensure that provisions set out in the Code throughout the period from Admission on financial resources are sufficient to successfully manage the effects of any 1 April 2015 to the year ended 31 December 2015 with the exception of risks that may crystallise.
There was a short period between 21 May 2015 following the appointment of Stephen Johnson as Deputy Chief ELECTION Executive Officer and 24 August 2015 when Paul Lawrence was appointed All new Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General as a Non-Executive Director when a majority of the Board, excluding the Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
The Companys Articles Chairman were not independent.
Richard Pyman, whilst still an Executive of Association also states that all Directors are subject to election at every Director during this period, took a leave of absence due to ill health on Annual General Meeting.
21 May 2015 and subsequently resigned on 2 October 2015.
The Board explains the reasons why it believes each Director should be The Group did not have a formal Diversity Policy in place.
Post IPO the elected in the Notice of Meeting for the next Annual General Meeting.
None Nomination Committee recommended that the Board approve the of the Directors have been subject to election by the shareholders since the introduction of a formal Diversity Policy to be implemented in 2016 re-registration of Admission.
Except for Graham Alcock, who will have been on the Board of the Bank for nine years, and who will be stepping down at Prior to the IPO in April 2015, the Bank was not required to follow the Code the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, all other directors will stand for although it did take account of a number of its principles.
The Board believes that its performance continues to be on 01 April 2015 the Bank did not comply with the following provisions of effective and that Directors re-election is also consistent with the Boards the Code: evaluation of the size, structure and composition of the Board.
Historically, no disclosures regarding the status of independence were made in the Banks Annual Report and Accounts.
Whilst independent DIVERSITY POLICY Non-Executive Directors are identified in the 2014 Annual Report and The Board is committed to improving diversity in its membership and Accounts, the reasons for these judgements are not stated.
The Group whilst new appointments continue to be based on skill, experience and has subsequently complied with this requirement of the Code see knowledge, careful consideration is given to diversity.
Nomination Committee recommended that the Board approve the No re-elections of Directors have historically taken place.
A policy was introduction of a formal Diversity Policy to be implemented in 2016. developed by the Group to ensure Directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Prior to the IPO, no formal whistleblowing policy was in place.
A The Board remains committed to maintaining good relationships with formalised policy and procedure for staff to raise issues regarding shareholders.
There is a good dialogue with institutional shareholders, possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters although care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is has been established since see page 61. released at the same time to all shareholders, in accordance with the No formal Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee were requirements of the UKLA.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief in place prior to the IPO.
These committees have become effective post Financial Officer, under normal circumstances, would meet with IPO see pages 56 and 65. institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
Tom Wood, in a dual capacity Historically the Board did not have a Senior Independent Director.
On has attended a number of investor road shows and has been available for 20 March 2015 Robin Ashton was appointed as Senior Independent additional meetings where requested.
Institutional shareholders will in Director of the Board.
future be given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and or other Non-Executive Directors if they have concerns that have not, or cannot, be INFORMATION ON SHARE CAPITAL AND OTHER MATTERS addressed through the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
The information about share capital required to be included in this Corporate Governance Report can be found on pages 83 and 84 in the Directors Report.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Nomination Committee Membership IAIN CORNISH The Board Nomination Committee was formed at Admission and Chairman of the comprises the following members: Nomination Committee the Chairman of the Board : and two Independent Non-Executive Directors Meetings are held at least four times per year.
Individual meeting attendance during 2015 is set out below.
REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Member Position Attendance Iain Cornish Chairman 3 3 Dear Shareholder Sir George Mathewson Chairman 1 1 Having assumed the role of Chairman of the Board and the Committee on Robin Ashton NED 5 5 6 July 2015, I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Graham Alcock NED 5 5 Committee.
First I would like to thank my predecessor, Sir George Mathewson for his leadership and his support following my recruitment.
Iain Cornish was appointed as Chairman of the Board on 6 July 2015, following the resignation of Sir George Mathewson.
He was immediately The Committees main activity since the IPO has been to focus on achieving the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the appointed as a member and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Board in the interests of taking the business forward in a listed environment.
The Board considers that having the appropriate range of Sir George Mathewson was a member and Chairman of the Nomination Committee from Admission until his resignation from the Board on high calibre Directors is key to achieving the Groups strategic objectives and to providing appropriate oversight of regulatory matters and other 6 July 2015. risks facing the Group.
Prior to Admission, the Banks governance in relation to nomination matters was carried out by a jointly formed Remuneration and Nomination Having identified the need to broaden the skills of the Board, the Committee has been engaged in the recruitment and appointment of new Committee.
This Committee met once between 1 January 2015 and the date of Admission.
This activity led to my own appointment as Chairman and the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, Steve Pateman and three Role of the Nomination Committee new Independent Non-Executive Directors, Paul Lawrence, Sally-Ann Hibberd and David Gagie.
A full copy of the terms of reference for the Nomination Committee can be obtained by request to the Company Secretary or via the Groups website The Committee has also reviewed the leadership needs of the business at www.
and succession planning for Directors and other senior executives as well as reviewing the results of an internal Board performance The Nomination Committees principal function is to review the structure, size and composition of the Board.
The Committee is responsible for evaluation process.
identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies.
The Committee carries out a formal Further information on the activities of the Committee is provided in the following report.
selection process for Executive and Non-Executive Directors and subsequently proposes to the Board any new appointments.
Ultimate IAIN CORNISH responsibility for the appointment of Directors resides with the Board.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee also oversees succession planning for Directors and Senior Managers below Board level.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of meetings.
Since Admission the Nomination Committee has met five times.
The Committee engaged in a comprehensive process to recruit new Directors to the Board in the period following Admission.
The Nomination Committee engaged the services of a professional adviser, Promontory, particularly in relation to the appointment of Iain Cornish, the Chairman, and Steve Pateman, the Chief Executive and three new Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee also engaged an external search consultancy firm, Lomond Consulting.
Neither of these firms has any other connection with the Company.
56 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS During the relevant period the Nomination Committee considered the ROGER LOVERING following principal items: Chairman of the A review of the current structure, size and composition of the Board: Audit Committe The time commitment expected of Non-Executive Directors: Leadership and succession planning: The proposed election of Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: The appointment of the Chairman: The appointment of the Chief Executive: The appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors: REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Responsibilities under the forthcoming Senior Managers Regime: and The introduction of a Diversity Policy.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of the Audit Committee, having assumed the role on 20 March 2015.
It was a busy year for the Committee in 2015, as we saw a combination of both the normal business agenda plus the IPO of the Company.
The Committee was heavily involved in the reviewing and commenting on the documents involved in the IPO, including the Financial Position and Prospects report, Working Capital Report and the financial statements.
In relation to the financial reporting of the company the Committee reviewed the 2015 annual accounts and the interim results for the six month period to 30 June 2015, plus the associated press releases and results presentations.
The key accounting judgments were reviewed to ensure that they were still appropriate and reflected the performance of the business.
These included loan loss impairments, effective interest rate calculations, hedge accounting, share based payments, accounting for goodwill and accounting treatment of the IPO costs.
The Committee worked closely with Internal Audit to support their work in reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Control and Risk Management Framework.
Looking ahead to 2016 in addition to the routine audit schedule, the Audit Committee will focus on development of the Groups external reporting, oversight of the Groups control environment, effective monitoring and reviewing the internal and external audits, and the roll-out of the IFRS9 implementation programme.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues for their help and contributions during the last year.
ROGER LOVERING Chairman of the Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee Membership Role of the Audit Committee The Board Audit Committee comprises four members.
All members of the A full copy of the terms of reference for the Audit Committee can be Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
obtained by request to the Company Secretary or via the Groups website at www.
Meetings are held at least bi-monthly.
The number of meetings held during the The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in discharging its period that the Director held office is shown in brackets.
duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, corporate governance and internal control.
The Audit Committee is also primarily responsible for Member Position Attendance making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, Roger Lovering Chairman of the Committee 11 11 re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve the Sir Brian Ivory Chairman of the Committee 5 5 auditors remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Audit Committees duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit Graham Alcock NED 11 11 work, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Robin Ashton NED 11 11 auditor.
The Audit Committee also monitors the volume and nature of Paul Lawrence NED 2 2 non-audit services provided by the auditor.
Prior to Admission, the governance arrangements were operated by the trading subsidiary, Shawbrook Bank Limited.
The above table includes reference to meetings of the Audit Committee of Shawbrook Bank Limited between the period of 1 January 2015 and the date of Admission.
During this time, Sir Brian Ivory was Audit Committee Chairman.
He resigned as Audit Committee Chairman on 20 March 2015 and from the Board of the Bank on 31 March 2015.
Roger Lovering was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 20 March 2015, following the resignation of Sir Brian Ivory as Audit Committee Chairman.
From the date of Admission, the members of the Audit Committee were Roger Lovering Audit Committee Chairman, Robin Ashton and Graham Alcock, who each served on the Audit Committee throughout the reporting period.
Paul Lawrence was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee on 24 August 2015.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
Other individuals attend at the request of the Audit Committee Chairman and during the year the external auditor, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Internal Audit and other senior managers as appropriate would usually attend meetings to report to the Audit Committee and provide clarification and explanations where appropriate.
The Audit Committee also meets with the external and internal auditors without executive management at least once a year.
Since Admission, the Audit Committee has met on five occasions.
The Board is satisfied that Roger Lovering has recent and relevant financial experience, as referred to in the Code.
58 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Audit Committee Key Responsibilities Financial reporting Internal Controls External Audit Internal Audit Whistleblowing Monitor the integrity of the Review the adequacy and Approve the appointment of Approve the appointment Review the adequacy and Group financial statements and effectiveness of internal controls or termination of the external or termination of the Internal security of the Whistleblowing review of the accounting policies auditor Auditor arrangements Review and report to the Board Review responsiveness of Oversee the relationship Monitor and review effectiveness To review any Whistleblowing on significant financial issues and management when addressing with the external auditor incidents that may arise judgements any identified control including, term of engagement, weaknesses remuneration, effectiveness and independence and objectivity Review and challenge where Review and approve internal Agree the policy for the Approve the annual audit plan necessary the estimates and control statements in the Annual provision of non-audit services judgements by management Report & Accounts and the policy for employment in relation to all financial of former employees of the statements external auditor Review the Annual Report and Review the findings of the Monitor managements Accounts and other financial external auditor and consider responsiveness to the findings reporting, advising the Board managements response and recommendations on whether, taken as a whole it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy Assess and challenge the going Meets at least once a year with Meeting regularly with Internal concern and long term viability the external auditor without Audit without management assessment undertaken by management present present management Monitor the independence of Monitor the independence of the external auditor the Internal Auditor Report of the Audit Committee During the relevant period the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by performing the following activities: Financial reporting During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the financial disclosures made in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Half-yearly financial report, interim management statement and the other trading statements made by the Group together with any related management letters, letters of representation and reports from the external auditor.
Significant financial reporting issues and judgments were considered together with any significant accounting policies and changes proposed to them.
Tax The recoverability of the deferred tax asset requires consideration of the future levels of taxable profit in the Group.
The Committee considered the recognition of deferred tax assets with reference to the Groups approved strategic plan and agreed with managements judgement that the deferred tax assets were appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits.
This assessment incorporated the anticipated impacts of the tax measures announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the 2015 Autumn Budget Statements.
Furthermore, the Senior Accounting Officer provided an unqualified certificate to HMRC certifying that the Group had appropriate tax accounting arrangements throughout the financial year.
Significant Areas of Judgement During 2015 the following significant issues and accounting judgements were considered by the Committee in relation to the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Impairment of loans and advances The Audit Committee reviewed collective and individual loan impairment allowances.
Significant judgements and estimates reviewed included the adequacy of loss emergence periods and risk charges across the collective impairment allowances and the management overlays in the individual allowances.
The Committee considered and challenged the provisioning models and management overlays and concluded that the impairment provisions were appropriate as at 31 December 2015.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Effective interest rate Following its review, the Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report is The Audit Committee reviewed the income recognition under the Effective fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary Interest Rate methodology.
Significant judgement areas reviewed include for shareholders and other stakeholders to assess the Groups position and the technical and practical application of the accounting standards in the performance, business model and strategy and has advised the Board context of the Groups experience following the identification of changes accordingly.
in customer behaviour and expected lives of certain products.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Committee considered and challenged the judgements applied by Together with the Risk Committee, the Audit Committee has performed a management in determining the EIR, including reviewing the robust assessment of the Groups internal control, risk management appropriateness of the redemption profiles and the impact of changes to framework and principal risks and uncertainties.
Details of the risk existing redemption profiles.
The Committee agreed that managements management systems in place and principal risks and uncertainties are judgements were appropriate at 31 December 2015. provided within the Risk Management Report on pages 32 to 42.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than Impairment assessment of goodwill eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives and can only During the year management has undertaken a comprehensive review of provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the methods used to determine both the CGUs carrying values and misstatement or loss.
The Committee considered and challenged managements conclusions on the indicators of impairment and the Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly defined.
The methodology used to determine the carrying values and recoverable Groups policies and procedures are regularly updated and distributed amounts.
The Committee concluded and agreed that the recoverable throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee receives reports on a regular amounts of all the CGUs exceeded the carrying values and no impairment basis on compliance with the Groups policies and procedures and the was required at 31 December 2015, having placed emphasis on the effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls.
The Groups Internal assessment of the goodwill attributed to Business Credit 24.2m due to Audit function as the third line of defence is outsourced to Deloitte LLP to the financial performance of the business during the year.
The Committee provide the Group with assurance that the specialist nature of the Groups challenged both the discount rate and the forecast cash flows used in activities can be fully assessed.
calculating the recoverable amounts and performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions applied.
The Group Risk and Internal Audit functions review the extent to which the system of internal control is effective: is adequate to manage the Groups Based on the work performed by the Committee, it was concluded and principal risks: safeguard the Groups assets: and, in conjunction with the agreed that the recoverable amounts of all the CGUs, including Business Company Secretary and the Groups Legal and Compliance Teams, ensure Credit, exceeded the carrying values and no impairment was required at compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides 31 December 2015. independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to the Board and senior management.
Fair value of share-based payments The Audit Committee reviewed the accounting treatment of the SAYE and Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group, as LTIP schemes and the arrangements for a number of new senior hires.
determined by a structured risk assessment process involving Executive During the course of 2015 there were a number of modifications to the Directors and senior management.
The output from the process is existing scheme and new schemes that resulted from the IPO.
The summarised in an annual audit plan, which is approved by the Committee concluded that the accounting treatment and valuation Audit Committee.
assumptions were appropriate as at 31 December 2015.
Significant judgements and estimates reviewed include the use of the Black-Scholes The role of the Internal Audit department and the scope of its work model for valuing share options and the calculation of the IFRS2 charges.
continue to evolve to take into account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee considered on behalf of the Board whether the 2015 On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee confirms that through Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced discharging its responsibilities under its terms of reference as described on and understandable, and whether the disclosures are appropriate.
The page 52 and also undertaking regular reviews of the effectiveness of the Committee is satisfied that the 2015 Annual Report meets this requirement, Groups system of internal control as set out on page 54 it is able to confirm and in particular, that appropriate disclosure has been made with respect that the Committee was satisfied that the Groups systems of internal to any developments in the year.
In justifying this statement the control were appropriately designed and operated effectively.
Committee has considered the robust procedures around the preparation, review and challenge of the Report and the consistency of the narrative sections with the financial statements.
The Annual Report is drafted by the Executive with overall governance and co-ordination provided by the Annual Report and Accounts Disclosure Committee comprising a team of cross-functional senior management and the Audit Committee Chairman, and attended by the Groups external auditor at the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman.
Assurances are sought by the Audit Committee on each section of the Annual Report in advance of the final sign off by the Audit Committee and ultimately the Board.
60 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Report of the Audit Committee Auditors independence and objectivity External auditor The external auditor provides some non-audit services, primarily in the The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing the relationship provision of taxation and regulatory advice and in relation to corporate with the external auditor and approves the external auditors engagement transactions that may arise from time to time.
In order to ensure that letter, audit fee and audit and audit strategy including the planned levels auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded the following of materiality.
The external auditor attends the Audit Committee meetings controls have been implemented: as appropriate and meets at least annually with the Audit Committee A formal policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work has been without executive management.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee agreed by the Audit Committee.
In summary, this ensures that work also meets privately with the external auditors at least once a year.
would usually only be awarded when, by virtue of the auditors knowledge, skills or experience, the auditor is clearly to be preferred During the year, the Audit Committee received regular detailed reports over alternative suppliers: from the external auditor including a formal written reports dealing with The Audit Committee receives and reviews each year an analysis of all the audit objectives: the auditors qualifications, expertise and resources: non-audit work awarded to the auditor over the financial period: and effectiveness of the audit process: procedures and policies for maintaining The Audit Committee receives each year a report from the external independence: and compliance with the ethical standards issued by the auditor as to any matters that the auditor considers bear on its Auditing Practices Board.
The external auditors management letter is independence and which need to be disclosed to the Audit Committee.
reviewed, as is managements response to issues raised and progress is monitored against actions identified in these reports.
The Audit Committee Internal Audit monitors the latest ethical guidance regarding rotation of audit partners.
Due to the size and nature of the business, the Group has outsourced the Non-audit services provided by the external auditor is regularly monitored Internal Audit Function to Deloitte LLP who was appointed on 27 June by the Audit Committee.
The Group has a formal policy for the 2013.
The terms of the Internal Audit function are set out in the Internal engagement of the external audit firm for non-audit services.
The Audit Committee approves the annual audit plan and defines and describes permitted and prohibited services, independence internal audit methodology for Internal Audit and monitors progress considerations, those services that are pre-approved as a matter of policy against the plan during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that this as well as those which require specific Audit Committee approval.
The continues to be the most appropriate way of managing the delivery of Audit Committee considers whether the external audit firm is the most internal audit services but will review this on at least an annual basis.
appropriate firm for the specific services required and consider any threats to independence in the form of self-review or involvement in management Internal Audit carried out a significant number of audits during 2015 of decisions.
The value of the fees is also considered with reference to the varying size and complexity.
Thematic audits focused on new business pre-approved monetary approval thresholds.
The fees paid to KPMG for processes, capital and liquidity and the risk management framework.
Audit audit and non-audit services are set out at page 100 in the notes reports are circulated to the Audit Committee members prior to each to the financial statements.
scheduled meeting and the Audit Committee monitors progress against actions identified in these reports.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the performance of the external auditor during the year and the policies and procedures in place to The Audit Committee has established a questionnaire based procedure to maintain their objectivity and independence, and has recommended that monitor and review Internal Audits effectiveness using feedback from the they be re-appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee also assesses annually the resources the Internal Audit has to complete its remit.
Internal In December 2015 the Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Audit has unrestricted access to all Group documentation, premises, external auditor and the audit process.
The review included seeking the functions and employees as required to enable it to perform its functions.
views of Audit Committee members, Executives and Senior Managers.
The The appointment and removal of Internal Audit is the responsibility of the review was very positive and concluded that the external audit process Audit Committee.
Whistleblowing Tenure of the external auditor A formalised whistleblowing policy and procedure for staff to raise issues The Group appointed KPMG Audit plc as the external auditor from 2011 to regarding possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other 2014, and KPMG LLP thereafter.
The Group has not carried out a formal matters has been established and was reviewed during the year.
The Audit tender process as a result of the IPO.
KPMG LLP has continued as external Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups auditor.
However, the Committee has kept under review regulatory and whistle blowing procedures and any notifications made.
The Audit legislative developments around the tenure of auditors and will in future Committee is charged with ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in undertake a formal competitive tender at the appropriate time.
The current place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in KPMG LLP Audit Director, Simon Clark, will be replaced on the audit team at confidence and performing suitable subsequent follow-up action.
An the conclusion of the 2015 audit in accordance with the rotation alternative reporting channel also exists whereby perceived wrongdoing requirements of the ethical standards of the Accounting practice Board.
may be reported via telephone to an external third party.
Following discussions with KPMG LLP and consideration by the Committee Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer of possible candidates, approval The Audit Committee has access to the services of the Company Secretarial has been given to the appointment of John Ellacott as the Groups new department and is authorised to obtain independent professional advice if audit partner from 2016. it considers it necessary.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Risk Committee Membership PAUL LAWRENCE The Risk Committee comprises four members.
All members are Chairman of the Risk Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Committee Meetings are held at least bi-monthly.
Member Position Attendance Paul Lawrence Chairman of the Committee 3 3 REPORT OF THE RISK COMMITTEE Robin Ashton Chairman of the Committee 6 7 Dear Shareholder Graham Alcock NED 6 7 Sir Brian Ivory NED 1 1 I am pleased to present the report of the Risk Committee, our first as a listed Roger Lovering NED 7 7 Company and my first as Chairman since taking on the role in August 2015.
Preparation for our new status as a listed Company saw substantially Prior to Admission, the governance arrangements were operated by the trading increased levels of activity across the organisation.
This included a detailed subsidiary, Shawbrook Bank Limited.
The above table includes reference to review of our risk environment and the adequacy and effectiveness of our meetings of the Risk Committee between the period of 1 January 2015 and the risk frameworks and infrastructure to ensure we can sustain our growth date of Admission.
Sir Brian Ivory resigned from the Risk Committee on and business objectives within our risk appetite without losing our market 20 March 2015 and from the Board of the Bank on 31 March 2015. competitiveness.
At the date of Admission, the members of the Risk Committee were Robin In addition to regularly reviewing key and emerging risks and monitoring Ashton, Roger Lovering and Graham Alcock, who each served on the Risk the development of the risk infrastructure, the Committee provided input Committee throughout the reporting period.
and oversight across a wide range of issues with particular focus on the enhanced risk management framework and regulatory requirements Paul Lawrence was appointed by the Board as member and Chairman of including conduct risk.
the Risk Committee on 24 August 2015.
Robin Ashton remained a member of the Risk Committee, following Paul Lawrences appointment as Risk The Committee also reviewed and contributed to documents such as the Committee Chairman.
ICAAP and ILAA before making recommendations to the Board.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Risk Committee.
Other Further information on the activities of the Committee and our governance individuals attend at the request of the Risk Committee Chairman and during structures and processes around risk are provided in the following report the year the external auditor, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and page 33 of the Risk Management Report.
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Internal Audit and other senior managers as appropriate would usually attend meetings to report to the Risk PAUL LAWRENCE Committee and provide clarification and explanations where appropriate.
Chairman of the Risk Committee Since Admission, the Risk Committee has met on seven occasions.
Role of the Risk Committee A full copy of the terms of reference for the Risk Committee can be obtained by request to the Company Secretary or via the Groups website at www.
The Risk Committee has responsibility for, among other things, advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite and strategy.
The Risk Committee will review the Groups risk assessment processes and methodology and its capability for identifying and managing new risk, alongside advising on proposed transactions and reviewing reports on any material breaches of risk limits.
The Risk Committee is also responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the risk function and the capital adequacy requirements of the Groups relevant subsidiaries on an ongoing basis.
Other key areas that the Risk Committee oversees are: Board Risk appetite: Credit Risk: Operational Risk: Conduct, Legal and Compliance Risk: Liquidity & Market Risk: Stress testing & capital requirements: Recovery and Resolution planning: and Inputs into Remuneration decisions.
62 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Key matters considered in detail by the Committee in 2015 Remuneration Board Risk Appetite The Risk Committee provided input into the Remuneration Committee to The strategic direction of the business flows through the Groups Risk ensure that risk behaviours and the management of risk we appropriately Appetite Framework RAF.
It also ensures that the risk appetite articulated reflected in the performance appraisal and compensation review is the level of risk that the Board is willing to take in order to deliver its processes.
During the year, significant work was undertaken to enhance the overarching framework for the Board to monitor and manage Primary areas of focus during the year the Groups risk appetite.
The Groups RAF includes the statements and Development and oversight of the Risk Framework to support business principles that describe the Groups appetite, along with quantitative development and transformation programmes: measures to help the Board monitor the degree to which the Group Considering the Groups risk profile and risk appetite relative to the realises this appetite.
current and future strategy of the Group: Assess and monitor regulatory and legislative change: Credit Risk Review the design and implementation of risk management and The controlled management of credit risk is critical to the Groups overall strategies of the Group and the procedures for monitoring the strategy.
The Risk Committee provides oversight of the Risk Management adequacy and effectiveness of this process: Framework: ensures the Group has effective processes and controls to Review of internal controls and risk management systems: monitor, mitigate and manage credit risk: and provides oversight to the Regular review of strategic, operational and credit risk events: effectiveness of all credit risk management to ensure lending is within the Considering the adequacy and effectiveness of the technology Boards approved credit risk appetite.
infrastructure supporting the Risk Management Framework: and Monitoring the training and development requirements of the Group to Operational Risk ensure the requisite skills are in place to control risk and promote an The Committee received regular reports across the spectrum of effective risk culture.
operational risks and information security.
The reports covered incidents that have arisen to allow the Committee to assess managements response Other matters considered in detail by the Committee in 2015 and proposed remedial actions.
Although a number of incidents were Review of the cyber incident response plan to ensure the Group has raised during the course of 2015, the Committee was satisfied that the suitable procedures to respond to an information security incident.
action taken was appropriate and that the control of operational incidents Cyber risk is the risk that the Group is subject to some form of continued to improve.
In response to the growing threat posed by cyber disruption arising from interruption to its IT and data infrastructure.
crime, a full risk assessment was undertaken to assess the adequacy of the The Committee approved the plan, including a costed investment in Groups internal control framework to respond to this threat and our cyber risk controls to ensure the Group maintains appropriate levels of planned investment to deal with increasing levels of cyber risk.
The control to identify and counter the threats arising from cyber crime.
operational risk reports were developed throughout 2015 to include a focus on forward looking risks which permits a more strategic discussion at During 2015 the Group has enhanced its three lines of defence model, as the Risk Committee level.
outlined on page 35 in the Risk Management report.
This model has been operationalised through the creation of a comprehensive suite of risk Conduct, Legal and Compliance Risk policies, embracing all aspects of the risk management agenda, including The Committee receives an update on compliance and conduct risks at the credit, operational, reputational and conduct risk arenas under the each meeting.
The Committee also receives updates from management on auspices of Program Horizon, which is the program initiated in March 2015 changes to the Groups regulatory environment to ensure the Board to upgrade the risk architecture of the Group.
As well as the creation and responds effectively and in a timely manner to changing regulation.
development of over 110 policy documents, the scope of Program Horizon includes development of credit grading models and the delivery of the Topics debated during the year included culture, customer journeys, Groups latest ICAAP.
The ICAAP benefits from ongoing improvements in complaint metrics, intermediary oversight and the forthcoming risk assessment that is consistent with the PRAs Statement of Policy on introduction of the Senior Managers Regime.
methodologies for calculating Pillar 2 capital published in July 2015.
Liquidity & Market Risk A comprehensive and wide ranging review was undertaken of credit risk The Groups Treasury function is responsible for managing Treasury credit approval governance.
Although the existing framework had served the risk in line with the Boards approved risk appetite and wholesale credit Group well, against a background of growing scale in the divisional lending policies.
Wholesale counterparty limits are reviewed monthly through the operations, increased volume of larger transactions and the development Asset & Liability Committee ALCO.
The Risk Committee is responsible for of portfolios which are less rules driven and require more qualitative over-seeing and reviewing the activities of Group Treasury via the ALCO.
judgements to be exercised, a review was necessary.
The proposals presented sought to deliver under the following key principles: Stress Testing & Capital Providing the required level of independence, governance and The Committee has reviewed the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment assurance in relation to both material individual risks and the profile of Process ICAAP prior to submission to the Board for approval.
This ICAAP the portfolio overall: contained the results of stress test scenarios both generic and peculiar to Maintaining service standards by way of prompt turnaround times and the Group.
commercial responses to financing proposals: and Preserving the 1st Line Divisions culture of accountability for, and focus Recovery & Resolution Plan on, risk.
The Committee reviewed and recommended the Recovery & Resolution Plan to the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Revised authority levels were proposed based upon a balanced consideration between risk profile and current practice, namely: Those areas where credit approval becomes less Policy Rules driven and requires a greater degree of qualitative judgement.
The threshold broadly equates to maximum Regulatory definitions for Retail exposures 1m-1.5m : Independent credit approval for higher levels of risk exposure: and Minimising the impact on personnel and operations so that the lower value higher volume flows continue to be processed via existing divisional channels in a mainly rules driven rather than judgement driven approach.
This revised framework was approved by the Committee and implemented towards the end of the year.
The Group is a specialist lending and savings bank for SMEs and consumers.
The specialist nature of some of its lending through intermediaries and brokers may mean that some customers find themselves with an increased risk of an unfavourable outcome.
In addition the Group is exposed to a risk that third parties do not comply with the Groups standards, values and ethics when dealing with the Groups customers.
This may lead to increased conduct related redress, additional fraud or credit risk impairments.
The Group works with carefully selected partners who take on the role of advising SMEs and consumers.
The Group recognises the importance of taking ownership for the lending it originates and continually undertakes a review of their performance.
In addition, experienced underwriters perform thorough checks on each application.
The Group continually reviews its risk management approach to intermediaries, brokers and outsource partners to reflect the environment that the Bank operates in.
Priorities for 2016 The priorities for the Risk Committee for 2016 include: Continued development and embedding of the Risk Management Framework: Active monitoring and management of the risk profile and performance against the revised Risk Appetite Framework to ensure alignment to the risk and corporate strategy: Review and approval of the 2016 Risk Assurance Plan: Review and recommendation of ICAAP, ILAAP and RRP to the Board: To receive and review reports relating to any significant issues that require, or are subject to remedial action or recommendations arising in the period under review: To ensure rigorous stress and scenario testing of the Group that explains the financial impact and extend of identified risks and threats, should these risks and threats come to pass: and Input into remuneration recommendations for senior staff.
64 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Board changes GRAHAM ALCOCK During the year we had a number of changes in our leadership.
On Chairman of the 2 October 2015, Richard Pyman stood down as Chief Executive Officer, Remuneration Committee following a leave of absence due to ill health.
Mr Pyman did not receive any salary, benefits and pension from the date that he stepped down from the Board, and no awards were made to him under the annual bonus or Performance Share Plan in 2015.
From the date of Mr Pyman stepping down from the Board, Tom Wood acted as interim Chief Executive Officer while continuing his role as Chief STATEMENT BY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Financial Officer.
In order to reflect his increase in his role and responsibility for this period, Mr Wood received an additional temporary allowance.
Dear Shareholder, On 1 January 2016, Steve Pateman assumed the role of Chief Executive On behalf of the Board, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am Officer.
His salary level has been set at a level which reflects the wealth of delighted to present our first Directors Remuneration Report as a listed experience he brings to the Group and his outstanding track record in the Company.
In accordance with the remuneration reporting regulations, this sector.
His pension level has been set in line with the contribution offered report has been split into two parts: by his previous employer, and he will participate in the annual bonus and The Remuneration Policy report, detailing the forward-looking policy PSP in accordance with our standard policy.
Mr Pateman has been granted within which all remuneration arrangements for our Executive Directors buyout awards in respect of remuneration forfeited from his previous will operate, which is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2016 employer.
AGM: and The Annual Remuneration Report, which explains the operation of the Further information on the activities of the Committee and our governance Remuneration Policy for 2015 and a summary of its intended structures are provided in the following report.
implementation in 2016, which is subject to an annual advisory shareholder vote.
GRAHAM ALCOCK Remuneration Committee Chairman The Board Remuneration Committee was formed at Admission.
Our listing has given us a welcome opportunity to consider our executive remuneration arrangements in light of: our continuing need to drive the performance and risk culture of the business: our desire to incentivise and reward individuals to deliver the right outcomes for customers: and a need to attract the right calibre of leadership from a competitive market place.
Building on the framework included in our IPO Prospectus, we have therefore further developed our executive remuneration policy, aligned with the Groups strategy and generating returns for shareholders, and in line with regulatory requirements.
In addition, we have taken into account typical market practice within the UK-listed environment, as well as practice within the financial services sector.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Committee Membership Key changes to the remuneration structure for 2016 The Board Remuneration Committee comprises three members including In order to encourage risk alignment and to further align the interests of the Board Chairman.
the Executive Directors with the long-term interests of shareholders, we strengthened the post-vesting holding conditions applicable to PSP Meetings are held at least four times per year.
Individual meeting awards from the terms applicable in the IPO Prospectus.
Directors are now attendance during 2015 is set out below.
The number of meetings held required to hold any awards vesting under the PSP for two years following during the period that the Director held office is shown in brackets.
the date of vesting, in line with best practice.
Member Position Attendance In addition, we have implemented formal shareholding requirements, Graham Alcock Chairman of the Committee 8 8 whereby Executive Directors must build, and hold, a shareholding of at Sir George Mathewson NED 2 2 least 200% of salary.
This shareholding must be achieved within five years.
The requirement was determined taking into consideration the nature of Iain Cornish Chairman of the Board 5 5 our business, a review of typical market practice, and evolving shareholder Robin Ashton NED 8 8 expectations.
As a Level 3 firm under the CRD IV regulations, we seek to comply with the Iain Cornish was appointed as Chairman of the Board on 6 July 2015, spirit and letter of the requirements set out in the PRA Rulebook and the following the resignation of Sir George Mathewson.
He was immediately related guidance provided by the European Banking Authority EBA, and appointed as member of the Remuneration Committee.
therefore our proposed remuneration policy reflects this.
As a result, we have voluntarily incorporated deferral and malus and clawback provisions Sir George Mathewson was a member of the Remuneration Committee on all incentive plans.
We have also made the decision to voluntarily seek from Admission until his resignation from the Board on 6 July 2015. shareholder approval to implement a 2:1 cap on variable remuneration.
We believe that this will allow us to ensure the sound risk management of the A full copy of the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee can Company whilst retaining the alignment of the interests of our Directors be obtained by request to the Company Secretary or via the Groups with those of our shareholders.
co. uk Salaries for the Executive Directors, and the fee structure for the Non- 2015 bonus outturns Executive Directors, have been adjusted in light of the change in scope and In 2015, bonus outcomes were based on a scorecard of financial, strategic nature of the roles, and to reflect the current FTSE-listed environment, and personal objectives.
2015 was a strong year for Shawbrook in terms of particularly among our financial services peers.
The salaries and fees financial performance.
The Group achieved underlying profit before tax of applicable from 1 January 2016 can be seen in the Implementation of the 80.1m, which represented 63% growth in the year.
Our return on tangible Remuneration Policy section.
equity exceeded expectations at 27.9%, and our cost:income ratio was 48.3%, in line with our targets.
Looking ahead In forming the remuneration policy, the Committee were mindful of We made significant progress in the transformation of the risk culture of future-proofing the policy, especially in the light of the evolving the Bank over the year, which has resulted in real improvement in the regulatory landscape.
We will keep the policy and its implementation Groups risk management processes.
The Group also performed strongly in under review, to ensure that the remuneration arrangements remain in line regards to culture and employee engagement.
with regulatory requirements, shareholder expectations, and best practice.
The Committee assessed the individual performance of the Executive As our first remuneration policy subject to shareholder approval, we have Directors over the year.
Tom Wood performed a pivotal role as CFO during sought to create a compliant yet sufficiently flexible remuneration policy the successful IPO of the Group, and performed strongly as interim CEO for which can form the foundation of our remuneration arrangements for the last seven months of the year.
Stephen Johnson also performed a Directors in the coming years.
pivotal role during the IPO, providing excellent support to Richard Pyman and Tom Wood in his role as Deputy CEO.
Shareholder engagement We recognise the importance of engaging with shareholders on our Based on these outcomes, in addition to the strong financial performance remuneration arrangements.
We held discussions with our major of the Bank outlined above, the Committee determined an award of 100% shareholders in early 2016, prior to finalisation of our Remuneration Policy, of maximum for Tom Wood and 95% of maximum for Stephen Johnson to explain our approach to remuneration and gain relevant feedback.
given their individual performances during the year.
I welcome any comments on the remuneration arrangements set out on No awards were granted to the Executive Directors under the Performance the following pages from shareholders, and will be available to answer any Share Plan PSP in 2015.
The first awards will be granted in 2016, subject to queries regarding our remuneration policy at the forthcoming Annual a scorecard of measures, as detailed on page 80.
66 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015
