S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNANC NANCEE FFIINANC financial IAL SS DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors information on pages 83 to 86 inclusive together with the offer themselves for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference constitute the Directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and by the Directors Report that is required by law.
This Directors Report also includes Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Companys Articles of additional disclosures required by the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Association must be approved by shareholders passing a special resolution Rules and Listing Rules.
They consider that the Annual Report and Financial and must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 taken as a whole are they FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders and other stakeholders to assess the Groups DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may indemnify any RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Director or former Director of the Company or any associated Company The Group made a profit before tax for the year of 70.1m 2014: 45.3m against any liability and may purchase and maintain for any Director or and a profit after tax of 58.5m 2014: 34.5m.
The Company made a loss former Director of the Company or any associated company insurance before tax for the year of 4.6m 2014: profit 0.3m and a loss after tax of against any liability.
The reconciliation of statutory results to underlying results is set out in the Strategic Report.
The Directors of the Company have entered into individual deeds of indemnity with the Company which constituted qualifying third party For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8 this Directors Report and indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 44 comprise the management report.
deeds were in force from 1 April 2015 or from the date of appointment for those Directors appointed after 1 April 2015 and are in force as at the date DIVIDENDS of this Directors Report.
The deeds remain in force for the duration of a The Directors do not propose to recommend a final dividend in respect of Directors period of office and thereafter in respect of any claims made in the year ended 31 December 2015. accordance with the indemnity in respect of the matters arising during the Directors period of office.
DIRECTORS The Directors who served during the year were: The Group has maintained appropriate Directors and Officers liability Lindsey McMurray insurance in place throughout 2015.
James Scott resigned 20 March 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The following Directors were appointed on 20 March 2015: The Corporate Governance Report can be found on pages 45 to 66 and, Sir George Mathewson resigned 6 July 2015 together with this report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements of Robin Ashton the corporate governance statement for the purpose of the Financial Graham Alcock Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
Roger Lovering Richard Pyman resigned 2 October 2015 SHARE CAPITAL Tom Wood The Companys share capital comprises one class of ordinary share with a nominal value of 0.01p each.
At 31 December 2015, 250,500,000 ordinary The following Directors were appointed after 20 March 2015: shares were in issue.
Stephen Johnson was appointed on 21 May 2015 Iain Cornish was appointed on 6 July 2015 RESTRICTIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF SHARES Paul Lawrence was appointed on 24 August 2015 There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares of the Company Sally-Ann Hibberd was appointed on 5 November 2015 which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association Steve Pateman was appointed on 1 January 2016 and prevailing legislation.
David Gagie was appointed on 1 January 2016 RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES Executive Director On a show of hands, each member has the right to one vote at general meetings of Company.
On a poll, each member would be entitled to one The biographical details of all current Directors are given on pages 48 to 49 vote for every share held.
The shares carry no rights to fixed income.
person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all shares are fully paid.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Graham Alcock who will be stepping down, all NEW ISSUES OF SHARE CAPITAL Directors will offer themselves for appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors may allot equity securities only with the express authorisation of shareholders which DIRECTORS INTERESTS may be given in General Meeting, but which cannot last more than five The Directors interests and those of any persons connected with them in years.
Under section 561 of the Companies Act, the board may also not the share capital of the Company from Admission and as at 31 December allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee Share 2015 are set out on page 77 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to POWERS AND APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a Rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in special resolution of the shareholders.
the Companys Articles of Association.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, all Directors shall retire from office and may Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 83 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors were granted the authority to issue and allot shares at a the Board.
The Board confirms that, since the IPO, the Company has General Meeting held on 31 March 2015 just prior to the IPO.
The Board was complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship authorised to allot shares 1 in respect of the corporate reorganisation prior Agreement and that, so far as the Company is aware, the Major Shareholder to the IPO up to a nominal amount of 2,000,000: 2 for the purposes of and its associates have also complied with such provisions.
the IPO up to 400,000: and 3 for any other purposes up to an aggregate nominal amount of 833,333.
The Board considers it would be appropriate DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING RULE LR 9.8.
4R to seek a renewal of the shareholder approval for such authority at the Additional information, where not already contained in the Directors forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of the resolution for such Report, required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, where applicable to authority are included in the Notice of the forthcoming Annual the Company, can be found in the following sections of the annual report: General Meeting.
Subject matter Page reference A statement of the amount of interest Note 3 of the Financial The Company block listed a total of 500,000 ordinary shares on capitalised by the Group Statements 11 December 2015 otherwise there have been no other allotments since the IPO.
Details of long term incentive schemes Page 76 of the Remuneration Report PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Under section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 a Company may make a POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS market purchase of its own shares if the purchase has first been authorised There have been no significant events between 31 December 2015 and the by a resolution of the Company.
date of approval of the Financial Statements which would require a change to or additional disclosure in the Financial Statements.
The Directors were granted the authority to repurchase shares at a general meeting held on 31 March 2015 just prior to the IPO to repurchase up to a CHANGE OF CONTROL maximum of 2,500,000 ordinary shares.
No such purchase has been made.
The Company is not party to any significant contracts that are subject to The Board considers it would be appropriate to seek a renewal of the change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid.
shareholder approval for the authority to purchase shares of up to 10% of its issued share capital at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing compensation for loss of office or employment that Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included in the Notice occurs because of a takeover bid.
of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Details of related party transactions are set out in note 32 to the Financial In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, the Statements.
Company as at 12 February 2016 being the latest practicable date before publication of this report, has been notified of the following disclosable There are no contracts of significance in which a Director is interested.
interests in its issued ordinary shares: Shareholder Ordinary shares held % of voting rights BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 1 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its Special Opportunities Fund Guernsey LP 111,158,600 44.37% future development and performance and its summarised financial Fidelity Mgt & Research 21,598,244 8.62% position are set out on pages 18 to 31 of the Strategic Report.
Kames Capital plc 13,261,897 5.29% 1 This figure has been updated to reflect the transfer of 256,631 shares to Steve Pateman on EMPLOYEES 19 February 2016.
The Group is committed to being an equal opportunities employer and opposes all forms of discrimination.
Applications from people with Interests as at 31 December 2015 were as follows: disabilities will be considered fairly and if existing employees become Shareholder Ordinary shares held % of voting rights disabled, every effort is made to retain them within the workforce Special Opportunities Fund Guernsey LP 111,479,498 44.50% wherever reasonable and practicable.
The Group also endeavours to Fidelity Mgt & Research 21,237,919 8.48% provide equal opportunities in the training, promotion and general career Kames Capital plc 13,411,897 5.35% development of disabled employees.
The Group regularly provides employees with information of concern to RELATIONSHIP WITH MAJOR SHAREHOLDER them, which incorporates the Groups current performance and its future On Admission of its shares following the IPO in April 2015, the Company aims and strategies.
The Group conducts an Annual Employee Survey and entered into a relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement with uses the results of this survey to improve performance in areas that are its major shareholder SOF General Partner Guernsey LP the Major important to staff.
A monthly newsletter providing business updates and Shareholder.
Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, the Major background information on the Group is circulated to all staff.
Shareholder has been granted the right to appoint up to two Directors to the Board so long as it holds a substantial interest in 20% of the Companys EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES ordinary 0.01 pence shares: one Director if it holds a relevant interest in 10% All employees may participate in the Companys Save as You Earn SAYE of the Companys ordinary 0.01 pence shares.
Full details of the Companys Employee Share Schemes are set out Shareholder holding 44.37% in the Companys shares as indicated in the on page 102. table above, the Major Shareholder currently only has one appointee at 1 This will be the latest data before publication of the accounts.
84 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNANC NANCEE FFIINANC financial IAL SS EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST Financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to the use of Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited is the trustee of the Shawbrook Group plc financial instruments please refer to the Risk Management Report pages Employee Benefit Trust, an independent trust, which holds shares for the 32 to 39 and Note 30 of the Financial Statements.
benefit of employees and former employees of the Group.
Unless otherwise directed by the Company, the trustee has agreed to waive all DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR rights to any dividends which may at any time be payable on any shares The Directors confirm that: held by the trust.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards 1. so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit under the employee share plans.
As part of these arrangements the Group information of which the auditor is unaware: and funds the trust, from time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to 2. the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as satisfy these awards, details of which are set out in note 27 on page 113 of Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit the Financial Statements.
information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS The Group made charitable donations of 87k 2014: 56k during the This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with financial year and did not make any political donations or incur any political the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. expenditure during the financial year.
EMISSIONS REPORTING GOING CONCERN Environment Overview The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the We recognise our responsibility to minimise our environmental impact by Directors are satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in business protecting natural resources and operating sustainability.
As a financial for the twelve months from the reporting date.
In making this assessment, the services organisation with no industrial processes we require limited Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present natural resources to carry out our business activities, and therefore have a and future conditions, including the current state of the balance sheet, limited impact on the local and wider environment.
However we future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources and the continuously look to improve upon our process of incorporating longer term strategy of the business.
The Groups capital and liquidity environmental considerations into our day to day operations as well as our plans, including stress tests, have been reviewed by the Directors.
The Groups forecasts and projections show that it will be able to operate 2015 Performance at adequate levels of both liquidity and capital for the 12 months from the In line with the GHG Greenhouse Gas protocol framework, we have reporting date, including a range of stressed scenarios, the availability of calculated the GHG emissions associated with our Scope 1 and 2 alternative sources of capital if required and appropriate management operations using DEFRA conversion factors.
emissions from building and Company vehicles and Scope 2 includes our emissions from purchased electricity.
We are not currently reporting our After making due enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group has Scope 3 emissions due to limited data in relation to our leased assets, sufficient resources to continue its activities for the 12 months from the employee travel, water usage and waste management.
However we will reporting date and to continue its expansion, and the Group has sufficient endeavour to include these in our 2016 Sustainability Report.
capital to enable it to continue to meet its regulatory capital requirements as set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
In 2015, our Total GHG emissions were 583.1 tCOe, equating to 1.14 tCOe per employee, down 1.35% overall and 24.67% per employee since 2014.
As FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE expected, the largest source of GHG emissions in 2015 was our purchased The Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a electricity consumption.
This is due to limited on-site fuel emissions and whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information the use of grey fleet instead of Company vehicles.
necessary for members and other stakeholders to assess the Groups position and performance, strategy and business model.
Our total GHG emissions are reported as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCOe and are calculated in line with the GHG protocol Details of the governance procedures which have been embedded to framework.
In addition to reporting our total emissions, we have also support this can be found in the Audit Committee Report.
disclosed the emissions per employee as an intensity ratio.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT SHAWBROOK BANK LTD ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT TABLE OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES Baseline Year 2014 Information about future developments, internal control and financial risk Consolidation Approach Financial Control management systems in relation to financial reporting and financial risk Emission factor data source DEFRA DECC 2015 and World Resource management systems in relation to financial reporting and financial risk Institute 2015 GHG Protocol tool management objectives and policies in relation to the use of financial Assessment Methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Revised instruments can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report Edition 2004 which are incorporated into this report by reference: Intensity Ratio Emissions per FTE Future developments please refer to the Strategic Report pages 8 to 31.
Internal control and financial risk management systems in relation to financial reportingplease refer to the Corporate Governance Report pages 54 to 55.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 85 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED GHG EMISSIONS Change 2014 2015 2014 to 2015 % Total Scope 1 CO e emissions t 1 61.5 50.1 22.75 2 61.5 50.1 22.75 Total Scope 2 CO e emissions t 521.6 541.0 -3.59 2 Lutea House 268.1 269.7 -0.59 Croydon 95.8 100.5 -4.68 Dorking 88.7 95.2 -6.83 Glasgow 47.7 52.1 -8.45 Wisbech 21.3 23.5 -9.36 Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 CO e 583.1 591.1 -1.35 2 emissions tonnes Total emissions per FTE t 1.13 1.50 -24.67 1 All reported figures have been stated in accordance with the latest DEFRA GHG Protocol Gas Conversion Factors for Company reporting.
2016 Sustainability Going forward we will continue to monitor and report our GHG emissions, working to improve our energy efficiency across the Shawbrook portfolio.
As mentioned we will look to collate, calculate and report our Scope 3 emissions in preparation for the 2016 Sustainability Report, while implementing environmental measures to reduce consumption and GHG emissions.
Shawbrook recently reported energy consumption to the Environment Agency in line with the mandatory government Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme, which has identified 62,650 worth of potential savings opportunities representing a 32% reduction on overall consumption.
AUDITOR Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as the Groups auditor and to give the Directors the authority to determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Shawbrook Group plcs first Annual General Meeting will be held at Instinctif Partners, 65 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7NQ on 9 June 2016 at 10 a. m. Notice of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, which includes the business to be transacted and resolutions to be considered at the meeting, appear in the document accompanying this Report and Accounts.
By order of the Board STEVE PATEMAN Chief Executive Officer 2 March 2016 86 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015
