10 BUSINESS MODEL IN ACTION FUNDS At the heart of the proposition to our clients is our Investment Management Approach.
Investment success is critical to future financial well-being, but it Equally, if the Committees monitoring activity leads to a loss is a field which presents a unique problem: future performance of confidence in the ability of an existing manager to perform in is unpredictable.
As a result, when clients choose investment the future, then it will replace them.
With nearly 60 billion of managers, no matter how successful historically, they can never client assets invested in St. Jamess Place funds and products, be sure that they have made the right choice: and even if they have, the Committee is also mindful of its stewardship responsibilities, it may not continue to be the right choice over the years to come.
and actively monitors and promotes engagement by all of our fund managers.
We believe that our Investment Management Approach IMA addresses these perennial challenges.
We do not place clients Successful long term investment also depends on judicious investments in the hands of an in-house team of fund managers: diversification.
The Investment Committee provides illustrations indeed, we employ no fund managers of our own and so avoid as to how to do this through the provision of Portfolios, which that conflict.
Instead, we choose fund managers from the many combine various managers funds in proportions depending on the fund management firms that exist throughout the world.
Ultimately, however, the right solution for each client can only be achieved through the face-to-face advice The responsibility of selecting the range of funds and fund process, which is the responsibility of their individual Partner.
managers that are made available to the clients of St. Jamess Place at any one time falls upon the Investment Committee.
Alongside our IMA, during 2015 we entered into an agreement The Committee is made up of a small group of executives and to acquire Rowan Dartington, which specialises in Discretionary four independent investment experts, and is advised by Fund Management DFM including direct equity, trust and respected independent investment research consultancies, charity portfolio management.
Subsequent to the year-end we including Stamford Associates, Redington and AON Consulting.
received regulatory approval for the acquisition which is now unconditional.
The firm employs around 100 people across 10 The Investment Committee meets regularly to monitor regional offices with funds under management of over 1.1 billion.
performance and considers detailed reports from our consultants This will both broaden the range of investment options we can and each fund manager.
If a change in the marketplace calls for offer existing clients and enable us to participate more fully in the the addition of another manager, the Committee will select one.
substantial DFM sector of the UK wealth market.
35 funds 34 fund houses 14 exclusive to UK retail investors 65 lead fund managers 8 asset classes strategies 14 cities ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 11 INDEPENDENT INVESTMENT INVESTMENT EXPERTISE COMMITTEE CONSULTANTS MANAGES THE MANAGERS Decisions: Appoints the Sets performance Risk management Change firm?
fund managers objectives and strategy Change manager?
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
