S St tr rat ate eg gi ic c Re Rep po or rt t S St t.. Ja Jam me es s' 's s P Pl la ac ce e F Fo ou un nd da at ti io on n G Go ove ver rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na anc nci ia al l S St ta at te em me en nt ts s O Ot th he er r I In nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n 7 7 OUR BUSINESS MODEL St. Jamess Place plc is a FTSE 100 listed Company.
The business is centred on the UK and seeks to attract clients from the mass affluent and high net worth markets.
CLIENTS PARTNERS FUNDS FINANCIAL Value for To deliver To continue To increase Clients positive to grow and funds under outcomes to develop the management an increasing Partnership population of clients Value for Shareholders SJP is a wealth management business: the Groups advisers, the Attracting new funds under management is core to the success St. Jamess Place Partnership, provide clients with a financial of the Group, and growth in new business arises as a result of planning service and face-to-face advice, and clients wealth both increasing Partner numbers and also encouraging further is managed through the Groups distinctive Investment development by existing Partners.
By providing an attractive Management Approach IMA.
Almost uniquely within the UK proposition, the Group is able to recruit new members to the wealth management market, this vertically integrated model Partnership, and the provision of high quality support enables means that the Group is directly responsible for the whole Partners to grow both their own businesses and ours.
offering, including advice, management of investments and any related services.
Group expenditure is carefully managed with clear objectives set and with a particular focus on managing fixed costs.
The Partnership is critical to the success of the business.
Many activities are outsourced so we can benefit from industry Partners are able to attract clients and, through building trust, specialists and expenses that vary with business levels.
develop long term relationships, supporting clients with their Such expenses include the costs of client administration and financial needs over time.
This relationship-based approach is investment administration, the costs of which can then be met greatly valued by the Groups clients, no more so than in periods from margins in our products.
Overall, a small proportion of of financial uncertainty.
The Groups experience is that there is expenditure is required to maintain existing funds, but the an increasing demand for trusted advice from experienced majority is invested in supporting and growing the Partnership advisers, backed by a strong brand and an organisation which and acquiring new funds.
takes responsibility for all aspects of the service.
Profits emerge from the business principally as a result of the As a result, the Group is able to attract and retain retail funds annual management income from funds under management under management from which it receives an annual exceeding expenses.
This is the principal source of income for the Group, and it grows with additional new business and also as a result of growth in markets and the success of our approach to investment management.
S ST T. J. JA AM ME ES S S P S PL LA AC CE P E PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 15 5
