14 OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY EXPLAINED Our key business objective is growth in funds under management FUM through offering a high quality service to clients.
Growth in FUM and Net Inflows requires growth in Gross Inflows and retention of FUM.
Our growth strategy for delivering increasing As a result of pursuing these strategies for over 20 years, we have Gross Inflows involves: built strong relationships with our Partners and clients, and we Growing the size of the Partnership: and benefit from strong client and Partner loyalty and advocacy.
provides a strategic advantage over our competitors, and as a result we have experienced Gross Inflows growth of 15-20% p. a. over Our support strategy for delivering sustained retention the longer term, with FUM doubling every five years.
We are of FUM involves: confident that, with this strategy, we can continue to deliver Delivering high quality service to Partners and clients: and similar growth in FUM in the medium-term up to five years.
Driving consistent good investment performance.
1 2 DELIVER POSITIVE GROW PARTNERSHIP AND OUTCOMES TO CLIENTS DEVELOP EXISTING PARTNERS What this means: What this means: Through our face-to-face based advice service, we Through providing an attractive proposition we aim to help clients in a way which reflects their are able to recruit new members to the personal circumstances.
Partnership, and by providing high quality support we can help them to grow.
Our approach is based on development of longterm relationships, founded on trust.
By Our Partners play the leading role in delivering continually seeking to enhance our processes and our wealth management service.
Expanding their make improvements to the client experience we number is central to our growth aspirations.
Our achieve client satisfaction, leading to strong support for them includes ongoing professional retention and high levels of client advocacy.
As a development as well as support systems and result, we are able to attract new clients through infrastructure, to ensure they are equipped to both referrals and introductions.
deliver a first class service to their clients.
Our focus for 2016: Our focus for 2016: - Ensuring the underlying administration of our - Continue to attract high quality advisers to client offering meets all expectations join the Partnership - Introduce a new retirement account proposition - Support existing Partners in gaining further - Integrate the Rowan Dartington DFM offering qualifications, including Chartered Status as part of our holistic client offering - Expand our existing regional academies - Extend our relationship with Metro Bank and initiative to include Edinburgh and enhance the services they provide for our clients our next generation succession academy - Develop our offering for supporting clients - Secure our presence in Asia wanting to make inter-generational financial - Integrate Rowan Dartington into our Partner arrangements proposition Our Clients p. 8 t Our Partners p. 9 t ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 15 3 4 INCREASE FUNDS ACHIEVE SUSTAINABLE UNDER MANAGEMENT GROWTH IN PROFITS What this means: What this means: Management of client funds is at the heart of our The principal source of income for the Group is business.
They are managed through our annual management income from funds under distinctive Investment Management Approach management.
As a result, it grows with new IMA.
business and with growth in investments.
Overall FUM growth is driven by successful Profits, and ultimately dividends, reflect expense Partners supporting satisfied clients, underpinned management as well.
by consistent delivery of the IMA.
Sustainable growth in profits involves effective Focus on delivering for clients has resulted in management of expenditure, both ongoing and doubling of FUM over the past five years, as well development, in order to achieve increasing FUM.
as in the five years preceding that.
Funds under Current year events will inevitably impact the result management has historically increased organically in any one year, but focus on building the underlying through 15 to 20% growth over the longer term fundamentals will lead to growth in profits.
through gross inflows, market leading retention experience and superior investment returns.
Our focus for 2016: - Manage expense growth to around 10% p. a.
Our focus for 2016: - Expenditure focused on safely delivering our - Continuing focus on the IMA proposition, and strategy, including achieving 15-20% growth in select, monitor, change gross inflows - Broadening of the investment proposition - Investment in the business to support long-term - Review our stewardship focus growth - Integration of the DFM option into our overall - Embedding the new Solvency II regulatory approach to investment management regime Investment Management Approach p. 10 t Financial KPIs p. 17 u S ST T. J. JA AM ME ES S S P S PL LA AC CE P E PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 15 5
