60 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sarah Bates David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Date of Appointment: Chairman January 2014.
Date of Appointment: Chief Executive Officer Date of Appointment: Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director, September 2004.
Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Experience Experience Experience Sarah brings over 30 years experience from the David has worked in the financial services industry Andrew joined the Company in 1993 and has been investment and investment management sectors, since 1973.
He joined the Founders of the Company Chief Financial Officer since 2004.
Having trained both executive and non-executive.
Amongst her at the outset to establish the back office.
Since then as an Accountant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells many roles, she was Joint CIO and CEO for Invesco he has held a number of roles at St. Jamess Place, now part of  he then UK and its Institutional Division between 1999 including Group Operations Director and Managing worked in the financial services sector.
She has also served as Chairman of the Director.
He is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place joining St. Jamess Place he has held a number of Association of Investment Companies from 2011 Foundation.
roles within the Finance department, assuming the to 2013.
She retains a range of investment related role of Finance Director in 2002.
He is a Trustee of External Appointments responsibilities which support her Chairmanship of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Member of the Financial Conduct Authoritys St. Jamess Place.
External Appointments External Appointments Lay member of the Audit, Risk & Investment Chairman of J. P. Morgan American Investment Committees of the Royal College of Surgeons Trust plc, and Witan Pacific Investment Trust.
Non-executive director of Worldwide Healthcare and Polar Capital Technology Trust plc.
Senior independent director of U and I plc.
Member of the investment committee of the Universities Superannuation Fund.
David Lamb Ian Gascoigne Managing Director Managing Director Date of Appointment: Executive Director Date of Appointment: January 2003.
Experience Experience Ian is Managing Director responsible for the David is Managing Director with responsibility management and development of the Partnership.
for Private Client, International and Discretionary He has worked in the financial services industry Fund Management business and the Groups since 1986 and has considerable experience in investment business, including the fund range.
Ian is a Trustee of the He is a Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Actuaries, having worked in the financial sector External Appointments since 1979, and has significant experience in wealth Member of the Advisory Board of Loughborough management, together with investment and University Business School.
He is chair of the Investment Committee and a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
External Appointments Non-executive director of The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Director of the Wealth Management Association.
Governor of the University of the West of England.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 61 Iain Cornish Simon Jeffreys Senior Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Date of Appointment: Non-executive Director January 2014.
Date of Appointment: Senior Independent Chair of the Audit Committee.
Experience Chair of the Risk Committee.
Simon brings experience of the auditing world and financial services.
He was a senior audit partner Experience with  LLP from 1986 to Iain brings experience from both the financial 2006 where he also led their Global Investment and regulatory environments.
He was a senior Management practice.
Between 2006 and 2014, consultant at KPMG, specialising in the banking Simon was CFO and Chief Administrative Officer and finance sector, and then served as chief at Fidelity International and then CFO and Chief executive of the Yorkshire Building Society.
Operating Officer at the Wellcome Trust.
In recent years he has been an independent director of the Prudential Regulation Authority and External Appointments chairman of the FSA Practitioner Panel.
Chairman of AON UK Limited, non-executive director and chair of the Audit Committees of External Appointments Henderson International Income Trust plc and Chairman of Shawbrook Group plc and nonSimCorp A S, a listed Danish financial services executive director of Arrow Global Group plc.
Senior Advisor to Wellcome Trust.
Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Yates Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Date of Appointment: Non-executive Director Date of Appointment: Non-executive Director April 2012.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience Baroness Wheatcroft brings experience of the Experience media and also the legislature.
Her career has Roger brings over 30 years of investment Full biographical details may be found on included editorial roles at both the Sunday management experience.
He started his career the corporate website at www.
co. uk Telegraph and The Times, as well as being with GT Management Limited in 1981 and has editor-in-chief at the Wall Street Journal, Europe.
subsequently held positions at Morgen Grenfell, She is a member of the House of Lords.
Her Invesco and Henderson Group plc, where he was Committee key: financial services experience includes previous chief executive officer.
Most recently, he was appointments as a non-executive director of chairman of Electra Private Equity plc until Member of Audit Committee Barclays Group plc and Shaftesbury plc.
5 November 2015 and a non-executive director Member of Risk Committee of IG Holdings plc, from which he resigned on Member of Remuneration Committee External Appointments 15 October 2015.
Member of Nomination Committee Non-executive director of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles.
Chairman of the Financial Times External Appointments Appointments Committee.
Non-executive chairman of Pioneer Global Asset Management S. p. A. Non-executive director of J. P. Morgan Elect plc.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
