8 BUSINESS MODEL IN ACTION CLIENTS Putting clients at the heart of everything we do is core to our Our survey confirmed that the majority of our clients are aware culture and enables us to work together to run a genuinely clientof the various changes in pension freedom rules in recent years focussed business.
It is important for clients to have a clear but, as in previous years, most believe they will be unaffected understanding of the level of service they can expect from their and do not expect to change their retirement plans.
However, Partner, so they can be confident that this will meet their needs.
another area of concern for many of them was the intergenerational challenge, and in particular their desire to support The level of ongoing service is agreed between the Partner and younger members of their family.
the client and, most importantly, is tailored appropriately to the level of care and attention they require.
Clear and robust systems Despite receiving much positive feedback from clients, we never and controls are in place to enable us to deliver the agreed level become complacent and in 2016 we will continue to seek of service and support the delivery of positive client outcomes.
improvements to the service and all round experience for clients.
Delivering a positive client experience is integral to any successful and productive business.
It requires an effective business plan, robust infrastructure and processes that work.
The result is satisfied clients who understand the ongoing service that they receive and whose expectations are met, or exceeded.
ClieNt GeoGraphiC distributioN We achieve this primarily through the activity of the St. Jamess As of 30 June 2015 Place Partnership see page 9.
Our Partners recognise that no one clients objectives or circumstances are the same as anothers, and so tailor the advice and service to suit them.
Clients often continue the working relationship with their Partner over many years, appreciating a source of trusted advice as their financial needs evolve over the years.
In order to ensure that our business continues to be client- 6% focused, senior management monitors all areas of the business which can affect the client experience.
Monitoring covers all stages of the client life-cycle, including the suitability of advice, administration, investment experience, client feedback and, rarely, client complaints.
2% Our annual Wealth Account survey, which we have now been 24% running for five years, continues to be an invaluable opportunity to get feedback from clients, with over 47,000 responses to the 2015 questionnaire received in the end.
Response to a survey has again been sought from clients in Q1 2016 and highlights include: 14% 92% receive the right amount of face-to-face communication 3% from their Partner, and 95% know that they can request a 4% meeting at any time 79% rated the proposition as either good or excellent value 13% for money, with a further 19% describing it as reasonable 22% 10% 95% of clients would recommend St. Jamess Place to others, with an increased proportion of around 60% already having done so 2014: 46% Overseas Clients: 2% 78% of those still saving for retirement feel either very or fairly confident that their current pension, savings and investment plans will be sufficient to cover their living expenses and desired lifestyle in retirement, compared with 94% of retired clients ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
