100 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Report and the Annual Report and The Company reviews its compliance with the Code on an Accounts and the audited consolidated financial statements of ongoing basis.
Details of how your Company has complied with theGroup for the year ended 31 December 2015.
All of the the Code throughout the year are set out in the Corporate Directors were in office throughout the financial year and up to Governance sections of this Report.
Particular detail on those the date of signing this report.
principles from the Code which relate to remuneration is provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 99.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the required content of the Management Report can Your Board considers that the Company has complied with all of befound in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, the provisions of the Code during 2015. including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
Specific reference to CO emissions As outlined in the Risk and Risk Management section on page 2 can be found on page 52.
40, processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group have been in place throughout the year under For the purposes of compliance with the UK Financial Conduct review and up to the date of this report.
They are regularly Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4R, the information required to reviewed by the Board, with the assistance of the Risk be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 can be found in the following sections: Committee, and accord with the Guidance for Directors in C. 2.3. of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As outlined in the Corporate Governance Report on page 68, the Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Interest Capitalised Not Applicable Group in accordance with the Guidance for Directors in C. 2.1.
Not Applicable Publication of Unaudited of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Financial Information Details of Long Term Incentive The Directors Remuneration Status of Company Schemes Report on pages 82 to 99 The Company is registered as a public limited company under Waiver of Emoluments by a Not Applicable the Companies Act 2006.
Director For details of the Companys subsidiaries and overseas branches, Waiver of Future Emoluments Not Applicable please see page 170. bya Director Non Pre-Emptive Issues of Not Applicable The Directors Equity for Cash Board of Directors Item 7 in Relation to Major Not Applicable Details of the Directors as at 22 March2016 and their biographies Subsidiary Undertakings are shown on pages 60 and 61.
Brief particulars of the Directors Parent Participation in a Placing Not Applicable membership of the Board Committees are contained in the by a Listed Subsidiary Corporate Governance Report on pages 64 to 69.
Contracts of Significance Directors Report Appointment of Directors Provision of Services by a Not Applicable The Companys Articles of Association require that any Director Controlling Shareholder appointed during the year to fill a casual vacancy must stand for Shareholder Waivers of Directors Report reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and that, Dividends at each Annual General Meeting, all those Directors who were Shareholder Waivers of Future Directors Report elected or last re-elected at or before the Annual General Dividends Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year, shall retire from office by rotation.
Directors can be removed Agreements with Controlling Not Applicable from office by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or in Shareholders certain other circumstances as set out in the Articles of Association.
However, in accordance with the recommendations UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 of the Code, all of the Directors will retire by rotation at the Under the FCA Listing Rules, all UK listed companies must Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2016. state whether they have complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code dated September 2014 the Code Before a Director is proposed for re-election by shareholders, the throughout the year and, where they have not complied, they are Chairman considers whether his or her performance continues required to explain such non-compliance.
The provisions of the to be effective and whether they demonstrate commitment to Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils the role.
After careful consideration, the Chairman is pleased to website, www.
confirm that, following the external Board evaluation referred ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 101 to on page 69, the Directors seeking re-election continue to Meeting to be held in 2016.
The Company does not have make a valuable contribution to the Board and continue to agreements with any Director or employee that would provide dedicate sufficient time to their duties.
Your Directors each compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a bring significant skill sets to the Board as a result of their varied takeover, except that provisions in the Companys share schemes careers and we believe that this diversity is essential to may, in certain circumstances, cause share awards granted to contributing to the appropriate mix of skills and experience employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
needed by the Board and its committees in order to protect the interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Board therefore Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance recommends to its shareholders that all the Directors retiring at The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and the forthcoming Annual General Meeting be re-elected.
officers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as Directors or officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Power of the Directors Company has granted indemnities to all of its Directors and The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Directors of subsidiary companies on terms consistent with the Company and their powers are subject to any regulations of the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third party indemnity Articles, to the provisions of the Statutes and to such regulations provisions for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act as may be prescribed by Special Resolution of the Company.
2006 were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended 31December 2015, and remain in force at the date of The Companys Articles of Association contain, for example, this report.
specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
They also provide that Directors have Share Capital the power to allot unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels Structure of the Companys Capital set and approved by shareholders in general meetings.
This also As at 31 December 2015, the Companys issued and fully paid up applies to the Directors allotting equity securities otherwise share capital was 524,665,212 ordinary shares of 15 pence each.
than in accordance with statutory pre-emption rules.
All ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities movement in the issued share capital during the year are This statement is set out on page 105.
The complete Corporate provided in Note 29 to the financial statements on page 162.
Governance Report is set out on pages 64 to 69.
Voting Rights Conflicts of Interest At any General Meeting, on a show of hands, each member who The Company has in place procedures for the management of is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who Conflicts of Interest.
In the event a Director were to become has been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on a aware that they or any of their connected persons have an actual resolution has one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present or potential conflict of interest, they must disclose this to the in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of Board immediately.
The Board will then consider the potential which he is the holder.
conflict of interest based on its particular facts, and decide whether to waive the potential conflict and or impose Forms appointing a proxy sent by the Company to shareholders, conditions on such waiver if it believes this to be in the best in relation to any General Meeting, must be received by the interests of the Company.
Internal controls also exist whereby Company or their registrars not less than 48 hours before the regular checks are conducted to ensure that the Directors have time appointed for holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on Voting Rights Except as stated in the Directors Remuneration Report, no If any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under Director has, or has had during the year under review, any section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the material interest in any contract or arrangement with the relevant information for a period of 14 days, then the shareholder Company or any of its subsidiaries.
may not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders Directors Service Agreements meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership The Companys policy is that service contracts may be in relation to shareholders meetings.
terminated with 12 months notice from either the Company or from the Executive Director except in certain exceptional If those default shares represent at least 0.25 per cent of their class, recruitment situations where a longer notice period from the any dividend payable in respect of the shares will be withheld by Company may be set provided it reduces to a maximum of the Company and subject to certain limited exceptions no 12 months with a specified time limit.
Service contracts do not transfer, other than an excepted transfer, of any shares held by the contain a fixed end date.
Executive Directors service contracts member in certificated form will be registered.
will be available for inspection at the Companys Annual General ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 102 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Articles of Association The full rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles can be amended by a special resolution of the members of the Company and copies can be obtained from Companies House.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and Accounts: attend, speak and exercise voting rights: and appoint proxies to attend general meetings.
The Company proposes to amend its Articles of Association at its forthcoming Annual General Meeting due to new requirements under the Solvency II regulations in relation to Tier 1 Instruments.
Full details are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Restrictions on Share Transfers There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out in the Articles of Association.
Restrictions include transfers made in favour of more than four joint holders and transfers held in certificated form.
Directors may decline to recognise a transfer, unless it is in respect of only one class of share and lodged and duly stamped with the Transfer Office.
The Directors may also refuse to register any transfer of shares held in certificated form which are not fully paid.
Directors may also choose to decline requests for share transfers from a US Person as defined under Regulation S of the United States Securities Act 1933 that would cause the aggregate number of beneficial owners of issued shares who are US Persons to exceed 70.
The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Directors may from time to time determine in respect of any class of shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
Substantial Shareholders As at 22 February 2016, the Company had been notified of the following interests disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Holding at % held at Holding at % held at Shareholder 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2015 22 Feb 2016 22 Feb 2016 Ameriprise Financial Inc 28,184,506 5.38 28,184,506 5.38 The Capital Group Companies, Inc 27,174,893 5.19 27,174,893 5.19 FMR LLC 26,126,505 5.03 26,126,505 5.03 BlackRock, Inc. 26,277,302 5.00 n a n a The interests of the Directors, their families and any connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 93.
Results and Dividends The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is on page 114 and profit after tax for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders increased to 202.0 million from 187.9 million in the prior year.
The profit before tax reduced from 294.4 million to 174.1 million in the current year, principally due to the 88.7 million reduction in charges, from 111.5 million in 2014 to 22.8 million in 2015, deducted from Life Investment business in respect of policyholder tax due to HMRC and included within profit before tax, as explained on page 28.
This movement was mainly driven by relative investment performance in the year, reflecting the fact that, whilst the investment return was still positive in 2015, it was not as strong as in the prior year.
The profit before tax was also impacted negatively by the 21.7 million movement in DAC DIR PVIF intangibles, which is explained on page 27, and the 14.2 million increase in the charge from the FSCS levy in the year.
An interim dividend of 10.72 pence per share, which equates to 56.0 million, was paid on 2 October 2015 2014: 8.93 pence per share 46.1 million.
The Directors recommend that shareholders approve a final dividend of 17.24 pence per share, which equates to 90.5 million 2014: final dividend of 14.37 pence per share 74.8 million to be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 April 2016.
In 2012, the Directors introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP, details of which are set out on page 198.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 103 The right to collective bargaining has not been exercised by any Authority to Purchase Own Shares of the Companys employees: however, were they to do so, the At the Annual General Meeting in 2015, shareholders granted Company would look to comply with due process.
authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual The Company considers it important to provide its employees General Meeting to be held in 2016, or 18 months from the date with a balanced work and home life, and does not expect its granted, whichever is the earlier.
During the year, the Company employees to work excessive hours.
did not purchase any of its own shares.
The Directors will propose the renewal of the authority to purchase its own shares The Company has a calendar of regular communication with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
employees and this includes a bi-annual employee satisfaction survey, the most recent of which was conducted in 2014.
Employees Details of the Companys approach to maintaining an The Company also offers a range of development options which appropriately skilled and diverse workforce can be found in the reflect business priorities and offer employees the opportunity to Strategic Report on page 12. grow their careers within the Group.
Such opportunities include: An apprenticeship programme launched in 2012: The Company is committed to attracting and retaining talented Membership of the Institute of Customer Service: people of both genders, and indeed of diverse skills and mind sets A rolling programme of Knowledge Development Meetings: in the wider sense.
The Company has a policy of ensuring that Support for employees seeking externally recognised no discrimination takes place with regards to its job applicants professional qualifications: and employees.
Appointments and promotions are made based Management development activities for those with the on fair and considered judgements, with the individuals being interest and ability to develop their careers as leaders in the assessed on their merits and skill sets.
We need to make sure we business: and are not unwittingly excluding any particular group from the Specific development programmes for the more specialist opportunities we can offer or depriving ourselves of people who roles within the Companys Field Management Team.
could bring benefits to our community.
The Company encourages employee involvement in its We strive to give full and fair consideration to applications from performance through the use of employee share plans.
and promotions of disabled people, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and where appropriate, we will consider modifications to the working environment so they can Bribery Act 2010 take up opportunities or enhance their role.
We will similarly The Board is responsible for the oversight of the Companys make every effort in the event of an employee becoming ill or anti-bribery, corruption and whistleblowing policies and disabled, for example, by arranging appropriate training.
During 2015, the Company carried out its annual review to ensure that it has adequate policies and procedures in We have also been looking at patterns of female participation place to prevent bribery and corruption.
This included reviewing throughout the Group.
For instance, we have a slightly higher the Bribery Act Policy Statement, along with other related level of female participation in the Partnership than is typical of policies and procedures, and providing training to employees the financial advice industry although it is still not very high, and Partners with regards to money laundering, fraud, bribery and the level of female participation in other teams can vary and corruption via an online training programme, the quite significantly.
We have also looked at the distribution of completion of which is compulsory.
salaries between male and female employees in particular pay grades.
During the year, the Executive Board reaffirmed its The Company also operates a Whistleblowing policy, and commitment to make further progress.
A budget for work has encourages employees, Partners and other interested parties to been agreed, and a steering group set up, chaired by Ian advise, on an anonymous basis, the appropriate person in the Gascoigne, to develop our approaches.
Company should they become aware of any wrongdoing.
The key contact for Whistleblowing is the Chair of the Audit Committee.
We believe that, by adopting best practice principles, we seek to ensure that our responsibilities are met as an equal opportunity During 2015, no employees or Partners were disciplined or employer and that everyone can enjoy an environment free from dismissed due to non-compliance with the Anti-Bribery and discrimination of any sort.
Corruption policies and no fines were levied against the Company in relation to bribery or corruption.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 104 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Bribery Act Policy Statement and the Whistleblowing The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity procedure are available to all employees and Partners via the position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Companys intranet.
In addition, the Notes on pages 143 and pages 148 to 159 and the Risk and Risk Management section on pages 40 to 47 include: the Companys objectives: policies and Significant Contracts and Change of Control processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management The Company has a number of contractual arrangements objectives: details of its financial instruments and its exposures which it considers essential to the business of the Company.
to credit risk and liquidity.
Specifically, these are committed loan facilities from a number of banks and arrangements with third party providers of As shown on pages 35 to 39 of the Strategic Report, the Groups administrative services.
capital position is strong and well in excess of regulatory requirements.
The long-term nature of the business results in A change of control of the Company may cause some agreements considerable positive cash flows, arising from existing business.
to which the Company is a party to alter or terminate.
These As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is include bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Group had committed facilities totalling 175.0 million as The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company at 22 February 2016 which contain clauses which require lender and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business consent for any change of control.
In addition, the Group in line with the Viability Statement set out on page 42.
For this guarantees the obligations of loans made to Partners in reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in connection with facilities agreed with various lenders totalling preparing the accounts.
Further information on the basis of 68.7 million in aggregate.
Should consent not be given, preparation of these accounts can be seen in Note 1 to both the a change of control would trigger mandatory repayment of the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting said facilities.
Standards and the Parent Company Accounts under Financial Reporting Standard 101.
All the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject Disclosure of Information to Auditors where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance Each of the Directors, at the date of approval of this report, conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
confirms that: So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and Political Donations Each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken It is the Groups policy not to make any donations to political as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit parties within the meaning of the definitions set out in the information and to establish that the Companys auditor is Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and aware of such information.
sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group did not make any political donations during the year 2014: nil.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Annual General Meeting Act 2006.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 4 May 2016 at The Royal Aeronautical Society, Independent Auditors 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ at 11.00am.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution that they be Going Concern re-appointed until the end of the 2017 Annual General Meeting The Code provides that in its annual financial statements, the will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on Directors should state whether they consider it appropriate to 4 May 2016. adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and identify any material uncertainties to the Companys ability On behalf of the Board to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Companys Viability Statement is set out in the Risk and Risk Management section on page 42.
David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The Companys business activities, together with the factors 22 March 2016 likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report, as referred to on page 55.
