Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 9 BUSINESS MODEL IN ACTION PARTNERS Members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership play the leading Growth in the Partnership is a crucial long-term objective.
role in delivering our wealth management service.
In addition to our existing successful recruitment proposition we continued to develop the St. Jamess Place Academy.
This Our Partners, so called because of the way they work in provides an opportunity for suitable second-careerists to receive partnership with both their clients and their colleagues, are some training and assistance to build a Partner business with us.
We of the most experienced and able professionals working in wealth now have three regional centres in London, Manchester and management today.
St. Jamess Place has chosen to promote Solihull, and are opening one in Edinburgh in February.
During our services exclusively through the Partnership, reflecting the 2015 we enrolled over 100 new students and expect to increase confidence we have in Partners ability to build and maintain this to around 120 in 2016.
Also in 2015, we graduated long-term working relationships with their clients, and so 49 Academy Partners following the two year programme and to be able to provide sound financial advice.
The exclusive expect this to rise in 2016 in line with our regional expansion.
arrangement also provides clients with clarity of responsibility in Around half of our new students are from non-financial relation to their financial dealings.
St. Jamess Place works hard backgrounds and the average age, at 38, is ten years younger to support these client-Partner relationships, placing them at the than the average Partner.
In addition, our Next Generation Academy initially aimed at Establishing long-term relationships is key.
Clients need to be bringing sons and daughters of existing Partners into their able to place a high degree of reliance on financial advice and so businesses also supports growth and builds succession for our being able to call upon the services of long-term advisers who existing successful businesses.
So far we have enrolled over understand their individual personal circumstances is important.
140 new students onto this programme now widened to But it is also important that clients are dealt with in the way they include non-family, with an average age of 27.
To date, 61 of would choose and not simply in a single prescribed way.
Our these students have progressed to become fully qualified and Partners are located throughout the UK, enabling face-to-face authorised members of the Partnership.
advice to be delivered wherever they may be.
Long term relationships clearly work for clients but are also good for The Henley Group, a successful IFA business based in Hong business, with 90% of our new business estimated to come from Kong, Shanghai and Singapore, which we purchased in 2014, existing clients and their referrals.
has now been rebranded St. Jamess Place Wealth Management and has already grown to 83 advisers working across the three New Partners are provided with a document entitled What it offices with nearly 5,000 clients and 460 million assets under means to be a member.
This sets out a philosophy and some advice.
It extends our geographical scope and provides a new principles.
We believe the shared commitment to living up to region for recruitment.
these principles is what gives the Partnership its competitive edge and makes it a group of professionals that other advisers aspire to join.
Our principles emphasise integrity, trust, openness, partnership and teamwork and are designed to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions and standards across our community.
Given the importance of our Partners, we are committed to providing ongoing professional development to ensure they remain appropriately qualified, technically able and equipped to deliver a first class service.
We also encourage and provide support for Partners who choose to pursue further qualifications, with many Partners having plans to progress to Chartered Status.
As a result of the professionalism of our Partners, we are happy to guarantee the suitability of the advice that they give when recommending any of the wealth management products and services provided by companies in the Group.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
