56 ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION Since its formation 23 years ago, the St. Jamess Place Group has been committed to fostering a culture of giving back to those who need it most.
Tuscan Peaks Challenge raising 115,000 It is a philosophy that has contributed much to the nature of our culture, and been a source of great pride.
Since 1992, the St. Jamess Place Foundation has received nearly 50 million for distribution to good causes.
The overwhelming majority of this has come as the result of fundraising or donations made by St. Jamess Place Partners and employees of the Company.
Funds raised by Partners and employees are matched pound-for-pound by the Company, which also covers all expenses relating to the running of the Foundation.
This means that all the funds raised go directly to those registered charities, at home and overseas, that meet the Foundations themes of cherishing children, combating cancer and supporting hospices.
More than 85% of St. Jamess Place Partners and employees give to the Foundation through their pay or earnings on a monthly basis, which alone generates over 2 million annually, including matching.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 57 Annual St Albans Triathlon and Duathlon raising 92,816 Review of 2015 East in what is an ongoing humanitarian crisis.
Similarly in Continuing its record of year on year growth, the St. Jamess Nepal, which holds a special place in the hearts of the St. Jamess Place Foundation enjoyed another record year for fundraising in Place community following the Everest expedition in 2012, the 2015, raising over 7 million for good causes in the UK and Foundation has donated 40,000 to youth charities supporting abroad.
This was achieved in no small part through contributions the needs of families and communities devastated by the from a number of successful major fundraising events throughout catastrophic earthquakes which killed thousands and destroyed the year, which represent a vital part of the Foundations income.
Events included: the annual Triathlon and Duathlon in St.
The Foundation makes donations and grants ranging from a few Albans, which raised 92,816 for Hope and Homes for Children hundred to hundreds of thousands of pounds.
In doing so, the and which has now realised 1.5 million in the last 13 years for Foundation seeks to make a real difference to the lives of children that charity : the Big Walk 2015, centred on Hadrians Wall, and young people at home and overseas.
Chosen charities are which raised 65,000: the Tuscan Three Peaks Challenge selected very carefully, with the underlying goal being to make the realising 115,000: an epic three-day cycle challenge in Provence biggest difference to as many charities as possible.
raising 282,000: a world record-breaking skydive for the late Teenage Cancer Trust Ambassador, Stephen Sutton, in which Any small charity that meets the Foundations selection criteria St. Jamess Place employees raised 10,000: a further 104,000 can apply for a grant if it has a project that is for the direct benefit from the annual Summer Swing event in Congleton: and of economically disadvantaged or socially marginalised young 80,500 from two regional Children of Courage events in people aged 25 or under, the physically disabled, those suffering Yorkshire and the Midlands.
All amounts shown include from a mental condition, or a life-threatening or degenerative Company matching.
The Foundation also helps those people whose lives have been adversely affected by illness through the hospice movement, Additionally, Partners and employees showed their generosity making grants to hospices to support the cost of complementary by supporting the refugee crisis in Europe, and the aftermath of therapy, equipment or specialist staff.
the Nepal earthquakes at the beginning of the year.
At the end of the year, our community had raised over 25,000 for Save The Children in support of the charitys efforts to help thousands of displaced children fleeing warfare and conflict in the Middle ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 58 ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION CONTINUED Highlighted below are examples of some of the many charities Envision which have benefited from the Foundations support in the last Envision inspires young people to gain skills and confidence, 12 months: and the Foundation has awarded 75,000 over a three year period to fund the cost of its Community Apprentice Scheme, helping disadvantaged young people in Bristol.
Envisions Making a Positive Difference projects help young people to design their own local community Through the Foundations giving programmes we aim to programmes, tackling issues ranging from street crime to make a positive and lasting difference to the lives of children climate change, and inspiring them to become effective role in need both in the UK and overseas, and so they can reach models in their communities.
their full potential, here are some examples of the donations we have made: The Art Room The Foundation granted 77,000 to provide funding for the next Hope and Homes for Children three years for a Deputy Manager at the Northolt Art Room in The Foundation, a long term supporter of Hope and Homes for Ealing, a charity which offers art as therapy to children and young Children, announced a commitment of 600,000 over three adults to raise their self-esteem, self-confidence and independence.
years, starting in 2015, to support the charitys vital work in Romania helping children out of orphanages and into loving Roald Dahls Marvellous Childrens Charity family homes.
The Foundation also donated towards the charitys Roald Dahls Marvellous Childrens Charity helps to make life Numb3rs Appeal which, with UK Aid Match, raised over better for seriously ill children and young people in the UK, and 4 million.
This will support the charitys work in Rwanda and the Foundation donated 84,500 spread over two years to help across East Africa over the next three years, where the focus will fund the salary costs of a nurse specifically caring for children be on reducing reliance on orphanages as a means of caring for who are ill.
The charity is inspired by the belief that every child children.
has the right to a marvellous life, no matter how ill a child is, or how short their life may be.
Philippine Community Fund The Foundation granted 93,600 to the Philippine Community Fund PCF which was set up 13 years ago to improve the quality of life for impoverished communities in the islands.
The PCF works in the most depressed areas of the Philippines, providing education, nutrition, health, medical and familyenhancement programmes.
EdUKaid A grant of 37,000 was awarded by the Foundation to EdUKaid to assist its work in improving the educational prospects of deprived children in the poor rural region of Mtwara in Tanzania, benefiting 700 deprived children aged between four and six years.
A grant of 37,000 was awarded to EdUKaid A commitment of 255,000 was made to the Panathlon Challenge ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 59 A grant of 500,000 was made to OnSide Youth Zones A 2,500 grant was awarded to Support Dogs Panathlon Challenge Local Office Allowances The Foundation committed 255,000 to the Panathlon Local office allowances are small grants made by individual Challenge, a national charity which provides sporting St. Jamess Place offices and are an excellent way of making a opportunities for over 5,000 disabled young people each year.
difference in their local communities.
In the last 12 months, Since 1999, Panathlon has invested over 5.5 million in 258 local grants were made totalling 449,183, often with opportunities for young people to compete in sport.
stories that touch the heart: A Lasting Legacy Funding Capital Projects Charlies Beach Hut Fund Across the UK Charlies Beach Hut Fund was established in Perranporth, Thanks to the record amount raised in 2015, and in previous Cornwall by his parents as a permanent memorial to Charlie years, the Foundation has been able to consider support for Codling, who died at the age of four from an incurable brain larger Capital Projects those that we believe will help children tumour.
The Foundation donated 2,000 to support the Fund in need over a number of years, and leave a lasting legacy for with the annual cost of maintaining the hut which provides both disabled and disadvantaged children, and for young people families of children with life-limiting illnesses with a relaxing in the future.
In 2015 projects totalling in excess of 2 million environment in which they can forge happy memories.
were completed, including: Jacob and Minta Smile, Support & Care A 2,500 grant from Cirencester to Support Dogs helped bring 1.2 million to help build a Care Centre in Hampshire providing joy to a lonely little boy called Jacob.
Trapped in his own world respite breaks where children and young adults with severe by autism, the grant funded the arrival of a yellow Labrador disabilities can stay with their families or carers.
Established in dog called Minta, trained as an Autism Assistance dog, which 1994, Smile, Support and Care provides respite care, across has transformed his life.
Boy and dog are the best of friends, Hampshire and West Sussex, ranging from several hours per and Minta has proved to be the best possible medicine.
week for a child with a mild form of autism, through to 24-hour care for those suffering severe life-limiting conditions.
Future Plans Once again, following a record year of fundraising, the OnSide Youth Zones: The Way Foundation plans to build on its achievements in 2016 to enable 500,000 to help build a state-of-the-art youth centre in it to contribute and make a difference to even more charitable Wolverhampton, providing a vital space for disadvantaged and projects both in the UK and abroad.
A number of exciting disabled young people to engage in life-changing activities, fundraising events and initiatives are already planned for 2016, such as sport, fitness, dance, arts, music, media, enterprise reflecting the wonderful commitment the St. Jamess Place and wellbeing, and self-improvement.
OnSide Youth Zones community makes to the Foundation every year.
spearheads the development of the Youth Zone model across the country.
If you would like to know more about the St. Jamess Place Foundation please visit its website at www.
co. uk ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
