Strategic report Group overview Our business Who we are Standard Chartered is a leading international banking With the new structure, we have simplified and streamlined group, with a 150-year history in some of the worlds thebusiness, reducing layers, providing clear accountability most dynamic markets.
We bank the people and anddriving efficiencies, while maintaining a sharp focus on companies driving investment, trade and the creation thehighest standards of risk management, compliance ofwealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
With our headquarters in London, we have a dual primary In addition, the reorganisation of our business ensures that local listingon the London and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges, and clients are served through a country or regional management rank among the companies listed in the FTSE 100 by market structure, with global clients and businesses served on a global capitalisation.
Our Indian Depositary Receipts are listed on basis, and that we deliver our products and capabilities theBombay and National Stock Exchanges of India.
consistently to all our clients.
We are one of only three commercial banks licensed by the As a result, we consolidated eight regions into four regional Hong Kong Monetary Authority to issue banknotes in Hong businesses, each led by a Regional Chief Executive Officer Kong, and the seventh-largest US dollar clearer globally, CEO.
These Regional CEOshave responsibility for our local averaging over $200 billion per day.
We have also been at clients and businesses, bottom-line profitability and capital, and theforefront of the internationalisation of the renminbi RMB.
They also help drive conduct Our deep local knowledge of Asia, combined with our RMB and compliance programmes.
capabilities, has enabled us to identify multiple business and In addition to our four regional businesses, we also have four growth opportunities.
client businesses, each led by a business CEO.
Corporate Our roots in trade finance and commercial banking have been andInstitutional Banking and Private Banking and Wealth at the core of our success throughout our history, but our Management are managed at a global level.
Corporate business is now more broadly based and includes Retail andInstitutional Banking supports clients cross-border Banking in more than 30 of our markets.
Our brand promise, transactional risk management, and investment needs.
Here for good, is embedded in every decision we make, Itcomprises two client segments, Financial Institutions andisthe cornerstone of our commitment to our clients, andInternational Corporates, and three products, Corporate ourshareholders and the countries where we operate.
Finance, Financial Markets and Transaction Banking.
Asaglobal business, Corporate andInstitutional Banking Our organisational structure operates ineach of the Groups regions, using our network todeliver a high-quality client experience.
Retail Banking and In June 2015, Bill Winters was appointed as the new Group Commercial Banking aremanaged on a country basis with Chief Executive.
Shortly afterwards, in July 2015, we announced regional oversight.
a new Management Team, together with a new organisational structure.
The reorganisation of our business was implemented By the end of 2018, as we drive further efficiencies and improve from 1 October 2015, and will be reflected in our 2016 Annual the way we work, weexpect to reduce our gross headcount Report and Accounts.
byapproximately 15,000, partly through natural attrition.
Theoverall headcount of theGroup reduced from 90,940 attheend of 2014 to 84,076 atthe end of 2015.
Organisational structure as at 1 January 2016 1 Andy Halford Bill Winters Mike Rees Group Chief Financial officer Group Chief Executive Deputy Group Chief Executive Client Businesses Regional Businesses Global Functions 2 Mark Dowie Ben Hung Andy Halford Corporate and Institutional Banking Greater China & North Asia Group CFO Karen Fawcett Ajay Kanwal Dr Michael Gorriz Retail Banking ASEAN & South Asia Information Technology and Operations Anna Marrs Sunil Kaushal David Fein Commercial Banking Africa & Middle East Legal 3 Anna Marrs Tracy Clarke Doris Honold Private Banking and Wealth Management Europe & Americas Group COO 3 Tracy Clarke Compliance 3 Tracy Clarke Human Resources 1.
We have announced that Mike Rees will be retiring from the Group in April 2016 3 2.
Simon Cooper will be joining as the new CEO, Corporate and Institutional Banking in April 2016 Pam Walkden Risk 3.
Pam Walkden has been announced as Group Head, HR and will formally take up the role in April 2016 leaving Tracy Clarke to concentrate on Compliance and her role as Regional CEO.
Mark Smith joined the Group in January as the new Group Chief Risk Officer For current Management Team biographies see pages 10 to 12 9 Our business Who we are Our new Management Team and Institutional Banking in April 2016.
With Michael Gorriz having been appointed last year as Chief Information Officer, Our new Management Team, consisting of 15 members, has this senior group with diverse expertise shows our commitment responsibility for executing the strategy agreed by the Board.
to evolve and transform as our environment changes.
Pam Itcurrently comprises three Group executive directors, including Walkden, who has held the position of interim Group Chief Risk the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer, has since been appointed as Group Head, HR and will Officer: four Regional CEOs: client business CEOs: and our formally take up her new role in April 2016. global function heads.
We have also announced that after 26 years, Mike Rees has We have recently made a number of senior appointments to decided to retire from the Group.
Mike will step down from theManagement Team.
Mark Smith joined us at the end of theBoard and his role as Deputy Group Chief Executive January 2016 from HSBC as the new Group Chief Risk Officer, on30 April 2016. and Simon Cooper will be joining as the new CEO, Corporate Bill Winters, CBE 54 Mike Rees 60 Andy Halford 56 Group Chief Executive Deputy Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Appointed: June 2015 Appointed: August 2009, becoming Appointed: July 2014 Deputy Group Chief Executive in Experience: Bill is a career banker Experience: Andy has a strong finance April2014 withsignificant frontline global banking background and deep experience of experience and a proven track record Experience: Mike has extensive and managing complex international ofleadership and financial success.
wide-ranging international banking businesses across dynamic and changing Hehas extensive experience of working experience.
He held several roles in markets.
Andy was finance director at in emerging markets and a proven record finance at JP Morgan before joining East Midlands Electricity plc prior to in spotting and nurturing talent.
Bill began Standard Chartered in 1990 as the joining Vodafone in 1999 as financial his career with JP Morgan, where he ChiefFinancial Officer for Global Treasury, director for Vodafone Limited, the UK went on to become one ofits top five becoming the Regional Treasurer in operating company.
Andy was later most senior executives and later co-chief Singapore, responsible for the South East appointed financial director forVodafones executive officer at the investment bank Asia Treasury businesses.
Mike was later Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa from 2004 until he stepped down in 2009. appointed Group Head of Global Markets region, andlater the chief financial officer Billwas invited to be a committee and Chief Executive, Wholesale Banking, ofVerizon Wireless in the US.
He was member of the Independent Commission responsible forall commercial banking amember of the board ofrepresentatives on Banking, established in 2010 to products in addition to his responsibilities of the Verizon Wireless Partnership.
recommend ways to improve competition for global markets products.
Mike was Andywas appointed chief financial officer and financial stability in banking.
appointed Deputy Group Chief Executive ofVodafone Group plc in2005, aposition Subsequently, he served as advisor to the in 2014.
He has vast knowledge of the he held for nine years.
AsGroup Chief Parliamentary Commission on Banking Group, our clients and our markets and Financial Officer atStandard Chartered, Standards and was asked by the Court provided valuable support to the Board Andy is responsible for Finance, ofthe Bank of England to complete an and the Management Team in shaping Corporate Treasury, Group Corporate independent review of the banks liquidity and executing our new strategy.
Development, Group Investor Relations, operations.
Billfounded Renshaw Bay, FromOctober 2015, he also assumed Property and Global Sourcing functions.
analternative asset management firm, responsibility for the Groups Brand and Andy is a non-executive director at Marks in2011 where he was chairman andCEO Marketing.
Mike isa member of the andSpencer Group plc and amember before stepping down onappointment International Advisory Board of Mauritius ofthe Business Forum onTax and tothe Standard Chartered PLC Board.
and theMayor of Romes business Competitiveness.
director of Pension Insurance Corporation plc and RIT Capital Partners plc.
Heis anindependent non-executive director ofNovartis International AG.
10 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview Tracy Clarke 49 Ben Hung 51 Ajay Kanwal 49 Group Compliance and Human Resources HR Regional CEO, Greater China & North Asia Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia and Regional CEO, Europe & Americas Appointed: October 2015 Appointed: October 2015 Appointed: Group HR, March 2006: Group Experience: Ben Hung was appointed Regional Experience: Ajay Kanwal was appointed Legal and Compliance, April 2013: and CEO, CEO, Greater China & North Asia, on 1 October Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia on Europe & Americas, October 2015 2015.
Prior to this he was CEO for the Greater 1 October 2015.
Experience: Tracy joined Standard Chartered China Region.
Ajay is a career banker who joined Standard in1985 and has held a number of roles in branch Ben joined Standard Chartered in 1992 and Chartered in 1992 from Citibank in India.
He banking operations, Client Coverage and Group hasheld a number of senior management moved to this role from Korea where he managed functions, both in the UK and in Hong Kong.
positions spanning corporate, commercial Korea, Taiwan and Mongolia as Regional CEO.
Morerecently, Tracy has played an instrumental andretail banking.
role in driving our compliance and conduct Ajay has extensive experience in Asia having agenda and led a broad portfolio including Legal During 2008 to 2014, he was the CEO of livedand worked in all geographic regions in and Compliance and the Financial Crime Risk Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited.
Asiawith CEO Taiwan and Regional Head Mitigation Programme, Human Resources, He is a member of the Financial Services Consumer Banking South East Asia being his Corporate Affairs and Brand and Marketing.
Development Council, sits on the Exchange Fund prior roles.
Ajay has strong expertise in retail Advisory Committee and is a member of the banking, including SME.
He also helped set up Tracy was appointed as a Director of Standard General Committee of the Hong Kong General and grow our successful Private Bank franchise Chartered Bank in January 2013.
From 1 October Chamber of Commerce.
2015, she became Regional CEO Europe & Americas in addition to her responsibilities for Compliance and HR.
She is an independent non-executive director forBritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
From April 2016, Pam Walkden will become Group Head, HR and Tracy Clarke will concentrate on her Europe & Americas Regional CEO role and ongoing Compliance responsibilities.
Sunil Kaushal 50 Mark Dowie 54 Karen Fawcett 53 Regional CEO, Africa & Middle East Interim CEO, Corporate and Institutional Banking CEO, Retail Banking Appointed: October 2015 Appointed: October 2015 Appointed: October 2015 Experience: Sunil Kaushal was appointed Experience: Mark Dowie was appointed as Experience: Karen Fawcett was appointed CEO, Regional CEO, Africa & Middle East on 1 October interim CEO, Corporate and Institutional Banking Retail Banking on 1 October 2015.
Prior to this role, Sunil was Regional CEO, on1 October 2015 and since then has led a responsible for directing the global strategy and South Asia.
comprehensive strategic-change programme for transformation of the Retail Banking business.
He moved to the Corporate and Sunil has 27 years of banking experience in Karen joined the Group 14 years ago as Group Institutional Banking role after four years of leading diverse markets and has been with the Bank Head of Business Strategy.
Prior to that she was the Corporate Finance division, overseeing forapproximately 17 years, holding senior roles a partner in financial services at Booz Allen & successful growth in this business, and also took across the Wholesale and Consumer Bank.
Sunil Hamilton, where she drove multi-year change on interim leadership of the Financial Markets has rich experience across the Groups footprint, programmes for leading banks across Asia.
division for ten months spanning 2014 and 2015. having served as the Head of Corporate Banking Karen transformed Transaction Banking from in UAE, Head of Originations and Client Coverage Mark has extensive corporate experience in 2005 until 2014 and represented the Group in Singapore, Global Head Small and Medium senior roles in the banking and finance industry.
externally in transaction banking regulatory Enterprises SME and New Ventures in Singapore Prior to joining the Group, he was at UBS as vice andindustry thought leadership.
She was and Chief Executive Officer of SCB Taiwan Ltd. chairman, Investment Banking London and joint alsoanon-executive director of Standard Before joining Standard Chartered in 1998, head of Investment Banking Asia covering equity CharteredBank Malaysia Bhd for eight years, Sunilheld various banking positions at a number and debt financing as well as M&A.
He was until October 2013. of leading international financial institutions.
previously managing director, Investment Banking at both Jardine Fleming and Baring Brothers.
Mark She is on the board of directors of INSEAD is a former naval officer and Justice of the Peace.
11 Our business Who we are Anna Marrs 42 David Fein 55 Dr Michael Gorriz 55 CEO, Commercial & Private Banking Group General Counsel Group Chief Information Officer Appointed: October 2015 Appointed: September 2013 Appointed: July 2015 Experience: Anna Marrs was appointed CEO, Experience: David Fein is Group General Experience: Dr Michael Gorriz was appointed Commercial & Private Banking on 1 October 2015 Counsel, advising the Board and the Court of the Group Chief Information Officer when he joined and is leading on the restructure of an expanded Bank on all material legal matters and overseeing Standard Chartered in July 2015.
Commercial Clients business and the build out the Standard Chartereds Legal function and As an industry-award winner, Michael joined ofthe Private Bank.
fromDaimler AG where he was most recently Anna joined Standard Chartered as Group Before joining the Group, David held various vicepresident and CIO with responsibility for the Headof Strategy and Corporate Development senior roles in the United States Government, smooth operation of all Daimler systems and the inJanuary 2012.
Prior to this she was a partner including as United States Attorney for the District management of IT projects globally.
For the past atMcKinsey & Companys Banking Practice in of Connecticut and as Associate Counsel to the 14 years, he has held various CIO roles within the itsGlobal Banking Practice and is a recognised President.
He has extensive experience fighting Daimler group and has spent many years working expert in banking strategy.
financial crime and a track record of forming and across our footprint.
Prior to McKinsey she ran a financial information and technology company, having started her David also serves as Chairman of Seeing is career with a hedge fund in New York.
Believing, the Groups flagship philanthropic effort dedicated to eliminating avoidable blindness.
Doris Honold 49 Mark Smith 54 Pam Walkden 55 Group Chief Operating Officer Group Chief Risk Officer Interim Group Chief Risk Officer Appointed: October 2015 Appointed: January 2016 Appointed: July 2015 Experience: Doris is the Group Chief Operating Experience: Mark was appointed as Group Experience: Pam Walkden was appointed Officer for Standard Chartered supporting the Chief Risk Officer in January 2016 and is asinterim Group Chief Risk Officer in 2015.
Group Chief Executive in defining and executing responsible for managing Credit, Market, Pam joined the Bank in 1991 and has held a the business strategy, reinforcing exemplary andOperational Risk across the Group and number of key roles across the organisation control and governance, ensuring strategic ensuring the broader risk framework is effective.
including Group Head of Corporate Affairs, Group functional alignment and enabling efficient Before joining Standard Chartered, Mark was the Head of Internal Audit and Group Head of ALM.
chief risk officer Europe, Middle East and Africa In July 2009, Pam moved to become Group She joined the Group in March 2007, and has and global head, Wholesale Credit and Traded Treasurer where she was responsible for the served as the Group Head of Market Risk and the Risk for HSBC.
He has had a long and successful management of the Groups balance sheet.
Chief Operating Officer for Wholesale Banking.
career at HSBC, having joined Midland Bank as a In2014, she became Group Business Head, graduate trainee prior to its acquisition by HSBC.
Doris started her career at Dresdner Bank in Regions working closely with the Global Business Other roles at HSBC included chief operating Frankfurt.
She held several market risk leadership Heads and Regional CEOs.
officer, Global Corporate and Institutional roles in Frankfurt, Tokyo and London, before Banking, and he has worked in London and taking over global responsibility for Dresdner Between July 2015 and January 2016, HongKong.
PamWalkden held the position of interim Group Chief Risk Officer.
She has since beenappointed as Group Head, HR and will formally take up her new role in April 2016.
12 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview Our business Our strategy and business model Our presence of companies trading across our network as well as a trusted counterparty of our regulators.
We operate in many of the growth markets in the world.
While there are some macroeconomic challenges, these markets offer Our core objectives exciting long-term opportunities.
Our presence in Europe and the Americas also enables us to bridge business between the Our new strategy has three core objectives: to secure the West and Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
foundations, get lean and focused, and invest and innovate.
With our extensive review complete, we are now focused The rise of the urban middle class, rapid growth of digital onexecuting this strategy and improving returns as outlined technology, and increasing global connectivity all play to inthe Group Chief Executives review on page 6. ourstrengths.
Underpinning this strategy, our objectives are to manage our Our new strategy, strong brand, wealth platform and presence risks, returns and capital to create real value for our clients and in Asia, Africa and the Middle East will allow us to benefit from shareholders, to improve our efficiency through investment and powerful underlying growth trends, as we focus on providing careful cost management, and to invest in capabilities to allow outstanding service to our clients.
us to grow profitably and safely.
There are several external challenges that affect the Groups We are confident our new strategy will restore the Group to performance, including market developments in China, sustainable, profitable growth and deliver good returns for our depressed commodity prices and weak investor sentiment shareholders.
It will reposition the Group to weather near-term towards emerging markets.
We are realistic about these uncertainties, fix legacy issues, and capture significant challenges, and believe that the right course of action is to underlying opportunities.
execute our strategic plans with discipline and drive our business more dynamically, thus enabling us to generate the profitability A shift in our mix and growth that is inherent to our business and our markets.
Inevitably, the strategy requires a fundamental shift in our Our aspirations business mix, and we will move away from more capitalintensive, lower-growth and lower-profitability segments of Today, we have a strong capital base, are highly liquid, and have ourbusiness.
This will mean an increase in the proportion an increasingly diversified balance sheet.
We are confident that ofourbusiness or revenue coming from Retail Banking, this solid foundation will protect the Group through periods of WealthManagement, Private Banking, Foreign Exchange volatility and economic headwinds, while giving us the platform andTransaction Banking.
to capitalise on opportunities as they arise.
In short, we are investing in the parts of our business Our new strategy, which we announced in November 2015, whichwillenable us to play to the strengths of our network andthe initiatives we are continuing to drive, will result in a andcapabilities.
We are confident that thesechanges will help us build a financially strong business What we are doing that will deliver return on equity in excess of 8 per cent by 2018, while we look to achieve more than 10 per cent by 2020.
In order to deliver our new strategy and meet the three core objectives, we have developed a comprehensive programme By 2020, we want to be the best and most innovative financial ofactions see diagram below.
Since November 2015, we have institution in our markets meeting the needs of the affluent already made progress against many aspects of the strategy, and emerging middle class and enabling the internationalisation asoutlined in the Group Chief Executives review on page 6.
Comprehensive programme of actions in pursuit of three core objectives Rights issue to strengthen the balance sheet materially Business strategy aligned with tightened risk tolerance Businesses and assets representing approximately one-third of Group risk-weighted assets 1 tobe restructured Secure the Simplified organisation structure to focus more on geographic execution foundations Deliver our conduct and financial crime risk programmes Restructure Corporate and Institutional Banking for higher returns Accelerate Retail Banking transformation 2 Fundamentally overhaul Commercial Banking Get lean and Clear and deliverable strategy for our regions Assertively manage costs to create investment capacity focused Invest and innovate in Private Banking and Wealth Management to capture opportunities Build on a strong foundation and invest to grow safely in Africa 3 Leverage opening of China: capture opportunities from renminbi internationalisation Invest and Roll out enhanced Retail digital capabilities across our footprint innovate 13 Our business Our strategy and business model A key element of our strategy is to invest in our core strengths Our culture and where we have, or will have, a competitive advantage.
Underpinning our approach to conducting our business and Weare investing more than $3 billion over the next three achieving our aspirations is our commitment to our brand yearsintechnology, Retail Banking, Private Banking and promise, Here for good.
This is at the core of who we are, WealthManagement, Africa, China, the internationalisation andbuilds upon our rich heritage, culture and values.
ofthe renminbi RMB and improving our controls.
This isa50 per cent increase on our recent investment spend Conducting our business to the highest ethical standards andthemost we have ever invested.
Here for good, alongside our values, guides our decisions and actions across all aspects of our We will continue to invest and innovate to ensure the Group business, including the way we design and sell products, isable to take advantage of the opportunities as our markets howwe treat each other, and how we respect and serve evolve.
Our investment in our client businesses is outlined in thecommunities in which we operate.
Our core values are: theGroup Chief Executives review.
Courageous: we stand up for what we believe and do In addition, with double-digit market shares in many of theright thing ourAfrican markets, we are excited to capitalise on our differentiated position and build Africa into a regional Responsive: we can be relied on to respond quickly powerhouse.
anddeliver lasting value While the current challenges in Africa are clear, the long-term International: we value others and actively collaborate trends are well-established, and we intend to capitalise on Creative: we adapt and innovate to meet evolving needs those both in terms of GDP growth and the opening up of African economies.
Core capabilities like Transaction Banking, Trustworthy: we act with integrity and earn the trust and in particular RMB, are highly relevant to the African market.
ofothers We are building capabilities to exploit the opening up of China Our culture and commitment to doing the right thing is not new, and the internationalisation of the RMB, the inclusion of the RMB but we are determined to continue to strengthen both, and to in the Special Drawing Rights currencies of the International build on our progress in conduct, leadership, and diversity Monetary Fund making it a reserve currency, and Chinas andinclusion.
These developments play directly We respect human rights across our business.
We have a to our strengths.
responsibility whether in our role as an employer, as a procurer Our core position in mainland China, and our presence in the of goods and services, or as a provider of financial services.
major centres for trading in the RMB, together with our focus Weaddress human rights in our Code of Conduct and our onASEAN, Central South Asia and Eastern African markets, Supplier Charter.
We consider human rights in our financing call for us to invest substantially and incrementally in our decisions, guided by our Position Statements, which include GreaterChina business and capabilities.
therights of children, workers and communities in relation to specific industry-sector risks.
CIPS, which provides financial institutions with a platform for clearing international RMB payments, makes cross-border transactions into and out of China much more efficient.
Itconnects China with offshore RMB centres in the Asia, Oceania, Europe and Africa time zones, and presents exciting long-term opportunities for our clients as they seek to grow their RMB business.
We were one of the first international banks qualified under the first phase of CIPS.
On the first day of the launch of the platform, we completed over 200 RMB cross-border transactions for global clients based in Asia, Oceania and Europe.
We have processed more than 9,000 cross-border payment transactions via CIPS in 2015.
The first to be processed on thesystem was a direct clearing from China to Luxembourg for IKEA, the Swedish home furnishing retailer.
China is one ofIKEAs fastest-growing markets, and direct cross-border RMBclearing enables a simpler payment route and enhances liquidity management for the retailer.
Banking on the rise of the renminbi The liberalisation of China will continue to encourage The rise of renminbi RMB is rapidly transforming the global international use of RMB for trade or investment, and CIPS financial landscape.
The launch of the Cross-Border Interbank provides the infrastructure essential to support the growth Payment System CIPS and the inclusion of the RMB in the ofthe RMB cross-border payment traffic.
Leveraging our International Monetary Funds Special Drawing Rights basket global footprint and clearing network, local cash management of currencies are the latest major landmarks on the RMBs expertise and the strength of our franchise in China, we are path to internationalisation.
atthe forefront of capturing the opportunities that will arise from this trend.
14 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview As a global bank, we have the privilege, opportunity and The KPIs on page 18 are a summary of the measures we used responsibility to be a force for good in the countries in which to track progress against our strategy for the majority of 2015. weoperate.
We are committed to promoting positive social In our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts we will update this andeconomic development in our markets, and have a summary to reflect the new strategy we announced in comprehensive sustainability programme which focuses November 2015. oncontributing to sustainable economic growth, being a responsible company and investing in communities.
In an environment where the conduct of banks is under ever increasing scrutiny, our ethical standards must be beyond reproach.
We need to understand and follow the letter and the spirit of the law, to play a robust role in the fight against financial crime, and to be mindful of the consequences of our actions.
How we measure performance We track our progress in implementing our strategy with arange of financial and non-financial measures and key performance indicators KPIs.
The Management Team owns these KPIs and tracks the progress of each business against them.
These are reviewed regularly by the Management Team to ensure that the trajectory towards stated targets is satisfactory and to allow for timely action where required.
These KPIs are cascaded down within the business with varying levels of granularity, either through business scorecards adapted to each geography, client segment and function, or through individual performance targets.
This cascading ensures accountability and coordination within the organisation, to help us to drive towards our common goals.
We leverage on our sovereign finance expertise to advise African governments on their financing requirements and capabilities, and engage with the international investor community to raise funds in the appropriate currency.
We have recently been mandated Joint Lead Arranger and Bookrunner for the Republic of Ghanas $1 billion sovereign bond issue to refinance short-dated, high-interest domestic debt in line with its debt management strategy.
This transaction represents the first bond issue guaranteed by the World Bank since 2001, and is a clear demonstration of the strong, broad-based multilateral support available to Ghana.
An increasing number of African economies are accessing development capital via sovereign bonds: in the past three years alone, 12 Sub-Saharan African governments accessed the eurobond market and raised over $17 billion.
Aside from Ghana, we have also supported the successful issue of sovereign bonds in Senegal, Gabon and Zambia.
Building an African powerhouse As these economies transition into middle-income status, Backed by a large workforce and a growing, connected urban sovereign bonds help them consolidate and build upon their middle class, there are huge opportunities across African international capital market experience through innovative economies in particular in sectors such as agriculture, structures.
This will support them in deepening their capital fast-moving consumer goods and infrastructure.
market and realising their investment potential, and will ultimately drive economic growth and prosperity for the local population.
To realise these opportunities, it is advised any measures thatcan be taken to reduce the volatility of growth and We also continue to help bolster investment in power inparticular the volatility of employment are put in place, generation across Sub-Saharan Africa through our Power aswell as more investment, and more consistency of capital Africa commitment.
We provide advisory, financing, debt inflows, especially counter-cyclical flows.
structuring services and policy framework development.
Ourefforts from 2013 to 2015 are expected to culminate inover 3.4 gigawatts of generation capacity in Africa.
15 Our business Our strategy and business model How we create value Through our business model, we aim to create long-term value for a broad range of stakeholders.
We have a sustainable approach to We add value for our clients Our business is structured We provide solutions that meet Through our activities we aim We create long-term value for our business, which is reflected in by using our distinctive to allow us to serve our clients evolving needs togenerate income, profits and abroad range of stakeholders our brand promise, Here for good strengths our clients better return on equity Focusing on clients Strong brand Corporate and Institutional Retail Products Income Shareholders Developing long-term relationships A leading international banking Banking Deposits, savings, mortgages, credit Net interest income, fee income Aiming to deliver robust returns with clients group with a 150-year history in our Allowing companies and financial cards and personal loans, and other andtrading income andlong-term sustainable value markets, clear strategic objectives institutions to operate and trade retail banking products forshareholders Contributing to sustainable Profits and a strong focus on client globally by serving them across economic growth Wealth Management Income gained from providing Clients satisfaction multiple markets Ensuring that our core business Investments, portfolio management, ourproducts and services minus Enabling individuals to grow and ofbanking supports sustainable International network Commercial Banking insurance and advice and planning expenses, impairment and taxes protect their wealth, and helping growth and job creation A proven track record in providing Providing mid-sized companies with services businesses to invest, trade, transact, Return on equity banking services across Asia, Africa, financial solutions and services that and expand Being a responsible company Transaction Banking Profit generated relative to the and the Middle East help them achieve their ambitions of Managing our operations to deliver Cash management, payments and equityinvested Regulators, governments international expansion and growth long-term value for our stakeholders Local connectivity transactions, securities holdings and and industry bodies Supporting clients at a regional level Private Banking trade finance products Supporting governing bodies in Investing in communities by drawing on deep local knowledge Supporting high net worth theirdrive for monetary and fiscal Working with local communities Corporate Finance and collaborating through country individuals with their banking needs improvement topromote social and economic Financing, strategic advice, mergers franchises across borders and offering access development and acquisitions, and equity and Communities to global investment opportunities Investment approach principal financing Supporting growth and job creation, Investing in our business and its Retail Banking delivering financial innovation and Financial Markets systems to improve our services and Offering small businesses and having a low environmental impact Investment, risk management and drive long-term value for our clients affluent and emerging affluent debt capital markets Employees individuals afullspectrum of Our people Providing learning and development bankingsupport A diverse and inclusive workforce opportunities and forming a collegial, thatis highly skilled and committed values-driven team tothe highest standards of conduct and integrity Additional information on ourapproach to stakeholder engagement is available at sc.
com  Our business activity is founded on a robust Risk Management Framework We execute our business to the highest standards of conduct We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise, in the interests of all our stakeholders We uphold the Groups brand promise, Here for good, and our Code of Conduct, through the way we conduct our business We only take risk within our risk tolerances and risk appetite, and where consistent with our approved strategy Good conduct is the creation and execution of an appropriate business strategy aligned to our stated risk tolerances We manage our risk profile so as to maintain a low probability of an unexpected loss event thatwould materially undermine the confidence of our investors We are guided by both the letter and the spirit of laws and regulations We seek to anticipate material future risks, learn lessons from events that have produced Our success in living up to the highest standards of conduct is measured by our ability to adverse outcomes and ensure awareness of known risks achieve fair outcomes for clients, investors, our reputation and the markets in which we operate 16 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview How we create value Through our business model, we aim to create long-term value for a broad range of stakeholders.
com  Our business activity is founded on a robust Risk Management Framework We execute our business to the highest standards of conduct We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise, in the interests of all our stakeholders We uphold the Groups brand promise, Here for good, and our Code of Conduct, through the way we conduct our business We only take risk within our risk tolerances and risk appetite, and where consistent with our approved strategy Good conduct is the creation and execution of an appropriate business strategy aligned to our stated risk tolerances We manage our risk profile so as to maintain a low probability of an unexpected loss event thatwould materially undermine the confidence of our investors We are guided by both the letter and the spirit of laws and regulations We seek to anticipate material future risks, learn lessons from events that have produced Our success in living up to the highest standards of conduct is measured by our ability to adverse outcomes and ensure awareness of known risks achieve fair outcomes for clients, investors, our reputation and the markets in which we operate 17 Our business Key performance indicators 1 Deliver sustainable improvements in returns over time 1 3 Normalised earnings per share Normalised return on equity cents % 2 Aim Aim 214.3 12.8 12.2 To deliver earnings per share To deliver return on equity 2 194.2 2 188.5 11.2 EPS growth.
ofover 10 per cent in the medium term.
Analysis 2 138.9 EPS declined sharply Analysis 7.8 compared to 2014, reflecting Returns declined sharply achallenging market compared to 2014, reflecting environment and actions taken achallenging market to reposition the Group and environment and actions drive sustainably better takento reposition the Group 105 % 105 % returnsover time.
and drive sustainably better 6.6 0.4 returns over time.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 Build trusted relationships with clients Retail Clients Corporate & Institutional Clients 5 Net Promoter Score NPS depth of client relationships 4 relative to market average Average products Average markets per client per client Aim Aim 0% 7% 4.0 4.0 To increase customer To use our network 6.3 6.3 3.0 satisfaction with our products 2.8 andproduct capabilities and services and to become toincrease the number the bank that clients ofmarkets and products recommend.
Analysis Analysis We maintained our relative The average number of global NPS at four points products and average above the market average.
numberof markets per clientwere stable.
2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 3 Maintain a strong capital position to support the execution of our strategy 6 Capital ratios % 19.5 Aim 5.4 17.6 17.4 17.0 16.7 To maintain a strong capital base and accrete capital to 3.9 4.0 4.8 5.3 aCommon Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio of between 11 and 12 per cent in 2015 and thereafter.
In November 2015, 1.5 1.9 1.7 inrecognition of the changing external environment, we 12.6 1.3 11.8 11.7 0.9 increased this target range to between 12 and 13 per cent.
10.9 10.5 Analysis Including shareholder support of our rights issue, westrengthened our financial position, increasing our CET1ratio to12.6 per cent.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Basel II CRD IV CET1 Other Tier 1 AT1 Tier 2 18 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview The key performance indicators KPIs below are aligned to the Groups strategy forthe majority of 2015.
KPIs for our new strategy, announced 3 November 2015, will be reflected in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Details on how we will track progress in implementing our new strategy can be found on page 15.
4 Be recognised as a leader in growing and protecting our clients wealth 7 Private Banking Clients Total AUM Number of clients $billion new to segment Aim 2 % 60 1,310 To grow and deepen client relationships and add new clients.
Our assets under management AUM decreased by 2 per cent.
2014 2015 2014 2015 5 Protect the environment, contributing to sustainable economic and social development Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas 8 emission $million operating income Tonnes CO equivalent $million operating income 2 Aim 1.4 % 15.84 To reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions arising from 14.79 14.59 ouroperations.
Analysis We continued to reduce our Greenhouse Gas emissions relativeto operating income.
Starting in 2014, we include Scope3 emissions arising from air travel in this measure.
Corporate & Institutional Clients depth of relationships This KPI is calculated as profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Average number of markets and products per client Groupasnormalised for certain one-off or irregular items as defined in the Source: Standard Chartered data Glossary divided by the weighted average of the shares in issue during the 6.
Capital ratios yearSource: this measure is reported in note 14 of the Groups audited The components of the Groups capital are summarised on page 219. financialstatements The Tier ratios are measured by the ratio of respective capital to risk-weighted 2.
Prior years earnings per share amounts and interim and final dividend per share assets: the 2010-2012 ratios are calculated on a Basel II basis, and the 2013-2015 amounts declared and paid prior to the rights issue in November 2015 including ratios on a CRD IV basis 2015 interim dividend per share have been restated as explained in note 44 of the Source: this measure is reported in the Capital section on pages 218 to 225 financial statements 7.
Normalised return on shareholders equity Represents total AUM for Private Banking Clients, and the gross number of clients This KPI is calculated as the normalised profit attributable to ordinary shareholders added to the segment during the year as a percentage of average ordinary shareholders equity Source: Standard Chartered data Source: this measure is derived from information within the Groups audited 8.
Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions financial statements, being normalised earnings note 14 as a percentage of average The emissions within our reporting inventory correspond to a reporting period shareholders equity excluding preference shares of1October 2014 to 30 September 2015 to allow sufficient time for independent 4.
Retail Clients: relative Net Promoter Score NPS assurance to be gained.
Accordingly, the operating income used in this inventory Net Promoter Score and NPS are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems Inc. corresponds to the same period rather than calendar year used in financial Bain & Company, and Fred Reichheld.
Standard Chartered uses Bain methodology reporting, consistent with international carbon reporting practice.
Additional recalibrated for financial services to calculate NPS.
In 2014, we began to move to information on our environmental impact is available on page 148. anew methodology, progressively changing our sampling periods and method to Source: Standard Chartered data create greater transparency, and benchmarking our NPS against the overall market.
NPS gauges client support for the retail banking products and services we provide.
We ask our clients, How likely are you to recommend Standard Chartered to a friend or colleague?
and apply a 10-point scale where 10 is most likely.
We then My Voice employee survey gap score: during 2015, the Group undertook derive the NPS by subtracting the percentage of detractors those who score zero to six from the percentage of promoters those who score nine to 10.
As a result, we decided to defer the next scheduled survey until 2016.
This key performance indicator will be reinstated in the 2016 on a scale from 100 all detractors to 100 all promoters Source: Market Probe & RFI Customer Satisfaction Survey 20 markets on average Annual Report and Accounts.
The survey uses interviews completed in 2015 19 Our business People Engaging our people through a period of change surveys and informal feedback loops across the organisation Our highlights in 2015 todetermine sentiment and identify any areas for concern.
Where feedback indicated that our people required further Created a simplified organisational structure, clarification on certain issues, we were able to respond with keymessage documents and toolkits.
This provided leaders with clearer accountability and line managers with the resources necessary to provide open, honest and timely communications.
Continued to reinforce the importance We will conduct the next My Voice survey in the first half of ofgood conduct through training and 2016, allowing for action plans and subsequent engagement performance assessments activities to take place within the correct team structures.
Thiswill also provide a more accurate benchmark for future Equipped our leaders and line managers surveys, which is important in our measurement of progress toguide our people through periods towards further embedding and strengthening a culture of goodconduct.
ofchange Embedding a culture of good conduct Recognised for promoting disability in Upholding good conduct remains central to our approach theworkplace, building on our strength todoing business and is an area where we continue to invest indiversity and inclusion and dedicate considerable resource.
All senior leaders and managers are required to take personal responsibility for their own conduct and that of their teams, and this is explicitly 2015 was a challenging year for the Group and our people: included in line manager performance objectives, with adecline in performance was coupled with a period of acontinued focus on driving quality conversations on significant change, including the appointment of a new Group conductand what this means in practice day-to-day.
Chief Executive and Management Team, the reorganisation 1 ofthe Groups business and the adoption of a new strategy Our Group Code of Conduct was refreshed in September announced in November 2015.
2015to cover all aspects of conduct across the Group.
Bytheend of the year, 98.5 per cent of our people had To deliver on the new strategy, it is imperative that our leaders committed or recommitted to the Code.
We also took this and line managers are equipped with the skills to provide opportunity toreinforce the role of line managers and senior reassurance and clarity to our people.
We have been mindful leaders in creating the right environment for our people to not to lose focus on the elements of our people strategy that deliver the highest standards of conduct.
As part of the enable us to uphold our brand promise, Here for good: for many recommitment process, managers engaged their teams in of our people this underpins why they chose to join the Group, discussions aroundthe Code and used real-life case studies as well as why they stay.
and dilemmas to empower their teams to do the right thing.
At the end of 2015, we had a total workforce of 84,076 Managers were also required to attest to the conduct of their employees across 67 markets, representing 135 nationalities.
teams at the end of the year as part of our annual performance This represents a decrease of 8 per cent compared to 90,940 and reward process.
While we continued to invest A core pillar of good conduct is combating financial crime.
inattracting talent and reinforcing our compliance and control Aspart of our overall conduct agenda, we launched an capabilities, the decrease in employees overall is largely a result internalawareness campaign in the fourth quarter of 2015. of actions taken to deliver business and operational efficiencies.
Theobjective of the campaign has been to help our people understand better the far-reaching societal impacts of financial Building employee engagement through change crime, and to highlight the role each employee can play in helping Our My Voice survey was launched in October 2014 to benchmark employee engagement drivers across the Group: it Our brand promise Here for good is a key reason why many of our people measured employee sentiment and qualitative feedback across chose to join the Group, as well as why they stay a variety of areas, including conduct, leadership and strategy.
Nearly 8,000 of our leaders and managers have worked to address areas identified for improvement under the survey, bycreating greater growth opportunities, helping people to gainclarity in their career paths and improving collaboration beyond immediate teams.
Some of the actions taken to datehave included mentor programmes and job rotation opportunities, anew development programme for line managers, and new measures in our performance scorecardswhich encourage collaboration.
It was our intention to measure progress on the 2014 survey inOctober 2015.
However, we took the decision to postpone the survey until the reorganisation of our business had been embedded.
In its place, we implemented a number of pulse 1.
The reorganisation of our business was implemented from 1 October 2015, and will be reflected in our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 20 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview Global headcount and gender Female representation Female executive and Female senior Global female 1 2 non-executive directors management headcount as at 31 December 2015 23% 12% 47% Location of employees by region left and female representation by region right 3% Europe 20% Greater China 1% Americas Female Male 10% Africa Greater China 64% 36% 9% North East Asia 57% 43% MENAP South Asia 30% 70% 5% North East Asia ASEAN 54% 46% MENAP 30% 70% 25% Africa 50% 50% ASEAN Americas 44% 56% 27% South Asia Europe 44% 56% 1.
As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised 23 per cent women.
As at 23 February 2016, the Board comprised 20 per cent women 2.
Director, bands 1 and 2 to prevent it.
The campaign will be rolled out progressively Developing the next generation of business leaders is vital during the first quarter of 2016 across all markets in our footprint.
toour performance and remains a priority for the Group.
Reflecting this, we changed our annual performance Investing in learning and development management process to provide greater emphasis on employee growth and development, and trained managers on how to Ensuring our people have opportunities to develop and grow usethis process more effectively for their teams.
their careers is not only essential to delivering our business priorities, it is a core component in creating a great place to We also enhanced and introduced several employee and work: a clear demonstration of how we are Here for good for management development programmes with an emphasis on our people: and a strong driver of retention.
management and leadership skills, such as the new Manager Development Programme.
Since the launch in February 2015, Learning and talent development is an area of ongoing atotal of 53 sessions have been conducted for791 managers.
investment and begins with graduate recruitment.
In 2015, We also launched SC Ready, an inductionprogramme weintroduced additional career support and development designed to align mid-level leaders to ourculture, leadership opportunities into our junior talent programme and received expectations and risk management philosophy.
more than 146,000 applications for 650 graduate and internship opportunities across 28 countries.
External challenges and internal change have combined to create an environment where, increasingly, people are looking to our senior managers for greater guidance, support and Globally in 2015, we trained 1,504 leaders and senior managers through leadership.
To support this, we increased the number of 72leadership programmes leadership programmes from 64 in 2014 to 72 in 2015, training 1,504 leaders and senior managers worldwide.
In total, we delivered 399,000 learning days to 93 per cent ofemployees.
The major areas of learning were riskand regulatory compliance, leadership, and technical knowledge and skills.
Diversity and inclusion We encourage greater diversity in our workforce, recognising that this helps develop and retain our people, and provides better support to our diverse client base.
We are committed tocreating an inclusive environment that is free from bias, where everyone can realise their full potential and, in so doing, make apositive contribution to our organisation.
21 Our business People By the end of 2015, 98.5 per cent of employees had committed We established three Global Employee Networks during 2015, orrecommitted to our Group Code of Conduct whichprovide support to employees in over 30 countries Since Standard Chartered first started focusing on a Health, safety and wellness Group-wide approach to diversity and inclusion D&I 10 years We are committed to providing a safe, secure and healthy ago, ithas become an increasingly important part of the way working environment for our employees and customers.
In 2015, we: Weremain steadfast in our commitment to ensure the Implemented D&I Charters, which empower each of our higheststandards of health and safety wherever we operate.
businesses, functions and geographies, to be accountable This includes established global ergonomic design standards fordelivering relevant D&I objectives tominimise any occupational injury or illness, online health andsafety training, and an online safety and incident Established three Global Employee Networks to provide reportingportal.
structure support to employees in more than 30 countries, specifically: Sometimes, these standards are compromised by events outside of our control, such as the earthquake in Nepal, the The Global Womens Network in March explosion in Tianjin or the flooding in Chennai.
The health and The Global LGBT and Allies Network in May.
Employees safety of our employees and customers during these crises was inmore than 20 countries have now signed up to the paramount, with various individuals and teams working around Groups Global LGBT Allies Programme the clock to account for the whereabouts of staff members, tosecure buildings and, in some instances, to erect temporary The Global Disability Network in December.
This was accommodation for those unable to return to their homes.
recognised by Springboard Consulting, a leading expert Ourpeople responded proactively and upheld our commitment inbringing workplace disability into the mainstream.
to be Here for good by overcoming the adversities to keep our Wewere awarded two Disability Matters Awards: one for business-critical systems running.
raising awareness about the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and another for our work in supporting linemanagers who have team members with disabilities Our priorities in 2016 In 2015, Standard Chartered became a founding patron of Embedding our new organisational structure theGlobal Diversity List, which aims to create the definitive global diversity standard that covers every aspect of diversity Supporting our people through change worldwide.
In addition, we became a founding member of theOpen for Business coalition, which aims to reinforce andbuilding engagement comprehensive evidence for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender LGBT inclusion on a global basis.
Reinforcing a culture of performance and For more information on our gender diversity in leadership good conduct, from hiring processes and and on the Board, please refer to page 343. training and development, to recognising successes and performance management Addressing feedback from our MyVoicesurvey 22 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview Our business Community engagement To create long-term value, we seek to address social and Our Positive Living programme promotes awareness and economic issues that affect the communities where we work understanding of HIV and AIDS.
In 2015, we updated our and live.
In 2015, we invested $60.3 million, or the equivalent Positive Living training toolkit in 11 languages.
We also of1.42percent of our 2014 operating profit, across our strengthened our internal HIV and AIDS procedure to ensure communities.
We work closely with local non-governmental that employees across all of ourmarkets are protected through organisations NGOs and our employee volunteers to deliver non-discrimination and non-disclosure clauses.
Through our programmes focused on health andeducation.
partnership with the MTV Staying Alive Foundation, we supported eight projects aimed ateducating and creating Employee volunteering awareness among youth in sevenmarkets.
We encourage our employees to share their skills to support Education provides the foundation for long-term economic thesuccessful delivery of our programmes, and to contribute growth.
Goal, our global education programme for adolescent totheir communities.
Every employee is entitled to three days girls and young women, uses sports and life-skills training to ofpaid volunteering leave annually.
To support the adoption equip girls with the confidence, knowledge and skills they ofthe United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDGs needto be leaders in their communities.
In 2015, we reached in2015, welaunched an internal campaign encouraging our over 71,200 girls across 25 countries.
From 2006 to 2015, employees to volunteer and support the SDG that matters wehelped to empower 217,000girls.
In 2015, we piloted an mostto them.
In 2015, 57 per cent of employees volunteered, employability programme in India and trained 110 girls on contributing to a total of 77,900 volunteering days.
Globally, 203 girls secured paid jobs in 2015, including as Goal coaches.
Community programmes Our financial education programmes use employee volunteering The health of a community greatly impacts the quality of to build the financial capability of youth and entrepreneurs.
life forindividuals and their ability to take up employment Workingwith schools and communities, ourFinancial Education opportunities.
Seeing is Believing SiB is our global for Youth programme reached more than 103,600 young people programme to tackle avoidable blindness and visual impairment.
Our Education for Entrepreneurs In 2015, we raised $7 million through fundraising and bank programme focuses on non-client micro and small business matching.
From 2003 to 2015, we raised $86.3 million and owners.
In 2015, wetrained over 1,200 entrepreneurs in supported 101projects across 29 countries.
These projects 11countries, 71 per cent of whom were women.
have delivered medical interventions, supported health We work with partners to help our communities manage education and improved access to eye-care for more than emergency situations and try to protect social and economic 111 million people.
gains made prior to the crisis.
In 2015, we contributed $750,000 to relief efforts, with a focus on earthquake recovery in Nepal.
The goal of employment Across our markets, many girls and women lack access to employment opportunities, affecting the economy and society.
In 2015 in New Delhi, India, we piloted an employability programme with the top 110 graduates of Goal, our global education programme for adolescent girls and young women.
The employability programme involved training on CV preparation, career planning and workplace communications.
Our clients offered exposure visits and work experience to theparticipants, and our staff helped by identifying job opportunities and mentoring the girls.
As a result of the pilot, 34 girls secured paid jobs and 29 decided to pursue additional education and make career plans.
Through these successes, and feedback from girls, wehave learned valuable lessons to help us refine our approach.
For example, girls need more opportunities to learnabout the career paths available to them: many were notaware of their options, or their aspirations did not match entry-level roles available.
A graduate of Goal, Jyoti Kumari, secured a job as a Human Resources Associate with Precision Testing Machines Private Limited through the employability pilot.
Before joining Goal, Jyoti worked in telephone sales.
She was on low wages, and lacked the skills and guidance to progress.
By participating inthe pilot, she improved her English language skills and decided to pursue a Masters degree in management.
Thiswillwiden her future career opportunities.
