Other disclosures Directors report Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure The Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2015 The Groups 2015 financial statements have been prepared comprises pages 62 to 150 of this report together with the inaccordance with the principles of the BBA Code for Financial sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by Reporting Disclosure.
Both the Strategic report and the Directors report have been drawn up and presented in accordance with reliance Disclosure of information to auditor upon English company law, and the liabilities of the directors As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit inconnection with that report shall be subject to the limitations information of which the Group statutory auditor, KPMG LLP and restrictions provided by such law.
Other information to KPMG, is unaware.
The directors have taken all reasonable bedisclosed in the Directors report is given in this section.
steps toascertain any relevant audit information and ensure Inaddition to the requirements set out in the Disclosure and that the Group statutory auditors are aware of such information.
Transparency Rules relating to the Annual Report and Accounts, information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 to be Going concern included in the Annual Report and Accounts where applicable, is set out in the table below and cross-referenced.
Having made appropriate enquiries, the Board is satisfied thatthe Company and the Group as a whole have adequate Information to be included in the Annual Report and resources to continue operational businesses for a period of Accounts LR 9.8.
4 atleast 12 months from the date of this report and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Relevant Listing Rule Page financial statements.
4 4 127 to 130 Viability In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Principal activities Governance Code, the Board confirms that it has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation Standard Chartered is a leading international banking Group, and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the period up to with a 150-year history in some of the worlds most dynamic 31 December 2018.
The Board conducted this review for a markets.
We bank the people and companies driving period of three years which was selected for the following investment, trade and the creation of wealth across Asia, reasons: Africaand the Middle East.
The Groups roots in trade finance and commercial banking have been at the core of its success It is within the Groups strategic planning horizon throughout its history, but the Group is now more broadly It is also within the period covered by the Prudential based across Retail Banking in its footprint markets.
The Group Regulation Authoritys PRA annual Internal Capital Adequacy comprises a network of more than 1,100 branches and outlets Assessment Process ICAAP which forecasts key capital in 67 markets.
requirements Further details on our business can be found within the Strategic report on pages 3 to 59 It is within the period covered by the Group-wide internal and regulatory stress tests Further details on the branches can be found on our website sc.
com The corporate plan is evaluated and approved each year by theBoard and considers the Groups future projections of Fair, balanced and understandable profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and resources, liquidity ratios and other key financial and regulatory ratios over On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and the process by which the the period.
These metrics are subject to sensitivity analyses which involve flexing a number of the main assumptions Group believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken asa whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides underlying the forecast.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Boards assessment has been made with reference to: position and performance, strategy and business model of the The Groups strategy Our strategy and business model Group.
Following its review, the Audit Committee has advised page 13 the Board that such a statement can be made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups current position and prospects Operating The Strategic report can be found on pages 3 to 59 and financial review pages 35 to 59 The Boards risk tolerance The Groups principal risks and uncertainties, how these are managed and the potential impact of these on the Group Risk management pages 24 to 28 In addition, the Risk and capital review on pages 154 to 225 details the Groups risk management framework, risk policies and procedures for each key risk type and quantitative and qualitative analysis of these risk types.
142 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Sufficiency of public float The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors onterms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
As at the date of this report, the Company has maintained the Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes prescribed public float under the rules governing the listing of ofsection 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited the inforce during the course of the financial year ended HK Listing Rules, based on the information publicly available 31 December 2015, and remain in force at the date of tothe Company and within the knowledge of the directors.
Research and development Significant agreements During the year, the Group invested $594 million 2014: The Company is not party to any significant agreements that $504 million in research and development, primarily relating to would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of the planning, analysis, design, development, testing, integration, control of the Company.
deployment and initial support of technology systems.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or Political donations employee that would provide compensation for loss of office oremployment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions No political donations were made in the year ended of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options 31 December 2015. and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Directors and their interests The membership of the Board, together with their biographical Future developments in the business of the Group details, are given on pages 62 to 65.
Details of the directors An indication of likely future developments in the business of beneficial and non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of theGroup is provided in the Strategic report on pages 3 to 59. the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 129 and 131.
The Group operates a number of Results and dividends share-based arrangements for its directors and employees.
1 Details of these arrangements are included in the Directors 2015: paid interim dividend of 14.40 cents per share remuneration report and in note 35 to the financial statements 2014: 28.80 cents per share on page 306 2015: nil proposed final dividend 2014: 57.20 cents per share The Company has received from each of the independent non-executive directors an annual confirmation of 1 Total dividend, 14.40 cents 2014: 86.00 cents independence pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules and still considers all of the non-executive directors to be On 3 November 2015, it was announced that the Board had independent.
Details concerning the provisions for providing recommended that no final dividend will be paid for the financial compensation to directors for loss of office or employment year ending 31 December 2015. including in the context of a takeover bid can be found on page 123 of the Directors remuneration report.
Share capital At no time during the year did any director hold a material The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was interest in any contracts of significance with the Company increased by 805,467,656 during the year.
728,432,451 orany of its subsidiary undertakings.
ordinaryshares were issued under the Companys rights issue In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we have announced on 3 November 2015.
5,694,811 ordinary shares established a robust process requiring directors to disclose were issued under the Companys employee share plans at proposed outside business interests before any are entered prices between nil and 1,140 pence.
This enables prior assessment of any conflict or potential were issued under the Companys share dividend scheme.
conflict of interest and any impact on time commitment.
TheCompany has one class of ordinary shares, which carries Onbehalf of the Board, the Governance and Nomination no rights to fixed income.
On a show of hands, each member Committee reviews actual or potential conflicts of interest present has the right to one vote at our general meetings.
On a annually to consider if they continue to be appropriate, and also poll, each member is entitled to one vote for every $2 nominal to revisit the terms upon which they were provided.
The Board value of share capital held.
The issued nominal value of the is satisfied that our processes in this respect continue to ordinary shares represents 85 per cent of the total issued operate effectively.
nominal value of all share capital.
The remaining 15 per cent comprises preference shares, which have preferential rights to Subject to company law, the Articles of Association and the income and capital but which, in general, do not confer a right authority granted to directors in general meeting, the directors to attend and vote at our general meetings.
may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate Further details of the Groups share capital can be found authorities to committees.
The Articles of Association contain innote 33 to the financial statements on page 304 provisions relating to the appointment, re-election and removal of directors.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 all directors, with the exception of Mike Rees, Group Deputy Chief Executive, who will step down from the Board on30 April 2016, will stand for annual re election at the 2016AGM.
Not adjusted for the rights issue announced on 3 November 2015 see note 13 onpage 263 143 Other disclosures There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on Shareholder rights the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general Under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing 5 per cent or more of the paid-up share capital of the Company legislation.
There are no specific restrictions on voting rights and carrying the right of voting at general meetings of the Company the directors are not aware of any agreements between holders are able to require the directors to hold a general meeting.
of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the Arequest may be in hard copy or electronic form and must be transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any authenticated by the shareholders making it.
Where such a special rights of control over the Companys share capital and request has been duly lodged with the Company, the directors all issued shares are fully paid.
are obliged to call a general meeting within 21 days of becoming subject to the request and must set a date for the Articles of Association meeting not more than 28 days from the date of the issue of the The Articles of Association may be amended by special notice convening the meeting.
Under the Companies Act 2006, resolution of the shareholders: no changes to the Companys shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of the total voting Articles of Association were made during the year.
rights at an AGM of the Company, or 100 shareholders entitled to vote at the AGM with an average of at least 100 paid-up Authority to purchase own shares share capital per shareholder, are entitled to require the Company to circulate a resolution intended to be moved at the At the AGM held on 6 May 2015, our shareholders renewed Companys next AGM.
Such a request must be made not later theCompanys authority to make market purchases of up to than six weeks before the AGM to which the request relates or, 247,399,168 ordinary shares, equivalent to approximately if later, the time notice is given of the AGM.
The request may be 10 per cent of issued ordinary shares as at 16 March 2015, in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of andup to all of the issued preference share capital.
These which notice is to be given and must be authenticated by the authorities were not used during the year and remained in force shareholders making it.
Shareholders are able to put forward proposals to In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by The Stock shareholder meetings and enquiries to the Board and or Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKSE on 16 April 2008, the Senior Independent Director by using the contact us information on the Companys website sc.
com or which was modified on 30 April 2009, 25 July 2011 and by emailing the Group Corporate Secretariat at 9 October 2013, the Company will comply with the applicable group-corporate.
com law and regulation in the UK in relation to holding ofany shares in treasury and with the conditions of the waiver, inconnection Major interests in shares and voting rights with any shares it may hold in treasury.
Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities at the forthcoming AGM, and As at 31 December 2015, Temasek Holdings Private Limited will receive details within the Notice ofAGM.
Temasek is the only shareholder that has an interest of more than 10 per cent in the Companys issued ordinary share capital No treasury shares were held during the year.
carrying a right to vote at any general meeting.
Further details can be found in note 33 to the financial As at 19 February 2016, the Company has been notified, statements on page 304 pursuant to the requirement ofRule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules, by the following Authority to issue shares companies of their interest in the total voting rights of the The Company is granted authority to issue shares by the Company: Number of Percentage Percentage shareholders at its AGM.
The size of the authorities granted ordinary of voting of voting depends on the purposes for which shares are to be issued Shareholder shares rights direct rights indirect and is within applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Temasek Holdings 517,051,383 15.77 1 Private Limited Aberdeen Asset 214,883,944 6.56 Management PLCs fund management operating subsidiaries Dodge & Cox 181,694,162 5.54 1.
Temasek Holdings Private Limiteds interests are held indirectly through Dover Investments Pte.
Ltd 144 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Related-party transactions The Company set out the following main reasons for seeking the 2013 Waiver: Details of transactions with directors and officers and other related parties are set out in note 43 to the financial statements In view of the nature and terms of the transactions, which on page 312. may vary from time to time, from client to client and from transaction to transaction, particularly the foreign exchange Connected continuing connected transactions and derivatives and financial markets transactions, having fixed-term written agreements as required under the HK By virtue of its shareholding of more than 10 per cent in the Listing Rules would not be suitable to accommodate the Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties and various banking needs of the Companys customers connected persons of the Company for the purposes of the UK including Temasek.
It would be impractical and unduly Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of burdensome to require the Company to enter into fixed Hong Kong Limited the HK Listing Rules respectively together written agreements with Temasek in respect of those banking known as the Rules.
transactions of a revenue nature The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable The Company also explained that it would be impracticable treatment to Temasek or its associates as defined under the for the Company to estimate and determine an annual cap Rules as a result of such shareholding to the detriment of other onthe banking transactions of a revenue nature.
The volume shareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions that the and aggregate value of each of those transactions that may Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or its be undertaken by Temasek are uncertain and unknown to associates are specifically exempt under the Rules or are theCompany as a banking group and depend on multiple subject to a specific waiver, they may require a combination factors.
They include the range of banking products and ofannouncements, reporting and independent shareholders services offered by the Company, fluctuations in the wide approval.
range of industries in which Temasek and its associates The HKSE adopted an exemption the Passive Investor operates, and external financial market and economic Exemption on 3 June 2010 for transactions with associates of conditions a passive investor Rules 14A.
The Company While the amount of revenues generated from banking considers that Temasek meets the criteria for a passive investor transactions of a revenue nature was minimal, the notional under Rules 14A.
Therefore, any connected amounts of these transactions could be significant.
Without transactions or continuing connected transactions of a revenue the availability of a waiver from the HKSE or an applicable nature in the ordinary and usual course of business and on exemption, these revenue banking transactions would be normal commercial terms with an associate of Temasek are subject to various percentage ratio tests which cater for exempt from the announcement, reporting, annual review and different types of connected transactions and as such may independent shareholders approval requirements of the HK produce anomalous results Listing Rules.
The Passive Investor Exemption is not applicable in respect of the passive investor itself.
As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption and the 2013 Waiver, the vast majority of the Companys transactions with On 21 October 2013, the HKSE granted the Company a waiver Temasek and its associates fall outside of the connected for all banking transactions of a revenue nature with Temasek transactions regime.
However, non-revenue transactions itself the 2013 Waiver.
Under this waiver, the announcement withTemasek or any of its associates continue to be subject requirement and the requirement to enter into a written tomonitoring for connected transaction issues on a agreement and set an annual cap and the reporting including  basis.
annual review requirement under the relevant rules in Chapter 14A have been waived for the three-year period ending The Company confirms that, to the best of its knowledge and 31 December 2015 on the conditions that: belief after due inquiry, it did not have any transactions with Temasek or its associates in 2015 that would have required i the Company will disclose details of the 2013 Waiver announcement, reporting, annual review or independent including the nature of the revenue banking transactions and shareholders approval.
The Company also confirms that the reasons for the 2013 Waiver in its subsequent annual reports revenue transactions entered into with Temasek in 2015 were ii the Company will continue to monitor the revenue banking below the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio test under transactions with Temasek during the three-year period the HK Listing Rules, and therefore satisfied the conditions ending 31 December 2015 to ensure that the 5 per cent attached to the 2013 Waiver.
threshold for the revenue ratio, calculated in accordance with Chapter 14 of the HK Listing Rules will not be exceeded 145 Other disclosures On 19 October 2015, the HKSE extended the 2013 Waiver Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, foranother three years ending 31 December 2018 the 2015 the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
Further details of the 2015 Waiver will be disclosed ofalladverse audits are reported to the Audit Committee, insubsequent annual reports.
theChairman and the Group Chief Executive where immediate corrective action is required.
The Board Risk Committee has The Group has internal systems, processes and procedures responsibility for overseeing the management of the Companys inplace to identify and monitor non-exempt connected and fundamental risks as well as reviewing the effectiveness of the continuing connected transactions.
These are reviewed and Companys risk management framework.
The Audit Committee updated periodically and their adequacy and effectiveness are monitors the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, subject to internal audit process.
The Company will continue compliance and internal control environment.
tomonitor through its internal systems the revenue figures The Risk and capital review on pages 156 to 225 describes the generated from the ongoing banking transactions with Temasek Groups risk management structure itself during 2016 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio will not be exceeded.
Our business is conducted within a developed control framework, underpinned by policy statements, written Fixed assets procedures and control manuals.
This ensures that there are Details of additions to fixed assets are presented in note 26 written policies and procedures to identify and manage risk, tothe financial statements on page 295. including operational risk, country risk, liquidity risk, regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, market risk, credit risk and Loan capital financial crime risk.
The Board has established a management structure that clearly defines roles, responsibilities and reporting Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries lines.
Delegated authorities are documented and are set out in note 30 to the financial statements on page 298. communicated.
Executive risk committees regularly review the Groups risk profile.
The performance of the Groups businesses Debenture issues and equity-linked agreements is reported regularly to senior management and the Board.
During the financial year ending on 31 December 2015, Performance trends and forecasts, as well as actual theCompany made seven issues of debentures and entered performance against budgets and prior periods, are monitored into one equity-linked agreement, further details of which are closely.
Financial information is prepared using appropriate set out in note 28 on page 297. accounting policies, which are applied consistently.
Operational procedures and controls have been established to facilitate Risk management complete, accurate and timely processing of transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
These controls include appropriate An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation of accounts the significant risks that we face is in place.
The Board is andthe valuation of assets and positions.
In respect of handling satisfied that this process constitutes a robust assessment inside information, we have applied relevant controls on of all of the principal risks facing the Group, including those employees who are subject to handling inside information, thatwould threaten its business model, future performance, including controls over the dissemination of such information solvency or liquidity.
and their dealings in the Companys shares.
The Risk and capital review on pages 156 to 225 sets out the principal risks, our approach to risk management, including Employee policies and engagement our risk management principles, an overview of our risk management framework and the policies and practices for With 84,076 employees representing 135 nationalities across each risk type.
An overview of the Risk Tolerance Statement 67markets, the Group has a number of communication can be found on pages 25 to 26 of the Strategicreport mechanisms that inform employees about matters affecting orof interest to them.
A mix of communications channels is Internal control used to inform employees of key business activity at a global, The effectiveness of our internal control system is reviewed regional and business level.
The primary channel is the Bridge, regularly by the Board, its committees, the Management Team, the Groups new intranet and business collaboration platform, and Group Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee has reviewed which is available to over 96 per cent of employees across the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control 67markets.
This new tool allows staff to collaborate and share during the year ended 31 December 2015 and reported on its ideas, and comment on global stories.
The Bridge is supported review to the Board.
The Committees review was supported by Group and local newsletters, a single global screensaver, byan annual business self-certification process, which was targeted audio calls for business area or management level managed by Group Internal Audit.
Group Internal Audit monitors videos and town hall events.
Business or time-critical compliance with policies and standards and the effectiveness information can be sent directly to employee inboxes through ofinternal control structures across the Group through its ameasurable email marketing platform.
The work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas of greatest risk as determined bya risk-based assessment methodology.
146 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report This mix ensures that employees receive relevant information The Group does not tolerate any bullying or harassment of, promptly regardless of their business area, geography or discrimination against, or victimisation of staff, clients, or visitors access to the intranet.
of the Group, whether verbal, written, physical or psychological.
All staff have a duty to treat all those with whom they come into At an individual level, regular team meetings and discussions contact through work with dignity and respect at all times.
This with line managers enable employees to discuss and clarify any is also enshrined in our Group Code of Conduct, which states questions they have about news within and performance of the that colleagues must be treated fairly and with respect, and that Group.
The twice-yearly formal performance review also all employees are entitled to a safe working environment that is provides the opportunity to discuss how the employee, their inclusive and free from discrimination, bullying and harassment.
team and business area contributed to the overall performance of the Group and how any compensation awards relate to this.
Sharesave is provided to engage employees in the Groups performance and offer them an opportunity for long-term We continue to communicate with employees who have left the savings and a share in the financial success they help to create.
Group via our Alumni network and all employees, past, present and future and social networking messages via the Groups Major customers LinkedIn network and Facebook.
Our five-largest customers together accounted for 3.7 per cent Our employee engagement survey has been an important way of our total interest income and other operating income in the for us to gather feedback on how our organisation is working, year ended 31 December 2015. where our areas of strength are, and how we can further improve.
The My Voice survey was launched in 2014 and Group Code of Conduct measures engagement across the Group on a variety of business factors such as leadership, strategy and conduct.
The Board has adopted a refreshed Group Code of Conduct Inthe first year, over 85 per cent of our people across the Code relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of 68countries completed the survey.
The insight gained business and this is supported by the Groups core values.
isbeingused to inform action plans that intend to resolve It has been communicated to all directors and employees, all of highlighted issues.
whom are expected to observe high standards of integrity and In addition, targeted local surveys and focus groups seek views fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators in the on particular topics or from particular groups of employees, communities in which the Group operates.
andacross the Group, many business areas or project groups Employees are asked to recommit to the Code annually, and facilitate employee forums and message boards.
Less formal this was done during November 2015.
Further details measures of sentiment and engagement include quick polls and concerning the Code can be found on page 20. conversation on the Bridge.
Combined with almost 40 employee networks across 18 Environmental and social risk management countries and numerous champion groups, these insights are The Board is responsible for ensuring that high standards invaluable in shaping our thinking and future planning.
ofresponsible business are maintained and that an effective In 2014, the Group refreshed its Group Equal Opportunities, control framework is in place.
This encompasses risks Diversity, Inclusion and Dignity at Work Policy, reinforcing the associated with clients operations and their potential impact on Groups commitment to providing equality of opportunity and the environment and local communities.
The Board recognises fair treatment in employment.
It does not accept unlawful its responsibility to manage these risks and that failure to discrimination in its recruitment and employment policies, manage them adequately would have an adverse impact terms, procedures, processes and decisions on the grounds of: onourbusiness.
race: colour: nationality: national or ethnic origins: gender: The Board receives regular information to identify and assess parental status: marital or civil partner status: sexual orientation: significant risks and opportunities arising from environmental gender identity, expression or reassignment: HIV or AIDS and social matters.
These issues are overseen by the Brand, status: employment status: flexibility of working arrangements: Values and Conduct Committee.
The Committee reviews disability: age: religion: or belief.
The Group appoints, trains, sustainability priorities, andoversees the development of, and develops, rewards and promotes employees on the basis of delivery against, public commitments regarding the activities their merit and ability.
If employees become disabled, every and or businesses that the Group will or will not accept in endeavour is made to ensure their employment continues, alignment with our Here for good brand promise.
withappropriate training and workplace adjustments wherenecessary.
Environmental and social risks are explicitly identified in the Groups policies and procedures.
We have disclosed a series of Action may be taken to address disadvantage or under 20 sector-specific and thematic Position Statements that apply representation among specific groups, with the aim of ensuring to the provision of debt, equity and advisory services to all that employment decisions are free from bias.
We have adopted the Equator Principles that set requirements for identifying, assessing and mitigating the environmental and social impacts associated with the financing of projects and related advisory services.
The Group reports on its environmental and social performance through the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and through the sustainability section of the Groups website.
147 Other disclosures Environmental impact of our operations Wereport on energy, water, paper and waste data that are the basis of our Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions management as We aim to minimise the environmental impact of our operations well as the targets we have set to reduce energy, water and as part of our commitment to being a responsible company.
Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions for2014 and 2015 Indicator 2014 2015 Units Full-time employees FTE covered by reporting 90,940 84,076 FTE 2 Net internal area of occupied property covered by reporting 1,308,959 1,261,320 m Annual operating income 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 18,105 17,566 $million Greenhouse Gas emissions Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuels 20,144 16,904 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity location-based method 192,403 184,912 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity market-based method 192,403 184,912 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions 212,547 201,816 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions without distance uplift air travel 55,296 54,519 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions with distance uplift air travel 60,273 59,426 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions outsourced data centre 19,339 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 267,843 256,335 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions FTE 2.95 3.05 tonnes CO eq FTE year 2 2 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions m 205 203 kg CO eq m year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions operating income 14.79 14.59 tonnes CO eq $m year 2 Our reporting criteria document sets out the principles and Scope 2 methodology used to calculate the GHG emissions of Scope 2 emissions are defined as arising from the consumption theGroup.
of indirect sources of energy, such as consumption of For additional information, review the reporting criteria on purchased electricity and heat, during the use of property sc.
In accordance with the amendment issued to the GHG Protocol Our reporting methodology is based upon the World Resources in 2015, we report Scope 2 emissions under both locationInstitute World Business Council for Sustainable Development based and market-based methods.
However, we have not used Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 1 location-based emission factors and as a consequence, both Standard revised edition.
This is based on our reservations We report on all emission sources required under the concerning the attribution of reduced electricity emissions and Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports the potential for double-counting.
We will continue to monitor Regulations.
Using conversion factors from the UK the development of Scope 2 Quality Criteria, as well as the Governments 2015 GHG Conversion Factors for Company development of residual mixes by national agencies.
2 Reporting, emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon 3 The Group does not use any form of offset such as green dioxide equivalent CO e, encompassing the six Kyoto gases.
2 electricity to offset Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions.
Our definition of different emission sources is provided on thispage.
Scope 3 Scope 3 emissions are defined as occurring as a consequence Scope 1 of the Groups activities, but arising from sources not controlled Scope 1 emissions are defined as arising from the consumption by us.
The Group reports on Scope 3 emissions arising from of energy from direct sources, such as by burning diesel within airtravel and our outsourced data centres in Hong Kong and generators, during the use of property occupied by the Group.
World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD.
2015 GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance An amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, WRI WBCSD 2.
Department for Fisheries and Rural Affairs Defra, Government conversion factors for company reporting 2015. http: www.
A tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent means one metric tonne of carbon dioxide or an amount of any other Greenhouse Gas with an equivalent global warming potential calculated consistently with international carbon reporting practice GHGs include those listed by Kyoto Protocol: carbon dioxide CO : methane CH : 2 4 nitrous oxide N O : hydrofluorocarbons HFCs : perfluorocarbons PFCs and 2 sulphur hexafluoride SF 6 148 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Reporting period Annual General Meeting The reporting period of our environmental data is from Our AGM will be held at 11:00am UK time 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015.
This allows sufficient 6:00pm Hong Kong time on 4 May 2016 at etc.
venues, time for independent assurance to be gained prior tothe 200Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD.
Details of the publication of results.
Accordingly, the operating income used in business to be conducted are contained in the Notice of AGM.
this inventory corresponds to the same time period rather than Our 2015 AGM was held on 6 May 2015 at 11:00am London the calendar year used in financial reporting.
time 6:00pm Hong Kong time at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD.
Special business at the meeting Assurance included the approval of the power to allot ECAT1 Securities for Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are assured by an independent cash without certain formalities.
All resolutions were passed at body, PwC, against the requirements of ISA 3410. the meeting.
Community engagement Non-audit services We work with local communities to help promote social and The Groups non-audit services policy the Policy was last economic development across our markets.
In 2015, we reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee in 2014.
The invested a total of $60.3 million to support our local policy is based on a number of core principles.
This includes cash contributions of $24.5 million principle is that, to avoid any actual or perceived conflicts of and indirect contributions such as employee time totalling interest, the Groups auditors should only be used when either $20.0 million.
Our community programmes focus on health and there is evidence that there is no alternative in terms of quality education, with youth as atarget demographic.
Our global and cost and there is no conflict with their duties as auditors: or community programmes include Seeing is Believing to address where the Groups statutory auditors are required to be used by avoidable blindness: Positive Living to promote education and regulatory or legal requirements.
The policy clearly sets out the awareness on HIV andAIDS: Goal to empower girls and young criteria for when the Audit Committees prior written approval is women through sports and life skills training: and financial required.
Subject to this overriding principle, the Audit education to build the financial capability of youth and Committees view is that KPMG can be of value in a wider range entrepreneurs.
We offer our employees three days paid leave to of activities than just financial statement audit, and, where a volunteer.
In 2015, 57 per cent of staff contributed 77,900 non-audit service demands these qualities, KPMG should be volunteering days.
allowed to tender, subject to the Accounting Practices Boards APB ethical standards and the terms of the policy.
The policy HIV and AIDS procedure requires a conservative approach to be taken to the assessment of requests for KPMG to provide non-audit HIV and AIDS remain a serious challenge across our markets services.
and impacts our employees and communities.
In 2015, we strengthened our HIV and AIDS procedure to better support The APB sets out various threats to audit independence ouremployees through non-discrimination and non-disclosure including self-interest, self-review, familiarity, taking of a clauses.
The HIV and AIDS procedure is part of the Group management role or conducting advocacy.
In particular, Benefits Policy and applies to all staff and their families globally.
maintaining KPMGs independence from the Group requires KPMG to avoid taking decisions on the Groups behalf.
It is also For more information, please refer to sc.
com sustainability recognised as essential that management retain the decision-making capability as to whether to act on advice given by KPMG as part of a non-audit service.
This means not just Electronic communication the ability to action the advice given, but to have sufficient The Board recognises the importance of good communications knowledge of the subject matter to be able to make a reasoned with all shareholders.
Our directors are in regular contact with our and independent judgement as to its validity.
Accordingly, the institutional shareholders and general presentations are made Group is required to take a conservative approach to when we announce our financial results.
The AGM presents an interpreting the potential threats to auditor independence and opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
Our requires commensurately robust safeguards against them, if a shareholders are encouraged to receive our corporate non-audit service is to be permitted.
The annual and interim financial The policy is not a proscribed list of non-audit services that statements, Notice of AGM and dividend circulars are all available KPMG is permitted to provide.
Rather, each request for KPMG electronically.
If you do not already receive your corporate to provide non-audit services will be assessed on its own documents electronically and would like to do soinfuture, please merits.
The Audit Committee believes that such a case-by-case contact our registrars at the address onpage350.
approach best accommodates i the need for the appropriate Shareholders are also able to vote electronically on the rigour and challenge to be applied to each request for KPMG resolutions being put to the AGM through our registrars toprovide non-audit services while ii preserving sufficient website at investorcentre.
com flexibility for the Group to engage KPMG to provide non-audit services where they are able to deliver particular value to the Group and where the proposed services can be provided without compromising KPMGs objectivity and independence.
149 Other disclosures KPMGs objectivity is of particular value to the Group in the Auditor context of providing non-audit services that relate to the The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Group provision of an independent view, benchmarked either against statutory auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the external laws, regulations or requirements, or the audit firms Group, which includes monitoring our use of the auditors for own knowledge of best practices.
The policy also specifically non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees incorporates the APBs recommended prohibitions and paid.
Following a review of the independence and effectiveness restrictions on the types of non-audit services that are able to of our Group statutory auditor details of which can be found be provided by the audit firm.
onpage 83, resolutions toappoint KPMG and to determine its By way of non-exhaustive illustration of the application of the remuneration will be proposed at the 2016 Annual General principles set out in the policy, the following types of non-audit Meeting.
services are: Each director believes that there is no relevant information of Likely to be permissible under the policy: which our Group statutory auditor is unaware.
Each has taken all steps necessary as a director to be aware of any relevant Audit-related services as defined by the APB the Group audit information and to establish that KPMG is made aware would also extend this to work on investor circulars in most ofany pertinent information.
foreseeable circumstances An objective view as to whether the Group has applied external laws and regulations appropriately, such as By order of the Board checksover regulatory compliance Testing the robustness of controls infrastructure Due diligence over potential purchases or sales Not permissible under the policy: Liz Lloyd Any services that are prohibited or to the extent they Group Company Secretary arerestricted by the APBs published guidance from 23 February 2016 timetotime Standard Chartered PLC Aggressive tax or regulatory structuring proposals Registered No.
966425 Any services where fees are paid on a contingent basis inwhole or in part Consulting services that actively assist in running the business in place of management as opposed to providing or validating information, which management then utilises inthe operation of the business Details relating to KPMGs remuneration as the Group statutory auditor and a description of the broad categories ofthe types of non-audit services provided by KPMG are given in note 8 to the financial statements on page 261 The only significant engagement of KPMG in 2015 for the provision of non-audit services was in respect of the rights issuein November 2015.
