Principal uncertainties An overview of our risk profile is set out in pages 161 Financial markets dislocation to199 and our approach to risk management is set out A sudden financial markets dislocation could affect our inpages 204 to 217. performance, directly through its impact on the valuations The key uncertainties and material risks we face in the current ofassets in our available-for-sale and trading portfolios or year are set out below.
This should not be regarded as a indirectly through the availability of capital or liquidity.
Financial complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks markets instability may also increase the likelihood ofdefault and uncertainties that we may experience.
byour counterparties and may increase the likelihood of clientdisputes.
Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions We stress test our market risk exposures to highlight the in footprint countries potential impact of extreme market events on those exposures Macroeconomic conditions have an impact on personal and to confirm that they are within authorised stress loss expenditure and consumption, demand for business products triggers.
Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reflect and services, the debt-service burden of consumers and changes in risk profile and economic events.
Where necessary, businesses, the general availability of credit for retail and overall reductions in market risk exposure are enforced.
corporate borrowers, and the availability of capital and liquidity We carefully assess the performance of all of our counterparties for our business.
All these factors may impact our performance.
in stress scenarios and adjust our limits accordingly.
The world economy is in a difficult period and although the We maintain robust processes to assess the suitability and rateof economic growth in some countries is increasing, other appropriateness of the products and services we provide to countries are facing difficult economic conditions.
increases in US interest rates could lead to increased volatility infinancial markets and capital flight from emerging markets Geo-political events which may lower the growth rates of some vulnerable economies in which the Group operates.
Slowing economic We operate in a large number of markets around the world, growth rates in China may further depress prices and trade andour performance is in part reliant on the openness of inanumber of commodity sectors such as the energy, metals cross-border trade and capital flows.
We face a risk that and mining sectors, and a prolonged slowdown could have geo-political tensions or conflicts in our footprint could impact wider economic repercussions.
In particular, further weakness trade flows, our customers ability to pay, and our ability to in energy prices could have a significant negative effect on manage capital or operations across borders.
energy producing countries via reduced government revenues We actively monitor the political situation in all our principal and foreign exchange earnings with energy and related service markets.
We also monitor the development of broader industries vulnerable to reduced prices and lower levels geo-political events such as those in Ukraine, the Middle East ofinvestment.
and territorial disputes in North East Asia.
We conduct stress The sovereign crisis in the eurozone is not fully resolved and, tests on the impact of extreme but plausible geo-political events although acute risks have been addressed by ongoing onour performance, and the potential for such events to policyinitiatives and the prospects for many of the European jeopardise our ability to operate within our stated risk appetite.
economies have improved, there is still a need for substantial Further details on stress testing are given on page 207. structural reform see additional information on the risk of redenomination on page 184.
The proposed UK referendum Risk of fraud and other criminal acts oncontinued membership of the European Union EU would The banking industry has long been a target for third parties bring further economic and political uncertainty.
seeking to defraud and disrupt legitimate economic activity, Although the Group has no direct sovereign exposure to orfacilitate other illegal activities.
Concerns about cyber crime affected European economies, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, have risen significantly, driven in part by geo-political events.
Portugal and Spain, we remain alert to the risk of secondary Cyber crime risks include fraud, vandalism and disruption to impacts from events on financial institutions, other critical infrastructure.
counterparties and global economic growth.
While the internet and networked technologies have provided Inflation and property prices appear to be under control in major opportunities for digitising business, they have also mostof the countries in which we operate, though some central givenrise to significant risks as well-equipped and motivated banks continue to employ macroprudential tools to temper attackers become more sophisticated.
The incidence of cyber property price increases.
Changes in monetary policy could crime is rising, becoming more globally coordinated, and is lead to significant increases in interest rates from their currently achallenge for all organisations.
low historical levels, with resulting impacts on the wider We seek to be vigilant to the risk of internal and external crime economy and on property values.
in our management of people, processes and systems and in We balance risk and return, taking account of changing our dealings with clients and other stakeholders.
The Group conditions through the economic cycle, and monitor economic hasimplemented a range of cyber crime defences to protect trends in our markets very closely.
We conduct stress tests to from hacking, misuse, malware, errors, social engineering and assess the effects of extreme but plausible trading conditions physical threats.
Controls are embedded in our policies and on our portfolio and also continuously review the suitability of our procedures across a wide range of the Groups activities, risk policies and controls.
We manage credit exposures following suchas origination, recruitment and physical and information the principle of diversification across products, geographies security.
We perform regular reviews of our control environment, andclient segments.
This provides strong resilience against perform external benchmarking against government and economic shocks in one or more of ourportfolios.
international cyber standards and frameworks and conduct tests of our defences against cyber and other attacks.
200 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review In a heavily regulated environment with an increasing threat The European Commission has published a legislative proposal ofcyber crime, the Group continues to monitor and respond for a regulation on structural measures improving the resilience tocyber risks vigilantly by building on current capabilities, of EU credit institutions, including a prohibition on proprietary reinforcing policy frameworks and strengthening monitoring trading and separation powers for supervisors relating to banks andinternal controls.
The proposed regulation is under discussion between the European Commission, the European Parliament We use third-party security providers where appropriate to and Council of the EU.
It is currently uncertain when the further protect, validate and strengthen our defences and we regulation will be finalised, although it is expected it will be actively collaborate with our peers, regulators, law enforcement adopted during 2016 with a view to the prohibition on proprietary bodies and other expert bodies as part of our response to trading taking effect on 1 January 2017 and the separation thisrisk.
powers for supervisors on 1 July 2018.
Exchange rate movements Uncertainty remains regarding the final calibration and implementation of i certain liquidity requirements in particular, Changes in exchange rates affect, among other things, the net stable funding ratio and the leverage ratio under the thevalue of our assets and liabilities denominated in foreign EUs Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD IV currencies, as well as the earnings reported by our non-US although the Prudential Regulation Authority has required large dollar denominated branches and subsidiaries.
Sharp currency UK banks, including Standard Chartered, to meet a minimum movements can also affect trade flows, the ability of countries 3 per cent leverage ratio requirement from 1 January 2016 and and clients to service debt and the wealth of clients, any of supplementary leverage ratio buffers ahead of final calibration which could have an impact on our performance.
by the European Union and ii OTC derivative reforms across We monitor exchange rate movements closely and adjust our our markets, which could potentially have a material impact exposures accordingly.
Under certain circumstances, we may onthe Group and its business model.
Furthermore, proposals take the decision to hedge our foreign exchange exposures for regulatory changes may have unintended consequences inorder to protect our capital ratios from the effects of changes either for individual banks or, in terms of aggregate impact, in exchange rates.
The effect of exchange rate movements on onthe financial system.
Depending on the final calibration and the capital adequacy ratio is mitigated to the extent there are implementation of these measures, they could adversely affect proportionate movements in risk-weighted assets.
economic growth, the volatility and liquidity of the financial markets and, consequently, the way we conduct business, The following table sets out the period-end and average structure our global operating model and manage capital and currency exchange rates versus the dollar for Indian rupee, liquidity.
These effects may directly or indirectly impact our Korean won, Malaysian ringgit, renminbi and Singapore dollar financial performance.
for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
These are the markets for which currency exchange rate Regulatory compliance, reviews, requests movements have had the greatest translation impact on the forinformation and investigations audited Groups results in 2015.
2015 2014 While the Group seeks to comply with the letter and spirit ofallapplicable laws and regulations at all times, it has been, Indian rupee andmay continue to be, subject to regulatory actions, reviews, Average 64.11 60.98 requests for information including subpoenas and requests Period end 66.13 62.96 fordocuments and investigations across our markets, the Korean won outcomes of which are generally difficult to predict and can Average 1,131.23 1,052.25 bematerial to the Group.
Period end 1,172.29 1,098.85 Malaysian ringgit Regulatory and enforcement authorities have broad discretion Average 3.9059 3.2702 to pursue prosecutions and impose a wide range of penalties Period end 4.2921 3.4947 for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
Penalties Renminbi imposed by authorities have included substantial monetary Average 6.2283 6.1431 penalties, additional compliance and remediation requirements Period end 6.4915 6.1255 and additional business restrictions.
In recent years, such Singapore dollar authorities have exercised their discretion to impose increasingly Average 1.3748 1.2667 severe penalties on financial institutions that have been Period end 1.4172 1.3253 determined to have violated laws and regulations, and there can be no assurance that future penalties will not be of a different type or increased severity.
Regulatory changes In 2012, the Group reached settlements with the US authorities Our business as an international bank will continue to be regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, subject to an evolving and complex regulatory framework involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of comprising legislation, regulation, action by regulators and Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by codes of practice, in each of the countries in which we operate.
theBoard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, A key uncertainty relates to the way in which governments Deferred Prosecution Agreements DPAs with each of the andregulators adjust laws, regulations and economic policies Department of Justice DOJ and the New York County District inresponse to macroeconomic and other systemic conditions.
Attorneys Office DANY and a Settlement Agreement with the The nature and impact of such future changes are not always Office of Foreign Assets Control together, the Settlements.
predictable and could adversely affect our strategic interests.
Inaddition to the civil penalties totalling $667 million, the terms Some of these changes that could have a significant impact of these Settlements include a number of conditions and tothe Group are discussed below.
201 Principal uncertainties ongoing obligations with regard to improving sanctions, c A restriction on dollar-clearing services for certain Anti-Money Laundering AML and Bank Secrecy Act BSA HongKong retail business clients controls such as remediation programmes, reporting d Enhanced monitoring of certain small and medium-sized requirements, compliance reviews and programmes, enterprise clients in the UAE.
The Group decided to exit bankingtransparency requirements, training measures, audit this business as part of its broader efforts to sharpen programmes, disclosure obligations and, in connection with itsstrategic focus, withdrawing from or realigning theNYDFS Consent Order, the appointment of an independent non-strategic businesses, including those where monitor the Monitor.
These obligations are managed under increased regulatory costs undermine their economic aprogramme of work referred to as the US Supervisory viability.
The exit process is largely complete and, Remediation Program SRP.
The SRP comprises work inaccordance with the settlement agreement, dollar streamsdesigned to ensure compliance with the remediation clearance restrictions were implemented effective requirements contained in allof the Settlements.
In 2013, 17 November 2014. theGroup also established a Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Programme FCRMP, which is acomprehensive, multi-year The remit of the SRP has been expanded to cover the programme designed to review and enhance many aspects of management of these obligations.
the Groups existing approach tomoney laundering prevention On 9 December 2014, the Group announced that the DOJ, and to combating terrorism finance and the approach to DANY and the Group had agreed to a three-year extension sanctions compliance and the prevention of bribery and ofthe DPAs until 10 December 2017, and to the retention of corruption.
Many of the deliverables under the SRP are reliant amonitor to evaluate and make recommendations regarding the on, or led by, individuals or functions outside the US, and in Groups sanctions compliance programme.
The DOJ agreement some cases represent the US implementation of Group-wide acknowledges that the Group has taken a number of steps remediation or upgrade activity managed under the FCRMP.
tocomply with the requirements of the original DPAsand to Consequently, there is a close working relationship between enhance and optimise its sanctions compliance, including the theSRP and FCRMP for the purpose of project coordination implementation of more rigorous US sanctions policies and and delivery.
As part of the FCRMP, the Group or its advisors procedures, certified staff training, hiring of senior legal and may identify new issues, potential breaches or matters requiring financial crime compliance staff, and recently implementing further review or further process improvements that could additional measures to block payment instructions for countries impact the scope or duration of the FCRMP.
subject to US sanctions laws and regulations.
The Group will The Group is engaged with all relevant authorities to implement work closely with the authorities to make additional substantial these programmes and meet the obligations under the improvements to its US sanctions programme to reach the Settlements.
standard required by the DPAs.
On 19 August 2014, the Group announced that it had reached The Group is cooperating with an investigation by the US afinal settlement with the NYDFS regarding deficiencies in the authorities and the New York State Attorney General relating AML transaction surveillance system in its New York branch topossible historical violations of US sanctions laws and theBranch.
The system, which is separate from the sanctions regulations.
In contrast to the 2012 settlements, which focused screening process, is one part of the Groups overall financial on the period before the Groups 2007 decision to stop doing crime controls and is designed to alert the Branch to unusual new business with known Iranian parties, the ongoing transaction patterns that require further investigation on a investigation is focused on examining the extent to which post-transaction basis.
conduct and control failures permitted clients with Iranian interests to conduct transactions through Standard Chartered The Settlement provisions are summarised as follows: Bank after 2007 and the extent to which any such failures were i A civil monetary penalty of $300 million shared with relevant US authorities in 2012. ii Enhancements to the transaction surveillance system The Group recognises that its compliance with historical, attheBranch current and future sanctions, as well as AML and BSA requirements, and customer due diligence practices, not just iii A two-year extension to the term of the Monitor inthe US but throughout its footprint, are and will remain a iv The following set of temporary remediation measures, focus of the relevant authorities.
whichwill remain in place until the transaction surveillance The Financial Conduct Authority FCA is investigating Standard systems detection scenarios are operating to a standard Chartered Banks financial crime controls, looking at the approved by the Monitor: effectiveness and governance of those controls within the a The Branch will not, without prior approval of the NYDFS correspondent banking business carried out by Standard in consultation with the Monitor, open a dollar demand Chartered Banks London branch, particularly in relation to deposit account for any client that does not already have thebusiness carried on with respondent banks from outside such an account with the Branch theEuropean Economic Area, and the effectiveness and governance of those controls in one of Standard Chartered b Requirements for inclusion of identifying information Banks overseas branches and the oversight exercised at Group fororiginators and beneficiaries of some affiliate level over those controls.
and third-party payment messages cleared through theBranch 202 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review As part of their remit to oversee market conduct, regulators and other agencies in certain markets are conducting investigations or requesting reviews into a number of areas of regulatory compliance and market conduct, including sales and trading, involving a range of financial products, and submissions made to set various market interest rates and other financial benchmarks, such as foreign exchange.
At relevant times, certain of the Groups branches and or subsidiaries were andare participants in some of those markets, in some cases submitting data to bodies that set such rates and other financial benchmarks.
The Group is contributing to industry proposals to strengthen financial benchmarks processes in certain markets and continues to review its practices and processes in the light of the investigations, reviews and the industry proposals.
The Group is cooperating with all relevant ongoing reviews, requests for information and investigations.
The outcome of these reviews, requests for information and investigations is uncertain and could result in further actions, penalties or fines, but it is not possible to predict the extent of any liabilities or other consequences that may arise.
In meeting regulatory expectations and demonstrating active risk management, the Group also takes steps to restrict or restructure or otherwise mitigate higher-risk business activities, which could include divesting or closing businesses that exist beyond risk tolerances.
For further details on legal and regulatory matters refer to note41 on page 312.
As a result of our normal business operations, Standard Chartered is exposed to a broader range of risks than those principal uncertainties mentioned above and our approach to managing risk is detailed on the following pages.
