SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 32 Board of Directors Andrew Sykes Chairman Andrew Sykes was appointed as a Director on 8 February 2010 and became Chairman on8 November 2012.
He is chairman ofSmith & Williamson Holdings Limited, and also a non-executive director of Record plc and GulfInternational Bank UK Limited.
Committees: Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations Lynn Fordham Chief Executive Lynn Fordham was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2008.
She is the Companys ChiefExecutive Officer.
She has over 20 years of financial experience and has worked inanumber of companies including Mobil Oil, BAA plc, Boots Group plc and MAN Group plc.
She is CEO of Aberdeen SVG Private Equity and is a non-executive director of Fuller, SmithandTurner P. L. C. SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 33 Stephen Duckett Non-Executive Director Stephen Duckett was appointed as a Director of the Company on 12 March 2012.
Stephen is an experienced private equity professional having worked in the industry for the past 17 years, most recently as a Managing Director of Hellman & Friedman based inLondon.
Stephen has been involved with numerous private equity transactions of varioustypes over the course of his career.
Committees: Audit Chairman Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations Helen Mahy Non-Executive Director Helen Mahy was appointed as a Director of the Company on24 July 2014.
She is currently Chairman of The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited and Obelisk Legal Support Solutions Limited.
She is also a non-executive Director of Stagecoach Group Plc and Bonheur ASA Ganger Rolf ASA.
Previously, shewasGroup Company Secretary and General Counsel ofNational Grid Plc.
Committees: Audit Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations Chairman David Robins Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director David Robins was appointed as a Director on 15 August 2013 and is the Senior Independent Director.
David has had a distinguished career in financial services spanning over 35 years.
He is currently Chairman of the Asian Total Return Investment Company plc and Fidelity Japanese Values plc.
He is also anon-executive director of NHBS Ltd and SerraLux Inc.
Previously, David was Chairman and ChiefExecutive ofING Barings following nearly 18 years with UBS.
Committees: Audit Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations
