SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 6 The investment portfolio Core strategy portfolio kk Fund commitments are an important component of the investment portfolio.
kk Seeking to invest with a small number of leading private equitymanagers.
kk A focused investment strategy allows SVG Capital to build strong relationships with its managers.
Scale isimportant and, by being one of the larger investors in the underlying funds, SVG Capital seeks access toco-investment opportunities and seats on the advisory board.
kk There are currently five managers in the portfolio giving us access to a broad cross section ofinvestments.
k SVG Capital has a $150m commitment k SVG Capital has a 100m k SVG Capital has a $140m to CCMP Capital Investors III.
commitment to the Fifth Cinven Fund.
k CCMP Capital Investors CCMP k Cinvens strategy is to invest in buyouts k Clayton Dubilier & Rices CD&R strategy is to enhance the value of headquartered in or with significant strategy is to make control middle-market companies in North operations in Europe, typically with an investments inupper mid-market America and Europe, typically with enterprise value of greater than 300m.
companies inthe US and Europe anenterprise value of $250m to $2bn, Germany, France and theUK, typically k Cinvens team of 57 investment staff through an active approach to with enterprise values between $1bn operates from its offices in Guernsey, operational transformation in leading and$5bn.
London, Frankfurt, Paris, Milan, buyout and growth equity investments.
Luxembourg, Hong Kong and New k Team of 48 investment professionals, k Team of 36 full time investment York.
Cinven is opening an office in based in New York and London, professionals at 31 January 2015 with Madrid in early 2015. concentrating primarily on four offices in New York, Houston and sectors: industrials, business services, k The European office footprint provides London.
CCMPs investment approach healthcare and consumer retail.
a strong presence on the ground in is sector driven with afocus on four Cinvens core market, and the Asia k CD&Rs investment model is focused sectors: consumer retail, industrial, andUS offices help the portfolio on operational improvement within healthcare and energy.
companies to capitalise on global their portfolio companies utilising the k CCMP benefits from a differentiated growth opportunities and drive value combined skills of operating partners, investment model that combines a creation across the portfolio.
who are former CEOs or other senior proprietary, research-driven sourcing corporate leaders, and private equity k Cinvens investment approach is capability with a fullyintegrated investment executives.
This sector-driven, with a focus on six core operating investment professional partnership between private equity sectors: business services, consumer, team.
and operating skills runs right through financial services, healthcare, the deal process from origination k At 31 January 2015, the fund was industrials and TMT.
through to due-diligence and post committed to five equity investments k Cinvens approach to growing its investment value creation stages.
portfolio is based on a clearly defined k At 31 January 2015, the fund was model that has two main pillars: committed to six investments and revenue growth, via both expansion hadcalled 38% from investors.
into new markets and execution of buy and build strategies, and applying global best practices across the portfolio.
k At 31 January 2015, the fund was c. 55% committed to 11 investments and had called 39% from investors.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 7 k SVG Capital has a $100m commitment k SVG Capital has a 125m commitment to FFL Capital Partners IV.
to Permira V and investments in Permira IV and Permira Europe II k FFLs strategy is todeliver superior risk andIII.
adjusted returns through investment in US middle market companies k Permira V will invest primarily in mid withatypical enterprise value of to large cap buyouts with exposure to $100mto$500m.
faster-growing global markets and sectors, typically with an enterprise k Team of 30 professionals led by three value of up to3bn.
ofthe founding partners based in asingle office in SanFrancisco.
k Team of over 120 professionals operating from 13 offices based k Four core sectors of business services, around the globe, Permira concentrate consumer, financial services and on five sectors: consumer, technology, healthcare services.
industrials, financial services and k FFL combines top-down macro and healthcare.
industry thematic research to identify k Within these sectors, Permira V will attractive sub-sectors within its core focus on acquiring businesses with sectors and a focus on active company market leadership positions, resilient involvement post-acquisition.
thematic growth and potential to k At 31 January 2015, the fund was globalise.
committed to one investment k At least 70% of Permira V will be andSVG Capitals commitment invested in businesses which have wasuncalled.
orintend to have significant activities inEurope.
k At 31 January 2015, the fund was committed to eight investments and had called 32% from investors.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 8 The investment portfolio continued Core strategy portfolio co-investments kk A co-investment portfolio of investments with differing underlying geographic and end-market growthdrivers.
kk Core focus for SVG Capital and we will build on this portfolio with a select number of compelling .
Hillman Founded in 1964 and headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, The Hillman Group Hillman is a leading value-added distributor of fasteners, key duplication systems, engraved tags and related hardware items.
Hillman has approximately solution to its retail customers 1 26,000 active customers in the formanaging SKUintensive, US, Canada, Mexico, South complex home improvement America and Australia, including categories.
Hillman also offers home improvement centres, mass itscustomers additional services, merchants, national and regional such as inventory management hardware stores, pet supply stores and in-store merchandising and other retailers.
provides a comprehensive 1 Stock Keeping Unit SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 9 TeamViewer Founded in 2005 and headquartered in Gppingen, Germany, TeamViewer is a leading software platform for remote IT support serving the small and medium business market.
TeamViewer has 814 million TeamViewer benefits from high activated devices, 167 million customer satisfaction and usage active users and almost 300,000 and operates a SaaS Software commercial customers.
The asa Service like business model company operates in a resilient high recurring revenues, scalable market, driven by an increasingly and high margin business with mobile workforce, rapid device strong cash flow conversion.
Visma Founded in 1996 and headquartered in Oslo, Norway, Visma is one of the leading software businesses in Europe and the clear leader in the Nordic region.
Visma makes businesses more 340,000 customers in Northern efficient, through the provision Europe use Vismas products ofsoftware, outsourcing services, andservices, and an additional commerce solutions, retail 330,000 use Visma as a hosting IT-solutions, and IT-related partner.
The group has more projects and consulting.
Visma than6,100 employees and its simplifies and digitalises core netrevenue amounted to business processes within the NOK7,100million in 2014. private and public sector.
