SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 4 Our strategy and business model Provide investors with liquid access to the returns from private equity Private equity can provide superior kk SVG Capital invests across the asset class through commitments returns through its long-term to funds managed by top-performing privateequity firms, ownership model, alignment co-investments and, where control offers a better risk-adjusted of interest and a focus tovalue return, as a lead investor in smaller investments, leveraging off creation through strategic our investment teams experience.
Private equity is an illiquid kk Listed on the London Stock Exchange main market, SVGCapital assetclass with high minimum provides shareholders with liquid access to the asset class and an commitments anda long-term ability to adjust portfolio weightings.
Skilled manager and investment kk SVG Capital has a dedicated investment team with along-term selection are key to generating track record of investing in the asset class.
kk We are building a portfolio of eight to 10 top-performing managers who have clear strategies for value creation.
Ourcurrentportfolio consists of five managers and three co-investments.
kk Our underlying investments provide investors with access to ahigh-quality portfolio of companies with globally diversified revenue streams.
1 Over $3.7 trillion of assets kk A focused investment strategy allows us to select the managers managed globally by 5,647 private and investments that we believe have the ability to outperform 2 equity firms and the asset class the wider market.
accounted for 22% of global kk We build strong relationships with our managers.
3 merger and acquisitions in 2014. kk Scale is important and, by being one of the larger investors in theunderlying funds, SVG Capital seeks access to co-investment 1 The 2015 Preqin Private Equity Compensation opportunities and seats on theadvisory board.
andEmployment Review 2 Preqin Private Equity Spotlight, August 14 3 kk Allows us to build a portfolio of larger underlying investments Fortune.
com, 2014 was a huge year for M&A andprivate equity, 5 January 2015 and provide our shareholders with transparency onperformance.
Accessing the private equity marketplace illustrative CCMP US CD&R US Cinven Europe FFL US Permira Europe Small Enterprise value of transactions Mega 50m 3bn Based on where the majority of the capital is expected to be invested.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 5 through allocating capital across the asset classdependent on market conditions with a Flexible investment mandate.
kk SVG Capital invests across the asset class providing shareholders with a balanced single point access to private equity and private equity related assets, allocating capital across the asset class dependent on market conditions.
kk SVG Capital invests across geographies, managers and investments, seeking to generate superior risk-adjusted returns through accessing different parts of the private equity assetclass in the most efficient and cost-effective way.
Focus on optimising kk Our capital allocation process looks at current andprojected shareholderreturns through resources, investment pipeline, risk appetite and the attractiveness of investment opportunities relative to other disciplined capital allocation.
usesof capital, such as share buybacks and tenders.
kk New investments are assessed in the context of our risk returncriteria, expected returns from the investment orcommitment, the macro environment, the fit with the existing portfolio and other investment opportunities.
Financing strategy that kk Maintaining optimal risk return policy through the cycle isinterlinked with the tosupport long-term investment opportunities without becoming exposed to inappropriate financing risks.
kk Appropriate, efficient and flexible financing and capital structure to support the Companys ability to access attractive investment opportunities.
Flexible financing is currently provided by a multicurrency loan facility to better manage uncertain cash flows.
Risk management framework kk Macro-economic outlook.
focused on the risks associated kk Portfolio allocation to provide sufficient diversity.
witha portfolio of illiquid assets kk Coverage of liabilities and commitments to ensure the Company and uncalled commitments.
Supported by modelling cash flow forecasts and stress testing.
kk Alignment of interest to ensure that the capital allocation process isin the long-term interest of shareholders.
Market participation High Co-investment and direct Fund investment co-investment Low Small Enterprise value of transactions Mega 50m 3bn Control Influence
