STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REPORT OF DIRECTORS The directors present their report and accounts for the There is also a fee payable to Investec Asset Management year ended 31 December 2015.
Limited of 45,000 pa in respect of the provision of secretarial and administrative services, adjusted annually THE ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS in line with the Retail Price Index.
DIRECTIVE AIFMD IFMs performance under the contract and the contract Investec Fund Managers Limited IFM, an affiliate of terms are reviewed at least annually.
This covers, inter Investec Asset Management Limited IAM, was appointed alia, the performance of the Manager, its management as the Companys alternative investment fund manager processes, investment style, resources and risk controls.
For the purposes of The Board endorses the investment approach adopted by the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment fund the Manager, recognising that while the contrarian style can AIF.
IFM has delegated responsibility for the day to day sometimes lead to short term periods of underperformance management of the Companys portfolio to IAM.
it usually delivers superior investment returns over the longer term.
In addition, the portfolio has produced high IFM is required to ensure that a depositary is appointed and and growing dividend income to shareholders.
In the accordingly IFM and the Company have appointed HSBC as opinion of the directors the continued appointment of the the depositary and custodian.
HSBC is responsible for the Manager on the terms set out above is, therefore, in the custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its best interests of shareholders.
The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available GOING CONCERN to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of material changes to this information be disclosed in the accounting for the Company.
The Companys assets consist annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Information Document, substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in most which sets out information on the Companys investment circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
The strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate management, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder because there are no material uncertainties related to events information is available on the Companys website at or conditions that may cast significant doubt about the ability www.
of the Company to continue as a going concern.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation There have been no material changes to this information that the Company has adequate resources to continue in requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate operational existence for the foreseeable future, including disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the recourse to a 7.5 million overdraft facility with HSBC Bank.
London Stock Exchange through a primary information Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going provider.
As an authorised AIFM, IFM will make the requisite concern basis in preparing the accounts.
disclosures on remuneration levels and policies to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA at the appropriate time.
ORDINARY DIVIDENDS Interim dividends of 7.93p per ordinary share were paid on MANAGEMENT FEES 30 June 2015, 30 September 2015 and 30 December 2015 The Company has a management agreement with Investec 2014: a single interim dividend payment of 15.55p and the Fund Managers Limited IFM for the provision of investment directors are recommending a final dividend of 15.87p per management services.
The agreement is subject to one years ordinary share 2014: 23.33p, a total for the year of 39.66p notice of termination by either party.
Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will be paid on 31 March 2016 to shareholders on IFM receives an investment management fee of 0.35% the register on 11 March 2016. per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the investments including cash of the Company together with ISAs an additional fee of 125,000 pa, plus or minus 0.005% of The Company has conducted its investment policy so the value of the investments including cash of the Company as to remain a qualifying investment trust under the ISA above or below 750 million, calculated and payable regulations.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to quarterly.
Investments in funds managed by IFM are wholly satisfy these regulations.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 19 REPORT OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED SHARE CAPITAL SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 31 December 2015 and 23 February 2016 the following No new ordinary shares were issued during the year.
were registered or had indicated an interest in 3% or more of SECTION 992 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
The following information is disclosed in accordance with % Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
Brewin Dolphin Ltd 8.7 Capital structure Alliance Trust Savings Ltd 7.8 The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 46.
Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd 6.5 Voting Rights in the Companys Shares Temple Bar Savings Scheme 5.3 The voting rights at 31 December 2015 were: Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 5.1 Number of Voting rights Total AXA SA 3.1 Share class shares issued per share voting rights Ordinary shares DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR of 25p each 66,872,765 1 66,872,765 The directors are not aware of any relevant information of which the auditor is unaware and have taken all the steps that they As at 23 February 2016, the share capital of the Company and ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves total voting rights was 66,872,765.
There are no restrictions aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that on the transfer of securities in the Company and there are the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
no special rights attached to any of the shares.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements by AUDITOR which someone other than the registered shareholder can A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor exercise voting rights are provided in the Notes to the Notice to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General of Meeting on page 53.
The Companys ordinary shares have Meeting on 30 March 2016. a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Change of control There are no agreements that may be altered or terminated The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company on change of control of the Company.
to be held on 30 March 2016 is on page 51.
In addition to the ordinary business the following matters are proposed DIRECTORS as special business.
The directors of the Company who held office at the end of Authority to allot shares and disapplication the year are detailed on page 18.
Martin Riley retired as a of pre-emption rights director on 30 March 2015.
No other person was a director It is proposed that the directors be authorised to allot up to during any part of the year.
Details of directors beneficial 1,671,819 of relevant securities in the Company equivalent shareholdings may be found in the Report on Directors' to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each, representing 10.0% Remuneration on page 22. of its ordinary shares in issue as at 23 February 2016.
All the directors will be retiring in compliance with the When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies provisions of the AIC Code and, each being eligible, the Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered first to Board recommends their re-election.
In making these existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings recommendations the Board has carefully reviewed the of ordinary shares.
However, in certain circumstances, it is composition of the Board as a whole and borne in mind the beneficial to allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to need for a proper balance of skills and experience.
The Board existing shareholders and the ordinary shareholders can by does not believe that length of service of itself detracts from special resolution waive their pre-emption rights.
Therefore, the independence of a director, particularly in relation to an a special resolution will be proposed at the AGM which, if investment trust, and on that basis considers that all directors passed, will give the directors the power to allot for cash standing for re-election are independent.
It is confirmed that, equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of following formal evaluation, the performance of each director 1,671,819 equivalent to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p continues to be effective and each continues to demonstrate each or 10.0% of the Companys existing issued ordinary commitment to the role.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was interested and which are or were significant in relation to the Companys business.
No director has a service contract with the Company.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC RE REP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RNA NANC NCE E R RE EPOR PORT T F FIINA NANC NCIIA AL L R RE EPOR PORT T S SH HA AR REH EHOL OLD DER ER I IN NF FO OR RM MA AT TIIO ON N The directors intend to use this authority to issue new shares to participants in the Temple Bar Investment Trust Savings Scheme or to other prospective purchasers whenever they believe it may be advantageous to shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater than net asset value per share, as adjusted for the market value of the Companys debt, and would, therefore, increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issues of shares will be made which would alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Directors authority to purchase the Companys own shares The directors consider it desirable to give the Company the opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the shares may be bought for a price which is below the net asset value per share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary shares is intended to reduce the discount at which ordinary shares trade in the market through the Company becoming a new source of demand for such shares.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company is 5% above the average of the market value of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
Recommendation The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial holdings, amounting to 110,010 ordinary shares.
By order of the Board of Directors John Reeve Chairman 23 February 2016 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 21
