MANAGERS REVIEW Over the year, the FTSE All-Share Index, the index most Total Return of FTSE 250 relative to FTSE 100 relevant to the Temple Bar portfolio, generated a total 160 return of 1.0% while the FTSE 250 Index returned 11.2% and the FTSE Smaller Companies Index delivered 9.2%.
140 This compares with a total return for Temple Bar of -1.0%.
The FTSE 250 has now outperformed the FTSE 100 for the 120 fourth year in a row and for six of the last seven years.
Over the longer term the performance differential is extraordinary, 100 as evidenced by the adjacent graph, and there are very few conventional broadly spread investments that a sterling-based UK investor could have made 10 years 80 ago that would have performed as well.
2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream It is sometimes painful being a value investor.
We buy stocks that are out of favour.
If they fall further, we risk excoriation The most sought after stocks in the UK market last year were for ignoring the obvious negative factors.
Fortunately, quality compounders: companies operating in areas with history informs us that the valuation discount received high barriers to entry a moat, generating high returns from buying into such negativity typically rewards a patient on equity and using some of these returns to drive future investor.
The current stage of the market cycle is one of profits growth.
In short, those companies most attractive those demanding such patience.
to investors employing an investment style akin to that of Warren Buffett.
Although Mr Buffett has generated astonishing long term returns using this approach, he has made it look rather easier than is the case.
Many stocks once regarded as high quality tend to disappoint ultimately, through a process of mean reversion, thus making it risky to pay a high price for them.
And even Mr Buffett has sometimes experienced periods of great discomfort: the Berkshire Hathaway price has fallen more than 40% on two occasions while under his stewardship.
The most intuitively appealing investment processes can also have their times in the shade.
Many of the weakest stocks and sectors in 2015 were those that had been poor in 2014.
Resource related stocks, banks, and food retailers took the brunt of the pain.
In summary, 2015 was a year to stick with ones winners.
ALASTAIR MUNDY Alastair is head of the Value Team at Investec Asset Management having joined in 2000 from Morley Fund Management.
In addition to Temple Bar Investment Trust, Alastair manages a number of funds including the Investec Cautious Managed Fund and the Investec UK Special Situations Fund.
Alastair graduated from City University in 1988 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Actuarial Science.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 4 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Many of the weakest stocks and sectors in 2015 were those that had been poor in 2014.
Resource-related stocks, banks, and food retailers took the brunt of the pain.
With these themes in mind, many of the most significant PORTFOLIO ACTIVITY positive contributors on the portfolio in 2015 had also A number of the disposals on the portfolio in the last year performed well in 2014: Direct Line, Carnival, CRH have been of stocks that have performed well, but whose and Kingspan all progressed well.
Being significantly valuations now look full: BT, Carnival, Kingspan and Unilever, underweight to the mining sector also assisted the latter disposed of in its entirety.
Our sales are typically performance relative to our benchmark index.
made when shares stand at, or slightly above, our estimate of their fair value: thus we often find ourselves selling into At the other end of the scale, the most expensive the positive newsflow that attracts the attention of investors detractors from performance were Drax, Royal Bank of more eager to extrapolate this information.
Scotland, Avon Products, Joy Global and Vallourec, all affected by weak trading and, in the case of the latter At certain times, 1999 and 2007 come to mind, it would have three, by deteriorating balance sheets.
been better to leave the portfolio untouched during the course of the year and 2015 was another of those occasions.
We were attracted to Joy Global, a manufacturer of Purchases of stocks such as Vallourec, Joy Global, Standard mining equipment, and Vallourec, a manufacturer of Chartered, Drax and Centrica proved to be far too early in a steel pipes, primarily for the oil industry, by their strong deteriorating environment.
market positions and impressive long term returns.
Having analysed a number of UK listed alternatives we selected We cannot say that the bad news is over for our recent these overseas listed companies as a way of building our purchases, but they are already discounting a fair degree exposure to the resources industry believing that, in the of negative news.
On the other hand, we believe a lot of long term, suppliers to these industries are placed to companies in the market are trading at prices which leave make superior returns to those of the resource producers.
little in their valuations for disappointment.
Rather like the However, both companies have encountered extraordinarily two previous periods highlighted, we think we have taken tough operating conditions and investor sentiment has the majority of our medicine, particularly relative to the rest been badly damaged.
Drax owns the most efficient coalof the market.
fired electricity generators in the UK and is also the biggest generator of electricity from biomass.
It has been badly THE OUT OF FAVOUR SECTORS affected by the fall in oil price, making electricity generated In terms of sector positioning, the three largest positions from gas cheaper, as well as by a reduction in government on the portfolio in both absolute terms and relative to the sponsored renewables subsidies and an aggressive UK FTSE All-Share are Banks, Oil & Gas, and Industrial Goods government policy towards coal.
to be hurt by its large exposure to weakening emerging markets whilst sentiment towards the Royal Bank of As we highlighted in the interim report, many investors remain Scotland was affected by continued fines and no clear wary of banks, voicing concerns such as a never-ending list of news as to when dividends would be reinstated.
fines, onerous regulation, balance sheet opacity and vulnerability to future recessions.
While these issues are certainly genuine, it is worth considering how conventional wisdom can be opposed.
PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION % Temple Bar FTSE portfolio All-Share Index 12 % % 1 Financials 25.1 26.5 10 11 2 Oil & Gas 12.7 10.2 3 Consumer Services 9.4 12.6 9 1 4 Consumer Goods 6.4 16.5 5 Health Care 6.6 8.8 8 6 Industrials 14.9 10.4 7 7 Telecommunications 2.9 5.3 8 Utilities 4.0 3.8 9 Basic Materials 6.8 4.2 2 10 Technology 0.8 1.7 6 Total Equities 89.6 100.00 11 Fixed Interest 9.0 3 5 4 12 Cash 1.4 100.00 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 5 MANAGERS REVIEW CONTINUED At certain times, 1999 and 2007 come to mind, it would have been better to leave the portfolio untouched during the course of the year and 2015 was another of those occasions.
Balance sheets of banks were inarguably weak and opaque Food retailers were under continued pressure in 2015 as the a decade ago, but much has changed for the better as discounters continued to win market share.
Most independent a consequence of rights issues, retained profits, cut or forecasts assume that Aldi and Lidl will increase their market suspended dividends and disposals of non-core businesses.
share from around 10% to 15% over the next five years.
This Clearly regulation has increased, but this is both positive is a meaningful amount of market share for other participants and negative.
Banks have been stress-tested against and to relinquish, particularly for an industry in which volumes are passed - a variety of nasty outcomes, providing investors quite stable and price increases are very reliant on food price with confidence that future cyclicality may be shallower inflation.
However, not all of the constituents of the other 85% than experienced previously.
It is interesting to ponder of market share are necessarily losers.
We believe that Tesco, the necessary actions for listed companies in other with its huge market position and relatively new management, industries if they were to pass similar stress tests.
can be run more efficiently, focus on areas that the While the financial crisis remains fresh in the memory, discounters do not and cannot, and win back lost customers senior bank management will surely remain focused on to drive profitability.
Meanwhile, Wm Morrison, under new their core business areas in preference to finding novel management as well, is reversing its confused strategy of ways of eroding shareholder returns.
recent years and has brought a more entrepreneurial approach to the business.
Its significant freehold property backing, thus As with any industry, there are many moving parts to avoiding rent, also offers a significant competitive advantage.
the investment argument, but perhaps the major factor supporting the retention of bank shares is fairly simple.
A The very poor performance of the mining sector the FTSE number of constituents of the FTSE 100 Index cut dividends All-Share Mining Index fell 69% over five years relative to a in 2015 and, given that a number of dividends remain poorly 36% gain in the FTSE All-Share Index has obviously attracted covered, there are likely to be further cuts and omissions our attention.
The mining bubble inflated enormously almost in the next few years.
The UK listed banks we hold, Royal a decade ago and its deflation, although temporarily halted Bank of Scotland, Lloyds Banking Group and HSBC have by a splurge in government sponsored capital expenditure modest capital requirements to finance their relatively low in China, has been equally shocking.
A common theory in growth in the future and regulation seems to be easing.
commodity investing is that the commodity price must be Therefore, it appears likely that, post regulatory approval, the sufficiently high to incentivise production.
If the cost of companies will pay out a higher percentage of their earnings production was stable this would be straightforward but, when as dividends.
conditions are most testing, the empirical evidence is that producers find ways of reducing costs.
Furthermore, demand Over the last two years, the oil price has fallen further than is highly variable, particularly as in the last 15 years a significant virtually all commentators predicted.
OPEC has failed, so amount of the growth has come from China.
Even if one can far, to drive sufficient production out of the market at a time be comfortable with all these moving parts, to find a sensible of relatively weak demand.
Perhaps, with the consensus equilibrium commodity price it is important to consider that believing that the oil price fall was temporary, producers the fixed costs of production will already have been borne and, were unwilling to leave the market: commentary has now therefore, it is the marginal costs of production which often turned decidedly negative and consequently may lead to determine whether the producer keeps mining.
And finally for the necessary supply actions.
investors in mining shares, it is important that the miner has a sufficiently strong balance sheet to ensure its survival during Royal Dutch Shell and BPs high dividend yields suggest any particularly elongated periods of low commodity pricing.
investors are highly sceptical about their sustainability.
We have no great insight regarding these dividends, but Given that a bubble is normally followed by a bust of roughly would argue the low oil price is a once in a generation equal proportions that lasts longer than most would expect, opportunity for these companies properly to consider their we have patiently been watching the underperformance of cost bases and to lock into attractive prices on contracts the mining sector.
As the end of the year approached we for new developments.
As we have commented previously, purchased some Rio Tinto.
The companys low production the Armageddon scenario of countries such as Saudi Arabia cost status, together with its best in class transport links deciding to pump oil as quickly as possible to minimise the to customers and relatively strong balance sheet provides threat from technological developments is genuine but, us with some confidence that the company is a long term we think, too early to be concerned with, particularly after survivor.
It is very possible that the mining cycle may these exceptionally negative share price movements.
deteriorate further in the short term and that this could impact Rios share price and dividend payment: at the end of the year Rio had a dividend yield of 7.4%.
We would envisage building the stocks position in the portfolio on such weakness.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 6 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC RE REP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RNA NANC NCE E R RE EPOR PORT T F FIINA NANC NCIIA AL L R RE EPOR PORT T S SH HA AR REH EHOL OLD DER ER I IN NF FO OR RM MA AT TIIO ON N Given that a bubble is normally followed by a bust of roughly equal proportions that lasts longer than most would expect, we have patiently been watching the underperformance of the mining sector.
LESSONS LEARNT In terms of portfolio construction, we have historically taken the view that if our portfolio outperforms the index over We like, to quote Charlie Munger, to rub our noses in our the long term, then outperformance against the average of mistakes with the objective of becoming better investors.
our peers is quite likely and this has proved to be the case.
However, we know that sometimes our investment style However, the last ten years have been very different as many does move out of favour and accordingly we should not of the very largest stocks in the market banks, miners and necessarily be hardest on ourselves in our poorest years.
oils in particular have performed very poorly indeed and the majority of our competitors have been underweight the sum It is, after all, not unusual for us to hold, and to keep buying, of these sectors, to the benefit of their performance.
There is shares which fall far beyond their fair value: being early still an argument we should pay less attention to our benchmark seems a minor guilt.
But simply believing one is early can index and build the portfolio with far more reference to blind an investor from the risk or fact that he may be wrong.
our favourite stocks in absolute terms.
While this may be Having watched Avon Products unwind over a number of intuitively superior it does increase the portfolios volatility years it is hard to believe there are not lessons to take.
As against the index so ultimately comes down to how risk and a company with a significant amount of turnover in Latin performance are best assessed.
America one must accept it has had a tough hand to play.
VALUE V GROWTH Nonetheless, with challenges in many of its operations, management should probably have selected their preferred The following chart uses Investec Asset Management's operations early and decided to focus.
Fighting so many proprietary system which tracks the success of buying shares fires has proved extremely difficult and could have been showing positive momentum versus buying those shares an indicator to sell earlier.
which are cheap versus the market on various measures.
It assesses the factors which drive investment returns in the UK The acquisitions of Vallourec and Joy Global were clearly stockmarket, illustrating the travails of a value investor.
Those made too early and we paid insufficient attention to the companies with strong earnings and share price momentum likely size of the bust of the oil and mining bubbles we have consistently provided the best returns, with other outlined earlier.
Sometimes when judging companies, a valuation factors such as dividend yield or price to book view looking back seven or ten years is most relevant, but value of little attraction.
This is not an unusual phenomenon, in these cases we would have minimised the effect of the but that does not make it any more comfortable to bubble years had we looked over 20 years.
These periods test the mettle of value investors.
prove impossible given the changes, via acquisitions and disposals, companies frequently make.
If that is the case, sitting on ones hands may be the preferable option.
150 Our investments in gold miners have proved particularly 140 expensive.
The lesson here may be that these companies were simply too complex a proposition.
The marginal 130 cost of production argument mentioned earlier for other commodities as a method of price determination is not 120 necessarily useful here.
Most other commodities are consumed after being mined and consequently there is 110 limited stock to call on when demand picks up.
In contrast, gold is not consumed and the stock that exists comprises 100 virtually everything that has been mined.
Therefore, the amount of new production does not really have a 90 meaningful effect on price because this flow is so small relative to the stock that has been accumulated.
The 80 operational and balance sheet idiosyncrasies of mining companies further increases the challenge.
With the gold 70 price having fallen significantly in the last few years and, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 having a number of attractions as highlighted later, and with Source: Investec Asset Management Limited gold miners massively out of favour, it seems the wrong time Momentum factor Valuation factor to capitulate.
We are particularly encouraged that, post a number of management changes at these companies, there is a far greater focus on efficiency rather than growth.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 7 MANAGERS REVIEW CONTINUED This trend has been accompanied by, and probably caused MACRO GOLD by, a long term downward trend in bond yields.
Some Despite some aggressive monetary policy by the worlds commentators argue that bond yields must reverse for value largest central banks and a prolonged period of very low stocks to outperform growth stocks.
While higher interest interest rates, it is striking how deflation and debt, the major rates would probably affect the valuation of growth stocks, anxieties of the global financial crisis, remain as significant we believe that lower bond yields could also prove unhelpful.
Notwithstanding the increase in short After all, these bond yields imply lower economic growth in term interest rates by the US Federal Reserve at the end the future, a burden for all companies.
of the year and the accompanying positive commentary on improving economic conditions, markets are not pricing in Of course, when growth investing is in vogue, value many more increases.
Relative to previous economic cycles characteristics lose their potency with investors.
Earnings the first rise in interest rates seems to have been left very downgrades place dividends under pressure and lead to late, leaving in doubt how high they can go.
queries over the correctness of asset values on balance sheets.
However, this has always been the case for value A growing risk for a number of economies is that, come the investors and particularly so near the bottom of the cycle.
next recession, central banks and politicians may be forced to find even more experimental ways to kick-start growth.
DIVIDEND YIELD AND PORTFOLIO CONCENTRATION Our fear remains that investors may be less than enthusiastic The portfolio remains relatively concentrated by number of about these policies.
Consequently, we continue to regard holdings.
The mean dividend yield of the UK equity market gold and gold shares as a bet against the credibility of is greater than the median and the number of stocks yielding central bankers.
more than the market is the lowest it has been for many years.
THE FUTURE A HIGHER EQUITY RISK PREMIUM LOWER P E?
Percentage of UK stocks with a dividend yield above One of the striking aspects of many companies and industries the market yield is near all time lows in the stockmarket is the significant change that is occurring % in their business models and which consequently dissuades 80 6.0 us from blind faith in a mean reversion cycle.
For example, 70 5.0 banks are unlikely ever to generate the return on equity they 60 made in the ten years prior to the global financial crisis due to 4.0 the heightened levels of regulation.
Food retailers are dealing 50 with the advance of the discounters plus the increased costs of 3.0 40 on-line delivery and oil companies face an uncertain future as 2.0 renewable technology becomes ever cheaper.
Of course, we 30 own companies in all these sectors, but at least the issues are 1.0 20 well aired and, surely to some extent, discounted in share prices.
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 Whats more we do not require these companies to return to Source: Socit Gnrale Research % of stocks yielding more than the market l. h. scale previous levels of profitability to generate capital gains.
FTSE All-Share dividend yield We would argue that other sectors, such as media, In addition, many of the highest yielding stocks are now telecommunications and car manufacturers, are also under paying their dividends out of debt and consequently pressure from technological change and or regulation.
Even these payments are vulnerable.
Of course, one should be those companies considered beyond criticism, in areas such as supportive of companies paying their dividends with an food manufacturing or beverages, are vulnerable to an increase eye to their long term earnings, provided that these are not in local competition, such as craft brewers, the expansion in paid out in preference to essential expenditure in the core discounters selling non-branded items and the potential for business.
The high dividend yields of a number of stocks regulation as, for example, the anti-sugar lobby grows.
These suggest that shareholders now believe this is the case.
companies are definitely not priced for any trips or stumbles.
FTSE All-Share dividend cover 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2015 Source: Socit Gnrale Research TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 8 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The final quarter of the year was, therefore, interesting as profit downgrades started to stretch across a broader number of sectors, with companies in the UK market warning in areas as diverse as the aviation market, the US education market, Chinese and US manufacturing and the Polish spirits market.
It is perhaps interesting to draw parallels between 2015 and 2008.
In 2008, the developed market was beginning to struggle as the effects of the financial crisis became more widespread.
Despite this, many commentators discussed global decoupling, claiming that emerging markets were invulnerable to the woes of the developed world.
This assertion had little substance and ultimately emerging markets contained some of the worst performing stocks in the bear market.
In this cycle, it has been the resource stocks and banks which have suffered most, with stocks in other industries allegedly protected by their exposure to improving economic growth in developed markets and a boost generally from a lower oil price.
The swathe of fourth quarter profit warnings suggests that the pain is spreading rather than being contained.
PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION One is therefore left with a fairly stark choice.
Ugly stocks, with well aired problems, but fairly forgiving valuations, and glamour stocks priced for perfection.
We think the ugly glamour elastic has been stretched too far by investors and will snap back at some stage.
Markets continue to be highly valued and there remain a host of uncertainties: the Eurozone continues to wobble, the UK referendum vote on EU membership is fairly evenly poised, government debt worldwide remains uncomfortably high, share buy-backs in the US have been financed in aggregate through increases in debt, company profitability remains high relative to GDP and valuations of many stocks and sectors remain expensive relative to history, the slowdown in the Chinese economy continues, the unintended consequences of almost a decade of quantitative easing remain unknown and new central bank policies might be on the verge of introduction.
We recognise our disappointing performance in recent times and apologise for it, but continue to believe that certain parts of the market are significantly overvalued and dangerous to investors.
We look forward to investing our liquid assets when opportunities arise.
Alastair Mundy For Investec Fund Managers Limited 23 February 2016 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 9
