STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY The directors present the strategic report for the Company From time to time fixed interest holdings or non for the year ended 31 December 2015. equity interests may be held for yield enhancement and other purposes.
Derivative instruments are used in The strategic report is designed to help shareholders assess certain circumstances, and with the prior approval of how the directors have performed their duty to promote the the Board, for hedging purposes or to exploit specific success of the Company during the year under review.
BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys net in England and Wales in 1926 with the registered gearing range may fluctuate between 0% and 30%, based number 214601. on the current balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of 50%.
The Company carries on business as an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the portfolio approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in should be reasonably fully invested.
An investment level of accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
90% of shareholder funds is regarded as a guideline minimum investment level dependent on market conditions.
The Companys principal business activity of investment management is sub-contracted to Investec Fund Managers Risk is managed through diversification of holdings, Limited IFM, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial of the Company.
IFM delegates the management of the and other controls relating to the administration of assets.
Companys portfolio to Investec Asset Management INVESTMENT APPROACH Limited IAM.
The investment approach of the Manager is premised on A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement a contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, and the Managers Review.
The results of the Company are buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards shown on page 36. them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as fundamental profit improvement and or re-evaluation of INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND POLICY their long term prospects takes place.
The Companys investment objective is to provide growth The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving in income and capital to achieve a long term total return down the prices of out of favour companies to below their greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will allow investment primarily in UK securities.
The Companys policy the Company to purchase shares at significant discounts to is to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the their fair value and to sell them as they become more fully majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of the valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in FTSE 350 Index.
The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional The Managers process is designed to produce best ideas positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 20% of to drive active fund management within a rigorous control the portfolio may be held in listed international equities in framework.
The framework begins through narrowing down developed economies.
The Company may continue to hold the universe of stocks by passing those companies with a securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager market capitalisation above 200 million through a screening considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute process which highlights the weakest performing stocks.
limit of 10% of the portfolio in any individual stock with a This isolates opportunities with the most negative sentiment maximum exposure to a specific industrial or commercial characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised in greater sector of 25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings detail to identify investment opportunities.
The process is very much bottom up and can result in large sector positions being taken if enough stocks of sufficient It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15% of its interest are found within a single sector.
However, top down gross assets in other listed investment companies including risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential concentration listed investment trusts.
of risk and to factor this awareness into portfolio construction.
The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of investments, The portfolio comprises stocks which have been purchased typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but without restricting for different reasons and at different times.
In general, the Company from holding a more or less concentrated because of the bottom up approach to stockpicking, each of portfolio from time to time as circumstances require.
these reasons is independent of the other and the portfolio, therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longer term macro The Companys long term investment strategy emphasises: trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and normally will not exceed 5% of the portfolio value.
Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose share prices do not match the Managers assessment of their longer term value.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 11 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED The approach to stock selection and portfolio construction is KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS driven by four core beliefs: The principal key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the Company 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the over time, and which are comparable to those reported by downside.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd other investment trusts, are: and aware of investor psychology, which often causes Net asset value total return relative to the FTSE overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to have All-Share Index and to competitors within the UK Equity good prospects and an undervaluation of those which are Income sector of investment trust companies: out of favour.
Discount premium on net asset value: 2.
There are few companies which sustain below normal Earnings and dividends per share: and profits over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply Ongoing charges.
and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain While some elements of performance against KPIs are supernormal profits over the longer term.
Such profits beyond management control they provide measures of tend to be competed or regulated away.
the Companys absolute and relative performance and are, therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of share price performance over the long term.
In other words Net asset value NAV total return cheap stocks will outperform expensive stocks.
In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Companys portfolio the Board monitors the NAV in relation to the FTSE 4.
Diversification is an important control.
This is the most important KPI by which companies or sectors can be out of favour for a performance is judged.
During the year the net asset value considerable time.
total return of the Company was -1.0% compared with a total return of 1.0% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
The five year net PERFORMANCE asset value total return performance is shown below.
In the year to 31 December 2015 the net asset value total return of the Company was -1.0% compared with a total Net asset value total return return of the Companys benchmark index of 1.0%.
The effect 180 of removing gearing from the performance calculation is shown in the following graph of investment performance 170 over a five year period compared with the FTSE All-Share 160 Index.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 and 150 the Managers Review on pages 4 to 9 include a review of developments during the year together with information on 140 investment activity within the Companys portfolio and an 130 assessment of future developments.
120 Ungeared 5 year performance 110 160 100 90 140 80 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream 120 Temple Bar share price total return Temple Bar NAV total return FTSE All-Share Index total return 100 80 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Temple Bar gross assets, excluding effects of gearing and associated costs FTSE All-Share Index - total return TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Discount on net asset value The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to the market.
The final dividend recommended for the year is The Board monitors the premium discount at which the 15.87p per ordinary share which brings the total for the year Companys shares trade in relation to the net assets.
to 39.66p per ordinary share, an increase of 2%.
This will During the year the shares traded at an average discount be the 32nd consecutive year in which the Company has to NAV of 3.7%.
This compares with an average premium of increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
The Board and Manager closely monitor both movements in the Companys share price and 10 Year Comparative Dividend Growth significant dealings in the shares.
In order to avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in the market the Board 150 asks shareholders to approve resolutions which allow for the buy back of shares and their issuance which can assist in the 140 management of the discount or premium.
Regular demand 130 generated by monthly investment in the Savings Scheme and the use of marketing and promotional activity also assist in 120 keeping the discount to an acceptable level.
110 Discount premium to net asset value excluding current year revenue 100 8% 90 6% 80 4% 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream 2% Temple Bar Retail Prices Index 0% -2% Ongoing charges Ongoing charges is an expression of the Companys -4% management fees and other operating expenses as a -6% percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended 31 December 2015 were -8% 0.49% 2014: 0.48%.
The Board compares the Companys 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ongoing charges with those of its peers on a regular basis.
Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream At the present time the Company has one of the lowest Cum income NAV, debt at market value ongoing charges in the UK Equity Income sector of investment trust companies.
Earnings and dividend per share It remains the directors intention to distribute, over time, by way of dividends substantially all of the Companys net revenue income after expenses and taxation, subject to preserving a prudent balance in revenue reserves to facilitate a smooth dividend progression.
The Manager aims to maximise total returns from the portfolio and attaches great importance to dividends in achieving total return.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 13 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the London With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company.
Companies Act could result in the Company being fined or The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained subject to criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended managing these risks, as summarised below.
from Listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, IAM, Investment strategy risk and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and is satisfied that as asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to they are able to provide an appropriate service in this regard.
underperformance against the Companys benchmark index or peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares Corporate governance and shareholder relations trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages such risks Details of the Companys compliance with corporate by diversification of investments through its investment governance best practice including information on restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and relations with shareholders, are set out in the corporate reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the governance report on pages 24 to 26 which forms part directors with regular management information including of this strategic report.
absolute and relative performance data, attribution analysis, revenue estimates, liquidity reports, risk profile and Control systems risk shareholder analysis.
The Board monitors the implementation Disruption to, or failure of, IFMs accounting, dealing or and results of the investment process with the portfolio payments systems or the custodians records could prevent manager, who attends Board meetings.
Periodically the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial Board holds a separate meeting devoted to strategy, the position or adversely impact the ability to trade.
Details of most recent being in January 2016. how the Board monitors the services provided by IFM and its associates and the key elements designed to provide Income risk dividends effective internal control are included within the internal Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio control section of the corporate governance report on investments to meet the Companys expenses and to page 26. provide adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable programme of increasing dividend payments to shareholders Other risks is subject to the risk that income generation from investments Other risks to which the Company is exposed and which fails to meet the level required.
The Board monitors this risk form part of the market risks referred to above are included through the receipt of detailed income reports and forecasts in note 22 to the financial statements together with which are considered at each meeting.
As at 31 December summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These 2015 the Company had distributable revenue reserves of comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, 29.6 million before declaration of the final dividend credit risk and currency risk.
VIABILITY STATEMENT Share price risk The Board makes an assessment of the longer term prospects The Companys share price and premium or discount to of the Company beyond the timeframe envisaged under NAV are monitored by the Manager and considered by the the going concern basis of accounting having regard to the Board at each meeting.
The directors attach considerable Companys current position and the principal risks it faces.
importance to any premium or discount to NAV at which The Company is a long term investment vehicle and the the shares trade, both in absolute terms and relative to the directors, therefore, believe that it is appropriate to assess average rating at which the UK Equity Income sector of its viability over a long term horizon.
For the purposes of investment trusts as a whole is trading.
Premiums judged assessing the Companys prospects in accordance with Code to be excessive will be addressed by repeated share Provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the issues, either new or from Treasury.
Discounts judged to be Board considers that assessing the Companys prospects excessive will be addressed by repeated share buybacks, over a period of five years is appropriate given the nature of for Treasury or cancellation.
The directors are prepared to the Company and the inherent uncertainties of looking out be proactive in premium discount management to minimise over a longer time period.
The directors believe that a five potential disadvantages to shareholders.
However, market year period appropriately reflects the long term strategy of sentiment is beyond the absolute control of the Manager and the Company and over which, in the absence of any adverse the Board.
change to the regulatory environment and the favourable tax treatment afforded to UK investment trusts, they do Accounting, legal & regulatory not expect there to be any significant change to the current In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must principal risks and to the adequacy of the mitigating controls comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. in place.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158 it might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio would be subject to capital gains tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are, therefore, monitored by the Board at each meeting.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In assessing the viability of the Company the directors have STEWARDSHIP ENGAGEMENT conducted a thorough assessment of each of the Companys The Manager recognises its wider stewardship principal risks and uncertainties as set out on page 14. responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this Particular scrutiny was given to the impact of a significant end, it supports the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out fall in global equity markets on the value of the Companys the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investment portfolio.
The directors have also considered investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: the Companys leverage and liquidity in the context of its fixed rate borrowings, notably the 25 million debenture publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: due to expire in December 2017, its income and expenditure projections and the fact the Companys investments comprise disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: mainly readily realisable quoted securities which can be sold monitor their investee companies: to meet funding requirements if necessary.
establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors All the key operations required by the Company are where appropriate: outsourced to third party providers and alternative providers have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their could be secured at relatively short notice if necessary.
voting record: and Having taken into account the Companys current report to clients.
position and the potential impact of its principal risks and The Manager endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK uncertainties, the directors have a reasonable expectation investments and supports the principles as best practice that the Company will be able to continue in operation and elsewhere.
The Manager believes that regular contact with meet its liabilities as they fall due for a period of five years the companies in which it invests is central to its investment from the date of this Report.
process and it also recognises the importance of being an GENDER DIVERSITY active owner on behalf of its clients.
At the year end there were four male directors and two The Manager believes that companies should act in a female directors on the Board.
The Company has no socially responsible manner.
Although its priority at all times employees and therefore there is nothing further to report is the best economic interests of its clients, it recognises in respect of gender representation within the Company.
that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the share The Companys policy on diversity is detailed in the price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists corporate governance report on page 25. within the Managers environmental, social and governance GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to All the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations.
The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, ETHICAL Secretary or can be downloaded from its website.
AND HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY The Company is managed by IFM, has no employees and FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS all its directors are non-executive.
There are, therefore, no The future development of the Company is dependent on disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board the success of its investment strategy in the light of economic notes the Managers policy statement in respect of Social, and equity market developments.
The outlook is discussed in Environmental and Governance issues, as outlined below.
the Chairmans Statement on page 2.
By order of the Board of Directors John Reeve Chairman 23 February 2016 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 15
