The Investment Manager Investment Manager Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML is the Investment Manager of the Company.
TAML is a subsidiary of Franklin Resources which is one of the worlds largest asset management companies.
TAML is a pioneer of emerging market investment, having created one of the first dedicated emerging market mutual funds more than 25 years ago.
As of 31 March 2015, the Templeton Emerging Markets Team managed US$49.0 billion in emerging markets assets for retail, institutional and professional investors across the globe.
The Templeton Emerging Markets Team, headed by Dr. Mark Mobius, is one of the largest of its kind.
It includes 53 dedicated emerging markets portfolio managers, analysts and product specialists.
Their on-the-ground presence in 18 countries, and years of relevant industry experience, greatly assists their understanding of the companies researched for inclusion in the TEMIT portfolio.
The TEMIT investment team includes Dr. Mark Mobius, along with Allan Lam as lead allocator, and Carlos Hardenberg and Chetan Sehgal as lead analysts, all senior team members with significant expertise in emerging markets.
D. Allan Lam, CPA Executive Chairman Senior Executive Vice President & Senior Managing Director Dr. Mobius has spent more than 40 years working Allan Lam joined Franklin Templeton in 1987. in emerging markets all over the world.
He joined Mr. Lam manages investment portfolios dedicated Franklin Templeton in 1987 as the president to global emerging markets and Asia ex Japan.
He of Templeton Emerging Markets Fund, Inc. has research responsibilities for companies in the real In 1999, he was appointed joint chairman of the estate and the oil & gas sectors, and also specialises Global Corporate Governance Forum Investor in analysing companies listed in the Philippines.
Responsibility Taskforce of the World Bank and Mr. Lam worked for a number of years in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and accounting field with Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Development.
and KPMG Peat Marwick CPA.
His knowledge of accounting practices became an important tool for his equity analysis.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 21 Investment Manager continued Chetan Sehgal, CFA Carlos Hardenberg Executive Vice President Senior Vice President & Managing Director & Managing Director Chetan Sehgal joined Franklin Templeton in 1995.
Carlos Hardenberg is primarily responsible for the His main research responsibilities include the Turkish market and coverage of the central and Indian and Israeli markets and the software and eastern European, Middle East and North Africa IT services industries.
Prior to joining Franklin regions.
Prior to joining Franklin Templeton in 2002, Templeton, Mr. Sehgal was a senior ratings analyst Mr. Hardenberg was an analyst in the Corporate for the Credit Rating Information Services of India, Finance Department for Bear Stearns International in Ltd. Mr. Sehgal earned a B. E. mechanical honours London.
He entered the financial services industry in from the University of Bombay and a post-graduate 2000.
Mr. Hardenberg holds a M. Sc.
with distinction, diploma in management from the Indian Institute in investment management from London City of Management in Bangalore, where he specialised University Business School UK and a B. Sc.
with in finance and business policy and graduated as an honours, in business studies from the University of institute scholar.
Mr. Sehgal is a Chartered Financial Buckingham UK.
FPO 22 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
