Portfolio Report Market Overview The global economy expanded moderately during the 12 months under review amid an accommodating monetary policy environment of low interest rates.
Although several emerging market countries faced headwinds such as soft domestic demand, weak exports and geopolitical crises, emerging market economies overall continued to grow faster than developed market economies.
Chinas slowing rate of economic growth appeared to stabilise in the second half of 2014 as fiscal and monetary stimulus measures began to gain traction.
Strength in production and consumer spending helped offset weakness in fixed-asset investment.
Domestic demand continued to account for a greater portion of Chinas gross domestic product, as the governments market-friendly policies supported entrepreneurial and consumer facing businesses.
The countrys nonmanufacturing sector expanded during the period, but the manufacturing sector weakened near the yearend.
Indias manufacturing and services sectors strengthened as they benefited from the new governments pro-business economic reforms.
Other emerging market countries showing signs of economic improvement included Mexico, Qatar and Thailand, while several economies, including those of Turkey, Russia and South Africa, showed signs of strain.
Brazil exited recession as government spending drove third-quarter economic growth and consumer spending supported fourth-quarter expansion, but the countrys economy continued to face headwinds such as high inflation, lower commodity prices and severe drought.
Central bank actions varied across emerging markets during the 12-month period.
Some central banks, including those of Brazil, South Africa and Russia, raised interest rates in response to rising inflation and weakening currencies.
In contrast, several central banks, including those of India, Turkey and South Korea, lowered interest rates to promote economic growth.
In China, in addition to cutting its benchmark interest rate, the Peoples Bank of China provided short-term liquidity, extended its medium-term lending facility and lowered the reserve requirement ratio for commercial banks.
With inflationary pressures trending downward, policymakers may have the flexibility to implement additional measures to support the economy.
Emerging markets experienced volatility during the period amid concerns about global economic growth, such as the future course of US monetary policy, political instability and geopolitical crises in certain regions, Greeces debt negotiations and the devaluation of many currencies against the US dollar.
Also weighing on investor sentiment was a sharp decline in crude oil prices, which put pressure on several oil-producing countries financial positions and currencies.
However, Chinas fiscal and monetary stimulus measures, the European Central Banks monetary easing and the US Federal Reserve Boards continued sympathetic policy provided investors with some optimism.
A temporary solution to Greeces dispute with the countrys international creditors and a Russia-Ukraine ceasefire agreement bolstered emerging market stocks in February, but renewed uncertainties then tempered stock performance near the year end.
Russia was one of the weakest emerging market performers in the 12-month period ended March 2015 as a decline in commodity prices and sanctions over events in Ukraine limited the sources of relief for an economy that was already slowing.
Efforts by investors to withdraw from Russia put the equity market and the ruble under severe pressure, with efforts to defend the currency through much higher interest rates having little effect.
A credit downgrade by the international ratings agency Standard & Poors of the countrys sovereign credit rating from BBBto BB, that is to below investment grade status, citing deteriorating asset quality in the financial system, further impacted investor sentiment.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 25 Portfolio Report continued A number of Asian markets enjoyed notably strong performances during the year, reflecting monetary easing, benefits of lower oil prices and the progress of reform measures.
China, including Hong Kong, and India enjoyed particularly substantial gains, while Indonesia and Thailand also recorded double-digit returns.
South Africa also gained significant ground, while various combinations of oil and commodity price sensitivity and political issues depressed Brazil and Russia.
In Brazil, the re-election of incumbent President Dilma Rousseff diminished earlier market hopes for a more market-friendly political environment.
Sluggish economic data, an increase in interest rates, falling commodity prices, devaluation of the real and a corruption scandal affecting the state oil company, all impacted investor sentiment in the Brazilian market.
South Korea, Pakistan and Turkey, despite reporting positive returns, lagged their regional peers.
Performance Attribution Analysis Performance Attributions % Year ended 31 March 2015 1 Total Return Net 9.6 2 Expenses 1.2 3 Total Return Gross 10.8 4 Benchmark Total Return 13.2 5 Excess Return 2.4 Sector Allocation 7.8 Stock Selection 0.1 Currency 6.0 6 Residual 0.5 Total Portfolio Manager Contribution 2.4 Notes 1 Total Return Net is the NAV return inclusive of dividends reinvested.
2 Expenses incurred by the Company for the year to 31 March 2015.
3 Gross return is Total Return Net plus Expenses.
Gross of fee performance is preferable for attribution and other value-added reporting as it evaluates the contribution of the Investment Manager.
4 MSCI Emerging Markets Total Return Index, inclusive of gross dividends reinvested.
Indices are comparable to gross returns as they include no expenses.
5 Excess return is the difference between the gross return of the portfolio and the return of benchmark.
6 The Residual represents the difference between the actual excess return and the excess return explained by the attribution model.
This amount results from several factors, most significantly the difference between the actual trade price of securities included in actual performance and the end of day price used to calculate attribution.
Source: FactSet and Franklin Templeton Investments.
26 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk For the 12 months ending 31 March 2015, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose by 13.2% in sterling terms on a total return basis.
On the London Stock Exchange, TEMITs share price produced a total return of 6.9% for the same period, while the net asset value NAV per share total return was 9.6%.
The NAV total return was higher than the share price return because the discount widened over the period.
TEMITs portfolio is managed with a strategy which is built on the belief that superior investment returns can be achieved by investing in companies which the Investment Manager believes are undervalued by the market, fundamentally strong and growing.
Our stock selection is based on companies, not market indices and so both TEMITs portfolio and its performance are likely to vary from the index.
materials, energy and financials were the major detractors to the performance relative By sector, investments in to the benchmark index.
Although positive stock selection in the information technology sector offset some of the detraction from an underweight exposure, the sector as a whole remained a detractor.
TEMIT maintained an underweight position due to excessive valuations and concerns about shortening product cycles and possible obsolescence risks, which may result in relatively high capital expenditure in the future.
Stocks in the energy sector were impacted by lower oil and gas prices as well as oversupply concerns.
Key detractors included Petroleo Brasileiro Petrobras, SK Innovation and PTT Exploration and Production.
Petrobras is Brazils main producer, refiner and distributor of oil and gas and has an exceptional portfolio of production and exploration assets.
Nervousness amongst investors, attributed to long delays in the release of corporate results due to the alleged irregular transactions, the companys heavy debt burden, and sharply weakening oil and gas prices, resulted in a 48% decrease in share price in sterling terms.
The share price rebounded strongly post the period-end, with a 38% return in sterling terms in April, as a rise in oil prices supported the stock and the publication of 2014 accounts removed a significant source of uncertainty for investors.
PTT Exploration and Production is the listed oil and gas exploration and production arm of Thailands state energy company.
We believe that economic growth in emerging markets including Thailand and the wider Asian region should support long term demand growth for oil and gas.
In addition, reform of Thailands regulation of its oil and gas industry could benefit the profitability of the company.
SK Innovation is a South Korean energy based conglomerate.
The core of the business is the oil refining activities in petrochemicals, lubricants and some exploration activities.
In our opinion, and despite recent performance, oil refining and petrochemical assets in Asia could potentially earn attractive returns due to the expected rapid economic growth and increasing demand for petroleum products in the region.
After re-examining our holdings in the energy sector, we increased our positions in all of these companies.
In the financial sector, overweight positions in major Brazilian commercial banks, Itau Unibanco and Banco Bradesco, were the largest detractors.
Both stocks experienced single-digit declines in share price during the reporting period.
Lack of exposure to Bank of China, China Construction Bank and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, which reported strong gains during the period, also worked against TEMITs performance relative to the benchmark index.
Substantial fund flows from mainland China via the newly implemented Hong Kong-Shanghai Stock Connect program pushed share prices up.
The Investment Manager prefers www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 27 Portfolio Report continued to hold Brazilian, Thai and Indonesia banks as opposed to Chinese banks due to their higher profitability, attractive fundamentals and long-term growth prospects.
Banks in these countries can offer an effective means to gain exposure to domestic economic growth in Southeast Asia and Latin America: in particular to access the expansion of consumer spending as rising regional wealth fuels a growing middle class.
Holdings in Kasikornbank, Siam Commercial Bank and Bank Central Asia all saw double-digit gains and contributed positively to performance in the past 12 months.
Moreover, over the last five years these stocks have significantly outperformed the Chinese banks.
TEMITs positions in materials companies, Vale, Kumba Iron Ore and Impala Platinum were the largest detractors to performance in the last 12 months.
Vale 1.9% is a major mining company based in Brazil which owns very large reserves of iron ore and nickel as well as transport and logistics assets.
The Brazilian market as a whole was pressured by political turbulence and economic weakness in the latter part of the reporting period, and weakness of the Brazilian real against the U. S. dollar further impacted Vales share price.
We believe that over the long-term emerging market economic growth is likely to drive demand for commodities such as iron ore higher, and that Vale is well placed to benefit as a low cost producer.
Share Price Total Return -53.4% Relative contribution to portfolio -1.5% Kumba Iron Ore 1.6% is a South Africa based iron ore mining company, the majority of which is owned by Anglo American.
A decline in iron ore prices due to rising supplies and sluggish demand impacted the share price of these companies.
Iron ore is perceived by investors to be one of the most oversupplied of all metals and minerals.
However, iron ore is also one of the most consolidated markets with a handful of dominant players around the world.
Steel and thus iron ore demand is expected to continue to grow rapidly especially in emerging and frontier markets because of infrastructure development and other sources of demand.
We are of the opinion that Kumba, as a pure iron ore company, could be in a more advantageous and profitable position in relation to its parent, Anglo American Corporation, which has a more diversified portfolio.
Share Price Total Return -53.3% Relative contribution to portfolio -1.0% Impala Platinum 0.9% is a world leading platinum producer with operations located in South Africa and Zimbabwe, which have two of the leading major platinum-group metals PGM deposits in the world.
These two countries account for more than 80% of the global platinum production.
Weak platinum prices and a five month strike in the first half of 2014 impacted earnings.
However, there has been increased stability in the labour market and some recovery in production levels.
Impalas comparatively low cost operations make it a major beneficiary of an expected consolidation in the PGM space.
The use of PGM in auto catalysts as more stringent emission legislation comes into effect globally could support metal prices over the longer term.
The company is also a beneficiary of the weaker rand compared with the US dollar, as output is priced in US dollar but costs are based in rands.
Share Price Total Return -52.1% Relative contribution to portfolio -0.8% 28 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk It is the Templeton philosophy to invest in companies that are well managed and profitable, but have fallen out of favour due to short-term uncertainties.
As a result, the Investment Manager used this share price correction as an opportunity to invest in, or increase TEMITs investments in all three materials companies described above.
On the positive side, investments in consumer discretionary were by far the top performers while industrials also had a positive impact.
Major contributors at the stock level included Brilliance China Automotive, Tata Consultancy Services and Siam Commercial Bank.
The top three contributors to relative performance in the last 12 months were overweight positions in Brilliance China Automotive, Hyundai Development and Tata Consultancy Services.
Brilliance China Automotive 11.1% is a Chinese car maker with a joint venture with German luxury car maker BMW.
Resilient sales of luxury cars in China drove strong earnings, with BMW cars taking an increasing share of the market segment and the weakness in the Euro exchange rate also benefitting profit margins.
News of an extension of the joint venture agreement to 2026 also buoyed the share price.
We believe that Brilliance Chinas capacity expansion plans, coupled with the BMW brands increasing popularity in China and strong management, should allow the company to continue enjoying growing demand and rising market share.
Share Price Total Return 42.1% Relative contribution to portfolio 2.3% Hyundai Development 4.5% is one of the leading residential property developers in South Korea.
With a strong brand name I-Park, the company is estimated to have the largest market share in the residential construction business.
Measures by the South Korean authorities to stimulate the housing market coupled with interest rate cuts boosted investor sentiment during the reporting period.
The company also reported solid corporate earnings for the fourth quarter of 2014, supported by better than expected operating profits.
In addition to being a beneficiary of growth in consumer wealth, we believe that the group is well placed to benefit from additional government initiatives to stimulate the housing market both through relaxation of mortgage lending conditions and through encouragement of refurbishment and upgrading activity.
Share Price Total Return 106.7% Relative contribution to portfolio 1.9% One of Indias largest and oldest IT consulting companies, Tata Consultancy Services 3.4%, is a beneficiary of improving trends in global IT outsourcing due to its extensive global exposure and comprehensive range of services.
In addition to benefiting from the strong performance of the Indian market as a whole, weakness in the rupee during the year was advantageous for the company whose cost-base is concentrated in rupees, while its revenues arise primarily in foreign currencies.
We believe that India has a major competitive advantage in the provision of outsourcing services due to a combination of available technological expertise and relatively low labour costs.
Share Price Total Return 34.0% Relative contribution to portfolio 1.0% www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 29 Portfolio Report continued For the five years ended 31 March 2015, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index posted a 13.3% total return.
On the London Stock Exchange, TEMITs share price produced a total return of 1.2% for the same period.
The Investment Manager has a value investing style and, while recognising that it is not TEMITs benchmark index, it is worth noting that the MSCI Emerging Markets Value Index produced a total return of 4.9% over the five year period, compared with TEMITs net asset value total return of 7.9%.
The difference in performance between TEMITs NAV and the MSCI EM Index during the five-year period was mainly attributed to two stocks in the materials sector, Vale in Brazil and Sesa Sterlite in India.
Vale declined by 77% in sterling terms over the period as a decline in iron ore prices and sentiment on the Brazilian market weakened.
Vale remains one of the worlds lowest cost producers of iron ore and other metals and should emerge as an even stronger player once the short-term overcapacity is absorbed, iron ore prices recover and sentiment in the Brazilian market improves.
We re-assessed our position and decided to increase our investment based on our long-term conviction which stems from the belief that demand will grow while supply is limited, which should support iron ore prices in the years ahead.
Indeed, in the one month since the end of the reporting period, the share price of Vale rose by more than 20% as commodity prices rebounded and sentiment in Brazil improved.
Sesa Sterlite, however, was sold in 2014 due to a change in the company fundamentals after its merger with other interests of its parent company the Vedanta Group resulted in iron ore accounting for a smaller portion of the new companys earnings.
We continue to believe in the economic and social development of emerging markets and this has led us over the last five years to continue to hold selective positions in materials stocks which, as a sector, has been the major detractor from performance relative to the benchmark.
On the other side of the performance analysis, relative and absolute performance was strongly supported by the consumer discretionary sector where our holding in Brilliance China Automotive was the major contributor to performance, with the stock returning close to 600% in sterling term over the 5-year period, while exposure to Astra International also helped returns.
Elsewhere, the industrials and financials sectors also made a positive contribution to performance.
Hyundai Development, China International Marine Containers CIMC and a number of Asian banks, Siam Commercial Bank, Kasikornbank, Bank Central Asia and MCB Bank have all seen their share price nearly, or more than double in the last 5 years.
Our high conviction and long-term approach to investing in emerging markets has contributed to outperformance over the longer term.
Since inception, TEMIT has delivered a total NAV return of 2,362% versus our benchmarks 1,544%, in sterling terms.
We believe that emerging markets in general, and our stock holdings in particular, stand to benefit from attractive valuations and improving global growth prospects: and we continue to maintain faith in our approach and our portfolio selection.
30 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk New Holdings Security Country Amount m Kumba lron Ore South Africa 55 CIA Hering Brazil 21 lnner Mongolia Yitai Coal Hong Kong China 16 Industries Qatar Qatar 16 Truworths International South Africa 16 Sembcorp Marine Singapore 8 Nestl Nigeria Nigeria 2 Total 134 A new holding was established early in the year and was sold in September 2014.
Kumba Iron Ore is a South Africa based iron ore mining company, the majority of which is owned by Anglo American.
The company also operates the port operations at Saldanha Bay, from where its iron ore is shipped to various destinations.
The stock was added to the portfolio due to its attractive valuations, strong balance sheet and high profit margins along with high dividend payout percentage.
While investors may be concerned about a prolonged slowdown in China s economy and its impact on iron ore demand and iron ore prices, Chinas GDP growth rate remains robust at about 7%.
The long-term demand for steel is thus expected to remain strong with ongoing project development in the cities across China requiring steel products.
CIA Hering is one of the largest apparel manufacturers and retailers in Brazil.
A strong brand, attractive valuations, high profit margins and net cash levels should bode well for the company in the long-term.
Share price weakness during the reporting year provided an attractive investment opportunity.
Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal is one the largest coal producers in China.
The company produces high quality thermal coal, and also has coal-to-oil technology, railway transportation, pharmaceuticals and solar power generation businesses.
High quality coal reserves, high profit margins and a strong balance sheet bode well for the company.
Any closures of smaller and unproductive mines could also result in market share expansion for larger miners such as Yitai.
Truworths International is one of South Africas leading fashion retailers.
It specialises in the sale of clothing, footwear and perfumes for men and women.
The stock was added to the portfolio due to its attractive valuations, strong portfolio of brands, high profit margins and return on equity.
Listed in Singapore, Sembcorp Marine is a global leader in marine and offshore engineering, offering a full spectrum of integrated solutions in ship repair, shipbuilding, ship conversion, rig building, and offshore engineering and construction.
The stock was added to the portfolio based on its attractive valuations, high return on equity and sizeable order backlog.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 31 Portfolio Report continued A 60% owned subsidiary of Nestl, Nestl Nigeria manufactures and markets an array of high quality branded food and beverage products.
The company has been operational in Nigeria for more than five decades.
The companys strong market position and support from its parent in areas such as production development and expansion makes it a key beneficiary of the growing consumer market in Nigeria.
High profitability and return on equity further increases the companys attractiveness.
Increased Holdings Security Country Amount m Unilever United Kingdom 61 Petroleo Brasileiro, ADR Brazil 17 Vale, ADR Brazil 14 Impala Platinum South Africa 11 PetroChina, H Hong Kong China 4 Buenaventura, ADR Peru 4 China Petroleum and Chemical, H Hong Kong China 3 PTT Exploration and Production Thailand 3 SK Innovation South Korea 2 Guangzlhou Automobile Group, H Hong Kong China 1 Bank Danamon Indonesia Indonesia 1 Total 121 An evaluation of existing holdings in the portfolio led to additional purchases in eleven companies that remained attractive to us.
Purchases were made in two key sectors consumer staples and energy.
In the consumer staples sector, the position in Unilever, a UK listed company which derives a substantial portion of its revenues from emerging markets, was increased.
Energy-related companies that were added to included Petroleo Brasileiro, Brazils national oil and gas company, leading Chinese oil and gas companies, PetroChina and China Petroleum and Chemical, PTT Exploration and Production, a Thai national petroleum exploration and production company, and SK Innovation, South Koreas largest oil refiner.
Holdings in selected companies in the materials sector were also increased, even though there was an overall reduction in the exposure to this sector as discussed below.
These included Vale, one of the worlds largest iron ore producers, Impala Platinum, a leading global platinum producer and Buenaventura, one of the top 10 gold mining companies in the world.
Holdings were also increased in Guangzhou Automobile Group, a leading Chinese automobile manufacturer with joint ventures with international partners including Honda, Toyota and Fiat, and also in Bank Danamon Indonesia, one of the ten largest banks in Indonesia.
32 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Partial Sales Security Country Amount m Tata Consultancy Services India 81 Infosys Technologies India 21 Brilliance China Automotive Hong Kong China 19 Akbank Turkey 12 Tupras-Turkiye Petrol Turkey 9 Oil & Natural Gas India 8 Total 150 Exposure to the information technology IT sector was reduced as holdings in two Indian IT consulting companies, Tata Consultancy Services and Infosys Technologies were top-sliced to realise profits and raise funds for other investment opportunities.
Our holding in Brilliance China Automotive was trimmed as part of efforts to reduce concentration in the stock.
The company remains our top holding, signalling our continued confidence in the business.
Holdings in Akbank, a major Turkish Bank, Tupras-Turkiye Petrol, Turkeys largest industrial company and one of Europe s biggest refiners, and Oil & Natural Gas, India s dominant company in the Indian upstream sector, were also reduced.
Total Sales Security Country Amount m Sesa Sterlite India 40 Wal-Mart fide Mexico Mexico 37 Norilsk Nickel, ADR Russia 30 Anglo American South Africa 29 Industries Qatar Qatar 17 Norilsk Nickel Russia 9 National Aluminium India 8 Total 170 A new holding was established early in the year and fully sold off in September 2014.
Disposals were concentrated in India, Russia and Turkey to raise funds for more attractive opportunities elsewhere, as described above.
Exposure to Mexico was also eliminated after the sale of the only holding in that market, the major retail chain Wal-Mart fide Mexico.
Some switching was undertaken in the materials sector, which resulted in an overall reduction in exposure to the sector.
Positions in Sesa Sterlite, an iron ore miner in India, Norilsk Nickel, a Russian nickel producer, Anglo American, a diversified mining company with significant operations based in South Africa, and National Aluminium, an Indian aluminium producer, were sold.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 33 Portfolio Report continued Industries Qatar, an industrial company with interests in petrochemicals, fertilisers and steel, was added to the portfolio and subsequently sold during the reporting period.
The company is essentially a publicly listed holding structure for the governments interests in four of the largest non-gas industrial companies in Qatar.
The upgrade of Qatar by MSCI to emerging market from frontier market status led to substantial speculative fund flows into the market, which reduced our expectation of future price increases.
This prompted the Investment Manager to sell our holding.
Securities: Top contributors and detractors to relative performance % Contribution Contribution to Relative Share Price to Relative Share Price Top Contributors Performance Total Return Top Detractors Performance Total Return Brilliance China Automotive 2.3 42.1 Vale, ADR 1.5 53.4 Hyundai Development 1.9 106.7 Kumba Iron Ore 1.0 53.3 Tata Consultancy Services 1.0 34.0 Impala Platinum 0.8 52.1 Kasikornbank 0.6 41.8 Petroleo Brasileiro, ADR 0.7 48.0 0.6 32.8 Tencent Holdings 0.7 53.6 VTech For the period 31 March 2014 to 31 March 2015.
Company not held by TEMIT.
Company not in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Top 10 portfolio weights % 11.11 Brilliance China Automotive 0.1 4.6 Siam Commercial Bank 0.2 4.5 Hyundai Development 0.1 4.3 Astra International 0.3 3.9 Dairy Farm 0.0 3.9 VTech 0.0 3.8 Kasikornbank 0.3 3.8 Itau Unibanco, ADR 0.8 TEMIT 3.5 Banco Bradesco, ADR 0.8 MSCI Emerging Markets Index 3.4 Tata Consultancy Services 0.5 02468 10 12 As at 31 March 2015.
34 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Sectors: Top contributors and detractors to relative performance % MSCI Emerging MSCI Markets Emerging Contribution Index Total Contribution Markets Index Factors to Relative Sector Factors affecting to Relative Total Sector affecting Top Contributors Performance Return performance Top Detractors Performance Return performance Consumer 2.3 11.1 Strong stock Materials 2.0 7.9 Stock selection Discretionary selection and overweight Industrials 2.0 10.8Strong stock Energy 1.6 11.5 Stock selection selection and overweight Consumer 0.2 10.7 Stock selection Financials 1.1 18.6 Stock selection Staples Utilities 0.1 9.1 Sector not held by Information 0.5 29.5 Stock selection TEMIT Technology Health Care 0.5 41.1 Sector not held by TEMIT Telecommunication 0.4 19.4 Sector not Services held by TEMIT For the period 31 March 2014 to 31 March 2015.
No companies held by TEMIT in these sectors.
Sector weightings vs benchmark % 26.4 Financials 28.1 20.1 Consumer Discretionary 9.1 18.3 Energy 9.6 8.5 Materials 8.2 7.9 Information Technology 17.2 7.9 Consumer Staples 8.3 5.8 Industrials 6.6 0.0 Telecommunication Services 7.4 0.0 Utilities 3.5 TEMIT 0.0 Health Care 2.0 MSCI Emerging Markets Index 5.1 Other Net Assets 0.0 0 5 101520 25 30 As at 31 March 2015.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 35 Portfolio Report continued Country: Top contributors and detractors to relative performance % MSCI Emerging MSCI Markets Emerging Contribution Index Total Factors Contribution Markets Index Factors to Relative Country affecting to Relative Total Country affecting Top Contributors Performance Return performance Top Detractors Performance Return performance South Korea 2.3 6.8 Strong stock South Africa 2.1 17.0 Underweight selection exposure Thailand 0.8 25.1 Strong stock Brazil 2.0 19.5 Stock selection and selection overweight Greece 0.6 59.6 Country Taiwan 1.4 27.1 Country not not held by held by TEMIT TEMIT Malaysia 0.5 0.9 Country Hong Kong China 1.3 39.6 Stock not held by selection TEMIT Mexico 0.5 5.2 Country Peru 0.5 11.8 Stock not held by selection TEMIT For the period 31 March 2014 to 31 March 2015.
No companies held by TEMIT in these countries.
Country weightings vs benchmark % 30.4 Hong Kong China 20.0 14.1 Thailand 2.3 11.1 Brazil 10.0 7.2 Indonesia 2.7 6.4 South Korea 15.1 5.6 India 7.1 4.3 Turkey 1.7 4.1 Pakistan 3.4 United Kingdom 3.3 South Africa 7.7 2.2 Peru 0.4 1.6 Russia 4.4 0.7 Austria 0.4 Singapore TEMIT 0.1 Nigeria MSCI Emerging Markets Index 0.0 Jordan 0.0 Other countries 28.6 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 As at 31 March 2015.
Other countries held by the benchmark are Chile, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Taiwan, and United Arab Emirates.
Country not in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
36 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Outlook High economic growth rates remain a key attraction of emerging markets.
Even with major economies like Brazil and Russia slowing down, emerging markets growth in 2015 is expected to be comfortably in excess of that achieved by developed markets, with China and India driving Asia to particularly strong growth.
In addition, what also makes emerging markets attractive to us is the fact that, in general, they have much less debt and hold significant foreign reserves compared to developed markets.
The direction of policy across most Asian countries appears favourable for economic growth.
The Chinese authorities are continuing the major programme of reforms laid out in late 2013 and in India Prime Minister Modi is starting to introduce ambitious reform measures in line with his election manifesto.
Positive structural changes are under way in many other markets across the region while free trade initiatives, most notably the planned Association of Southeast Asian Nations Economic Community and the Trans Pacific Partnership could provide a further boost to growth.
In Latin America, while Brazil has been facing a difficult economic situation due to the reasons discussed above, taking a longer-term view, the currency devaluation could boost competitiveness going forward and moves to root out corruption could lead to improved corporate governance and economic performance.
Moreover, significant benefits could arise should the government adopt more favourable policies and reforms.
Thus, we used the market correction as an opportunity to add to our holdings in Brazil at attractive prices.
Central European emerging markets and Turkey could benefit from economic recovery in the Eurozone area.
Elsewhere in the region, economic sanctions and anticipation of prolonged political confrontation led us to trim our holdings in Russia during the year.
However, we continue to maintain some exposure and monitor the situation in that market.
TEMIT is characterised by a long-term investment approach.
Accordingly, we do not make major changes to portfolio holdings based upon short-term macro factors, but will typically take advantages of stock specific valuation opportunities.
We continue to focus on companies which are well managed and have sound business models, strong cash flows, good dividend payouts or clear competitive advantages.
As discussed above, we continue to identify and invest in new opportunities in various markets, which we believe will support performance over the long term.
Also, in cases where price declines cannot be justified and where cheap stocks have become cheaper, we have proceeded to add to the Companys holdings.
Similarly, in cases where fundamentals have deteriorated and the continued holding of the stock cannot be justified, we have sold down or liquidated holdings.
We continue to search for stocks in the emerging market universe that are out of favour and trading at attractive valuations.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 37
