Investment Managers Process Investment Philosophy TAML employs a time-tested investment philosophy built upon a disciplined, yet flexible, long-term approach to value-oriented emerging markets investing which allows the portfolio managers to look beyond short-term news, noise, and emotion.
Value Our goal is to identify those companies that appear to be trading at a discount to what our estimates indicate to be their projected future intrinsic value which, over time, should produce a strong share price return.
Patience On a short-term basis, stocks may overreact to news and noise.
On a long-term basis, we believe that markets are efficient and that patience will reward those who have identified undervalued stocks.
Bottom-up We identify value through rigorous fundamental analysis, proprietary screens and a worldwide network of experienced research resources.
Research is carried out on a company by company basis in different countries and industries to determine what we consider the economic worth of a company to be, based on many factors including projected future earnings, cash flow or asset value potential as well as management capability and governance.
The Investment Manager follows a rigorous five step process: 1.
Identify Potential Bargains All portfolio managers are also research analysts, Does this stock meet TAMLs criteria of valuation, resulting in a deep and experienced research team.
While our philosophy remains unchanged, continual Is it a potential bargain within the global universe, refinement and improvement is part of the TAML culture.
its sector and on a historical basis?
TAML is able to leverage 60 years of global investing by Franklin Templeton Investments to build an extensive network of local contacts around the world.
In Depth Fundamental Analysis Within the framework of a disciplined, long-term Is this stock a candidate for the TAML Action List?
approach, analysts look beyond short-term noise to Is the stock trading at a substantial discount to what estimate long-term economic worth.
our research indicates the company may be worth over Bottom up fundamental analysis, industry knowledge and the long-term?
access to company management drive original research.
3. Review Team Evaluation A collaborative team culture that leverages the Has analysis met TAML standards?
experience of the entire TAML Group produces Does the recommendation pass the TAML Review comprehensive research insights.
Allocate Portfolio The Action List is reviewed weekly.
What do we consider to represent the best combination Taking into account the investment objective and of stocks for creating a diversified fund with the greatest guidelines, the portfolio is constructed with attention potential for appreciation?
to diversification and risk levels.
The process seeks to reduce portfolio turnover.
The fund combines the potential of our best ideas with the risk benefits of diversification.
Portfolio Evaluation and Attribution Analysis Portfolios are subject to weekly review, while a semiWhat are the performance contributors detractors?
annual review evaluates methodology, resources, themes, country level issues and global trends.
TAMLs investment process combines the benefits of individual and team portfolio management.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 23
