Company Summary Investment Objective The Company seeks long-term capital appreciation through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
This may include companies which have a significant amount of their revenues in emerging markets but are listed on stock exchanges in developed countries.
Company and Investment Management The Company appointed Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l. FTIS as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM or the Manager on 1 July 2014.
FTIS has delegated the role of Investment Manager to Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager.
Both the Manager and Investment Manager are part of Franklin Resources, Inc. operating as Franklin Templeton, a group which had US$880.6 billion in assets under management on 31 March 2015.
TEMIT has seven Directors on its Board who, with one exception, are fully independent from Franklin Templeton, ensuring that shareholders best interests are at the forefront of all decisions.
Under the guidance of theChairman, the Board of Directors is responsible for the overall strategy of the Company and for monitoring its performance.
TAML is one of the pioneers of emerging market investing, with more than 25 years of investment experience and a significant presence in emerging markets across the world.
This well-resourced group with offices in 18 countries and whose employees speak more than 27 languages has built up a comprehensive understanding of the markets in which it operates.
TAMLs analysts are responsible for researching emerging markets and deciding which companies, in their opinion, offer the strongest risk reward opportunities for TEMIT investors over the long-term.
They are required to make regular formal reports to the Board on their portfolio management and performance.
Share Capital AIC The Company is a member of As at 31 March 2015, the Companys share capital The Association of Investment consisted of 318,944,992 shares of 25 pence.
During the year the Company bought back 4,404,900 shares.
2 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
