Report of the Directors and Governance Board of Directors Peter A Smith Christopher D Brady Chairman Peter Smith was appointed a Director on 17 May Christopher Brady was appointed to the Board on 2004 and became Chairman of the Board and a 12 December 2007 and the Management Engagement member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 12 June 2012.
He is the founding Committee on 12 December 2007.
He was appointed partner and Chairman of The Chart Group.
With Chairman of the Management Engagement over 30 years experience in principal investing, Committee on 12 June 2012.
He has been involved corporate finance and capital markets, he focuses on in emerging markets over many years.
He is identifying and building portfolio companies.
Prior currently Chairman of Savills plc, the international to Chart, he spent 14 years in the Corporate Finance real estate adviser, where a significant proportion and Capital Markets divisions of Lehman Brothers of activity is in the Asia Pacific markets.
At those firms, he was involved in Non-Executive Director of Associated British Foods the creation and flotation of the Korea Fund 1982 plc and of Paris Orleans SCA, both of which have and the Scudder New Asia Fund 1984 as a way to extensive international investments and interests.
At provide individual investors with access to closed and Coopers & Lybrand now  newly emerging markets.
Mr. Brady also advised the he was responsible for the UK firms financial Japan Fund, the China World Fund and the China services practice and the development of its Asian Dragon Fund.
More recently, Mr. Bradys principal client base, and later was Chairman of Coopers activities in the defence, security and intelligence & Lybrand International.
He was Senior Partner areas take him, his companies and products to of  in the UK until 2000, emerging markets in the Middle East, Africa and having been Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand in Southeast Asia.
Mr. Brady is a Director of Remote the UK since 1994.
He was previously also a NonReality, Miami International Holdings, PacStar Executive Director of Safeway plc and Chairman of Communications, Genesis Today, ATAC, and RAC plc.
of SCRA and Chart Acquisition Corp.
He is an independent Director.
Fees for the year He is an independent Director.
Fees for the year 60,000: beneficial interest 10,000 shares.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 45 Board of Directors continued Hamish N Buchan Neil A Collins Hamish Buchan was appointed to the Board and the Neil Collins was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 26 June 2008, the Management Audit Committee on 28 September 2006, the Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012 and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee on Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 26 June 2008, and the Management Engagement 18July 2014.
He is currently Chairman of Personal Committee on 12 June 2012.
He was appointed Assets Trust plc and a Director of The Scottish Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Investment Trust plc.
Mr. Buchan has been involved Committee and Senior Independent Director on with the investment company sector for over 10June 2014.
He has worked in the City since 1968, 40years and for 30 years he was one of the leading starting with Hoare & Co, stockbrokers.
His career UK Investment Trust sector analysts, working with in financial journalism, including 19 years as City Wood Mackenzie & Co and its successor owners.
Editor of the Daily Telegraph, has given him a deep Since semi-retiring in 2000 he has kept his interest understanding of markets, coupled with analytical in the sector by taking on the role of Chairman ability and experience of dealing with a wide range of or Director of 8 different investment trusts when, participants and company executives.
He has studied at the time of his involvement, the managers of and supported investment trusts throughout his each trust were all different and there was no journalistic career, and is an enthusiastic advocate of overlap in any of the investment objectives.
He is currently on the board spent 9years on the board of the Association of of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust and writes the Investment Companies where he was Chairman for Inside London column in Saturdays Financial Times.
2 years as well as chairing the Statistics Committee He is an independent Director.
Fees for the year throughout his term.
In 2012 he was presented with 35,000: beneficial interest 7,000 shares.
Investment Weeks award for Outstanding Industry Contribution.
Fees for the year 35,000: beneficial interest 15,000 shares.
46 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Peter O Harrison Beatrice Hollond Beatrice Hollond is Chairman of Keystone Peter Harrison was appointed to the Board on Investment Trust Plc, which she joined as a Non- 30November 2007 and became Chairman of the Audit Executive Director in 2003.
She is a Non-Executive Committee on 12 December 2007.
He was appointed Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of to the Management Engagement Committee on Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trustplc.
He has had over 30 years experience On the 7 May 2015, she was appointed Director of in the global auditing, accounting and advisory the International Advisory Board at Brown Advisory.
profession mainly at KPMG where he specialised in She has had a long career in the investment industry, financial services including Investment Management working initially with Morgan Grenfell Asset and the Funds business.
He was also Managing Management as a UK equity analyst and with Credit Partner responsible for the UK financial services practice.
A major client focus was responsibility for Suisse Asset Management for sixteen years where her the global Sovereign Wealth Fund of a Far Eastern final role was as a Managing Director in their Global Government.
This work was carried out globally Fixed Income business.
She was also a Director of across a number of leading Investment Managers.
Her considerable experience The emphasis of this work was in the Far East, where in portfolio and investment management and her he was resident for long periods of time.
In the UK, knowledge of the investment company sector is he joined the Board of CIT Bank in 2013 as Noninvaluable for her role on the TEMIT Board.
Executive Director and became Chairman of the Audit She joined the TEMIT Board on 1 April 2014.
In 2015 he ceased to be Director an independent Director Fees for the year 35,000: of CIT Bank after the closure of their UK operations.
In 2013, he retired as Chairman of the Saffron Building Society which he had joined in November 2003.
In addition following his retirement from KPMG, he continued for 10 years as a Senior Adviser and consultant with KPMG.
Fees for the year 47,000: beneficial interest 4,330 shares.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 47 Board of Directors continued Gregory E Johnson Gregory Johnson was appointed to the Board on 12December 2007.
He is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Franklin Resources, Inc. and serves on the Board of Directors.
He is also President of Templeton Worldwide, Inc. Chief Executive Officer and President of Templeton International, Inc. and serves as a Director for a number of Franklin Templetons international fund boards.
Mr. Johnson joined Franklin in 1986 after working as a senior accountant for Coopers & Lybrand.
He has served as President and Chairman of the Board for Franklin Templeton Distributors, Inc. President of Franklin Investment Advisory, LCC, President of FT Trust Company, VicePresident of Franklin Advisers, Inc. co-portfolio manager of Franklin Income Fund and Franklin Utilities Fund and as an investment analyst.
Fees for the year nil: beneficial interest nil shares.
48 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
