Strategy and Business Model Company Objective Our objective is that TEMIT is the investment of choice for private and institutional investors seeking exposure to global emerging markets, supported by both strong customer service and corporate governance.
Company Strategy Our strategy is that TEMIT: Delivers superior long-term investment performance compared to our benchmark index and peers: Maintains liquidity in its shares to support buyers and sellers: Provides relative stability in the discount to net asset value: Through periodic Continuation votes, affirms the shareholder mandate: and Through regular communication keeps investors up-to-date with the progress of the Company as well as seeking feedback and comment from investors.
10 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Delivering the Strategy Performance At the heart of this strategy is the appointment and retention of highly regarded investment management professionals, who will identify value and achieve superior growth for shareholders.
The Investment Manager, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. under the leadership of Mark Mobius, continues to apply the same core investment principles of value investment, and detailed company research to achieve long-term capital appreciation for shareholders.
See page 23 for details of the Investment Managers process.
Liquidity The Company is listed on the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
The Company has engaged Winterflood as Financial Adviser and Stockbroker who actively works as a market maker for investors wishing to buy and sell shares in the Company.
They also continually monitor the market for our shares.
Stability The Board has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
On a daily basis, the Board ensures that the share price discount to NAV is actively monitored and controlled.
Discount management is reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that it remains effective in the light of prevailing market conditions.
This is discussed in more detail in the Directors Report on page 50.
Affirmation of Shareholder Mandate In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board must seek shareholders approval for TEMIT to continue as an investment trust every five years.
This allows shareholders the opportunity to decide on the long-term future of the Company.
The last continuation vote took place at the 2014 AGM where 99.74% of shareholders voted in favour.
Communication We ensure that investors are informed regularly about the performance of TEMIT and emerging markets through clear communication and updates.
At TEMIT, we seek to keep you updated on our performance and investment strategy through our website www.
Here you will find all the latest information on the Company, including monthly factsheets, stock exchange notices and notes from the Investment Manager on the latest news on emerging markets.
We also hold investor briefings and discussions in order better to understand investor needs.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 11 Strategy and Business Model continued Business Model The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The Company delegates its day-to-day activities to third parties.
For the period 1 April 2014 to 30 June 2014, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML acted as Investment Manager to the Company and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML as Company Secretary and Administrator.
Implementation of the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD necessitated a number of changes to the investment management and administration agreements with Franklin Templeton.
With effect from 1 July 2014, the Company appointed Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l. FTIS as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM with Investment Management sub-delegated to TAML.
FTIS is a Luxembourg domiciled company and is authorised and regulated by the Commission fide Surveillance fide Secteur Financier CSSF in Luxembourg.
More information on TAML can be found on page 21 of the report.
As a result of the implementation of AIFMD, the Company appointed J. P. Morgan Europe Limited as depositary on 1 July 2014.
The Board conducts regular reviews of the Companys primary service providers as discussed on pages 55 to 57 toensure that the services provided are of the quality expected by TEMIT, in that they do not take undue risks and represent value for money.
The Directors also ensure that the Companys primary service providers have adopted an appropriate framework of controls, monitoring and reporting to enable the Directors to evaluate these risks.
The Board reviews at least quarterly, with the Manager and the Investment Manager a wide range of risk factors that may impact the Company.
Further analysis of these risks is described on pages 14 to 17.
The risks include the benchmark and contributors and detractors to performance, major overweights and underweights and portfolio information including purchases and sales.
This culminates in a full risk and internal controls review held every September at the Audit Committee meeting.
Due to the nature of the Companys business, investment risk is a key focus and is reviewed on an ongoing basis as part of every investment decision of the Investment Manager.
Further information on this process is detailed on pages 14 and 15.
The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for themonitoring of the investment strategy and the review of investment performance and policy.
It also has responsibility for all strategic policy issues namely dividend, gearing, share issuance and buy backs, share price and discount premium monitoring, and corporate governance matters.
Key Performance Indicators The Board considers the following as the key performance indicators for the Company: t Net Asset Value total return compared over various periods to its benchmark: t Movement in the Share Price and Discount: t Dividend and Earnings per share: and t Ongoing Charges Ratio.
The 10 year records of the KPIs are shown on pages 5 and 6.
12 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Performance In the year to 31 March 2015, the Companys net asset value per share produced a total return dividend reinvested of 9.6%.
This underperformed the Companys benchmark, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which returned 13.2%.
Over 5 years the comparable returns for TEMIT are 7.9% 1.5% per annum compounded and 13.3% 2.5% per annum compounded for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
The graphs on page 6 show the total return of TEMITs NAV and share price relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and the relative annual total return of TEMITs NAV and share price against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, over the last 10 years.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 7 to 9 and the Investment Managers Report on pages 21 to 44 include a review of the main developments during the year and the investment outlook.
Share Capital and Discount The Board has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Board was authorised at the Companys AGM on 18 July 2014 to buy back up to 48,343,033 shares or 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital on that date, whichever was lower.
The present authority expires on the conclusion of the AGM on 17 July 2015.
The Directors are seeking to renew this authority at the 2015 AGM, as further detailed in the Directors Report on page 67.
The share price of TEMIT increased by 5.5% to 556.0 pence over the year to 31 March 2015, while the Companys share price discount to NAV widened to 13.3% from 10.9% as at 31 March 2014 and has been in the range of 7.9% to 13.3%.
On 26 May, the latest date for which information was available, the discount had narrowed to 11.4%.
Share Price Discount to NAV 0 0 -5 -5 -10 -10 -15 -15 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 TEMIT Share Price Discount, based on a 7 day moving average www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 13 Strategy and Business Model continued During the year 4,404,900 shares were repurchased, representing 1.36% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2015, at a cost to the Company of 24.7 million.
These shares were cancelled which resulted in an uplift of 0.25% to the net asset value per share.
They were bought back at discounts ranging from 8.7% to 13.3% and at prices ranging from 513.0 pence to 597.5 pence.
In the period from 1 April to 26 May 2015, 1,605,500 shares were bought back and cancelled by the Company.
Dividend and Earnings Per Share EPS Total income earned for the year was 59.2 million 2014: 60.4 million which translates into net earnings of 9.28pence per share 2014: 9.14 pence per share, an increase of 1.5% over the prior year.
The Board is proposing a dividend of 8.25 pence per share, which is 13.8% higher than last years dividend of 7.25 pence per share.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The Ongoing Charges Ratio OCR represents the annualised ongoing charges of the Company divided by the average daily net asset values of the Company for the year.
The OCR fell to 1.20% for the year end 31 March 2015, compared to 1.30% in the prior year.
This was due to the 0.10% fee reduction Franklin Templeton agreed with the Board from 1 July 2014.
The fee for all services provided by FTIS is currently 1.10%per annum.
Costs associated with the purchase and sale of investments are taken to capital and are not included in the OCR.
The increase from the previous year is due to a higher number and value of trades during the year.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risks facing the Company, as determined by your Board, are summarised below.
Investment and Concentration risk Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Where the Investment Manager considers it appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign portfolio investors, investment may be made in emerging markets through Collective Investment Schemes, although such investment is not likely to be substantial.
As at 31 March 2015 the Company had no such investments.
In addition, investment in companies listed on more developed countries stock exchanges may also be made where those companies have a significant source of their revenue from emerging countries.
It is intended that the Company will normally invest in equity investments.
However, the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where there are believed to be advantages to so doing.
The portfolio may frequently be overweight or underweight against the MSCI EmergingMarkets Index and may be concentrated in a more limited number of sectors, geographical areas or countries.
This is consistent with the stated investment approach of long-term value investing.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment 14 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk opportunities with updated financial ratios on a regular basis, and, where opportunities are identified, adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks, which are assessed to be the best value in global emerging markets.
The Company may also invest a significant portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry.
In addition, emerging markets can be subject to greater price volatility and more rapid and more exaggerated re-rating than developed markets.
The general policy of the Board is to be fully invested.
However, in response to market conditions, the Investment Manager may hold funds temporarily in cash or other appropriate assets.
Market risk Many of the companies in which TEMIT invests or may invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Investors in emerging markets may face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, companies in emerging markets are not always subject to accounting, auditing and financial standards which are equivalent to those applicable in the UK and there may also be less government supervision and regulation.
The Investment Manager will invest directly only in countries where it is satisfied, in so far as is possible, that acceptable custodial and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs investments and in companies where there is evidence of satisfactory governance procedures.
These risks can increase the potential for losses in the Company and affect its share price.
For these reasons, a long-term approach to investing in emerging markets is taken.
Foreign currency risk Currency movements may affect TEMITs performance.
In general, if the value of sterling increases compared with a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will decrease in value because it will be worth less in sterling.
This can have a negative effect on fund performance.
Conversely, when, in general, sterling weakens in relation to a foreign currency, investments traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, which can contribute to an improvement in the Companys performance.
TEMIT does not hedge this risk.
Credit risk Certain transactions in securities that the Company enters into expose it to the risk that the counterparty will not deliver the investment purchase or cash in relation to sale or declared dividend after the Company has fulfilled its responsibilities.
Operational and custody risk Like many other investment trust companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is dependent upon the control systems of the Manager and the Companys other service providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements depends on the effective operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and monitored and an internal control report, which includes an assessment of risks together with an overview of procedures to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Manager and reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 15 Strategy and Business Model continued The implementation of AIFMD introduced the obligation on the Company to appoint a depositary.
As noted on page 56 TEMIT appointed J. P. Morgan Europe Limited in this capacity and their responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
The depositary is liable for the loss of financial instruments held in custody and will ensure that the custodian and any sub-custodian segregate the assets of the Company.
The depositary has delegated the custody function to JPMorgan Chase Bank.
The custodian prepares a report on its key controls and safeguards SSAE16 ISAE 3402 which is independently reviewed by its auditor PwC.
The depositary will provide the Audit Committee with an annual report on its monitoring activities.
Key personnel The ability of the Company to achieve its investment objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise of the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and retain suitable staff.
The Investment Manager has endeavoured to ensure that the principal members of its management teams are suitably incentivised, but the retention of such staff cannot be guaranteed.
Diversity The Board supports the principle of boardroom diversity.
The selection policy of the Board is to appoint the best qualified person for the job, by considering factors such as diversity of thought, experience and qualification.
Further details of the selection policy for the Board can be found on page 59.
Regulatory risk The Company operates in an increasingly complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
A breach of s1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or the accompanying Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 may potentially result in the Company being subject to corporation tax on chargeable gains on realised portfolio gains.
The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the European Union Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Breaches of other regulations, such as the UK Listing Authority rules, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The Board monitors risk on a quarterly basis as part of the Board meetings including benchmark and performance attribution, risk analysis, contributors and detractors to performance, major overweights and underweights and portfolio information including purchases and sales.
A more detailed explanation of the monitoring of risk and uncertainties is covered within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 74.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to, including additional financial and valuation risks, are also detailed in Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Environmental, Social, and other matters As an Investment Trust, TEMIT has no direct social, community or employee responsibilities.
More information can be found in the Directors Report on pages 64 and 65.
16 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, as all of its activities are outsourced to third parties, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Future Strategy The Company was founded, and continues to be managed, on the basis of a long-term investment strategy which seeks to generate superior returns from investments, principally in the shares of carefully selected companies in emerging markets.
The Companys results will be affected by many factors including political decisions, economic factors, the performance of investee companies and the ability of the Investment Manager to choose investments successfully.
The Board and the Investment Manager continue to believe in investment with a long-term horizon in companies that are undervalued by stock markets but which are fundamentally strong and growing.
This has delivered long-term benefits to its shareholders.
It is recognised that, at times, extraneous political, economic and company-specific factors will affect the performance of investments, but the Company will continue to take a long-term view in the belief that patience will be rewarded.
The Companys overall strategy remains unchanged and is expected to remain consistent with these aims for the foreseeable future.
By order of the Board Peter Smith 12 June 2015 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 17
