GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued No fee will be payable unless the adjusted net assets outperform the hurdle rate, after taking into account any accumulated percentage underperformance brought forward at the beginning of the financial year.
Total fees paid to the Manager in any one year Management and Performance Fees may not exceed 4.99% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Total fees payable for the year to 31 March 2015 amount to 1.3% 2014: 1.8% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Depository Arrangements and Fees BNP Paribas was appointed as Depository on 14 July 2014 in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
The role is a new one introduced by the Directive.
The Depositorys responsibilities include: cash monitoring: segregation and safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments: and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment and leverage requirements.
The Depository receives for its services a fee of 2.0 basis points per annum on the first GBP 150m of the Companys assets, 1.4 basis points per annum on assets above GBP 150m and below GBP 500m and 0.75 basis points on assets above GBP 500m.
Custody, Administration and Company Secretarial Services Custody and Administration Services are provided by BNP Paribas and Company Secretarial Services by Capita Company Secretarial Services.
For the year under review the fees for these services were included in the Investment Management Fee.
From 1 April 2015 these will be charged directly to the Company and separately disclosed in the accounts.
Basis of accounting and IFRS The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Group and Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the Financial Statements on pages 51 to 54.
Going Concern The Manager has prepared forecasts which have been reviewed by the Board which demonstrate that the Company will be able to continue to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due.
In addition to its cash and remaining uncalled debt facilities, the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Board considers that the Company has adequate resources to meet its business needs and it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Annual General Meeting the AGM The Annual General Meeting will be held on 21 July 2015 at 12.00 noon.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on pages 73 to 76.
This notice contains resolutions to receive the Report of the Directors and audited financial statements, approve the directors remuneration report, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
The Directors are also seeking powers to allot ordinary shares, dis-apply statutory pre-emption rights, and buy back ordinary shares for cancellation.
The full text of the resolutions and an explanation of each is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and explanatory notes on pages 77 to 78.
Material Interests There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
No director has a contract of service with the Company.
Further details regarding the appointment letters can be found on page 36.
