GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued The Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board with a view to ensuring that the external Auditor does not provide non-audit services that have the potential to impair or appear to impair the independence of their audit role.
The Committee does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
The fees for non-audit services for the year to 31 March 2015 were: nil 2014: nil.
Full details of the Auditors fees are provided in note 6 to the accounts on page 56.
Following each audit, the Committee reviews the audit process and considers its effectiveness and the quality of the services provided to the Company.
The review following the completion of the 2015 Audit concluded that the Committee was satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness and performance and therefore a resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young as the Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee MEC comprises all directors of the Company and is chaired by Ms Burton.
The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, towards the end of the financial year.
The MEC reviews, on an annual basis, the performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager and their continued suitability to manage the Companys portfolio.
It also reviews the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, to ensure they are competitive and fair and in the best interests of the shareholders, and to negotiate terms where appropriate.
At the MEC meeting in March 2015, the MEC confirmed that the AIFM and Portfolio Manager should be retained for the financial year ending 31 March 2016.
In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board has delegated to external third parties the depositary and custodial services which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day accounting, company secretarial services, administration and registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the services offered, including the control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These contracts are reviewed annually by the MEC.
In addition to the reviews by the MEC, the Board reviews and considers performance reports from the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The Board also receives regular reports from the Administrator and Company Secretary and the Portfolio Manager also reports to the Board on the performance of all other third party service providers at each meeting.
Directors Remuneration Directors remuneration is reviewed by the MEC on an annual basis.
The MEC determines and approves directors fees following proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time committed to the Companys affairs.
The Companys Articles of Association currently limit the total aggregate fees payable to the Board of 300,000 per annum.
The results of the most recent review are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 40 and 41. Letters of Appointment No director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be on display at the AGM.
Board Evaluation In order to review the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and of the individual directors, the Board carried out an appraisal process.
This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and interviews with the Chairman.
The process is considered by the Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and the Committees, areas for additional focus going forward, the contribution of individual directors, as well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
