GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Powers of the directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
There are no contracts or arrangements with third parties which effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
Directors The Chairman is Ms Burton and the Senior Independent Director is Mr Seaborn.
The directors biographies, on page 27, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as directors of the Company.
Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Ms Burton, Mr Glen, Mr Marrison, Mr Seaborn, Ms Procter and Mr Watson will retire at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Code and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
All directors are regarded as being free of any conflicts of interest and no issues in respect of independence arise.
The Board has concluded that all directors continue to make valuable contributions and believe that they remain independent in character and judgement.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Management Engagement Committee, which also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Committee.
Further details are set out below.
As mentioned above, the Board does not currently have a Nomination Committee.
During the year this function was carried out by the Board as part of the agenda of regular Board meetings when required.
However, the Board has decided to introduce a separate Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 March 2016 to ensure additional time and focus is made to consider succession planning & management of the board evaluation process.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the members of the Board.
It has been the Companys policy, to include all directors on all committees.
This encourages unity, clear communication and prevents duplication of discussion between the Board and the Committee.
The Committee Chairman is Mr Watson.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be found on the Companys website, are available on request and will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls and to review reports thereon from the key third party service providers, to consider and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and to review the accounting policies and significant financial reporting judgements, and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Committee considers the information and statements included in the Annual and Interim Reports to ensure that, taken as a whole, the Reports are fair, balanced and understandable and the information presented enables the shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
Representatives of the Managers internal audit and compliance departments may attend these committee meetings at the Committee Chairmans request.
