GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued The Chairmans effectiveness was assessed by all other Board members and views fed back to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director confirm that the performance of each director continues to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to their role.
This includes extensive time for ad hoc communications throughout the year in addition to formal board and committee meetings.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
The performance of the Company is considered in detail at each Board meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is the intention of the Board to engage an external facilitator to assist with the performance evaluation every three years.
Appointment of New Directors The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is responsible for succession planning.
Going forward this role will be carried out by the Nomination Committee, who will also manage the appointment process for new directors.
The Board appoints external recruitment consultants to ensure best practice.
Directors Training When a new director is appointed, he she is offered training to suit their needs.
Directors are also provided with key information on the Companys activities on a regular basis, including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
Board Meetings The number of meetings of the Board and Committees held during the year under review, and the attendance of individual directors, are shown below: Board Audit MEC No.
of meetings in the year 6 2 1 Caroline Burton 6 2 1 John Glen 6 2 1 Simon Marrison 6 2 1 Suzie Procter 6 2 1 Hugh Seaborn 6 2 1 David Watson 6 2 1 In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, directors also attend a number of informal meetings to represent the interests of the Company.
The Board The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework which has been agreed with the Manager.
Additional meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which are categorised under various headings, including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset allocation and investment and gearing limits within which the Portfolio Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises the management of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated to the Portfolio Manager.
