GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Powers of the directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
There are no contracts or arrangements with third parties which effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
Directors The Chairman is Ms Burton and the Senior Independent Director is Mr Seaborn.
The directors biographies, on page 27, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as directors of the Company.
Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Ms Burton, Mr Glen, Mr Marrison, Mr Seaborn, Ms Procter and Mr Watson will retire at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Code and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
All directors are regarded as being free of any conflicts of interest and no issues in respect of independence arise.
The Board has concluded that all directors continue to make valuable contributions and believe that they remain independent in character and judgement.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Management Engagement Committee, which also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Committee.
Further details are set out below.
As mentioned above, the Board does not currently have a Nomination Committee.
During the year this function was carried out by the Board as part of the agenda of regular Board meetings when required.
However, the Board has decided to introduce a separate Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 March 2016 to ensure additional time and focus is made to consider succession planning & management of the board evaluation process.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the members of the Board.
It has been the Companys policy, to include all directors on all committees.
This encourages unity, clear communication and prevents duplication of discussion between the Board and the Committee.
The Committee Chairman is Mr Watson.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be found on the Companys website, are available on request and will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls and to review reports thereon from the key third party service providers, to consider and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and to review the accounting policies and significant financial reporting judgements, and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Committee considers the information and statements included in the Annual and Interim Reports to ensure that, taken as a whole, the Reports are fair, balanced and understandable and the information presented enables the shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
Representatives of the Managers internal audit and compliance departments may attend these committee meetings at the Committee Chairmans request.
34 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Representatives of the Companys Auditor attend the Committee meetings at which the draft Interim and Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members without the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
Significant Issues in Relation to the Financial Statements The Committee has considered this report and financial statements and the Statement of Going Concern on page 31.
The Committee considered the Auditors assessment of risk of material misstatement and reviewed the internal controls in place in respect of the key areas identified and the process by which the Board monitors each of the procedures to give the Committee comfort on these risks on an ongoing basis.
These risks are also highlighted in the Companys Risk Map which is considered at each Audit Committee Meeting: l Valuation of the Groups investments The Groups investments are priced for the daily NAV by BNP Paribas.
The quoted assets are priced by the Administrators Global Pricing Platform which uses independent external pricing sources.
The control process surrounding this is set out in the BNP Paribas AAF 01 06 Internal Controls Report and testing by the reporting accountant for the period reported to 31 December 2014 did not reveal any significant exceptions.
The quarterly control report to the Board from BNP Paribas covering the period up to 31 March 2015 had no issues to report.
The Companys Investment Property portfolio is valued every six months on an open market basis by a professional external independent valuer.
In addition the Manager estimates the NAV using an alternative pricing source on a daily basis as an independent check.
l Calculation of Management and Performance Fees These are calculated independently of the Manager by the Administrator.
The calculations are reviewed by the Auditor as part of the Audit Engagement and specifically reported on to the Board in the Independent Auditors Report.
l Existence and ownership of investments The Custodian, BNP Paribas, is responsible for the custody of the Companys investments.
Lists of investments held are reconciled to the Companys records on a regular basis and a report on controls, which is audited by BNP Paribas independent reporting accountants, is produced annually for consideration by the Manager and the Audit Committee.
In addition, the quarterly control report from BNP Paribas to the Board covers any custody issues.
The Depositarys responsibilities include the segregation and safekeeping of the Companys assets.
The Depositary reports quarterly to the AIFM and these reports are made available to the board.
The Depositary presents to the board at least once a year.
The Depositary conducts safekeeping reviews as part of its monitoring and oversight responsibilities.
There has been nothing brought to the Committees attention in respect of the financial statements for the period ended 31 March 2015, which was material or significant or that the Committee felt should be brought to shareholders attention.
Auditor assessment and independence The Companys external auditor is Ernst & Young LLP.
In 2007, the Company conducted a full review of the services provided by the Auditor and invited the incumbent and three other firms to submit proposals for the audit of the Company.
A full tender process was undertaken with each of the four firms presenting their proposals in full to the Board.
The conclusion of this process was that Ernst & Young LLP should be reappointed.
The Committee expects to repeat this process in 2016 in respect of the audit for the year ended 31 March 2017, in line with the latest Corporate Governance provisions and EU Requirements.
Ernst & Young presented their Audit Plan for the year end at the interim Committee meeting and the Committee considered the audit process and fee proposal.
The Committee also reviewed Ernst & Youngs independence policies and procedures including quality assurance procedures, it was considered that these policies remained fit for purpose and the Board is satisfied that Ernst & Young remain independent.
Total fees payable to the Auditor for the year to 31 March 2015 were: 87,000 2014: 91,000.
