STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement dampening effect on the performance of our GBP denominated portfolio.
Eurozone property stocks returned an astonishing 40.7% in local currency which almost halved to 23.1% in GBP terms.
However, if sustained, this currency devaluation further fuels the attractiveness of real assets in Europe for overseas investors.
The Trusts size, liquidity and position as the only Investment Trust with a mandate to invest in pan European property companies continued to prove attractive to investors.
The share price total return was broadly in line with the underlying asset value return reflecting a very similar discount to the net asset value at both ends of the period of c. -3%.
However the stock did trade at modest premiums to net asset value for part of the period with a Caroline Burton range of 2.7% to -4.1%.
Chairman For the second year in a row I both report a substantial Introduction increase in earnings and also highlight that the dividend Property and property equities had another year of strong performance.
As the sector is pro-cyclical and the vast has not grown by the same proportion.
We have experienced like-for-like underlying income growth but majority of property assets are leveraged, it performs best in an environment of improving economic fundamentals due to timing differences of income receipts this has been coupled with a low cost of borrowing.
This year, as we inflated for the period under review.
Full details are contained later in the report.
Notwithstanding these timing anticipated, our portfolios UK equities have benefited from rental growth spreading beyond London and across most differences the Board are pleased to announce the property sectors.
At the same time, our Continental dividend increase which brings the Trusts record of annual European equities, particularly in the second half of the year increases to 21 out of last 22 years.
benefited from an acceleration in the fall in the cost of borrowing, driven by the ECBs programme of quantitative In the Interim I commented that we intended to add easing finally actioned in January 2015.
I commented in my further to our UK physical portfolio and I am pleased to report acquisitions in the year in Plymouth, Bristol and outlook in the Interim Statement that the extent and focus of any asset purchase programme was difficult to predict and Wimbledon.
The sale of Park Place, Vauxhall reported at so it has proved to be.
The central banks appear determined the interim, fits with the strategy of reducing exposure to to persist with this approach and negative nominal rates on Central London residential markets for the time being, so many sovereign bonds place us in unchartered waters.
whilst the sale of the Milton Keynes office to the tenant What is clear is that in this type of interest rate environment was opportunistic at 30% ahead of book value.
well managed, high quality property companies with NAV and Share Price Performance sustainable earnings and dividend yields across Europe are likely to maintain their attractiveness to investors.
Indeed I am pleased to report that the NAV total return for the year was 28.3% whilst the benchmark total return was many investors appear happy to own even those companies with little prospect of genuine underlying rental growth as 23.3%.
The share price total return was even greater at long as the current levels of earnings are sustainable.
29.5% reflecting the narrowing of the discount mentioned in the Introduction.
Our management team, whilst maintaining their strategic focus on markets likely to experience rental growth, and More detail and commentary on performance is set out in hence a strong relative UK bias in the portfolio, have made the Managers Report.
material changes to the European portfolio in the light of such central bank intervention.
Comprehensive detail Revenue Results follows in the Managers Report.
At 8.89p 2014: 8.09p the revenue return is almost 10% ahead of the revenue return for the previous year.
Currency movements in the period have also been dramatic with EUR weakening by over 14% against GBP.
As pointed out in the Interim Report, a number of events Whilst this is good news for Eurozone exports it had a which had already occurred in the first half of the financial TR Property Investment Trust 3
