TR Property Investment Trust plc The Companys investment objective is to maximise shareholders total returns by investing in the shares and securities of property companies and property related businesses internationally and also in investment property located in the UK.
Introduction The Company was formed in 1905 and has been a dedicated property investor since 1982.
The Company is an Investment Trust and its shares are premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Benchmark The benchmark is the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Capped Net Total Return Index in Sterling.
Investment Policy The Company seeks to achieve its objective by investing in shares and securities of property companies and property related businesses on an international basis, although, with a Pan-European benchmark, the majority of the investments will be located in that geographical area.
The Company also invests in investment property, located in the UK only.
Further details of the Investment Policies, the Asset Allocation Guidelines and policies regarding the use of gearing and derivatives are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 23 to 24 and the entire portfolio is shown on page 17.
Investment Manager F&C Investment Business Limited acts as the Companys alternative investment fund manager AIFM with portfolio management delegated to Thames River Capital LLP the Portfolio Manager.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge has managed the portfolio since 1 April 2011 and been part of the Fund Management team since 1997.
Independent Board The directors are independent of the Manager and meet regularly to consider investment strategy, to monitor adherence to the stated objective and investment policies and to review performance.
Details of how the Board operates and fulfils its responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report on page 37.
Performance For the year to 31 March 2015 the net asset value total return was 28.3% against a benchmark total return of 23.3%.
The share price total return was 29.5%.
Over the ten year period to 31 March 2015 the share price total return was 232.6% and the net asset value total return 187.9%.
Over the same period the benchmark total return was 110.3%.
The Financial Highlights for the current year are set out opposite and Historical Performance can be found on page 2. Dividend An interim dividend of 2.95p 2014: 2.85p per share was paid on 6 January 2015 to shareholders on the register on 5 December 2014.
A final dividend of 4.75p 2014: 4.60p will be paid on 4 August 2015 to shareholders on the register on 26 June 2015.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 25 June 2015.
Income growth: Over the past ten years the annual net dividend per share has grown by 2.7 times, equivalent to 10.5% per annum compounded.
Retail Investors advised by IFAs The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its shares can be recommended by Independent Financial Advisers IFAs in the UK to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules in relation to nonmainstream investment products and intends to continue to do so.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions, which apply to non-mainstream investment products, because they are shares in an authorised investment trust.
Further information General Shareholder information and details of how to invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc, including an investment through an ISA or saving scheme, can be found on pages 80 to 84.
This information can also be found on the Trusts website www.
