STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager 9 June 2015 commercial property.
The Eurozone component of our Performance The Net Asset Value total return of 28.3% was ahead of benchmark returned 23.1% when viewed in GBP, the benchmark total return of 23.3%.
This is the third broadly in line with the non-Euro countries performance year in a row in which the NAV has risen more than 20%, over the year.
However when viewed in EUR terms the a single statistic illustrating the demand for and ongoing total return was an astonishing 40.7%.
To further illustrate the overwhelming impact of the macro monetary recovery of pan-European property equities and the stimulus, the performance of the Eurozone property underlying real estate markets.
In the same vein as last stocks in local currency from mid-October about the year, the benchmark slightly outperformed the broader time investors began to firmly price in the expectation of European equity markets where the EuroStoxx 600 Net Index in EUR rose 22.1%.
Most of this performance QE to 31 March was 31.1%.
Another side effect of the was in the second half of the financial year and ECBs policy was the decision by the Swiss National Bank particularly in the last quarter Q1 2015.
At the interim that they did not wish to defend the Euro Swiss Franc stage, NAV growth was 4.5% and whilst that was a peg if EUR was going to weaken substantially.
On respectable half year performance, in excess of the 15 January 2015, the SNB announced the removal of the peg and EUR fell against the Swiss Franc by 13% on the 10 year average, it was put firmly in the shade by the day.
I will expand on how our portfolio positioning in tremendous growth in the second half, fuelled initially by Switzerland responded to this later in the report.
speculation around the probability of an ECB quantitative easing QE programme and from January 2015 Bond yields continued to fall in response to the central banks onwards, by the reality of it.
behaviour, the yield on the 10yr Bund tightened from 1.6% on 31 March 2014 down to 0.2% 12 months later.
The risk Whilst in danger of repeating comments made in last years free rate utilised in calculating the risk premia applied in the Report, levered asset classes such as property equities are clear beneficiaries of monetary stimuli.
Although Draghis valuation of risk assets continues to fall and this drives up announcement of the 60bn per month bond buying prices.
A consequence of such broad revaluation has been programme was increasingly well flagged, what was not the lack of dispersion of returns amongst certain groups of necessarily expected by the market was the open-ended stocks, this will be examined later in the Report.
Much like his May 2012 comment of doing In the Interim Report I stated that our focus remained whatever it takes.. in the depths of the previous Euro crisis, on seeking out those businesses which were likely to he has made it clear that this programme could run be early beneficiaries of rental growth.
However, the beyond September 2016 if deemed necessary.
response of asset prices to the ECBs programme The ECB has been aided in its quest to stimulate the encouraged us to maintain exposure across the Eurozone Eurozone by the steady depreciation of its currency and even though rental growth remains anaemic in most a review of performance would be incomplete without markets.
The portfolio remained overweight the UK, Germany and Sweden throughout the year.
German highlighting what has been a dramatic period for currencies.
Over the twelve months under review EUR property stocks were the strongest performing national weakened against GBP by 14.5% and against the USD by group 35.2% in GBP combining the benefits of falling 22.1%.
This has been very positive for European exports cost of debt leading to asset value appreciation with real and for overseas investors buying fixed assets such as rental growth as economic conditions improved.
6 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued Property Investment Markets dominant retail centres.
The best performing peripheral I reported last year that we were seeing significant market was Dublin, a physically small investment market evidence of increasing demand into regional property which is seeing strong underlying rental recovery a with buyers moving beyond the strongest, dominant combination of features which has driven prime yields commercial locations.
At the half year we reported that down 200bps in 18 months amidst predictions of new the gap between prime and secondary yields in the UK record rents of 60 per sq.
ft in 2016. was tightening faster than expected and the IPD measure Offices of the ratio between the top and bottom yield quartile London continues to exhibit the triumvirate of rental which began narrowing from its widest in April 2013 has growth drivers - lack of new supply, accelerating take-up accelerated over the last 12 months.
CBRE report that particularly pre-lets and alternative use demand for outside of London and the South East, office investment existing space.
I have written extensively over the last activity reached 3.9bn in 2014, almost double the three years on the positive supply demand dynamics in 2.2bn in 2013.
Weight of money into the sector has both Londons office and retail markets.
Not only have we driven this search for assets nationwide.
Between July and witnessed these strengthening market conditions but we December 2014, 1.5bn of investment flowed into openhave had the vehicles through which to access the ended UK retail funds.
CBRE estimate that 60% of all market.
Alongside the UKs two largest property major city centre investment ex-London was domestic companies which each hold 50% of their assets and institutional buyers utilising modest or zero debt.
the bulk of their development pipeline in the capital we UK commercial property transactional volumes reached are fortunate to have a further half dozen smaller, more 59.6bn in 2014, up from 44.9bn in 2013 and nimble, manufacturers of return and it is one of those compares to the record year of 2006 at 61.7bn.
CEOs who recently described the office leasing market as The equivalent yield on the IPD All Property Index has the best Ive seen in 30 years.
City of London take up at dropped from 7.5% to 6.4% in 2 years, fuelling capital over 8 million sq ft was a record year, whilst the West End growth of 19.3%.
at over 4 million sq ft was second only to 2007.
Vacancy at 7.6% and 3.4% respectively still masks a severe Last year I commented that this huge valuation shift and shortage of Grade A space, particularly in the West End.
increase in transactional volumes had been UK focused in Record rents are being set in many of the emerging 2013.
This was no longer the case in 2014, transactional locations north and east of the City and areas such as volumes have leaped in all sectors and in all European Kings Cross and SE1 are reinvigorated and vibrant.
countries with the exception of Poland and Russia.
Taking However yields are at record lows and rental growth will the retail sector as just one example, pan European need to be sustained in order to maintain this level of volumes reached EUR 52bn, a rise of 24% on 2013. investor appetite.
The supply response will inevitably The UK was predictably busy 25% but France arrive but our forecasts predict that this will still be below 72% and Spain 96% reflected the renewed the long term average in the core markets in which our liquidity and demand for property.
Spain was clearly preferred stocks are focused.
Employment growth is the coming off a low base but it reflects investors desire driver and the increasing population brings particular to participate in the nascent recovery in that market.
social, housing and infrastructure issues which could With bond yields tumbling everywhere, peripheral prove restrictive.
We remain overweight Great Portland European investment markets have become very popular Estates, Derwent London, Shaftesbury and CLS whilst with investors hoping to capture the yield compression retaining a market weight in Workspace.
as increasing investment demand drives up prices, thus Paris remains the Companys second largest geographical compressing yields, even if the underlying rental markets are still some way from equilibrium.
The Spanish 10yr investment and we continue to focus our exposure on the sovereign bond yield dropped from 3.2% in March 2014 city centre rather than the wider Ile fide France Greater to 1.2%, twelve months later.
This dramatic lowering of Paris region.
The vacancy figures explain our reluctance to the risk free rate has impacted pricing particularly in prime increase exposure.
Vacancy across Greater Paris at the end office assets in Madrid and Barcelona as well as amongst of 2014 stood at 7.4%, a total of 5 million sq m, the same TR Property Investment Trust 7 STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued as 2013, whilst take up rose 13% to 2.1 million sq m, outside London grew by 5.8% in 2014 and the shortage which was matched by growth in new supply.
The 10 of space is only set to continue this trend.
year average is 2.3 million sq m per annum.
Vacancy rates Retail range from 16% in the Peri-Defense area west of La Last year I highlighted the ongoing structural seismic Defense to 5% in Paris Inner City.
Our largest Paris shifts at work in this market as retailers and landlords investment is Terreis which owns assets in the core CBD.
continue to grapple with omni-channel retailing and seek Looking forward, the situation is at best described as stable to right size their physical presence.
The UK remains the with speculative supply at a 10 year low and French most advanced in this evolution with the combination of service sector employment surprisingly resilient, showing high per capita spend, population density and digital a small net increase in 2014. penetration providing retailers and some landlords with critical data analytics on the rapidly changing customer Swedens economy continues to improve with GDP habits.
Several themes which I have highlighted in recent growth expectations greater than Continental Europe, years have evolved further.
Supermarket operators remain aided by a depreciating currency The Swedish Krone in the forefront of investor concerns, the disruptive was down 18.6% against GBP in the last 12 months technology of online shopping and home delivery and a strong banking sector lending to both business and coupled with a good old fashioned price war from ever consumer.
Population growth and stable employment has strengthening discounters has resulted in shrinking driven rental values in both Stockholm and Gothenburg portfolios and falling rents.
Not a sector we want exposure up 5% this year.
Not on a par with London but to.
The opposite applies to city centre convenience stores significantly ahead of most European cities.
where we see larger operators capturing market share Whilst Germany has been the greatest beneficiary of and responding to our changing food shopping habits the weakening EUR, the fortunes of the office markets fresher food and smaller basket sizes but bought more of its 6 largest cities have been more mixed.
This is a hard sub-sector to get access to but we the largest, continues to suffer from oversupply whilst have significant exposure through our redevelopment Berlin, Hamburg and in particular Munich showing and near doubling in size of our Waitrose store in renewed equilibrium between landlord and tenant.
We have increased our exposure to Alstria, the largest Two other themes continue to resonate.
With consumers pure German office play.
VIB Vermoegen remains a key making fewer but longer trips and demanding a wide holding providing a pure play on Bavaria, the strongest cross-section of comparison shopping we have performing region in Germany.
maintained our exposure to the largest centres where we Amongst the peripheral markets I have already touched expect rents to recover first.
Given the Eurozones woes, on Dublin our exposure has been through Green Reit it may appear counterintuitive when I state that our focus 36.8% over the year and rents in central Madrid, has been on Continental retail businesses such as Unibail Barcelona and Milan are showing signs of stabilising and Klepierre rather than the UK names.
This is primarily amidst early indications of occupancy growth.
a function of rent sustainability and affordability.
Wage inflation and spending power is definitely improving faster Outside of these dominant cities, the only regional office in the UK than on the Continent ex Germany and whilst markets which are experiencing renewed take up and a we expect this to feed through into retailers figures we positive impact on rents are in the UK.
Overall M25 office remain pessimistic about UK landlords being able to vacancy has dropped from 16% to 13% with take up of share in this improving situation.
With the 5 yearly over 4m sq ft in 2014, ahead of the long run average.
upward-only rent review cycle many retail landlords Again within that broad region-wide statistic there are continue to have over rented units in their malls.
Intus many hot spots of much lower vacancy and we maintain like for like rental income fell -3.2% for the year to our exposure to the Thames Valley through McKay December 2014.
Further away from London, the largest regional cities are also experiencing real rental growth for the first Reflecting on affordability, we have increased our time since 2007.
Office rents for the 9 biggest cities exposure to a particular segment of the squeezed middle 8 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued of the retail built environment.
This euphemism refers -0.8% reflecting the spare capacity in core European markets to all sub regional centres which have and may well and the lack of demand pressure to drive rents.
Hansteens continue to suffer from the challenges of omni-channel assets in the Low Countries and Germany saw vacancy retailing.
Rents and rental values have fallen precipitously reduce from 16.2% to 14.8% over 2014.
However, this over the last 7 years and this sector has been shunned year-end figure does also reflect the acquisition of a large by investors, resulting in appropriate valuation levels.
Dutch portfolio with lower vacancy.
Adjusting for this the reduction in vacancy over the year was modest.
However in many cases they are a dominant part of the local infrastructure and retailers are happy to trade from CBREs EMEA Industrial Rent Index rose just 0.8% in these centres if the rent is affordable and the 2014 but with the strongest gains in the UK, Germany management of the centres competent.
increased our exposure to three specialists in this market, NewRiver Retail and Capital & Regional in the UK and Residential Mercialys in France.
All three are developing sustainable This sector has continued to grow in importance within earnings and dividend yields over 5%.
The combination of structural undersupply, ultralow interest rates and renewed wage growth in our The final theme within retail has been the growth in rents preferred markets has led to increased exposure in the in prime European city centres.
In 2013 the CBRE UK, Germany and Sweden.
In both Germany and Sweden European Prime High Street Rent Index rose 6.2%, but our focus remains on the private rented sector as softened in 2014 to a still healthy 2.4%.
Dominant city opposed to the development driven businesses in the centres, particularly those with high tourist footfall UK.
Stockholm apartment values rose 15% in 2014 and continue to see buoyant demand and rental growth.
were up 9.3% in Q1 2015 an astonishing acceleration Capital and Counties, the major landowner in Covent reflecting both the undersupply in a city whose population Garden has generated a 32% increase in rental values is growing fast but also the availability and cost of over the last 3 years.
Our exposure is primarily through Wallenstam, Distribution and Industrial Balder and D Carnegie.
This last company raised just SEK According to IPD, this sector has the second highest total 600m 50m in April 2014 and has risen 48% since return in 2014 beaten only by Central London offices.
It joins a long list of smaller businesses that we Traditionally this is the asset class where rents respond believe occupy particular niche markets.
In Germany, fastest to economic growth but where the supply where rents are ultimately controlled through the response is also the quickest.
The IPD Industrial sub-sector Meitspeigel rent table, we have continued to see upward initial yield tightened by 71bps from March 2014 to March pressure as demand continues to outstrip supply.
The 2015 resulting in a total return of 22.7%.
The distribution companies we invest in have virtually no vacancy.
Once sector has been a huge beneficiary of the supply chain again, rental growth varies hugely across the country with evolution experienced by their retailer customer base.
Deutsche Wohnens Berlin apartments 70% of its assets Forrester, a retail consultancy, estimate that pan European recording average growth of 2.5%.
2014 was another online retailing will double between 2014 and 2018 from year of consolidation with Deutsche Annington acquiring 81bn to 190bn.
All of these goods pass through a Gagfah.
The combined entity has 230,000 apartments distribution chain direct to the consumer rather than the and a market cap of 11bn.
The private rental sector is traditional destination of either the shopping centre or high big business in Germany and economies of scale are street retail unit.
The logistics network is undergoing the critical in growing earnings.
same seismic shifts as the retailing environment and The UK market has not been such a one way street.
The investors are keen to own the sector.
In the UK, logistics Bank of Englands mortgage lending review has certainly investment turnover rose 54% to 4.2bn whilst on the impacted larger mortgages and higher loan-to-values as Continent it rose 29% to 30bn.
well as slowing the pace of transactions as mortgagors Industrial rents have begun to see growth particularly in the become increasingly rigorous in their assessment of South East of the UK with Segro reporting 3.2% ERV growth borrowers ability to afford repayments.
This resulted in slower nationwide house price growth than 2013, but for 2014 whilst their Northern European assets reported TR Property Investment Trust 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued the successful use of these macro tools to manage price years report I highlighted Unibails 700m 10 year bond growth whilst keeping short term rates very low will, issued in June 2013 at an all in coupon of 2.5% I believe, come to be viewed most positively.
The house commenting on the attractiveness of such cheap, long builders have not been deterred, they appreciate term debt.
Little did I expect to report that in October 2014, the strong fundamentals and continue to buy land and they issued a 750m 7 year bond at 1.375%, a neat bring forward their planning pipeline.
Our overall exposure comparable illustrating how far debt costs have come down.
to the sector in the UK did not materially change in the It is important to note that whilst the amount of debt period, but our focus shifted towards the regions and raised has clearly increased we have also seen a steep away from London.
Alongside St Modwen a longstanding increase in the amount of existing debt being favourite stock we hold Urban & Civic which owns two renegotiated.
With investors seeking out businesses with large development sites at Alconbury south of higher earnings and payout ratios, many companies have Cambridge and Rugby, whilst we reduced exposure to sought to reduce their cost of debt by paying banks to the London focused businesses, Quintain and Capital cancel expensive swaps in return for newer cheaper debt.
I was not calling the top of the London This is clearly a case of robbing Peter to pay Paul but residential market, merely suggesting that these the markets positive response to the resulting higher businesses could mark time as capital growth paused in earnings reflects the appetite for income.
the face of various pressures ranging from affordability particularly domestic sterling buyers through to fears at Equity capital markets have also had a busy year but it the time of a mansion tax.
In the year to March 2015, has been dominated by primary issuance from existing both stocks underperformed the benchmark over the year, companies rather than IPOs.
Rights issues and raisings Quintain fell -8.2% and Capital & Counties rose 15%.
often just accelerated book builds of 10% of existing equity raised 7.2bn of equity in the period.
Last year Debt and Equity Capital Markets I wrote about the huge growth in the number and size Seven years on from the start of the global financial crisis, of the German listed residential businesses as their commercial real estate lending to both public and private predominantly private equity owners sold down their companies accelerated strongly in 2014.
Whilst the overall controlling stakes.
This process continued in 2014 with amount of debt only increased modestly by 23bn large placings in both Deutsche Annington and Gagfah.
CBRE estimate a total pool of 978bn the interesting statistic is that this includes 49bn of debt sold in loan Spain continued to see a flurry of cash box IPOs in the portfolio sales which is roughly 5% of the aggregate first half of 2014 with Hispania raising 336m and commercial real estate debt on all European banks Merlin raising 1.2bn.
These companies start life with balance sheets.
This is crucial evidence of banks the cash proceeds from the IPO and then aim to invest successfully deleveraging from their nonperforming legacy this capital together with debt in suitable acquisitions.
80% of these sales were to US private equity In the case of Merlin it had acquired a nationwide buyers who continue to focus on Europe as a recovery portfolio of banking premises let to BBVA in anticipation play.
Sales of non-performing loans enables banks to clear of the flotation.
the provisions on their balance sheets and begin a new In Norway we saw the long awaited sale of 50% of the vintage of loans.
In fact, adjusting for these loan sales, state owned Norwegian office property business valuing CBRE estimate new lending was up 47% on the the business at Norwegian Kroner 12bn 1.1bn.
This figure is still less than half the been a steady performer rising 28% despite the concerns amount let in the peak year of 2007. over the lack of employment growth in oil related Listed companies have enjoyed not only this renewed businesses.
Neighbouring Sweden also saw the return lending from traditional banking sources but also the deep of an industry veteran, Jens Engwall floating his highly demand from the public debt markets.
The search for leveraged company Hemfosa in March 2014. income continued to drive bond yields down and property companies raised 9.5bn in the year to March 2015, With such buoyant capital markets and demand for compared to 5.6bn in the previous 12 months.
In last commercial property it is no surprise that we have seen 10 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued two delistings in the year, Max Property in the UK and CFI companies as a perfect way to combine pure domestic in France.
The latter was more of a trade sale as UGC, the German exposure with an attractive leveraged asset class.
tenant of all 12 cinemas had the option to buy the Sweden was once again a very strong performer when portfolio.
The history of Max Property was covered in detail viewed in local currency with the group of stocks in the Interim Report in November.
Whilst the investment returning 42.9% in SEK but only 20.7% in GBP.
Swedish was a successful one for the Company a total return of property companies do not benefit from the tax 84.2% the key point is that the entire portfolio was transparent Reit structures and therefore they maintain bought by Blackstone very shortly after the company higher levels of debt, partly as a tax shield.
With asset announced its 2 year winding up programme.
It would prices rising and the Riksbank cutting the base rate not be a great surprise if we saw more large private equity twice in the year, net asset values quickly appreciated businesses acquiring listed assets.
The highly regarded as did earnings estimates as interest bills fell.
In addition management team behind Max quickly resurfaced in the these rate reductions helped maintain the steady public domain with the UKs only 2014 IPO, the listing depreciation of the currency.
Local banks have been of Secure Income Reit in May.
This vehicle raised a very enthusiastic lenders to the property sector and modest 15m of fresh capital, of which the Company competition has reduced debt margins further.
It owns a mixed leisure and healthcare suffers from a shortage of housing, particularly in its larger portfolio of very long leased properties with high leverage.
cities and with the economy forecast to grow by 2.3% in The stock rose 73% over the period and we expect more 2014 and 3% in 2015 UBS Economics forecast the equity issuance as more acquisitions are undertaken.
rapid growth in house prices was reflected in the Property shares performance of Balder, our preferred residential name, In my introduction I highlighted the impact of vigorous which rose 86% in the year.
The sharp eyed will have ongoing monetary easing on the performance of a noticed that I highlighted this same stock in last years leveraged asset class such as real estate equities.
The UK annual report after it rose 71% in the year to March benefited through both 2012 and 2013 with significant 2014.
The founder and CEO continues to own 39% outperformance by domestic property companies of the company.
compared with their European cousins.
However through The other standout performer in the year was also 2014 and in particular Q1 2015 it was the turn of Swedish, Hemfosa whose IPO was mentioned earlier.
The Continental real estate shares to benefit from the largesse stock returned 97% since coming to the market in March of the central bank.
To illustrate the point, Continental 2014.
The company rapidly invested the equity raised and stocks outperformed UK stocks, all in local currency, by took its LTV to 62% as at December 2014.
It has since 10.3% in the fourth quarter alone with the ECB raised more capital through preference shares, which announcing their bond buying programme on 15 January.
carry an annual coupon and are therefore debt as far as The performance of the Eurozone companies, when we are concerned and the current loan to value is a viewed in local currency, was very dramatic returning stretched 68%.
I admit that we sold our holding too early 40.7% over the year.
At the country level, the spread but I dont hold businesses with that level of leverage in performance was not as broad as we have seen in unless it is heavily discounted, which in this case it isnt.
The asset inflation assisted by further falls Swiss property stocks have been a longstanding in both bond yields and the cost of capital was felt across underweight in this portfolio.
Asset values have been the entire region.
stagnant for many years with low levels of turnover, the Germany was the top Eurozone performer with a total underlying rental markets either suffer from oversupply return of 54.4%.
The combination of strong domestic Zurich offices or at best offer pedestrian growth whilst the companies lack dynamic management.
The sector has growth coupled with Bund yields driving inexorably down to close to zero was a very attractive backdrop for the had an annualised return of 6.5% over the last 3 years asset class.
Global demand for the large, liquid residential versus the pan European benchmark return of 18.4%.
businesses which dominate the German listed property However, as mentioned in the introduction, the dramatic intervention by the Swiss National Bank in not only index was strong.
International investors saw these TR Property Investment Trust 11 STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued removing the CHF EUR cap but also moving to negative Distribution of Assets overnight rates was a catalyst for the sleepy world of UK equity exposure at 42.8% was lower than in March listed Swiss property companies.
The two large 2014 43.3% and due in part to the significant return companies, PSP Swiss and Swiss Prime Site both rose of capital 2.4% of NAV from the delisting and sale of Max Property in August.
Continental European exposure nearly 20% between 16th January and the end of increased to 50.6% from 49.0%.
Investors might have February as domestic investors quickly bought into their expected this percentage to have grown more but the steady dividend yields 3.7-4.0% rather than leaving their movement in the currency had a dramatic effect on the money in the bank who now charged 0.75% for the relative size of the non-GBP denominated asset base.
pleasure of looking after it.
We reacted quickly, increasing our exposure from 1.7% to 4.5% of net assets.
This was Our physical property asset exposure fluctuated with the a good example of an environment in which we needed sales and purchases ending the period at 6.6%.
to adjust our long standing view of the underlying weak property market fundamentals which were being Investment Activity overruled by exogenous central bank policy decisions.
Over the period, turnover purchases and sales divided by two totalled 249.4m and equates to 27.4% of the The UK stocks collectively rose 25.1% and therefore average net assets over the period.
This percentage is outperformed the rest of Europe when viewed in GBP a very similar level to last year 27.8% but the last two as highlighted earlier.
Again there was less dispersion of years have been higher than the long term average.
returns than in previous years with a handful of notable The reasons given in last years annual report apply exceptions.
Within the London specialists, Workspace equally to this year, namely higher levels of equity returned 46.1% as it benefited from a rerating of its issuance both primary and secondary coupled with portfolio and a surge in investor interest in its SME the response required to changes in macro driven focused, shorter term lease model.
In addition the two fide-listings Max performance was from Unite, the specialist student Property and CFI also meaningfully increased the accommodation provider which rose 36.3%.
demand from institutional investors and private equity As noted under Distribution of Assets, the ratio of UK and has driven yields down sharply in this sector.
Unite, as Continental European exposure hardly altered over the the largest manager in the country, benefits from year.
In the interim report I commented that, given the economies of scale and a marketing reach well beyond expectation of further monetary easing in the Eurozone its competitors particularly for the growing overseas I would expect Continental exposure to increase from student market.
Indeed, as detailed below, our exposure to At the half year I wrote that our residential exposure was Eurozone companies did increase, only for the currency focused increasingly outside of London and indeed those depreciation to impact the ratios.
The focus remains on businesses with the greatest Central London residential businesses exposed to sound underlying property markets exposure with the exception of Workspace were rather than the greatest short term beneficiaries of central amongst the poorest performers, Capital & Counties and bank largesse.
Given this approach, the most significant Quintain.
New build residential remains the one market increase in exposure was in German residential.
The fund which is showing signs of near term oversupply.
We also not only participated in secondary placings in Deutsche completed the sale of the Vauxhall property following Annington and Gagfah but also bought into Buwog, the receipt of the permitted development right for conversion residential arm of Immofinanz an Austrian listed property to residential further reducing our London residential company which was spun out in October.
In the longer run we remain confident of the to all other existing residential names over the period.
strength of the London residential market as a store of With Deutsche Annington acquiring Gagfah in March the wealth and that key infrastructure such as Crossrail will combined entity together with Deutsche Wohnen are now enable this capital city to cope with the forecasted ranked #4 and #7 largest companies in our pan population growth rate.
12 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued The other major sector consolidation in the year was and our largest investment, Unibail moving from paying a the merger of Klepierre and Corio.
This was effectively a single annual dividend to semi-annual distributions.
The Company received the last annual dividend from Unibail takeover by Klepierre, masterminded by the 23% in May 2014 and the first interim dividend in March controlling shareholder Simon Property the largest US 2015, so effectively received one and a half times the retail REIT.
Announced in late July, Corios stock leapt usual dividend from this holding in the financial year.
11% on the day as investors welcomed a fresh Other corporate actions also led companies to pay out management approach.
The cumulative effect Following further IPOs, the Spanish exposure in the of all these was 1.25 pence per share.
benchmark has increased modestly to 1.4%.
Our Without the items highlighted above, the anticipated fall in exposure remains lower than the index.
Whilst we earnings from the prior year, which had also included a participated in both Hispania and Merlin Properties we number of one off items would have materialised.
have traded most of these positions and bought back Underlying growth in the dividends has come through, only when the stocks were on hefty discounts to asset albeit not at the rate that the 10% growth in earnings set value last summer.
The Spanish economy is indeed out in the Financial Highlights might suggest.
Without the improving fast but we remain sceptical that a return to one-off items mentioned above, the earnings would have rental growth is imminent.
What is plainly apparent is the been around 7.64p per share.
The full year dividend at wave of capital driving up asset prices and weakening the 7.70p, some 3.4% ahead of the prior year, takes this cash box business model as potential purchases have into account.
Revenue Outlook In the UK we participated in a number of corporate At the risk of being repetitive, I must caution again that a fall situations.
Capital & Counties, Hammerson and NewRiver in earnings is anticipated in the 2015 16 financial year.
This Retail all carried out 10% overnight placings at single digit is due in part to the fact that we are seeing a fall in income discounts to the previous price.
In each case the proceeds from our direct property portfolio as the redevelopment at had a clearly defined purpose and such placings enable a the Colonnades is underway.
This is temporary and will large fund such as this one to participate on an benefit the income account in the longer term.
I explained earlier the decision to invest the acquisition of Corio by Klepierre benefitted the income in certain businesses focused on sub-regional shopping account in the year under review by bringing income and we participated in the Capital & Regional 160m forward, however, it will result in a fall in income from this capital raise to acquire the remainder of the Mall holding in the next financial year, although normal business partnership from Aviva.
The company now owns outright is expected to be resumed thereafter.
7 UK shopping centres plus interests in a further 2 and has sold virtually all its non-core activities.
These centres Importantly, we expect the rate of growth in income from rents have been reset down to new, post-crisis, levels and the underlying portfolio to slow but remain positive.
In the tenant affordability will enable these centres to generate last two years, companies have benefitted from very acceptable returns even as they continue to deal refinancing at lower rates than the retiring debt which has with the structural changes in retailing.
This company will provided a significant boost to income accounts.
However, also be able to drive down its overheads as its business much of this refinancing activity is now complete and model simplifies and we hope it will act as a platform further income growth will be determined by underlying for further consolidation in this fragmented sub-market.
rental growth which we expect to be modest.
Revenue As usual, we cannot foresee more oneoff events which As highlighted in both the Interim Report and in the will impact the revenue account in a positive or negative Managers Report, the current year earnings of 8.89p way.
Timing of dividends close to our year ends, the include a number of one-off events.
The two with the impact of currency movements on our non-sterling most significant impact were an unexpected dividend income, and the way in which companies pay the from Max Properties, which paid out its accumulated dividends which in turn can affect the way in which they earnings prior to a takeover by a private equity group, are taxed are all factors that we are unable to control.
TR Property Investment Trust TR Property Investment Trust 13 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued As the Chairman highlighted in her Statement, the Board stock.
Excluding the Red Cross income the average rent will not be afraid of utilising the revenue reserves to in the building is 18 per sq ft. maintain and even grow the dividend, providing they are There were two sales, Vauxhall and Milton Keynes.
The confident that the shortfalls will not be long term and there sale of Vauxhall completed at the beginning of the year is evidence of underlying income growth in the portfolio.
4.2% ahead of the March 2014 valuation, following confirmation from Lambeth Borough Council that the Gearing, Debt and Debentures building could be converted to residential use.
The sale Gearing levels have not changed markedly during the was in line with the Companys strategy of reducing period, although the end of the period saw a modest fall exposure to the central London residential market.
In in the levels of debt drawn.
December we concluded the sale of the Milton Keynes Our facility with RBS was renewed in January and the office to the tenant for 5 million, a 30% premium to financing terms improved.
We have just completed the the September book value.
renewal of the ING facility, also on lower margins.
The At The Colonnades, Bayswater, following receipt of CFD portfolio was a source of cheaper funding during planning permission and completion of the agreement the year and around half of the gearing was achieved for lease with Waitrose in March 2014, construction of the in this way.
extended and refurbished commercial accommodation We are also in discussion with other potential lenders as began in September.
At the time of writing the project is our GBP15m debenture is finally due for repayment in on time and on budget with handover to Waitrose of their February 2016.
This is a small liability for this size of new supermarket set for August 2015.
The construction Investment Trust, but at a fixed interest rate of 11.5% investment for the year was 2.5m with a further 6m we will be happy to repay.
Completion of the entire scheme is set for November 2015 and we have started to Direct Physical Portfolio market the 5 ground floor retail units with good expression It was another busy year for the physical property portfolio of interest received.
Residential lease extensions also which produced a total return of 15.0% over the 12 continued with another 11 completions in the year months made up of a capital return of 11.2% and an providing the Trust with net receipts of 0.9m.
Close to income return of 3.7%.
The IPD Monthly Index total return 50% of 242 flats have now completed lease extensions.
was 18.3% a capital return of 11.6% and an income Outlook return of 6.0%.
During the year 5 separate property The ultra-low and indeed, in some instances, negative transactions were concluded totalling 30.8 million.
bond yield environment across the Eurozone fostered by There were three purchases over the year.
In the Interim the ECBs bond buying stimulus drives an unprecedented Report we wrote about the acquisition of a logistics unit hunt for yield.
It also reduces the cost of capital leading to in Bristol for 4.58m, reflecting a net initial yield of 6.9% asset value inflation in Continental Europe.
Our view is and an industrial building in Plymouth, where we paid that the ECB will ensure that the programme continues 3.25m reflecting a net initial yield of 8.0%.
Since the until they are very comfortable that the benefits are being Interim report we acquired Beacon House in Wimbledon felt in the wider real economy.
However, as should be for 3.5m which reflects a net initial yield of 4.5% and a clear from the tone of this report we prefer companies capital value of 300 per sq ft.
The property is a 12,500 that are close to, or experiencing real rental growth in sq ft office located close to the train station in this affluent their portfolios.
Asset prices stimulated by central bank London suburb.
The upper floors are let on short leases intervention need to eventually find an underpinning from expiring in March 2016 and the ground floor is let to the occupier demand and we watch closely for appropriate British Red Cross on a long lease at a nominal rent.
Importantly the lack of new construction and purchase rationale centres on the refurbishment and reluctance of banks to fund speculative development reletting of the building to provide good quality office continues to reassure us that improving economic accommodation in a London suburb where prime rents fundamentals which deliver tenant demand will translate into rental growth promptly.
are 45 per sq ft and there is a distinct lack of available 14 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued At the time of going to print the Conservatives had, against almost universal expectation, won a slim majority at the UK General Election.
Whilst this certainty is good news for business in general it does bring renewed focus on the possibility of an EU referendum in 2017.
The ability of the single currency to deal with its immense structural issues will remain a central theme for investor sentiment and the immediacy of the Greek debt renegotiation reminds us of the complexities.
We expect the European Central Banks monetary policy to remain accommodating.
Meanwhile in the UK, the expectation of the commencement of an upward rate cycle may weigh on short term asset appreciation in the UK.
However we think that quite quickly commercial property investors will adapt to the new environment where modest increases in the base rate will be the appropriate response of the central bank to an economy growing faster than its neighbours.
Combined with so little new development over the last 7 years ongoing tenant demand will be good news for rental growth.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge Fund Manager 9 June 2015 TR Property Investment Trust 15
