GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Management Arrangements and Fees For the period up to 11 July 2014 investment management services were provided by Thames River Capital LLP under the Investment Management Agreement.
On 11 July 2014, the Board appointed F&C Investment Business Limited as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive with portfolio management delegated to the former Investment Manager, Thames River Capital LLP.
The significant terms of the Investment Management Agreement with the Manager are as follows: l Notice Period The Investment Management Agreement IMA provides for termination of the agreement by either party without compensation on the provision of not less than 12 months written notice.
l Management Fees The fee for the period under review was a fixed fee of 3,325,000 plus an ad valorum fee of 0.20% pa based on the net asset value determined in accordance with the AIC method of valuation on the last day of March, June, September and December, payable quarterly in advance.
The management fee included fund accounting and administrative services, safe custody and company secretarial services which are all provided by third parties.
The Company had a direct contractual relationship with the parties providing these services and the fees incurred were deducted from the gross fees due to the Manager.
The fee arrangements were reviewed by the Board at the MEC meeting in March 2015.
For the year to 31 March 2016 and going forward the fees incurred for the third party services described above will be paid directly by the Company and the fund management fee will be stated net of these fees.
For the year to 31 March 2016 the fixed fee element will be 2,975,000 plus an ad valorum fee of 0.20p.
The fee arrangements will be reviewed once again in March 2016. l Performance Fees In addition to the management fees, the Board has agreed to pay the Manager performance related fees in respect of an accounting period if certain performance objectives are achieved.
A performance fee is payable if the total return of adjusted net assets after deduction of all Base Management Fees and other expenses, as defined in the IMA, at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of the Companys benchmark plus 1% the hurdle rate : this outperformance expressed as a percentage is known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee payable will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted net assets at 31 March each year multiplied by the percentage outperformance, then multiplied by 15%.
For the period under review the maximum performance fee payable for the period was capped at 2% of the adjusted net assets.
However, if the adjusted net assets at the end of any period are less than at the beginning of the period, the maximum performance fee payable will be limited to 1% of the adjusted net assets.
For the year to 31 March 2016, the performance fee cap of 2% of the adjusted net assets has been reduced to 1.5%.
If the total return of shareholders funds for any performance period is less than the benchmark for the relevant performance period, such underperformance expressed as a percentage will be carried forward to future performance periods.
If any fee exceeds the cap, such excess performance expressed as a percentage will be carried forward and applied to offset any percentage underperformance in future performance periods.
In the event that the benchmark is exceeded but the hurdle is not, that outperformance of the benchmark can be used to offset past or future underperformance.
These amounts can be used for offset purposes only and therefore cannot have the effect of creating a fee in a year where a fee would not otherwise be payable or increasing the fee in that year.
At 31 March 2015 there is a carry forward of outperformance of 1.8% 2014: 1.8%.
