GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2014: nil.
Voting Interests Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by a show of hands, each share affords its owner one vote.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Deadlines for voting rights Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before the meeting not excluding non-working days.
Transfer of shares Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not more than four such transferees.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
Significant Voting Rights At 31 March 2015, no shareholders held over 3% of voting rights on a discretionary basis.
However, at 31 March 2015 the following shareholders held over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: 32 TR Property Investment Trust
