GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board, the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary shares which is published on the London Stock Exchange, and interim management statements.
This information is also available on the Companys website, www.
com together with a monthly factsheet and Manager commentary.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered address given on page 79.
General presentations are given to both shareholders and analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company.
These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently remain in force.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on page 27.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: l to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the groups auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and l each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board Caroline Burton Chairman 9 June 2015 TR Property Investment Trust 39
