Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 2 invest in client relationship management and introduce new Strategy and Objectives, Business focus and discipline to how the business targets and covers existing and new clients to seek to broaden and institutionalise Model and Risk Profile client relationships: 3 develop the businesss capability to source, execute and Strategy and Objectives integrate acquisitions: The Groups strategy is to continue to develop its business, 4 work within a robust investment framework so that the operating as an intermediary in the wholesale OTC and exchangebusiness allocates capital and resources to areas where the traded financial and commodity markets, with the scale and most value can be created, taking account of risks and the breadth to deliver superior performance and returns, underpinned impact of regulation: by strong financial management disciplines, and without actively taking credit and market risk.
5 develop the HR function and processes to focus on hiring andtraining the next generation of brokers and to manage The Companys goal is to become the worlds most trusted source compensation appropriately to encourage good long term of liquidity in hybrid OTC markets and the worlds best operator in cultural behaviours: and global hybrid voice broking.
6 seek to improve the businesss brand awareness and coverage.
In order to deliver this strategy the Group will aim: Business model and risk profile 1 to provide a high quality broking service to clients, facilitating The Groups business model is based on generating a return from their trading activity through developing and maintaining providing a facilitation service to clients, enabling them to trade strong pools of liquidity across all major asset classes and efficiently and effectively.
This service can be provided without allmajor financial centres: actively taking credit and market risk.
2 to develop revenue streams from information and other nonIn accordance with the risk appetite set by the Board, the Group broking services related to financial and commodity markets: and iswilling to accept a limited exposure to certain risks as a 3 to deliver superior and consistent operating margins and return consequence of its activities, primarily to counterparty credit risk on capital by: and operational risk, and also to a limited amount of market risk.
a maintaining cost discipline and flexibility in the cost base: This is reflected in the business model adopted by the Group whereby it acts only as an intermediary in the financial markets.
b maintaining a prudent financial structure: and The Groups risk management policies explicitly prohibit any active c operating an effective risk management governance taking of trading risk and the Group does not trade for its own structure and risk management framework so that the account.
The Groups operational risks include the risk of business Group can manage its risks within its riskappetite.
disruption, employee error and the failure of a business process or Following the conclusion of the global strategic review in the IT system, as well as the risk of litigation.
first half of 2015, the Company announced the launch of ten The broking business of the Group is conducted through three keyinitiatives the Ten Arrows each of which has a number distinct models: the Name Passing model also known as Name ofprojects and work streams which are designed to optimise Give-Up : the Matched Principal model: and the Executing theexisting business and to pursue opportunities to add new Brokermodel.
highquality revenue and earnings to the Group.
The first four arrows of the Ten Arrows are focused on building Name Passing revenue in the most attractive areas of the Groups markets.
Around 75% of the Groups broking revenue is derived from Name TheGroup will: Passing activities, where the Group is not a counterparty to the trade, and where its exposure to a client is limited to outstanding 1 seek to add brokers to maintain and grow presence in those invoices for commission.
Almost all of the Groups activities in products with high relative market attractiveness and where derivatives, such as forward FX, FX options, interest rate swaps, the business has a high relative ability to compete, and to interest rate options, credit derivatives, and the vast majority of invest in those products that have high market attractiveness theEnergy and commodities activities are conducted under the where the businesss presence can be developed: Name Passing model.
2 seek to continue to build the businesss activities in Energy The level of invoiced receivables is monitored closely, by individual andcommodities: clients and in aggregate, and there have been very few instances inthe 3 look to extend the businesss broking offering to service past few years when invoiced receivables have not been collected.
clientswho have not traditionally been served by the interdealer brokers in those products where the market Matched Principal isreceptive to a broadening of the client base: and Around 20% of the Groups broking revenue is derived from 4 continue to develop the Information Sales business where the Matched Principal activities, where the Group is the counterparty product suite and delivery channels can be further developed.
to both sides of a matching trade.
The vast majority of the Groups activities conducted under the Matched Principal model are in The remainder of the Ten Arrows are focused on improving the government and agency bonds, municipal bonds, mortgage functions in the business that support the revenue generating backedsecurities, and corporate bonds.
The Group will: The Group bears the risk of counterparty default during the period 1 invest in technology including both front office and back office between execution and settlement of the trade.
In the event of a systems and realign the mix between owned and outsourced counterparty default prior to settlement in a Matched Principal platforms to maximise the businesss intellectual property to trade, the Groups exposure is not to the trade date value of the seek to ensure that the hybrid voice broking business and underlying instrument, but to the movement in that value between Information Sales have the technology richness and capability trade date and the date of default, and so the Groups exposure that customers seek: becomes a market risk.
This risk is mitigated by the use of central Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 7 Strategic Report continued counterparty services and other default risk transfer agreements, Main Trends and Factors Likely to where appropriate, and by taking swift action to close out any position that arises as a result of a counterparty default.
The Group Affect the Future Development, does undertake, under strict controls, a limited amount of Matched Principal broking where a counterparty is buying its own securities, Performance and Position of the and in these circumstances in the event of that counterparty defaulting prior to settlement the risk of loss in the value of the Companys Business underlying instrument is heightened.
The level of financial market volatility and the To mitigate settlement risk the Groups risk management policies require that transactions are undertaken on a strict  level of yield curves payment basis.
The Group generates revenue from commissions itearns by facilitating and executing customer orders.
The level of revenue The Groups Matched Principal activity also gives rise to limited issubstantially dependent on customer trading volumes.
The market risk as a result of the infrequent residual balances which volumes of transactions the Groups customers conduct with result from the Groups failure to match clients orders precisely itareaffected by the level of volatility in financial markets, by orthrough broker error.
thesteepness and absolute level of yield curves, as well as by The Groups Matched Principal activities give rise to liquidity risk customers risk appetite, and by their willingness and ability asthe settlement agents and central counterparty services used by totrade.
the Group can call for increased cash collateral or margin deposits Volatility is one of the key drivers of activity in the financial at short notice and the Group may be required to fund a purchase markets.
During periods of market turbulence the level of volatility of a security before the delivery of that security on to the Groups tends to be high and the business benefits from the increased matching counterparty.
volumes that occur during such periods.
Levels of activity in the Once a Matched Principal transaction has settled usually 1-3 days financial markets can reduce sharply, however, when high volatility after trade date, there is no on-going risk for the business.
is overshadowed by structural uncertainty, resulting in a reduction in risk appetite amongst clients.
During periods of low volatility the Executing Broker level of financial market activity is generally lower, and the volume Around 5% of the Groups broking revenue is derived from the of transactions undertaken by the business on behalf of its clients business operating as an Executing Broker, where the Group tends to be lower.
executes transactions on certain regulated exchanges as per client The steepness and absolute level of yield curves is one of the key orders, and then gives-up the trade to the relevant client or its drivers of activity in financial markets.
When yield curves are flat clearing member.
The majority of the Groups revenue generated and low the level of activity tends to be lower than when yield under the Executing Broker model relates to listed equity curves are steep and both short and long term interest rates derivatives and listed interest rate futures and options on futures.
The Group is exposed to short term pre-settlement risk during the period between the execution of the trade and the client claiming Commodity price volatility the trade.
This exposure is minimal, as under the terms of the The Groups largest product group by revenue is Energy give-up agreements the Group has in place with its clients, trades andcommodities, including oil and oil related products and must be claimed by the end of the trade day.
The Group is also financial instruments.
Activity in these markets tends to exposed to some liquidity risk as exchanges and clearers may increaseduring periods of rapid change in commodity prices, require additional cash collateral or margin deposits at short andtobe more subdued when prices are stable.
noticeif trades have not been claimed.
The impact of the changing regulatory environment Once the trade has been claimed, the Groups only exposure to for the Groups customers theclient is for the invoiced commission receivable.
Since the financial crisis in 2008 regulators worldwide have been adopting an increased level of scrutiny in supervising the financial markets and have been generally tightening the capital, leverage and liquidity requirements of commercial and investment banks, and taking steps to limit or separate their activities in order to reduce risk.
The level of the Groups revenue is substantially dependent on customer trading volumes.
The volumes of transactions the Groups customers conduct with it have been affected by their reaction to the actions being taken by regulators which have generally reduced their risk appetite and their willingness and ability to trade.
8 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The reforms are likely to have an effect on the Groups business The impact of new regulations directly affecting andthe revenue the business is able to generate from its activities, OTC markets and the costs of complying with including potentially through changes in commission rates, the size newregulations of the market that is intermediated, or the Groups market share.
In Part of the regulatory reforms being introduced relates directly addition significant expenditure is expected to be incurred in order tothe operation of OTC derivatives markets, which are the most to comply with the regulations, including the costs of implementing important markets for the Group.
The regulatory reforms of the business and technology changes, the development and running of OTC derivatives markets are being effected in the United States technical infrastructure and associated operational costs.
through the implementation by the CFTC and the Securities Exchange Commission SEC of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Competition for brokers and the level of Act, and in the European Union through the European Markets brokercompensation Infrastructure Regulation EMIR and the Markets in Financial The Group competes with other interdealer brokers for staff.
Instruments Directive MiFID II and Markets in Financial Thecosts of employing front office broking staff is currently the Instruments Regulation MiFIR.
There are four broad themes largest cost faced by the Group.
The effect of the competition tothe reforms: forbroking staff can result in an increase in staff costs, or if staff leave the Group, can result in the loss of capability, customer the requirement that certain derivatives contracts be cleared relationships and expertise.
The ability of the Group to maintain through central counterparties: broker compensation at its current level or to reduce broker the requirement for trades to be reported to trade repositories: compensation further will be affected by the extent of enhanced preand posttrade transparency: and competitionfor brokers by other firms.
the requirement that trades in derivatives contracts which are Management of the cost base required to be cleared are executed through regulated execution The Group actively manages its cost base to support its profitability venues the Swap Execution Facility in the United States, and the as circumstances require it.
The Group has in the past undertaken regulated market, multilateral trading facility MTF or the organised trading facility OTF in the European Union.
major restructuring programmes involving the exit or restructuring of contracts of staff, and the exit from certain activities.
In the United States, the phasing in of mandatory clearing of As the level of activity and revenue in the traditional interdealer certain interest rate swaps and credit default index swaps product areas has fallen over the last few years, action has been commenced in March 2013.
With respect to trade execution and taken in the product areas and geographies most affected to align reporting, the final rules relating to SEFs were published by the the cost base with the lower level of revenue.
The objectives of the CFTC on 4 June 2013.
The Groups SEF, which was granted cost improvement programmes have been to reduce fixed costs, to temporary registration by the CFTC in September 2013, was preserve the variable nature of broker compensation and to reduce granted permanent registration by the CFTC in January 2016.
The it as a percentage of broking revenue, in order to ensure that the SEF started operating on 2 October 2013 when the rules for the business is well positioned to respond to less favourable market capture and reporting of all trades in instruments within the scope conditions and to maintain operating margins.
of the regulations came into effect.
The requirement for the mandatory execution within a SEF of trades in instruments that The Group may undertake further cost improvement and have been determined by the CFTC to be made available to trade restructuring programmes from time to time in the future, and first came into effect for certain instruments in February 2014. anysuch future action might involve significant costs or have adisruptive effect on the Groups business, or the anticipated In the European Union, the implementation of EMIR, which benefits of any actions might not be realised in full.
contains provisions governing mandatory central clearing requirements and trade reporting requirements for certain OTC Changes in the carrying value of goodwill derivatives, is coming into effect in stages as the various technical The Groups consolidated balance sheet includes a balance standards are approved.
The mandatory reporting of the details of relatingto goodwill arising through business combinations.
The all relevant derivatives contracts to recognised trade repositories initial recognition of goodwill represents the excess of the costs came into effect from February 2014.
The first clearing obligations ofacquisitions over the identifiable net assets of the entities are expected to come into effect in June 2016, and margin acquired.
The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to each requirements for non-cleared trades are expected to apply from region is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment September 2016. testing requires that the estimated value of the business in each The legislative framework governing permissible trade execution region is compared with the balance sheet carrying value of the venues, and governance and conduct of business requirements for business in that region, including goodwill, and any shortfall is trading venues, through the introduction of MiFID II and MiFIR is recognised as an impairment of goodwill.
currently set to become effective from 3 January 2018.
The estimated value of the business for each region is based MiFID II MiFIR reform the regulatory framework for capital markets oncalculations reflecting projections of future cash flows and in the European Union, providing harmonised conditions for the assumptions on growth rates and discount rates.
The projections authorisation and operation of investment firms and trading offuture cash flows reflect the current performance and position venues, conduct of business requirements, preand post-trade of each business without taking into account further investment transparency arrangements, trading of certain OTC derivatives on for growth or further actions to reduce costs.
Changes in the regulated trading venues in certain conditions, and arrangements estimated value of the business for each region from time to time for the cross-border provision of investment and ancillary services.
may result in impairments in the carrying value of goodwill.
The rules create a new type of trading venue the OTF for, among other things, Fixed Income instruments and derivatives, and require management of position limits for commodities derivatives.
Thebroad reach of MiFID II MiFIR reforms will present risks and challenges to the Group as a provider of investment and ancillary services, including as an operator of regulated trading venues.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 9 Strategic Report continued Litigation costs and settlements Overview Legal action has in the past been taken by the Group to seek to enforce its contractual and other legal rights, and the Group may Our strategic review, the results of which were communicated to consider it necessary to take such action in the future.
The costs the market in June last year, concluded that the central role played ofsuch actions, and the settlements and awards that may be by interdealer brokers at the heart of the global wholesale OTC received as a result, and the costs of defending actions taken markets remains secure, but that revenue declines were likely to against the Group, may be significant.
continue in a number of traditional interdealer broker products.
The review concluded that the Energy and commodities markets The proposed acquisition of IGBB donot currently face all the same pressures.
On 11 November 2015, the Company announced that it had agreedterms with ICAP for the acquisition by Tullett Prebon Market conditions in 2015 were consistent with these conclusions.
ofICAPs global hybrid voice broking and information business Activity in many of the traditional interdealer broker products IGBB, including ICAPs associated technology and broking remained subdued throughout 2015 although after a slow summer period there was some pick-up in activity in some products and platforms including iSwap and Fusion, certain of ICAPs joint ventures and associates, and certain intellectual property markets in the last two months of the year.
In contrast, activity in rightsincluding the ICAP name.
the Energy and commodities markets, particularly in oil and oil related financial products, was buoyant reflecting the significant Completion is conditional upon, amongst other matters, approval changes and volatility in oil prices throughout the year.
by the shareholders of both ICAP and the Company, regulatory approvals, and antitrust approvals and clearances in the UK, US We have continued to actively manage the direct cost base to andother relevant jurisdictions.
In light of the reductions in market volumes in the traditional interdealer broker product areas in the The Transaction will combine the complementary strengths of second half of the year further cost improvement action was taken twoleading global hybrid voice broking franchises to create the towards the end of 2015 to reduce headcount and other fixed costs largest player in the industry with historical revenue in excess of in the products and geographies most affected by the reduction in 1.5 billion employing over 3,000 brokers.
The Transaction will market volumes and revenue.
establish a stronger platform to deliver Tullett Prebons objectives of becoming the worlds best operator in global hybrid voice The businesss performance in 2015 has benefited greatly from the investments made in increasing the scale of the Groups activities broking and the most trusted source of liquidity in the hybrid OTC markets.
The Transaction is expected to facilitate the delivery of in the Energy sector.
The performance of PVM Oil Associates significant management and support cost synergies of at least Limited and subsidiaries PVM which was acquired in November 60million by the third full year following Completion.
2014 was strong throughout the year.
The Groups leading position in Energy broking was enhanced by the acquisition in August 2015 The Groups success will be dependent upon its ability to integrate ofMOAB Oil, Inc. MOAB significantly increasing the scale of the two businesses and to deliver the synergies expected.
Costs theGroups activities in broking crude oil and energy products willbe incurred on the integration planning process prior to inNorth America.
Energy and commodities is now the Groups completion, there will be numerous challenges and significant largest product area by revenue.
costassociated with the integration, and the process will make demands on management time and on other resources which The Information Sales and Risk Management Services businesses maydelay other projects or may restrict the ability of the Group have also performed strongly.
The Information Sales business has benefited from the continued expansion of its client base and toinvest in business development.
geographical presence, the enhancement of its sales capability andthe extension of the data content it provides to customers.
We have made investments in senior management to lead our strategy and business development activities.
We have taken stepsto strengthen our support and control functions to facilitate the implementation of enhanced cultural, compliance and risk governance frameworks in order to deliver our commitment to instil and embed the highest standards of conduct in the business.
Revenue of 796m in 2015 was 13% higher than in 2014 with underlying operating profit increasing by 7% to 108m.
The underlying operating profit margin in 2015 of 13.6% is 0.7% points lower than in 2014 reflecting the investments being made in the business.
Underlying earnings per share for 2015 of 32.2p are 0.1p lower than for 2014, reflecting the increase in the average number of shares in issue following the acquisition of PVM.
10 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The cost improvement programme implemented towards the Market conditions and revenue endof 2015 is focused on reducing headcount in Europe and The Group generates revenue from commissions it earns by theMiddle East and on restructuring broker contracts in North facilitating and executing customer orders.
The level of revenue is America to reduce fixed costs and to reduce the level of pay out as substantially dependent on customer trading volumes, which are a percentage of broking revenue.
Front office broking headcount is affected by the conditions in the financial markets, by customers being reduced by approximately 70 heads representing a reduction risk appetite, and by their willingness and ability to trade.
of around 7.5% of the front office headcount in Europe and the The level of activity in the wholesale OTC financial markets Middle East and in North America in Treasury products, Interest during2015 continued to be under pressure from the cyclical Rate Derivatives, and Fixed Income.
The cost of the actions taken andstructural factors affecting the interdealer broker industry.
in2015 of 25.7m, of which 4.4m is the non-cash write down ofamounts previously paid, has been charged as an exceptional Volatility, and the steepness and absolute level of yield curves, item in the 2015 accounts.
A further charge of less than 10m is arekey drivers of activity in the financial markets.
Measures of expected to be made in the first half of 2016 relating to the actions financial market volatility have been a little higher during 2015 being taken under this programme which had not been completed than in the previous two years but have remained low in absolute by the end of 2015. terms, and volatility and trading volumes in many product areas continued to be sporadic.
Interest rates for many of the major As a result of these actions, together with the actions taken currencies have fallen further during 2015 and this has often been in2014, fixed broker employment costs in the traditional accompanied by a further flattening of the yield curve, with a interdealer product areas in Europe and the Middle East and in reduction in the spread between short and longer term rates.
North America have been reduced in line with the decline in Credit spreads in many of the major bond markets have also revenue in those areas.
Total broker compensation costs as a become further compressed.
The increase in interest rates in percentage of broking revenue have fallen by 0.5% points to theUnited States towards the end of the year was a small step 55.7%, continuing the downward trend established since 2012 towards a more normal interest rate environment.
when total broker compensation costs as a percentage of brokingrevenue were 59.8%.
The reduction in the overall broker Volumes in the financial markets also continue to be adversely employment costs torevenue percentage in 2015 has been held affected by the more onerous regulatory environment applicable back by some inoperative bonus pool arrangements fixed costs in tomany of our bank customers whose trading activity has been these areas are being reduced through the 2015 cost improvement suppressed by the deleveraging of their balance sheets and lower programme, and by the change in the mix of the business with a risk appetite.
higher proportion of revenue in Energy where broker compensation costs as a percentage of revenue tend to be a little higher than In contrast, activity in the Energy and commodities markets, theaverage.
particularly in oil and oil related financial instruments, has been buoyant.
Commodity prices, particularly crude oil which is the The overall contribution margin of the business, after broker worlds most actively traded commodity, were volatile throughout employment costs and other front office direct and variable costs, 2015, resulting in a higher level of market activity.
was 0.7% points higher in 2015 than in the prior year, reflecting thereduction in the broker compensation to broking revenue Excluding PVM, revenue in 2015 was 2% lower than in 2014 at constant exchange rates.
Broking revenue was 3% lower, with percentage, a full year of PVM which has a higher contribution margin than the average group broking contribution margin, and revenue from the traditional interdealer broker product areas the growth in Information Sales and Risk Management Services ofTreasury products, Interest Rate Derivatives, and Fixed Income, which have a relatively low level of variable costs.
down 6%, partly offset by growth in Energy and in Equities products.
Revenue from Information Sales and Risk Management The investments that have been made in developing the Groups Services was 14% higher in 2015 than in 2014. capabilities in managing strategic initiatives and in strengthening PVM had an excellent first full year in the Group.
PVMs main the control and support functions have resulted in an increase in activities are in crude oil and petroleum products and the business management and support costs and one-off project costs in the year.
These investments are important for the business to retain continued to benefit from the higher level of activity in those itscompetitive advantage, to innovate, and to grow revenue markets.
PVMs revenue in 2015 was 26% higher than in 2014. andearnings.
Cost management and operating margin Business development The business actively manages its direct cost base to reflect market conditions.
As the level of activity and revenue in the traditional The global strategic review that was initiated in September 2014 concluded with the Company hosting a Capital Markets Day for interdealer product areas has fallen action has been taken in the institutional investors and analysts in June 2015.
The presentation product areas and geographies most affected to align the cost materials are available on the Companys website.
basewith the lower level of revenue.
The objectives of the cost improvement programmes have been to reduce fixed costs, to The Companys goal is to become the worlds most trusted preserve the variable nature of broker compensation and to reduce sourceof liquidity in hybrid OTC markets and the best operator in it as a percentage of broking revenue, in order to ensure that the global hybrid voice broking.
The Company plans to build revenue business is well positioned to respond to less favourable market and raise the quality and quantity of earnings through further conditions and to maintain operating margins.
diversification of the client base, continued expansion into Energy and commodities, and building scale in the Americas and Asia Pacific, whilst preserving the businesss core franchises.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 11 Strategic Report continued We concluded from the strategic review that interdealer brokers We have continued to expand the data sets provided by our remain secure at the heart of the global financial services industry, Information Sales business.
We were proud to announce that our facilitating efficient and effective trading in the wholesale OTC Information Sales business was awarded, for the fifth consecutive financial markets, and that the majority of OTC product markets, year, the title of Best Data Provider Broker at the Inside Market which are not characterised by continuous trading, depend upon Data Awards in May.
This award, which is determined by an the intervention and support of voice brokers for their liquidity independent ballot of end-users, reaffirms our position as andeffective operation.
theleading provider of the highest quality independent price information and data from the global OTC markets.
We are wholly committed to the hybrid voice broking model, andtodeveloping the technology and services that support it.
The Company announced in November 2015 that it had agreed Thisis where the business is positioned, and we aim to be the terms with ICAP for the acquisition by Tullett Prebon of ICAPs bestoperator and best provider of liquidity and trusted partner global hybrid voice broking and information business.
transaction will position the Group as the leading inter-institutional liquidity provider in OTC products and as a nexus of product A number of initiatives have been taken during 2015 in pursuit of knowledge, broking experience and client relationships, and the strategic objectives.
We have continued to focus on delivering provides a unique opportunity to accelerate the delivery of innovative products and a first class broking service to our clients.
The acquisition is expected to complete in 2016.
Action has also been taken to develop and strengthen the broking business through hiring brokers and through acquisitions, and to OTC Market Regulation develop the Groups Information Sales and post-trade Risk Regulatory reforms of the OTC derivatives markets have been Management Services businesses.
effected in the United States through the implementation by the CFTC and the Securities Exchange Commission of the provisions of The Company completed the acquisition of MOAB, a leading the Dodd-Frank Act, and are being effected in the European Union independent broker of physical and financial instruments in the through the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR energy markets in the United States in August.
MOAB is entirely and the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II focused on energy products, and its expertise includes physical andMarkets in Financial Instruments Regulation MiFIR.
gasoline, gasoline blending components, oil product swaps, ethanol and ethanol derivatives.
MOAB has long-established relationships The Groups swap execution facility SEF in the United States, with major oil companies, gasoline blenders, the oil trading which was granted temporary registration by the CFTC in divisions of investment banks and other trading firms.
The September 2013, was granted permanent registration by the acquisition of MOAB complements the acquisition of PVM and CFTCin January 2016. further establishes the Groups leading position in the Energy In the European Union, the implementation of EMIR, which sector, significantly increasing the scale of the Groups activities contains provisions governing mandatory central clearing inbroking crude oil and energy products in North America.
requirements and trade reporting requirements for certain OTC We continue to launch new products and provide innovative derivatives, is coming into effect in stages as the various technical solutions to our clients.
We have established our presence in standards are approved.
The mandatory reporting of the details of environmental products in North America, commenced the all relevant derivatives contracts to recognised trade repositories brokingof iron ore in Europe, and expanded our activities in base came into effect from February 2014.
The first clearing obligations and precious metals in Europe.
We have started broking MSCI are expected to come into effect in June 2016, and margin futures and ETFs in London.
We have hired a team to establish our requirements for non-cleared trades are expected to apply from presence in corporate and sovereign bonds in Asia.
Our alternative September 2016. investments team has launched TP-AIME, the first screen-based matching engine to better facilitate secondary market transactions The legislative framework governing permissible trade execution venues, and governance and conduct of business requirements for in a range of alternative investments.
The platform also facilitates trading venues, through the introduction of MiFID II and MiFIR is auctions in hedge fund, private equity and real estate fund interests.
We have announced the establishment of a joint venture currently set to become effective from 3 January 2018. with Synrex Limited to develop a new institutional all-to-all real estate trading portal for the issuance and secondary trading of indirect real estate risk across a range of instruments.
The quality of our broking activities has been recognised with the Company being voted the number one overall IDB in currency in Risk magazines 2015 annual interdealer rankings published in September.
The business also performed strongly in rates and equities.
Tullett Prebon was named Interest Rates Broker of the Year and SEF of the Year in the 2015 GlobalCapital awards, and wasvoted the top broker in FX options in the 2015 FX Week Best Bank Awards.
12 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Broker headcount increased from 1,595 at June 2014 to 1,702 Regulatory matters atDecember 2014 largely due to the acquisition of PVM.
Broker The Company is currently under investigation by the FCA in relation headcount increased in the first half of 2015 to 1,750 mainly due to certain trades undertaken between 2008 and 2011, including tothe brokers acquired from Murphy & Durieu in January.
Broker trades which are risk free, with no commercial rationale or economic headcount has fallen in the second half of the year to 1,726 as a purpose, on which brokerage is paid, and trades on which brokerage result of actions taken under the cost improvement programme may have been improperly charged.
As part of its investigation, the inEurope and North America, partly offset by the acquisition of FCA is considering the extent to which during the relevant period i MOAB and by hiring in Asia Pacific including the team to establish the Companys systems and controls were adequate to manage the our presence in corporate and sovereign bonds in the region.
risks associated with such trades and ii whether certain of the Companys managers were aware of, and or managed appropriately Excluding PVM, average broker headcount during 2015 was 1% the risks associated with, the trades.
The FCA is also reviewing lower than during the previous year, with a 2% reduction in average thecircumstances surrounding a failure in 2011 to discover certain revenue per broker, resulting in the 3% fall in base broking revenue.
audiofiles and produce them to the FCA in a timely manner.
As the The year-end broking support headcount of 801 was 5% higher investigation is ongoing, any potential liability arising from it cannot than at the end of 2014, reflecting the strengthening of the control currently be quantified.
and support functions with additional headcount in customer Our key financial and performance indicators for 2015 are relationship management, risk, human resources, and legal summarised in the table below.
The figures shown include PVM andcompliance.
2015 2014 Change Broking revenue excluding PVM 638.9m 649.6m -3% Information Sales RMS revenue excluding PVM 53.3m 46.4m 14% Total revenue excluding PVM 692.2m 696.0m -2% Total revenue 796.0m 703.5m 13% Underlying operatingprofit 107.9m 100.7m 7% Underlying operatingmargin 13.6% 14.3% -0.7% pts Average broker headcount excludingPVM 1,614 1,625 -1% Average broker headcount includingPVM 1,748 Average revenue per broker 000 excluding PVM 396 400 -2% including PVM 425 Broker compensation costs: broking revenue 55.7% 56.2% -0.5% pts Period end broker headcount at June 1,750 1,595 10% at December 1,726 1,702 1% Period end broking support headcount 801 765 5% At constant exchange rates Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 13
