Board of Directors Rupert Robson 55 Roger Perkin 67 Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Rupert Robson was appointed to the Board in January 2007 and Roger Perkin joined the Board on 1 July 2012.
He is Chairman of toChairman on 6 March 2013.
He is Chairman of the Nominations theAudit Committee and a member of the Risk and Nominations Committee and a trustee of the Companys pension scheme.
He is a former partner at Ernst & Young LLP and spent Currently he is Chairman of Sanne Group plc and a Non-executive 40 years in the accounting profession before retiring from the firm Director of Savills plc.
He hasheld a number of senior roles in in 2009.
He is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit financial institutions, most recently Chairman of Charles Taylor plc, Committee for Nationwide Building Society and Electra Private Non-executive Director of London Metal Exchange Holdings Ltd Equity plc.
He was formerly a Non-executive Director at The and Non-executive Director of OJSC Nomos Bank, Global Head, Evolution Group plc until its acquisition in December 2011 and Financial Institutions Group, Corporate Investment Banking and atFriends Life Group Limited until its acquisition in 2015.
He is Markets at HSBC and Head of European Insurance, Investment atrustee of two charities, Chiddingstone Castle and Crime Banking at Citigroup Global Markets.
He is also Chairman of EMF Reduction Initiatives.
Stephen Pull 59 John Phizackerley 54 Independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive Stephen Pull was appointed as a Non-executive Director of John Phizackerley was appointed to the Board and as Chief TullettPrebon plc in September 2011.
He is Chairman of the Executive in September 2014.
From 1986 to 2009 he held various Remuneration Committee, a member of the Nominations positions in Lehman Brothers Europe including Head of Equity Committee and a trustee of the Companys pension scheme.
Research, Head of Equity Sales in Europe, Global Head of PanStephen Pull was Chairman of Corporate Broking at Nomura European Cash Equities, Co-Head of European Equities and Chief between 2008 and 2011 following their acquisition of Lehman Administrative Officer, Europe and Middle East.
He remained Brothers Europe for whom Stephen worked from 2002 as Head withthe firm post the Nomura acquisition in 2009 and held ofCorporate Broking, and then as Chairman of Corporate Broking.
anumber of positions, including Chief Operating Officer of He has also held a number of other senior roles in the City, including NomuraInternational and Chief Executive Officer of Nomura Managing Director of Corporate Broking at Merrill Lynch and Head BankInternational, becoming Chief Executive Officer of Nomura of UK Equity Sales at Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
David Shalders 49 Paul Mainwaring 52 Independent Non-executive Director Finance Director David Shalders joined the Board on 27 February 2014 and is a Paul Mainwaring qualified as a chartered accountant with Price member of the Remuneration and Risk Committees.
David Shalders Waterhouse in 1987, and obtained an MBA from Cranfield School of is Group Operations & Technology Director at Willis Towers Management in 1991.
From 1993 to 2000, he worked for Caradon plc Watson, responsible for information technology, operations, real in a number of financial roles, including three years as Finance estate and change management functions.
David Shalders joined Director of MK Electric.
In 2000, he was appointed as Group Finance Willis from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group where he served for Director of TDG plc.
He was appointed as Group Finance Director over a decade in senior operations and IT roles, most recently as ofMowlem plc in 2005.
He was appointed to the Collins Stewart Global Chief Operating Officer for Global Banking and Markets.
Tullett plc Board in October 2006, and has been Finance Director Healso led the divisions regulatory response to Basel 3.
Prior to ofTullett Prebon plc since December 2006.
He is also a trustee of that, David led the Groups integration with ABN Amro and held the Companys pension scheme.
roles as Head of London and Asia Operations and Head of Derivative Operations for NatWest.
Angela Knight 65 Carol Sergeant 63 Senior Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Angela Knight was appointed as a Non-executive Director of TullettPrebon plc in September 2011.
She is a member of the Carol Sergeant CBE was appointed as a Non-executive Director Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
She chairs the Boards Risk Committee and is also a is the Senior Independent Director on Brewin Dolphin Plc and a member of the Audit Committee.
She is currently a Non-executive Non-executive Director of Transport for London and Chair of the Director at Danske Bank Group as well as being Chair of the Office of Tax Simplification.
She was formerly the Chief Executive Standards Policy and Strategy Committee of the British Standards of Energy UK until 31 December 2014, the Chief Executive of the Institute, Trustee of the Lloyds Register Foundation and Chair of the British Bankers Association from 2007 to 2012 and the Chief UK whistle blowing charity, Public Concern at Work.
Carol Sergeant Executive of the Association of Private Client Investment Managers has enjoyed a distinguished City career, holding various senior and Stockbrokers from 1997 to 2006.
She was also formerly the positions, including Head of Major Banks Supervision at the Member of Parliament for Erewash from 1992 to 1997, serving as Bankof England, Managing Director at the Financial Services aTreasury Minister from 1995 to 1997.
Her previous Non-executive Authority and Chief Risk Officer at Lloyds Banking Group.
She Director appointments include the Financial Skills Partnership, wasaNon-executive Director at Secure Trust Bank plc until Lloyds TSB plc, Scottish Widows and LogicaCMG plc.
30 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Board and its Committees are provided with appropriate Board Process information on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their duties.
All Directors receive written reports prior to each meeting The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters reserved to it for which enable them to make an informed decision on corporate and decision, which can be viewed on the Companys website business issues under review.
The Schedule includes, among All Board meetings are minuted and any unresolved concerns are otherthings: recorded in such minutes.
approval of the Groups strategy: The Group has a comprehensive system for financial reporting changes to the Groups capital or corporate structure: which is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
oversight of the Groups management, governance and Budgets, regular re-forecasts and monthly management accounts controlstructure: including KPIs, income statements, balance sheets and cash flows approval of any material borrowing or commitment: are prepared at all levels of the business and consolidated reports are reviewed by the Board.
Board appointments and removals: the approval of the prosecution or settlement of all litigation The Board has a schedule of eight meetings each year to discuss which is material to the interests of the Group: theGroups ordinary course of business.
Every effort is made to arrange these meetings so that all Directors can attend: additional reporting to shareholders: and meetings are arranged as required.
environmental, social and governance policies, including Corporate Social Responsibility policy.
The table below sets out the Board and Committee attendance record during the year.
Beneath the Board there is a structure of delegated authority which sets out the authority levels allocated to the individual Directors The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board and senior management.
keeps up to date with key changes in legislation which affect the Company.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations is a matter reserved for the Board.
Committees and in 2015 established a Risk Committee, to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities.
Each of the Committees All Directors have access to the services of the Company has detailed Terms of Reference, which can be viewed on the Secretaryand there are procedures in place for taking independent Companys website, and a schedule of business to be transacted professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
The Board reviews the Terms of Reference each Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
year to ensure they cover the relevant areas.
The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee together with an overview of its work during the year are described below.
Separate reports for the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 32 to 52.
Board and Committee attendance record Remuneration Nominations 1 Board Audit Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors John Phizackerley 9 9 Paul Mainwaring 9 9 Non-executive Directors Rupert Robson 9 9 3 3 Angela Knight 9 9 5 5 5 6 3 3 Roger Perkin 9 9 5 5 2 2 3 3 3 3 Stephen Pull 9 9 2 2 6 6 3 3 2 Carol Sergeant 3 5 2 3 2 2 David Shalders 7 9 1 2 5 6 1 Excludes meetings of Committees of the Board appointed to complete routine business or business previously approved by the Board.
2 Carol Sergeant was appointed to the Board in July 2015 and had previous confirmed commitments that meant she was unable to attend the Board and Committee meetings in July and November.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 31 Corporate Governance Report continued chosen would become the Chairman of the new Risk Committee Relations with Shareholders ofthe Board.
The candidate needed to have a sound knowledge of the financial services industry, especially in banking and markets, The Board recognises the importance of communication with asound understanding of regulatory developments, a strong shareholders.
com, reputation with the Regulator and the ability to contribute to provides information for shareholders and prospective investors on theBoard in the normal way as a Non-executive Director.
During the Groups activities, results, products and recent developments.
the process consideration was given to the question of diversity, including gender, to ensure the individual appointed had the There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund managers correct balance of skills, experience and knowledge to be effective.
and analysts, including presentations around the time of the results After a comprehensive recruitment process, the Committee announcements and also on request.
nominated Carol Sergeant and this appointment was approved by During 2015 the Company recorded a webcast of its 2015 interim the Board.
The external search consultancy retained by the Board results presentation, which is also now available to download on inrespect of Carol Sergeants appointment was Korn Ferry.
Company does not have any other connection with Korn Ferry.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other The other main task performed by the Committee was in Non-executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders, relationtosuccession planning.
The Company has plans in place should such meetings be requested.
fororderly succession for appointments to the Board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills For the payment of the recommended final dividend for 2015 andexperience within the Company and on the Board and to andfuture dividends, the Company has put in place a facility ensurethe progressive refreshing of the Board.
The search for Board forpayments to be made via CREST.
candidates is conducted with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Board makes appointments Annual General Meeting onmerit against objective criteria and accordingly it does not set The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and diversity targets.
The Nominations Committee agreed formal welcomes their participation.
Notice of the AGM and related succession plans in the event that the Chief Executive or Finance papersare sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before Director was absent on short notice.
The Committee similarly agreed themeeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the Directors, with the Chief Executive formal succession plans for each member including Chairmen of the Committees of the Board, are available at ofthe Executive Committee.
The Committee also considered longer AGMs to answer questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy votes term succession within the Group at a senior level and has discussed cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings are disclosed this topic with the Chief Executive and the Group Head of HR.
To encourage shareholder participation, those shareholders whose shares are held via the CREST system are offered the facility to submit their proxy votes viaCREST.
Audit Committee Report Nominations Committee Report ChairmansStatement Composition Dear Shareholder The Nominations Committee is chaired by Rupert Robson.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce Theother members throughout the year were Angela Knight, thisreport which sets out how the Committee has discharged its RogerPerkin and Stephen Pull.
The other Non-executive responsibilities during the year.
The Committees primary focus is Directorsand Executive Directors are invited to attend meetings to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting by reviewing the where appropriate.
controls in place and those areas where judgement is required.
All members of the Committee, other than the Chairman, are Theother key areas in the Terms of Reference are set out below.
Outside of the formal Committee meetings, I maintain regular The Board has delegated responsibility to the Nominations dialogue with internal and external auditors.
Additionally I visited Committee for: the Group in both New York and Singapore where I met with both local management and auditors in order better to understand local reviewing the balance and skill, knowledge and experience of issues and the respective audit arrangements.
theBoard: I regularly report to the Board on how the Committee has discharged agreeing and implementing procedures for the selection of new its responsibilities.
As requested by the Board, the Committee has Board appointments: and considered the processes and controls in place to help ensure that making recommendations to the Board on all proposed new the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable view appointments, elections and re-elections of Directors at Annual of the business.
As a result of this work the Committee concluded General Meetings.
that the processes and controls were appropriate andwasable to The Nominations Committee is authorised to obtain all necessary provide positive assurance to the Board.
information from within the Company and to access professional As referenced in the Chairmans Statement on page 27, the Board advice inside and outside the Company, as it considers necessary.
Risk Committee was formed in June 2015 to exercise primary The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee are oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
This will available on the Companys website, www.
complement the review of the control framework undertaken bythe Audit Committee.
Work of the Nominations Committee As reported in last years Annual Report, the Nominations Roger Perkin Committee had initiated a search for a new Non-executive Director Chairman with specific experience in risk management as the individual Audit Committee 1 March 2016 32 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Composition Audit tenders Roger Perkin chaired the Audit Committee during the year.
The Deloitte LLP Deloitte has been the Companys auditor since other members of the Committee during the year were Angela itslisting in December 2006.
Knight, Stephen Pull and Carol Sergeant.
Stephen Pull stepped The Company has complied with the requirements of the down as member of the Committee on 2 July 2015 and Carol StatutoryAudit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Sergeant was appointed as a member of the Committee on the Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit same date.
All members of the Committee are independent Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 throughout the year Non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee Chairman has ended31 December 2015. recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman of the Committee is also a member of the Risk Committee.
In 2013 the Board put the external audit contract out for tender and concluded that Deloitte should be re-appointed and that The Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Companys external anewlead audit partner would be appointed to the Companys andinternal auditors, and other senior risk management and auditby Deloitte in 2014 in accordance with normal rotation finance personnel attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Audit Committee will monitor developments in TheCommittee has a discussion with the external auditor at bestpractice with regard to audit tender arrangements.
leastonce a year without the Executive Directors being present, toensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
At the same time that the external audit was put out for tender, theAudit Committee also reviewed the Companys internal audit Terms of Reference arrangements.
The Audit Committee made a recommendation to Throughout 2015 the Audit Committees Terms of Reference included: the Board that KPMG should be appointed to provide internal audit services for the Company and this appointment took effect from recommending the appointment and terms of engagement 1July 2014. ofthe external auditor: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external Work of the Audit Committee since the date auditor, including the Companys policy on the auditor providing ofthelast Annual Report non-audit services and associated fees: The Audit Committee was engaged in a number of work streams overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, including during 2015 as described below.
approving the annual audit plan and scope of engagement and reviewing the effectiveness of the audit process: External auditor effectiveness and independence In considering the 2015 Annual Report, the Audit Committee monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements and all formal reviewed the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: The Audit Committee considered the professional and regulatory reviewing the results of the audit: guidance on auditor independence and Deloittes policies and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control procedures for managing independence and was satisfied with the and risk management procedures: auditors representations.
The Audit Committee reviewed the level of fees paid to the auditor in respect of the various non-audit approving the annual internal audit plan, reviewing the services provided during 2015 which are disclosed in Note 6 to effectiveness of the internal audit function, and consideration theConsolidated Financial Statements.
During the period under ofinternal audit reports: review the non-audit services performed by the external auditor reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, amounted to 2.1m, 91% compared with the 2.3m of audit fees.
raise concerns about potential improprieties in financial These non-audit services include 1.7m of fees related to the reporting and other matters: proposed acquisition of IGBB, in respect of due diligence services providing advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report, and acting as reporting accountant.
Excluding these fees, the taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and proportion of non-audit fees was 17%.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess The auditor confirmed to the Audit Committee that they did the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy: and notbelieve that the level of non-audit fees had affected their independence.
The Companys policy is to use the most appropriate ensuring that the audit services contract is put out to tender advisers for non-audit work, taking account of the need to maintain atleast once every ten years and initiating and supervising the independence.
To this end, the Company has defined those activities selection process.
which cannot be provided by the external auditor in order to The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available onthe maintain independence.
The Audit Committee reviewed this policy Companys website, www.
during the year to ensure that it continues to follow best practice.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 33 Corporate Governance Report continued During the year the Audit Committee considered the effectiveness Going concern and viability statement of the external audit process including their expertise, efficiency, The assumptions relating to the going concern review and global service delivery and cost effectiveness.
The effectiveness of viabilitystatement were considered, including the medium term management in the external audit process is assessed principally projections, stress tests and mitigation plans.
On the basis of inrelation to the timely identification and resolution of areas of thereview, the Audit Committee advised the Board that it was accounting judgement, the quality and timeliness of papers appropriate for the Annual Report and Financial Statements to be analysing those judgements, managements approach to the value prepared on the going concern basis.
The Committee also reviewed of independent audit and the booking of any audit adjustments the long term taking into account the Groups current position and arising and the timely provision of draft public documents for principal risks and advised the Board that the statement and the review by the auditor and the Audit Committee.
three year period of the assessment were appropriate.
The Audit Committee also monitored performance during the audit Risk management and internal control of the 2015 financial statements which included receiving feedback The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and from senior management.
The conclusion from this exercise was ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management that the 2015 external audit had been effective.
framework and for monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing and reporting the significant risks faced by Review of the Financial Statements the Group.
The Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the Consolidated and principal risks are described in the Risk Management section Financial Statements included in the half-year and preliminary ofthe Strategic Report.
announcements of results and the 2015 Annual Report, prior to their approval by the Board.
The Board is also responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed When conducting the review, the Committee considered the to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve continuing appropriateness of the accounting policies, important business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not financial reporting judgements and the adequacy and appropriateness absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
In discharging its of disclosures.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the content of the responsibilities in this respect, the Board has appointed the Audit Annual Report and advised the Board that, in its view, the Annual Committee to carry out an annual review of the effectiveness of Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the internal control and risk management systems and to report provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the tothe Board thereon.
The Audit Committee conducted a formal Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems The Audit Committee considered the following judgements in for 2015, considering reports from management, external audit connection with the 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements and the work of the Group Risk and Internal Audit functions.
andwere satisfied that the judgements were appropriate.
The This process has been in place for the year under review and judgements are consistent with those considered in respect of uptothe date of approval of the Annual Report, is reviewed the2014 Consolidated Financial Statements.
regularly by the Board and accords with the FRCs Internal Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Control:Guidance for Directors.
The key elements involved in the review of goodwill for impairment Effectiveness of Internal Audit are described in Note 13: and the procedures adopted by the The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing external auditor are described in their report.
the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
The internal audit plan is The Committee considered whether the facts taken into account approved by the Audit Committee and kept under review during were complete and consistent with the Groups business planning the year, in order to reflect the changing business needs and to process, and challenged the auditor as to the extent to which they ensure new and emerging risks are considered.
During 2015 the had examined potential stress outcomes to the base case used, Audit Committee reviewed the work and reports of Internal Audit, particularly in areas where there is limited headroom.
together with implementation of internal audit recommendations and monitored progress against the internal audit plan during 2015 Based on the above the Committee is satisfied with the process to ensure that the audit plan had been completed effectively.
undertaken and the resultant financial statement impact.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the internal audit Taxation plan for the new internal audit year, running from 1 July 2015 to Notwithstanding the Groups low appetite for complex tax 30June 2016, prepared by the head of internal audit, and reviewed structuring, the dynamic nature of its global operations necessarily the work and reports of internal audit since 1 January 2015. gives rise to uncertainties where judgements need to be made as to likely outcomes.
Management regularly presents the status of open Confidential reporting tax issues to the Committee, and, it is satisfied that an appropriately The Audit Committee reviewed arrangements by which staff may, considered and prudent approach is taken to tax provisioning.
in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
In conducting the review, Revenue theCommittee took into account whether the policies were in The recognition of revenue by the Group requires little judgement linewith guidance published by the FCA.
but is reliant to a significant degree on strong internal controls seebelow.
34 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Terms of Reference Risk Committee Report The Risk Committees Terms of Reference include: Chairmans Statement considering the Groups overall risk management and compliance framework and its risk appetite, principles and policies: reviewing new risk principles and policies and any material Dear Shareholder amendments: As Chairman of the Risk Committee the Committee, I am considering future and emerging risks and current and upcoming pleasedto introduce thisreport which sets out how the Committee regulatory developments: discharged its responsibilities during 2015.
The Committees role is overseeing the Groups risk exposures against risk appetite, and not to eliminate risk, but rather to consider and recommend to the risk and conduct management practices: Board the Groups risk appetite, risk principles and policies such that reviewing the Groups prudential regulatory requirements the risks including reputational risk are reasonable and appropriate capital and liquidity ICAAP, recovery and resolution plans : for the Company and can be managed and controlled within the limits of the financial, human and systems resources of the considering the risks arising from any strategic initiatives: and Company: and finally, to monitor that these principles and thresholds providing input to the Remuneration Committee on the are being adhered to.
alignment of remuneration to risk performance.
The Committee was set up in June 2015 and, following my Work of the Risk Committee since its establishment appointment to the Board, I chaired my first meeting in in June 2015 September2015.
The main focus of the Committee during its first six months has Outside of the formal Committee meetings, I maintain regular been putting in place an effective risk and control framework to contact with the Chief Risk Officer and his team and the Group support the Companys new cultural initiative, business objectives General Counsel.
During 2016, I will be visiting the businesses in and the regulatory agenda, including reviews of past business.
New York and Singapore and will also be attending meetings of thekey executive risk committees.
Specifically, the Committee has: The Committee has agreed a programme of work for 2016, which Agreed the eight risk categories in the Groups risk taxonomy includes in-depth reviews of risk management effectiveness in along with the metrics and other information that will be used ITand HR, risk management of the Integration programme for tomeasure and control these risks and how this will be reported theIGBB acquisition and reviews of significant business areas.
to the Committee: Agreed the high level risk governance in the Group, including It is early days for the Risk Committee, but the risk framework, theestablishment of new regional and business specific cultural transformation programme and quality of reporting to executive risk committees and their Terms of Reference: theRisk Committee are all making good progress.
Agreed a risk acceptance process: The report below provides more information on the Terms Reviewed and agreed an incident and crisis management ofReference of the Committee and how it has discharged its framework: responsibilities this year.
The conclusions of the Risk Committee areregularly reported to the Board.
Received reports on the independent review of historical business and latest general and specific regulatory developments: and Instituted a programme of reviews of the risks and risk Carol Sergeant management in key individual business units and support Chairman functions to complement the regular top down oversight of Risk Committee company-wide risks on a risk category basis.
These reviews 1 March 2016 enable the Committee to review and challenge the practical implementation and effectiveness of the risk principles, processes and thresholds agreed by the Risk Committee and Composition theBoard.
The first business review has been held with the Carol Sergeant has chaired the Risk Committee since she was CEOof EMEA and included an assessment of the comprehensive appointed in July 2015.
The other members of the Committee were new risk culture and conduct training programme.
David Shalders and Roger Perkin.
All members of the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Risk Committee Chairman has recent and relevant risk experience.
The Chairman ofthe Committee is also a member of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Companys external auditors, internal auditors, other senior risk management and finance personnel and executives attend Committee meetings byinvitation.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 35
