Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the audited There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the thetransfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions year ended 31 December 2015. ofthe Companys Articles of Association the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any Results and dividends agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights, Statement on page 58. nor are there any arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 11.25p person other than the holder of those securities.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 19 May 2016 to ordinary shareholders whose names With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the are on the register at the close of business on 29 April 2016.
Company is governed by its Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles During 2015, Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend for 2014 of may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and 11.25p 2014: 11.25p per ordinary share and an interim dividend were last amended at the Companys Annual General Meeting in for2015 of 5.6p 2014: 5.6p per ordinary share.
As a consequence of this amendment to the Articles, ateach AGM all of the Directors who held office on the date seven Directors days before the Notice of that AGM must retire from office and The Directors who served throughout the year, except as noted, each Director wishing to serve again must submit themselves for were as follows: election or re-election by shareholders.
Rupert Robson Non-executive Chairman The powers of the Directors include the authorities to allot shares and to buy the Companys shares in the market as granted by John Phizackerley Chief Executive shareholders at the AGM.
At the last AGM resolutions were passed Paul Mainwaring Finance Director to authorise the Directors to allot up to a nominal amount of 40,586,037.75 ordinary shares subject to certain restrictions and Angela Knight Senior Independent Non-executive Director to purchase up to 24,351,622 ordinary shares.
Similar authorities Roger Perkin independent Non-executive Director will be proposed at this years AGM and any authority will be in addition to the authority proposed by Resolution 2 at the General Stephen Pull independent Non-executive Director Meeting to be held on 24 March 2016.
Details of the shares issued David Shalders independent Non-executive Director during the year and up to the date of this Annual Report are set out in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
At the date of Carol Sergeant independent Non-executive Director appointed this Annual Report, no shares had been purchased in the market on 2 July 2015 under the authority granted at the 2015 AGM.
The allotment and buy-back authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 30. or, if earlier, on 1 July 2016, unless renewed before that time.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions Further powers of the Directors are described in the Schedule for the benefit of its Directors which remain in place at the date of ofMatters Reserved for the Board, which is available on the this report.
The principal employer of the Tullett Prebon Pension Companys website, and summarised in the Corporate Scheme has given indemnities to trustees of that scheme, including GovernanceReport.
the Executive Directors and Chairman.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
The Companys banking facilities give the lenders the right not torenew loans and to cancel commitments in the event of a Share capital and control changeofcontrol.
There are no other significant agreements Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the thattake effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, oftheCompany, nor any agreements with the Company and are shown in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements itsemployees or Directors for compensation for loss of office which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
oremployment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett Prebonplc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends on these shares has been waived.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
36 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information gas estimates using the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors Substantial interests forCompany Reporting 2015.
As at the year-end, and at 29 February 2016, being the latest practicable date before signing of this document, the following Political and charitable donations notbeing Directors, their families or persons connected, within It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to section 252 of the Companies Act 2006 had notified the Company anypolitical party.
However, within the normal activities of the in accordance with DTR 5 that they were interested in the following Group there may be occasions when an activity might fall within voting rights of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: the broader definition of political expenditure contained within 31 December 29 February the Companies Act 2006.
During 2015 no political or charitable 2015 % 2016 % donations were made by the Group 2014: nil.
Schroders plc 12.03 11.90 Going concern Jupiter Asset Management 7.66 7.66 The Groups business activities and performance, and the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing Majedie Asset Management 5.74 5.74 facilities and hedging strategy, together with the factors likely to Oppenheimer Funds, Inc 5.01 5.01 affect its future development, performance and position, are explained in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 19.
Analysis of the Invesco Limited 5.00 5.00 Groups key risks and approach to risk management is also set out Allianz Global Investors Europe GmbH 4.90 4.90 in the Strategic Report.
Details of the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, long term provisions, other long term payables Aberdeen Asset Managers 4.42 4.42 and financial instruments are set out in Notes 22 to 25 to the Henderson Global Investors 4.30 4.30 Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 84 to 90.
Terry Smith 3.85 3.85 The Group has considerable financial resources both in the regions and at the corporate centre comfortably to meet the Groups Corporate Governance Report ongoing obligations.
A separate Corporate Governance Report is included within this After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Annual Report on pages 27 to 35 and which is, where relevant, expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Corporate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Governance Report on pages 27 to 35 includes the information future.
Accordingly, the Annual Report and financial statements thatfulfils the requirements of section 7 of The Disclosure and continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
Transparency Rules with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6 which is included in this Directors Report.
Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the prospects for and viability of the Corporate Social Responsibility Group over a three year period to the end of December 2018.
The Information concerning the Companys policies on employee Directors consider that a three year time horizon has a sufficient engagement and the employment of disabled staff is included in degree of certainty and in the context of the current position of the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Strategic Report theGroup provides an appropriate longer term outlook.
The key on pages 25 and 26, which is, where relevant, incorporated into this assumptions that have been made in conducting the review and Directors Report by reference.
arriving at the conclusion include the completion of the acquisition of IGBB, the delivery of the synergies expected from the integration Greenhouse gas emissions of the two businesses, the refinancing of the bank bridge facility The estimated Group greenhouse gas emissions for 2014 and 2015 that the Company has entered into to facilitate the acquisition, are set out below: andthe refinancing of the revolving credit facility.
Tonnes of CO e 2 The assessment has been made taking into account: 2015 2014 the current position of the Group and its base case and stressed Combustion of fuel, vehicles, case cash flow forecasts, both with the acquisition of IGBB and fugitive emissions scope 1 584 794 without it: Purchased electricity scope 2 8,156 10,810 the Groups liquidity stress testing and reverse stress testing which are undertaken as part of the Groups Review of Capital Total 8,740 11,604 Adequacy and its UK regulatory obligations: Total emissions per employee 3.4 4.3 the ICAAPs undertaken by the Groups FCA regulated entities: the expected position of the Group following the completion The emission statistics were calculated by Sustain Limited and ofthe acquisition of IGBB and the integration of the two cover all material sources of emissions for which the Group is businesses: directly responsible.
The methodology used was that of the the assessment of the Groups principal risks, including those Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting that would threaten the Groups business model, future Standard revised edition, 2004.
Responsibility for emissions performance, solvency and liquidity.
These risks are discussed sources was determined using the operational control approach.
inthe strategic report on pages 21 to 24: and The estimate covers all Tullett Prebon operations that are consolidated in the financial statements.
Data was collected for the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal theGroups largest offices which employ approximately 74% of control systems.
theGroups staff, and extrapolated to cover all the Groups offices, as well as for the Groups disaster recovery sites and any corporatevehicles.
Collected data was converted to greenhouse Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 37 Directors Report continued The Directors consider that they have undertaken a robust assessment of the prospects of the Group and its principal risks over the three year period, and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over at least the period ofassessment.
Accountability and audit The Directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing the Annual Report is set out on page 53 and the independent auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is on pages 54 to 57.
Auditor Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed atthe forthcoming AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval ofthisAnnual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have takenas a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companysauditor isaware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at 2.00pm on 12 May 2016.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which will be sent to all shareholders entitled to receive such Notice.
Only members on the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on Tuesday 10 May 2016 or two days before any adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
Any proxy must be lodged with the Companys registrars or submitted to CREST at least 48 hours before the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Resolutions dealing with the authority to allot shares, disapplication of pre-emption rights, authority to buy back sharesand to convene general meetings other than annual generalmeetings on no less than fourteen days notice will be putto the AGM as special business.
The resolutions are set out inaNotice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes which are set out in a separate circular to shareholders whichaccompanies this Annual Report.
By order of the Board Tiffany Brill Company Secretary 1 March 2016 38 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015
