22 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Business Model and Strategy Company At the heart of everything we do is our ambition to make everyone better off.
Our business model Our vision Virgin Money is astrong, low risk retail-only bank which is Our aim is to make everyone better of by delivering focused primarily on providing residential mortgages, savings good value to our customers, treating colleagues well, and credit cards.
We ofer arange of investment and insurance making apositive contribution to society, building positive products and the full national roll-out of the Virgin Essential relationships with our partners and delivering sustainable Current Account ECA, amarket leading Basic Bank Account, profits to our shareholders.
The ambition to make everyone was completed in March 2015. better of continues to underpin Virgin Moneys diferentiated approach to banking.
We provide award-winning customer service to over 3 million customers through arange of channels, including online and Our distinctiveness mobile, intermediaries, call centres and anational network The foundations for providing adistinctive customer of 75 Stores and six customer Lounges.
Our businessmodel proposition are: our powerful brand, our customer-focused positions us well for cost-efective growth in an increasingly culture, our financial strength and our legacy-free approach.
By leveraging our strategic assets andcapabilities, Our ambition to make everyone better of runs through our we remain focused on creating abusiness with ademonstrable culture and decision making, and is key to ensuring we are track record of growth, abalance sheet of the highest quality, building asustainable model for all our stakeholders, and and delivering ahistory of strong shareholder returns.
living up to the trust they place in us.
How we create value A low risk, customer-focused UK banking model, delivering straightforward, transparent products that treat customers fairly.
GROWTH QUALITY RETURNS Through straightforward, Through our customer Through financial transparent products focused culture strength gross mortgage lending at 3.0% asset quality maintained.
return on tangible equity Everyones or better: to mid-teens bythe end at a minimum: better off of 2017: credit card balances to at least 12.0% Common Equity 3.0 billion by the end of 2017. cost:income ratio of 50% Tier 1 ratio: by2017.
The Virgin Money business model and strategy is underpinned byour ambition to build abank that makes everyone better off 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
indd 22 01 03 2016 11:02 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 23 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Our competitive strengths Our strategy for success We are well placed to provide efective competition to the Our strategy is focused on growing strongly, maintaining large incumbent banks in the UK across anumber of markets.
a high-quality balance sheet and delivering attractive We have the potential for significant organic growth at shareholder returns, whilst serving our other stakeholder meaningful scale across abroad range of products and are groups customers, colleagues, corporate partners and the unburdened by legacy issues from the past.
Our strategy is communities in which we work.
underpinned by Virgin Moneys core business strengths: a high-quality balance sheet, set within astrong risk management framework, unburdened by legacy issues: a diferentiated approach to banking and abrand that provides mass consumer appeal: GROWTH a capacity for organic growth at meaningful scale: Page 24 a significant potential to improve returns through operational leverage and positive margin development: OUR QUALITY a strong management team with atrack record of delivering Page 25 STRATEGY organic and inorganic growth, supported by highly engaged FOR colleagues: and RETURNS SUCCESS a strong culture that cannot be readily, and credibly, Page 26 replicated provides the foundation for our strategy and diferentiated approach to banking.
EBO Page 27 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
