140 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Management Report The Groups Approach to Risk Risk management is at the heart of the Groups strategy to deliver sustainable growth, quality and returns.
This is achieved through aprudent risk appetite and informed risk decision making, supported by aconsistent risk-focused culture across the Group.
This risk management section provides additional information Each risk class is described using the following headings: on how risk is managed within the Group.
It details the Groups definition, risk appetite, exposures, measurement, mitigation risk culture, appetite for risk, the approach to risk governance, and monitoring.
committee structures, stress testing and afull analysis of risk classes the framework used to identify, manage, mitigate and monitor risk.
The Group takes aprudent approach to risk with rigorous The Group has acustomer focused, low risk business model management controls to keep the Group safe.
The Group built on aprudent risk culture.
The focus remains on building has astrong and independent Risk Function with aduty to and sustaining long-term relationships with customers maintain arobust risk management framework, identify and whatever the economic climate.
escalate emerging risks and support sustainable business growth within risk appetite achieving an appropriate balance Risk appetite of risk and reward.
the Group defines risk appetite as the amount and type of risk that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate: Risk culture strategy is developed in conjunction with risk appetite.
The Group articulates its risk values which describe how it ARisk Appetite Statement is approved by the Board expects all colleagues, suppliers and partners to operate.
with each strategic planning cycle.
This incorporates Theyare outlined below: recommendations from Non-Executive Directors: risk appetite is embedded within principles, policies, authorities and limits: and 8QGHUVWDQG 'R WKH &KDOOHQJH RXU risk appetite evolves and reflects external market ULJKW WKLQJ WKH VWDWXV TXR UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV developments and the development of the Group.
All disclosures in the Risk Management Report are unaudited, unless otherwise stated.
Additional disclosures can be found p 'RQoW MXVW GR p 'RQoW VLW EDFN p%H SHUVRQDOO in the Pillar 3 disclosures, found on the Groups website.
WKLQJV ULJKW q DQG VD QRWKLQJ q DFFRXQWDEOH IRU RXU DFWLRQV DQG GHFLVLRQV q The Board ensures that senior management implements risk appetite and policies that either limit or, where appropriate, prohibit activities that could be detrimental to the Group.
indd 140 01 03 2016 11:35 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 141 I The Groups Approach to Risk 140 Emerging Risks 143 Risk Governance 145 Risk Management 146 Risk Management framework 148 Risk Classes 149 Stress Testing 150 Full Analysis of Risk Classes 152 2 54 73 209 The Groups Approach to Risk Balance Sheet Strength Capital Liquidity Profitability The Group maintains ahigh-quality capital The Group operates an investment strategy Achieving appropriate profitability across all base, targeting capital ratios which support for treasury assets which prioritises liquidity business lines is essential to the sustainability business development and the risks inherent and ensures that the Group holds aliquid of Virgin Money.
in the strategic plan and in excess of regulatory asset buffer in excess of internal analysis and requirements.
Depositor protection Minimise unrewarded risks Mature control environment As an authorised deposit taker, the Group Unrewarded risks only expose the Group to The Group ensures that the control ensures that depositors financial assets and all downside risk.
The Group avoids unrewarded environment is fit for purpose, supporting customers personal data are protected.
risks where possible or controls them as far as the business as it grows in terms of people, is economically feasible.
Governance and control Risk decision-making and reporting a strong governance framework remains apriority for the taking risks which are well understood, consistent with Group.
It is the foundation for the delivery of effective strategy and have appropriate returns is akey driver of risk management: sustainable shareholder value: governance is maintained through delegation of risk analysis and reporting supports the identification of authority from the Board to executive management and opportunities and risks: committees, and is designed to promote open challenge.
a current and forecast view of the Groups overall risk The Groups risk appetite, policies, procedures, controls profile, key exposures and management actions, and and reporting are in line with regulations, law, corporate performance against risk appetite is reported to and governance and industry good-practice: discussed monthly at the Risk Management Committee.
Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct The Risk Management Committee reports to the Board involvement of senior management in risk issues at Risk Committee and the Board: the Executive Committee, ensures that issues are rigorous stress testing exercises are carried out to promptly escalated and remediation plans are initiated assess the impact of arange of adverse scenarios where required: with different probabilities and severities to inform the approach to risk is founded on arobust risk strategic planning: and management framework and astrong control culture the Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Board Risk which ensures accountability for risk and guides the way Committee and the Board of the risk profile and has direct all colleagues operate: and access to the Chairman.
the interaction of the executive and non-executives is transparent and open, an approach encouraged by both the Board and senior management.
indd 141 01 03 2016 11:35 142 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Management Report The Groups Approach to Risk Exposure to risk arising from the business activities of the Group The table below provides ahigh-level guide to how the Groups business activities are reflected in risk-weighted assets.
POFZ SPVQ 5PUBM SJTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT b N $VSSFOU BDDPVOUT.
PSUHBHFT $SFEJU DBSET OTVSBODF BOE BOE TBWJOHT OWFTUNFOUT $VSSFOU BDDPVOUT 3FTJEFOUJBM NPSUHBHFT 1FOTJPOT #VZ UP MFU NPSUHBHFT $SFEJU DBSET OTVSBODF $VTUPNFS EFQPTJUT OWFTUNFOUT 3JTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT 3JTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT 3JTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT bN bN bN $SFEJU SJTL $SFEJU SJTL $SFEJU SJTL 0QFSBUJPOBM SJTL 0QFSBUJPOBM SJTL 0QFSBUJPOBM SJTL.
BSLFU SJTL $FOUSBM GVODUJPOT 4IBSFE TVQQPSU GVODUJPOT OUFSFTU 3BUF 3JTL JO UIF #BOLJOH #PPL 3JTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT bN $SFEJU SJTL 0QFSBUJPOBM SJTL.
"BSLFU SJTL $7"" 1 Virgin Money does not have atrading book."
2 The capital requirements for Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Limited and Virgin Money Personal Financial Service Limited have been met, with aCommon Equity Tier 1 ratio of 94% and 96%, respectively.
3 Only Pillar 2 capital is held for Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book.
There is no associated risk-weighted asset measure.
Principal risks The Groups principal risks are shown in the Risk Overview pages 50 to 53.
The Groups emerging risks are shown on pages 143 and 144.
Full analysis of the Groups risk classes is on pages 152 to 208.
