18 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Market Overview Global equity markets had adifficult start to 2016, as aresult As aUK retail bank we are focused of rising concerns over slowing economic growth in China on serving domestic customers and and falling commodity prices.
According to the International continue tosupport and benefit from Monetary Funds latest forecast, growth in China is expected theUKeconomyand housing market.
to slow to 6.3 percent in 2016 and 6.0 per cent in 2017, primarily reflecting weaker investment growth as the UK economy economy continues to rebalance.
UK gross domestic product GDP increased by 0.5 per cent Housing and Mortgages in the three months to the end of December, taking the Housing activity ended 2015 stronger than it started.
The annual rate of growth for 2015 to 2.2 per cent.
This was an continuation of positive domestic economic factors and improvement on the third quarter of 0.4 per cent but the competitive mortgage deals, helped to underpin household annual growth was down compared with 2.9 per cent in demand, but housing transaction volumes still remain 2014.
GDP is the main indicator of economic growth and, notably weaker than pre-crisis levels.
Growth in UK house despite the annual pace of growth being the slowest for three prices continued in 2015, as aresult of improving economic years, it still means the UK is amongst the fastest growing conditions and household finances, together with sustained developed nations.
low mortgage rates boosting housing demand.
Demand for We remain alert to the downside risks related to the housing continues to outstrip supply, maintaining upward impending UK referendum on EU membership, the recent pressure on house prices.
This pressure on house prices is market volatility caused by weakness in the global economy, likely to continue given the lack of housing supply and limited and the uncertain outlook for interest rates.
number of properties on the market.
Housing starts and The UK will hold areferendum on its continued membership completions in the 12 months to September 2015 in England of the EU on 23 June 2016.
The referendum is likely to cause totalled just over 135,000, afigure which remains about adegree of business uncertainty and result in adampening 25 percent below pre-crisis peaks.
The ongoing shortage impact, as the potential for Brexit weighs on the prospects of of housing supply continues to be aconstraint on housing the UK economy.
In addition, global growth is coming under market activity.
pressure, primarily due to aslowdown in emerging markets The Bank of England said in January 2016 that the UKs and falling commodity prices.
This, combined with political economic recovery has not been debt-fuelled, and pointed tension in the Middle East, also has thepotential to impact to aggregate private credit growth being modest compared adversely the UK economy.
Increased focus is being given to For 2015 as awhole, consumer price inflation averaged zero areas ofmore buoyant activity such as buy-to-let mortgages, per cent, its lowest level since comparable records began in unsecured consumer credit and the still-elevated levels of 1950.
Weakening inflationary pressures, as aresult of lower household debt relative to income.
This may result in macrocosts for energy and food and weakness in emerging markets, prudential action where appropriate, given the possibility of are likely to keep consumer price inflation below 1 per cent aprolonged period of relatively low interest rates encouraging until the second half of 2016, which should provide anet the build up of excessive risks.
stimulus to businesses and households and therefore the As announced in the Autumn Statement, people purchasing UKeconomy.
The Bank of England kept the official Bank Rate buy-to-let properties and second homes will pay an extra 3per at 0.5 per cent in 2015, noting that aslowdown in emerging cent in stamp duty from April 2016.
In December2015, the Bank markets could exert abigger drag on UK growth and inflation.
of England reiterated concerns about activity in the sector, and When the Bank Rate does begin to rise, subsequent increases HM Treasury published aconsultation on powers of direction for are expected to be gradual and limited.
As aresult, mortgage the Financial Policy Committee FPC in the buy-to-let market.
and credit card arrears are expected to remain low.
We are clear on the concerns raised by policymakers, and the Based on the HM Treasury consensus view, which we use and efect new measures may have on the size of the market.
We consider in our strategic planning, we believe the most likely focus on buy-to-let for retail customers, not portfolio landlords, outlook is slightly slower GDP growth in 2016, compared and our afordability and rental cover requirements remain very to 2015.
The current consensus for 2016 GDP growth prudent.
As aresult, wedo not expect these changes to have is 2.1 per cent.
amaterial impact on our business.
indd 18 01 03 2016 11:02 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 19 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 us confidence that we will be able to comply with limited Savings economic impact.
Robust growth in disposable income and consumers reduced sense of caution, reflected in ahistorically low savings ratio, Personal Current Accounts PCA supports the outlook for consumer spending.
Despite this, the In October 2015, the CMA published its provisional findings as outlook for the retail savings market continues to be strong.
part of an in-depth investigation into the 16 billion current There are anumber of macro-economic factors supporting account and business banking sectors.
The CMA found that this positive growth outlook, including low inflation rates banks do not have to work hard enough to compete for driving real returns on cash savings and rising rates of real customers and identified anumber of competition problems wage growth, increasing the capability to save.
In addition, in both the PCA and SME banking markets.
They found that government policy, including increased ISA limits, the new low levels of customer switching mean that banks are not personal savings allowance and reduced pension tax relief put under enough competitive pressure, and new products should increase the relative attractiveness of cash savings.
and new banks do not attract customers quickly enough.
From aregulatory perspective, the FCA published its cash Assuch, the report proposed abetter deal for bank customers savings market study report in January 2015, and published and proposed remedies which focused heavily on switching, new measures for cash savings accounts to boost competition transparency and comparability.
We welcomed the report in December 2015.
The remedies are designed to improve from the CMA but considered its provisional findings did disclosure, switching and convenience for customers in the not go nearly far enough to tackle the closed shop of the retail savings market.
From December 2016, firms have to large incumbent banks and transform such an important provide clear information on interest rates ofered on cash market.
Intervention is required to open the UK retail banking savings products as well as clearly reminding consumers market up to the full force of true competition and ensure about changes in interest rates or the end of an introductory that customers are better served in the future.
We agreed with the conclusions of the FCA study and continue to engage with the CMA ahead of the publication continually strive to ofer good value products to all of our ofits final report.
Regulation The reduction in the Financial Services Compensation Capital developments CRD IV Scheme FSCS protection limit from 85,000 to 75,000, CRD IV introduced new capital limits and bufers for banks, announced in July 2015 and taking efect from 1 January 2016, and includes arequirement to hold Common Equity Tier 1 is expected to lead to an increased level of customer activity capital to account for capital conservation, countercyclical as consumers move their savings to ensure they remain within and systemic risk bufers.
We review our capital structure the new limits.
on an ongoing basis to ensure it is well placed to react to prevailing economic and regulatory conditions.
Our Credit Cards Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 17.5 per cent as at The FCA published their interim findings from their market 31 December 2015, compared with afully loaded regulatory study into credit cards in November 2015, noting that minimum of 7.0 per cent, comprised of Common Equity Tier competition is working fairly well for most consumers.
1 capital of 4.5 per cent and acapital conservation bufer According to the FCA, there are currently about 30 million of 2.5 per cent.
credit cardholders in the UK, with an estimated 65 billion of outstanding credit card balances or an average of 2,000 CRD IV also introduced anew leverage ratio requirement.
Consumers value the flexibility ofered by credit Theleverage ratio is anon-risk based measure that is cards and attractive introductory promotional ofers are designed to act as asupplement to risk based capital acommon feature.
We agreed with the FCAs interim findings requirements.
It is intended as aback stop measure.
and the proposed requirements for full transparency and Theleverage calculation determines aratio based on the responsible lending.
We also welcomed the FCAs support for relationship between Tier 1 capital and total consolidated arange of products, including zero per cent balance transfer exposure.
Our leverage ratio was 4.0 per cent at the end of products, which are so popular with UK consumers.
There is no minimum requirement until we report is expected to be published in spring 2016.
If changes exceed deposit balances of 50 billion.
At present we maintain are required by the FCA, our platform and capability give aprudent risk appetite for leverage.
indd 19 01 03 2016 11:02 20 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Market Overview Ring-Fencing and services through the channel of their choice.
Service Ring-fencing is scheduled to be implemented fully into the remains one of the key drivers of customer satisfaction and UKbanking system by 1 January 2019.
It is expected that customers are increasingly less forgiving of poor service.
Virgin Money will operate as awholly ring-fenced bank, and Demand for multi-channel banking is established and both transitioning and managing in accordance with the customers expect to be able to manage their finances proposed requirements will be less onerous than is the case whenever and wherever is most suitable for them, whether by for many larger and more complex entities.
telephone, online, or by using their mobile device.
Minimum Requirement for Eligible Liabilities MREL Market trends Minimum Requirement for Eligible Liabilities MREL is Key opportunities: applicable from 1 January 2016, and will be phased in fully economic environment: strongly capitalised and well by 1 January 2020.
Prior to 31 December 2019, MREL will positioned to continue growing in the context of the be equal to an institutions minimum regulatory capital resilient UK economy and housing market: requirement.
Virgin Money expects the Bank of England to provide aprospective MREL during 2016, with transitional customer needs: our diferentiated and customer-focused arrangements to 1 January 2020. strategy along with multi-channel customer access, in particular our developing digital capability, mean we are Payment Systems Regulator PSR well positioned to address evolving customer needs: and The new Payment Systems Regulator launched on 1 April 2015 with an objective to promote competition and innovation and regulatory environment: increasing clarity on regulatory to ensure payments systems are operated and developed in requirements and our uncomplicated, low risk business the interests of the people and businesses using them.
We model, unburdened by legacy, place us in astrong position.
have been very supportive of the establishment of anew Key challenges: Payment Systems Regulator and view access to payment macro environment: economic uncertainty as aresult of the systems as akey issue holding back competition in UK retail potential for Brexit and the weakness in the global economy, banking, especially in the PCA market.
It is essential that with the potential knock-on efect to the UK economy: the UK payments system is open, transparent and easy to buy-to-let: anumber of tax measures will be implemented access.
This will drive increased competition which will benefit in 2016, and these may have adampening efect on everyone who uses payment systems.
future growth prospects for buy-to-let and the private EU Mortgage Credit Directive MCD rented sector: and We will implement the MCD requirements by 21 March 2016. digital transformation: the pace of change continues to The MCD provides an EU-wide framework of conduct rules for besignificant and we will need to continue to invest to meet mortgage activities.
It sets minimum regulatory requirements evolving customer needs.
that member states must meet to provide consistency in protecting consumers taking out credit agreements for residential property.
Competitive drivers Virgin Money benefits from being asimple and straightforward retail bank unburdened by legacy issues.
As one of the foremost consumer champion brands in the UK, we are also focused on ensuring good outcomes for all of our customers as their expectations and demands continue to rise.
In the current low interest rate environment, many customers are motivated by their desire to achieve better value for money, but security and reputation remain important factors.
We believe customers want straightforward and transparent products combined with the ability to access their products 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
indd 20 01 03 2016 11:02 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 21 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Virgin Money Lounge, Haymarket, London 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
