150 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Management Report Stress Testing Stress testing is recognised as an essential risk management On an annual basis, or more frequently if required, the Group tool within the Group.
conducts amacroeconomic stress testing exercise based on the strategic business plan.
The exercise aims to highlight Stress testing is undertaken to further understand the the key vulnerabilities of the Group to adverse changes in the vulnerabilities that the business model faces under adverse economic environment and ensures that there are adequate conditions and potential extent of current or future exposures.
financial resources in the event of adownturn.
The exercise Stress testing is embedded in the planning process and is includes the PRA UK Variant Stress Scenario these are the applied to the base case business plan.
This allows senior PRAs published supervisory recommended scenarios for management and the Board to assess the base case plan in the UK, details of which are publicly available on the Bank of adverse circumstances and to adjust strategies accordingly.
Additional stress testing is undertaken to This also facilitates the development of mitigating actions if assess the impact of extreme stress events.
the plan does not meet risk appetite in aparticular stressed The stress results provide input to the testing of risk appetite scenario.
Arigorous review and challenge process ensures and considerations of capital adequacy and capacity for that senior management are involved in the design of stress recovery and resolution planning.
Ad hoc stress testing tests and in responding to the results.
exercises are also undertaken to assess emerging risks and in The Group uses scenario stress testing to: response to regulatory developments.
assess the base case business plan against risk The Board Risk Committee reviews all capital and liquidity appetite, alongside acomparison of the plan in adverse related stress outputs, including the calculation of indicative circumstances, to ensure the Group remains within capital ratios and the impact of liquidity on the funding plan.
risk appetite: In addition to the running of macroeconomic scenarios, the Groups stress testing programme involves undertaking develop mitigating actions and contingency plans assessments of operational risk, liquidity and financial market to address potential impacts of adverse scenarios.
disruption scenarios, market risk sensitivities, business Stress testing outputs also link directly to the recovery specific and reverse stress testing see relevant risk section planning process: for further information on risk specific stress testing.
This support the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment provides acomprehensive view of the potential impacts process ICAAP, the Individual Liquidity Adequacy arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed.
Assessment ILAA and inform the setting of regulatory guidance: and meet the standards required and information needs of internal and external stakeholders, including regulators.
indd 150 01 03 2016 11:35 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 151 I The Groups Approach to Risk 140 Emerging Risks 143 Risk Governance 145 Risk Management 146 Risk Management framework 148 Risk Classes 149 Stress Testing 150 Full Analysis of Risk Classes 152 2 54 73 209 Stress Testing Methodology Reverse stress testing The Group develops internal scenarios based on key Reverse stress testing is used to explore the vulnerabilities of uncertainties for the economic outlook.
The stress tests must the Groups strategies and plans to extreme adverse events.
comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and are It also improves contingency planning.
The scenarios used subject to acomprehensive review and challenge process.
in such astress are those that cause afailure in the business model.
Where reverse stress testing reveals plausible This is supported by analysis and insight into impacts of scenarios with an unacceptably high risk when considered the scenarios on customers and business drivers.
The against risk appetite, the Group will undertake measures engagement of all required risk and control areas is built into to prevent or mitigate that risk as reflected in business and the preparation process to ensure appropriate analysis of recovery plans.
each risk classs impact upon the business plan is understood and documented.
Governance The methodologies and modelling approach used for stress Clear accountabilities and responsibilities for stress testing testing ensures that clear links are shown between the are assigned to senior management and the Risk and Finance macroeconomic scenarios, the business drivers for each area functions throughout the Group.
and the stress testing outputs.
All material assumptions used in modelling are documented and justified, with aclearly The Executive has primary responsibility for overseeing the communicated review and sign-off process.
Modelling is development and execution of the Groups stress tests.
supported by expert judgement and is subject to the Model The stress test outputs go through arigorous review and Policy, which includes independent model validation.
challenge process at business unit level, including sign-off Below is an overview of the principal output by the Chief Risk Officer.
The outputs are then presented for responsibilities by team.
review and challenge, before being approved by the Board.
Finance and Commercial teams prepare and review stressed business plans including income, margins, costs, lending and deposit volumes: technical teams prepare and review risk-related stress outputs, including risk-weighted assets, impairment charges, write-offs and expected loss: and Risk teams design stress tests, review the stress submissions and produce aconsolidated view of the results, including analysis packs for the Groups senior committees.
