Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ending 1 January 2016.
The Directors Report includes the Corporate Governance reports from page 72 to 117, together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference.
The Company has chosen to disclose the following information in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 71: Particulars of any important events, if any, affecting the Company which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company.
An indication of the activities of the Company in the field of research and development.
Details of employee policy and involvement Our People, pages 60 to 63.
Information on greenhouse gas emissions Environment, pages 53 to 57.
Principal risks and uncertainties pages 24 to 29.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report constitute the management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
Information to be disclosed under the Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is set out in the table below.
Subject matter Page reference Waiver of directors emoluments LR 9.8.
4 5 109 Allotment of shares for cash LR 9.8.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers, do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come, and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report may contain statements which are not based on current or historical fact and or which are forward looking in nature.
Please refer to the cautionary statement on page 208.
COMPANY NUMBER The Weir Group PLC is registered in Scotland under company number SC002934.
2016 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 28 April 2016.
The Notice of Meeting, along with an explanation of the proposed resolutions, are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this Annual Report and can be downloaded from the Companys website.
The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by poll and the result of the votes, including proxies, is published on the Companys website after the meeting.
DIVIDEND The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 29.0p per share for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016.
Payment of this dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The Company has been notified in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital at 1 January 2016 and at the date of approval of this Annual Report.
1 January 2016 24 February 2016 Number Number Shareholder of shares Percentage of shares Percentage Deutsche Bank AG 10,866,904 5.08% Below 3% Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 10,797,589 5.07% 10,797,589 5.07% BlackRock, Inc. 10,729,487 5.01% 10,729,487 5.01% AXA 10,637,959 4.99% 10,637,959 4.99% Norges Bank 8,503,919 3.99% 8,503,919 3.99% TIAA-CREF Investment Management, LLC & Teachers Advisers, Inc 6,440,696 3.01% 6,343,957 Below 3% Citadel GP LLC and Citadel Advisers Holdings II LLP 10,763,105 5.03% Mackenzie Financial Corporation 6,431,936 3.00% Since these dates, the interest of any shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the relevant Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information services.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may increase if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power to purchase its own shares or decrease on the issue of new shares.
The Weir Group PLC 118 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III EMPLOYMENT POLICY AND INVOLVEMENT The average number of employees in the Group during the period is given in note 4 to the Group financial statements on page 145.
Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and country of operation.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities and the needs of the Group.
The Group remains committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, training, promotion and career development.
Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged.
Further details of the Groups employment policies and involvement are detailed in the Our People section of the Sustainability Review on pages 60 to 63.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The information required in respect of financial instruments as required by Schedule 7 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is given in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 174 to 181.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THE COMPANYS SHARES Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which comprises a single class of ordinary shares of 12.5p each are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page 169.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
During the period a total of 595,058 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 74,382.25 were issued and allotted.
593,934 ordinary shares were issued on 8 July 2015, at a closing share price of 15.99, to Vidacos Nominee Limited in acquisition of Delta Industrial Valves, Inc. and 1,124 ordinary shares were issued on 18 August 2015, at a closing share price of 14.25, to Franck Degueure as part of a one-off conditional award.
The Weir Group has two employee benefit trusts: one with the trustees Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited the Kleinwort EBT and one with the trustees Appleby Trust Jersey Limited the Appleby EBT.
During the period, the 2012 LTIP award vested and the trustees of the Kleinwort EBT transferred 33,951 ordinary shares to employees to satisfy the Compulsory Investment Share awards under the LTIP using ordinary shares purchased by the Kleinwort EBT in the market.
During the period, the 2012 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP vested and the trustees of the Appleby EBT transferred 75,986 ordinary shares to employees to satisfy the DBP awards using ordinary shares purchased by the Appleby EBT in the market.
Both EBTs have agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by them, with the exception of shares held in respect of awards which have a dividend entitlement.
Details of the shares held by the EBTs are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page 169.
The 32,753 shares held in the Appleby EBT for the deferred element are the shares in respect of which dividends have not been waived.
The Kleinwort EBT holds, through its account nominee K. B. CI Nominees Limited, 0.01% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 1 January 2016, in trust for the benefit of certain Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group.
The Appleby EBT holds, through account nominee CGWL Nominees Ltd, 0.06% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 1 January 2016.
0.02% of this is held in trust for the benefit of certain senior executives of the Group, and 0.04% is held in trust on behalf of the Company for satisfaction of any future vesting of the Weir Group Deferred Bonus Plan.
With the exception of the shares held for the benefit of certain senior executives, the voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
The EBTs may vote or abstain from voting with the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way they see fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for their decision.
REPURCHASE OF SHARES At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 21.3m ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016 and at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board will again seek shareholder approval to renew the annual authority for the Company to make market purchases at the same level.
VOTING RIGHTS The Companys Articles of Association provide that on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person and by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by poll and the result of the poll will be released to the London Stock Exchange and posted on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
TRANSFER OF SHARES There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles of Association: The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any certificated share which is not fully paid up, provided that this power will not be exercised so as to disturb the market in the Companys shares.
The Directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is delivered to the Registrars office, or such other place as the Directors have specified, accompanied by a certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor.
The Weir Group PLC 119 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to the transfer of shares.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS The provisions about the appointment and re-election of Directors of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association.
POWERS OF DIRECTORS The business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, any special resolution of the Company and any relevant legislation.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
In addition, Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes are covered by Directors and Officers liability insurance.
PENSION SCHEME INDEMNITIES The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes in the UK which provide retirement and death benefits for employees and former employees of the Group.
The corporate trustees of the pension schemes are The Weir Group Pension Trust Limited, a subsidiary of The Weir Group PLC, and The Weir Group Senior Executives Pension Trust Limited.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 1 January 2016 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of the corporate trustees of the pension schemes.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director or officer of the corporate trustees of the pension schemes.
CHANGE OF CONTROL SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, alteration or similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Group has in place a five year US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 11 banks due to mature in September 2019.
Under the terms of this agreement, if there is a change of control of the Company, any lender may request, by not less than 30 days notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
The Company has in issue fixed rate private placement notes with a range of maturities: US$70m at an interest rate of 5.03% due on 11 January 2018, 43m at an interest rate of 5.36% due on 11 January 2018, US$210m at an interest rate of 3.69% due on 18 February 2019, US$590m at an interest rate of 4.27% due on 16 February 2022 and US$200m at an interest rate of 4.34% due on 16 February 2023.
Under the terms of the applicable note purchase agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within seven days of the change of control.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
CONFIRMATIONS So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 481 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
GOING CONCERN The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the Directors have considered the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 174 to 181.
Each of these items has been considered in relation to the Groups banking facilities described in note 20 on pages 160 and 161.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
On behalf of the Board of Directors ANDREW NEILSON Company Secretary 24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 120 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
