Strategic Report Strategy Strategic pillar #1 How we deliver Innovation The Weir Group was founded by innovative engineers almost 150 years ago.
We are long-term always asking how we can make our customers more efficient and productive.
shareholder value Strategic pillar #2 OUR MISSION AND STRATEGY Collaboration We work closely with customers, colleagues, suppliers and communities to better understand Mission and respond to the demands of our markets Our mission is to be wherever and whenever our global and promote mutually-beneficial relationships energy and resources customers need us, delivering with all our key stakeholders.
innovative products and services and becoming their trusted partner of choice.
H Ho ow w we m we me ea as su ur re s e strat trate eg gic ic s su uc cc ce es ss s?
Strategic pillar #3 W We e aim t aim to o ac ach hiieve eve sus sust ta aiin na able ble g gr ro ow wth th a ahe head ad o of f our our chosen chosen Value Chain mark marke et ts.
Y s You c ou ca an n see fide see det ta ails ils o offh ho ow w w we e p pe er rf fo or rm me ed d in 2 in 20 01 15 5 by looking at the Operational Review sections of each division, Excellence starting on page 30.
We prioritise operating excellence across the full value chain from new product development, order acquisition and order fulfilment through to the final delivery to the customer.
O Ou ur s r st tr ra at te eg gi ic g c go oa al l O Ou ur strat r strate egic g gic go oal is t al is to o s stren treng gt th hen en a an nd d e ex xt te en nd d o ou ur p r po os si it ti ion on in in the the global global s st truc ructural tural gro grow wth th m ma ark rke et ts s of of mine mineral rals s, oil and gas, power and other aftermarket-oriented processing industries.
Strategic pillar #4 Global Capability H Ho ow i w is s th thi is a s ac chi hie ev five ed d?
Our global operations match those of our W We e h ha av five e f fo our k ur ke ey strat y strate eg gic pi ic pilllars w lars wh hich fide ich define our distinc fine our distinct tiv ive e customers ensuring we offer comprehensive support and become their trusted partner ap appr pro oaach and s chandsu up pp por ort our c tourco om mp pe ettitiv itive e ad adv van ant ta age ge.
T Th he eyya arre e of choice.
innovation, collaboration, value chain excellence and global capability.
The Weir Group PLC 10 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III How we do it: What we did in 2015 Work closely with customers to fully understand their priorities.
Our global engineering team conducted thousands of site Invest in research and development based on customer insights, visits and helped audit customer operations to understand their deep technical knowledge and partnerships with some of the challenges and concerns.
The Group signed a partnership agreement with Imperial College Use our comprehensive product development process to London to undertake fundamental research into minerals processing.
continually deliver new solutions which address customer New products were launched by all three divisions which lower challenges and deliver efficiency and productivity improvements.
customers total cost of ownership and make their operations more efficient.
You can see further details of individual innovations in the Operational Review section from page 30.
How we do it: What we did in 2015 Our Excellence Committees develop and promote best practice Agreed to work with Microsoft Corporation to develop Internet across all three divisions.
of Things technology for the Groups global customers.
We work closely with customers, academic partners and other Progress continued on forming a joint venture with Rolls-Royce companies to develop solutions which address market demands subsidiary MTU to develop an integrated frack power system for less operational downtime and improved materials performance.
which will utilise Weirs leading pump technology and extensive We work with stakeholders throughout the world helping to make service network.
a positive difference to local communities.
You can learn more in Employees worked with charity partners in a variety of countries our sustainability section from page 50. supporting causes which benefit local communities and improve educational opportunities.
You can read more in the Sustainability section from page 50.
How we do it: What we did in 2015 Apply our Value Chain Excellence Management System Substantially reduced inventory in our Oil & Gas pressure throughout the Group to deliver efficiency improvements pumping business.
Significantly improved On Time Delivery and working capital Improving on-time-delivery through better planning, performance particularly in Oil & Gas and Power & Industrial divisions.
communication and execution using a detailed analysis Minerals initiated the roll out of an integrated Enterprise Resource of customers individual demands.
Platform ERP which will consolidate fifteen systems into one.
Ensuring all parts of the value chain, from suppliers to sales Negotiated improved arrangements with strategic suppliers to and marketing, work in harmony to produce the most efficient reduce procurement costs by 37m.
How we do it: What we did in 2015 Our regional manufacturing model means our customers have Fully integrated Trio Engineered Products into the Weir Minerals quick access to products made and delivered in their own areas.
division and established global sales team to take its mining and Our unrivalled service centre network gives our customers in the sand and aggregates products to new markets.
need-it-now industries we serve the rapid aftermarket support Completed the development of a new regional manufacturing which keeps their operations active.
hub in the United Arab Emirates to serve local and Eastern Strategic acquisitions are able to find new markets using the hemisphere customers.
Groups established global customer relationships.
Increased the supply of Power & Industrial products manufactured in best-cost countries to support competitiveness.
Continued to develop Weir Cloud technology which will give employees access to more secure and effective IT services wherever they are.
See page 45 for more details.
The Weir Group PLC 11 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
