Corporate Governance Group Executive Name and title PAUL COPPINGER RICARDO GARIB JOHN HEASLEY Oil & Gas Divisional Minerals Divisional Power & Industrial Managing Director 54 Managing Director 61 Divisional Managing Director 41 Biography Paul is the Divisional Managing Ricardo joined the Group John joined the Group Executive Director for Weir Oil & Gas, based Executive in January 2016 as the in January 2014 as Divisional in Fort Worth, Texas, USA.
He Divisional Managing Director for Managing Director for Weir Power has held this position since Weir Minerals.
He is based at the January 2015.
Prior to this, he Hughes in 1980 and became the divisional headquarters in East held the position of President of Managing Director of Weir Chile Kilbride, Scotland.
A chartered the Pressure Pumping business following the purchase of Baker accountant, he has held a number within the Oil & Gas division.
He Hughes Minerals division in 1994 of senior financial, commercial joined Weir in 2011 as President by the Weir Group.
Prior to joining Weir, Paul he was promoted to Regional he worked in mergers and was the President of the Energy Managing Director of Weir acquisitions before joining Group for ten years at Circor Minerals Latin America.
Ricardo Scottish Power in business International, Inc. a diversified is Vice President of the Mining development and financial posts.
manufacturer of valves and Suppliers Association and an John joined Weir in 2008 as Group related products.
He is a director elected council member of the Financial Controller before and former Chairman of the Board of the Chilean Federation becoming Valves Managing Director Petroleum Equipment & Services of Industry.
He holds an MBA and in the Power & Industrial division.
John is a Non-Executive Director of Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Limited.
Name and title PAULINE LAFFERTY ANDREW NEILSON Director of Human Director of Strategy & Resources 50 Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary 40 Biography Pauline is the Director of Human Andrew joined the Group Resources, based at the Groups Executive in January 2014 as Head Office in Glasgow.
She Director of Strategy & Corporate joined the Group in 2011.
Pauline Affairs and was appointed as was previously in executive Company Secretary in December search with Miles Partnership 2015.
He is based at the Groups and Russell Reynolds Associates Head Office in Glasgow.
Andrew in the UK and Australia.
Prior to holds a Masters degree in this, she held business planning engineering from the University and operational roles for 11 years of Strathclyde and is a qualified with Motorola and Digital accountant.
Before joining Weir Equipment Corporation DEC in 2010, he held a variety of senior in Scotland, Australia and Hong roles with banking, energy and Kong, ultimately becoming Asia professional services companies, Pacific Director of Supply for including HSBC, HBOS, Scottish DEC. Pauline is a Non-Executive Power and KPMG.
Andrew is a Director of Scottish Exhibition member of CBI Scotland Council.
Keith Cochrane, Jon Stanton and Dean Jenkins are also members of the Group Executive Committee.
Their biographical information can be found on the previous pages.
Keith Ruddock held the position of General Counsel & Company Secretary and was a member of the Group Executive until 31 December 2015.
Gavin Nicol held the position of Director of Operations, Support & Development and was a member of the Group Executive until 31 December 2015.
The Weir Group PLC 74 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
