Corporate Governance Board of Directors CHARLES KEITH ALAN MELANIE MARY JO DEAN PROFESSOR SIR RICHARD RICK JOHN JON BERRY COCHRANE FERGUSON GEE JACOBI JENKINS JIM MCDONALD MENELL MOGFORD STANTON Chairman 63 Chief Executive 51 Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Chief Operating Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Finance Director 48 Director 58 Director 54 Director 64 Officer 44 Director 58 Director 60 Director 61 Nationality British British British British Dual American and Australian British South African British British British citizenship Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since Joined the Group as Finance December 2011.
March 2013 and Chairman since Director in July 2006 and Senior Independent Director since January 2014. appointed Chief Executive February 2015. in November 2009.
Committee Membership Chairman of the Member of the Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Member of the None.
Member of the Member of the Nomination and Member of the Audit and None.
Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee and Remuneration Committee.
member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Expertise Charles was an Executive Director Following a number of years Alan was Chief Financial Officer Melanie is a Senior Adviser at Mary Jo is Managing Director Dean joined the Group in Sir Jim McDonald has been Rick worked as an investment John was formerly a Managing Jon was formerly a partner of Scottish Power plc from 1999 with Arthur Andersen, Keith and a Director of Lonmin plc, one Lazard & Co. Limited, having of her own consultancy, a board November 2010, becoming Principal and Vice Chancellor banker before joining Anglovaal Director for First Reserve, a large with Ernst & Young, having joined to 2005 and Chief Executive of joined Stagecoach Group plc of the worlds largest producers worked for them since 2008. mentor with CriticalEye and Power & Industrial Divisional of the University of Strathclyde Group in 1992.
He was appointed global energy-focused private as a graduate trainee in their its UK operations between 2000 in 1993.
He was appointed of platinum group metals, from Formerly, she spent a number on the faculty of the Gerson Managing Director in January since March 2009 and has held Chief Executive of Anglovaal equity firm, and sat on several Birmingham office in 1988. and 2005.
Prior to joining Scottish Finance Director in 1996 and 2007 until 2010.
Prior to his role of years with S. G. Warburg now Lehrman Group.
She is also a 2011 and Minerals Divisional the Rolls-Royce Chair in Electrical Mining in 1996, then Executive boards as part of this role.
He was appointed as a partner Power, he was Group Development Group Chief Executive in 2000. with Lonmin, he held the position part of UBS and was appointed member of the Advisory Committee Managing Director in August Power Systems since 1993.
In 2005, he in their London office in 2001 Director of Norwest Holst, He joined ScottishPower plc of Group Finance Director with a Managing Director of UBS in on Business Appointments and 2012.
He was appointed to the left to become President and He was formerly an Executive with lead responsibility for the a subsidiary of Compagnie in 2003 where he became the BOC Group plc.
Her executive career has the Leadership Council.
role of Chief Operating Officer Sir Jim is Chairman of both Chief Executive of TEAL Vice President of BP plc, having audit of a number of FTSE 100 Gnrale des Eaux and held Director of Group Finance.
he spent 22 years working for involved providing corporate in January 2016. the Institute for Energy and Exploration & Mining Inc.
He been with BP for over 30 years, multinational clients.
management positions within Inchcape plc in a variety of roles, finance advice to a broad range She was formerly a Senior Environment, the largest was formerly Chairman of Avgold initially in their exploration subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
He is a chartered accountant and including six years as Group of clients in both the UK Executive of Royal Dutch Shell Dean previously worked for engineering and energy systems Ltd 1996-2004 and Bateman division and progressively rising He is a chartered accountant a member of the Institute of Finance Director.
plc, BP America Inc. Lehman Qantas Airlines and the Australian research group internationally, Engineering BV 2005-2009 to Executive Vice President and a member of the Institute of He is a former Non-Executive Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Brothers Inc. HSBC Holdings plc listed infrastructure services and the Rolls-Royce University and Director of Mutual & Federal Chief Operating Officer US Chartered Accountants in England Director and Chairman of Eaga Alan is a member of the Institute She was an alternate member of and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. company UGL Ltd, most recently Technology Centre.
Insurance Company Ltd Downstream & Head of Refining.
plc, Drax Group plc and Thus Keith is Chairman of the selection of Chartered Accountants of The Takeover Panel LIBA CFC She was a Non-Executive Director as Chief Executive of the latters 1996-2010 and Standard Bank He held numerous positions in Group plc, and a former group for CSCLeaders, a senior Scotland and sits on their between 2006 and 2013. of Tate & Lyle plc between 1999 Rail Division.
He is a member of the Innovate Group Ltd 1997-2011. every area of operations from gas Non-Executive Director of Impax leadership programme for leaders Business Policy Committee.
UK Energy Catalyst Board, and renewables to upstream and Environmental Markets PLC and from across the Commonwealth.
Melanie was reappointed as a the Emerging Technologies Rick is a Senior Advisor to downstream oil.
Securities Trust of Scotland plc.
Council member and Trustee of She served in the administrations Strategy Board and sits on the Credit Suisse and Chairman Fauna & Flora International in of Presidents Reagan and Scottish Enterprise Technology of Credit Suisse Securities He was formerly Chairman of 2013, having previously served George H. W. Bush and was one Advisory Group.
Amromco Energy LLC in Romania from 2008 until 2010. of Her Majestys Civil Service He serves as a Director on a and White Rose Energy Ventures Commissioners from 2005 to He co-chairs with the First number of unlisted companies LLP in the UK, and a Non- 2010.
From 2010 to 2015 she was Minister of Scotland the Energy and non-profit organisations.
Executive Director of Deep Gulf a visiting Fellow of the University Advisory Board in Scotland.
He is Energy LP in America and CHC of Oxford.
a fellow of the Royal Academy He is a fellow of the Geological Helicopters SA in Luxembourg.
of Engineering, the Royal Society Society London, and both of Edinburgh, the Institution of the Australasian and South He is a fellow of the Institution Engineering and Technology, African Institutes of Mining of Mechanical Engineers.
the Institute of Physics and the and Metallurgy.
Key external appointments Non-Executive Chairman of Senior Independent NonSenior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director None.
Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Gold Non-Executive Director of DOF None.
Executive Director of Carillion Plc.
Non-Executive Director and of Drax Group plc.
of Mulvaney Capital Scottish Power Limited.
Fields Ltd and Sibanye Gold Subsea AS in Norway and Audit Committee Chairman Management Limited.
Limited, both South African Midstates Petroleum Company, Lead Non-Executive Director for of Johnson Matthey plc.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of UK companies listed on the Inc. in America.
the Scotland Office and the Office of Standard Life plc.
Member, UK Government Offshore Renewable Energy Johannesburg Stock Exchange of the Advocate General.
Non-Executive Director and Advisory Committee on Catapult Board.
and the New York Stock Non-Executive Director of ERM Audit Committee Chairman Business Appointments.
Non-Executive Director of Advisory Board co-chair, George National Physical Laboratory.
Non-Executive Director of Senior Independent Washington University Institute Rockwell Diamonds Inc. a South Non-Executive Director and for Corporate Responsibility.
Non-Executive Director of African company listed on both Audit Committee Chairman Glasgow Science Centre the Johannesburg Stock of Marshall Motor Holdings plc.
Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The Weir Group PLC 72 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III CHARLES KEITH ALAN MELANIE MARY JO DEAN PROFESSOR SIR RICHARD RICK JOHN JON BERRY COCHRANE FERGUSON GEE JACOBI JENKINS JIM MCDONALD MENELL MOGFORD STANTON Chairman 63 Chief Executive 51 Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Chief Operating Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Finance Director 48 Director 58 Director 54 Director 64 Officer 44 Director 58 Director 60 Director 61 Nationality British British British British Dual American and Australian British South African British British British citizenship Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since Joined the Group as Finance December 2011.
The Weir Group PLC 73 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
