Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Marketing The base management fee rates for managers in place at the The purpose of marketing for an investment trust is end of 2015 ranged from 0.2% to 0.8% per annum and the to communicate the Companys strategy and new performance fees ranged from nil the majority to 20% of developments effectively to existing and potential the relevant outperformance.
The average base management shareholders, to ensure they are properly informed of our fee, weighted according to the value of the funds under performance as stewards of their savings and to help sustain management, was 0.49% as at 31 December 2015 2014: a liquid market in our shares.
On a similar basis, the average performance fee is 6% Companys investment objective and its success in executing of the outperformance of the relevant benchmark 2014: 6%, its strategy makes it easier for investors to decide how Witan subject to capping of payments for any particular year.
fits in with their own investment objectives.
Other things being equal, this should help the shares to trade closer to As an illustration, if our managers uniformly outperformed NAV, from which all shareholders benefit.
If the shares trade their benchmarks by 3% after base management fees, on a premium, as in 2015, this creates the possibility of this would generate a performance fee of 0.17% of net increasing the size of the Company to meet market demand assets, giving total investment management fees of 0.66% by issuing new shares, with benefits in terms of greater including a 0.49% base fee.
The comparable estimate in liquidity as well as spreading costs.
The actual fees payable will of course vary according to the level of, Q YLHZ RI WKHVH SRWHQWLDO EHQHWV WKH &RPSDQ KDV IRU performance and the variation in performance between many years operated a marketing programme in order to managers with higher or lower fees.
disseminate information about our investment strategy and performance more widely.
This programme communicates Witan takes care to ensure the competitiveness of the fee ZLWK SULYDWH DQG SURIHVVLRQDO LQYHVWRUV QDQFLDO DGYLVHUV rates it pays and that where higher fees are incurred they and intermediaries using a range of media including are linked to good performance, from which shareholders direct meetings, press interviews and advertising through benefit.
A majority of the managers have base fees alone traditional media and the internet.
The Company also without performance fees and a majority of the fee provides an informative and easy to use website www.
structures incorporate a taper whereby the average fee com to enable investors to make informed decisions about rate reduces as the portfolio grows.
including Witan shares in their investment portfolios.
The website, which is regularly refreshed with new information, The Companys external investment managers may use includes a section focused on the requirements of financial certain services which are paid for, or provided by, various advisers as well as information about the Witan Wisdom and brokers.
In return, they may place business, including Jump savings schemes operated by the Companys subsidiary, transactions relating to the Company, with those brokers.
Ongoing charges and costs 7KH RQJRLQJ FKDUJHV JXUH n2& o ZKLFK LV WKH UHFXUULQJ Costs operating and investment management costs of the Company, expressed as a percentage of average net assets Investment management fees was 0.72% in 2015 2014: 0.74%.
Increased investment Each of the delegated external managers is entitled to PDQDJHPHQW DQG UHJXODWRU FRVWV ZHUH RVHW E D ULVH LQ a base management fee rate, levied on the assets under the average level of net assets.
When performance fees due management, and in some cases a performance fee, to the relevant external managers are included, the OCF calculated according to investment performance relative was 0.99% in 2015 2014: 0.96%.
Relative performance was to an appropriate benchmark.
The agreements can be better than in 2014 but there was a greater contribution to terminated on one months notice except one, for which this from managers without performance fees.
One of the investment mandates is operated via a fund vehicle, to simplify custody This compares with the average OCF for 2015 of 1.56% in the arrangements in emerging economies.
Investment Association Global equity funds sector source: IA, Morningstar and 0.73% 0.80% including performance fees for the AIC Global sector source: AIC.
Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 17
