Strategic Report Performance and principal developments in 2015 continued In the aftermath of the decisive UK General Election result, Witan Investment Trust discount trend we increased our exposure to UK equities by 1.5% using FTSE 4 100 index futures.
The timing of this was inopportune, given 5 day average discount 2 3 month average discount the later summer volatility in markets.
Our timing was better 0 1 year average discount in August and September, when we invested 2% of net assets -2 in FTSE 100 and MSCI Emerging Markets index futures on -4 two of the most volatile days.
When the markets rebounded, -6 these positions were reduced.
-8 At the end of 2015, our derivatives exposure was 37m, 24m -10 in UK FTSE 100 index futures and 13m in MSCI Emerging -12 Markets index futures.
The realised gain on index futures -14 during the year is shown in the cash flow statement on -16 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 page{67.
Witans shares in the market liquidity The discount trend since 2011 is illustrated in the chart above.
The Companys shares continued to trade at a and discounts premium for much of 2015, as a result of demand in the Witan is a member of the FTSE 250 index, with a market market, which the Company met by issuing a total of capitalisation of over 1.5 billion at 31 December 2015.
10.5m new shares at a premium to NAV.
This increased our The Board places great importance on the encouragement net assets by over 83m.
This process has three principal of a liquid market in Witans shares on the London Stock benefits for shareholders.
Share buybacks and issuance are Exchange.
Considerable effort is devoted to communicating accretive to NAV per share and help contribute to liquidity in Witans objective and performance clearly to shareholders the trading of the Companys shares, while in the case of new and potential investors.
There is a wide range of firms and issuance benefiting the ongoing charges figure by spreading online investment platforms through which the Companys the Companys fixed costs over a wider base.
shares may be held and the Companys subsidiary Witan Investment Services Limited also operates a savings plan for The long-term objective remains while taking account of investing in Witan shares, details of which are described on wider market conditions to create sustainable liquidity page 91. in Witans shares at or near to asset value, building on the progress achieved.
Discounts are affected by many factors Whilst delivery of sound investment performance remains not under the Companys control, hence the need to pay the principal focus of the Board, it has also always paid respect to prevailing investment conditions.
With this in attention to discount-related issues.
The Company has, mind, as stated in the interim report, although no new over many years, made significant use of share buybacks, discount target is set, the Company remains prepared to buy purchasing shares for cancellation when they have stood at back shares taking account of prevailing market conditions, an unduly wide discount to the NAV taking debt at fair value.
the level of the discount and the impact on the NAV per share.
In addition to being accretive to NAV, this had the objective of In accordance with this policy, subsequent to the year end, reducing the discount.
A total of over 49% of our shares were the Company bought back shares on a number of occasions repurchased and cancelled between 1998 and 2013.
In recent following a widening in the discount during February.
years, partly as a result of this persistence, Witans shares Similarly, where it is in shareholders interests, the Company have traded closer to NAV than historically and, for much of may issue shares at a premium to NAV.
The criterion for the 2015, at a premium.
Companys transactions in its own shares will always be that it should be in shareholders interests.
16 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015
