Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information.
Differences in the Companys remuneration policy order to replace awards which would be foregone by for directors as compared to employees the individual on leaving his her previous employment The remuneration policy for the executive director differs i. e. buy-out arrangements which will be intended to principally from that for employees in that the executive mirror forfeited awards as far as possible by reflecting directors remuneration is more heavily weighted towards the value, nature, time horizons and performance variable pay so that a greater proportion of his pay is related measures.
to the Companys performance and the value created for shareholders.
Letters of appointment service contract Non-executive directors letters of appointment Principles and approach to recruitment and internal The non-executive directors all have letters of appointment, promotion of directors which may be inspected at the Companys registered office.
Non-executive directors None of the non-executive directors is subject to any notice 1 Re muneration of non-executive directors should period.
All continuing non-executive directors are required to reflect the specific circumstances of the Company and stand for re-election by the shareholders at least every three the duties and responsibilities of the non-executive years.
The initial period of appointment is two terms of three directors.
It should provide appropriate compensation years.
All reasonably incurred expenses will be met.
for the experience and time committed to the proper oversight of the affairs of the Company.
0U HQGHUVRQ 0U %HOO 0U %R OH DQG 0U{:DWVRQ DUH SURSRVHG for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in April 2016.
2 Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive bonuses, pension benefits, share options or other CEOs service contract benefits.
7KH & 2oV VHUYLFH FRQWUDFW ZLWK WKH &RPSDQ PD EH LQVSHFWHG DW WKH &RPSDQ oV UHJLVWHUHG RIILFH 7KH & 2oV 3 T he total remuneration of the non-executive directors service agreement dated 3 February 2010, as amended, is determined by the provisions of the Companys provided in 2015 for a salary of 278,000 2014: 268,000 Articles of Association and by shareholder resolution.
The salary has been increased to 281,000 with HIIHFW IURPDQXDU 0U %HOOoV DSSRLQWPHQW PD EH 4 The basic non-executive directors fee will be paid terminated by either party on the giving or receiving of not to each non-executive director, with a higher fee per less than nine months written notice.
annum for the Chairman of the Company.
An additional fee per annum will be paid to the Chairman of each of the Please see Policy on payment for loss of office below for Audit and Remuneration and Nomination Committees IXUWKHU GHWDLOV RI WKH & 2oV VHUYLFH FRQWUDFW and to the Chairman of any other Committees that the Company forms: and to the Senior Independent Director.
Illustration of application of remuneration policy The chart on page 56 shows an indication of the values of Executive directors WKH & 2oV UHPXQHUDWLRQ WKDW ZRXOG EH UHFHLYHG E WKH & 2 LQ 1 W hen hiring a new executive director, or promoting to accordance with the revised remuneration policy for the first WKH %RDUG IURP ZLWKLQ WKH URXS WKH &RPPLWWHH ZLOO full year i. e. year ending 31 December 2018 in which the offer a package that is sufficient to retain and motivate policy applies at three direct levels of performance: and, if relevant, attract the right talent whilst paying no more than is necessary.
minimum performance, i. e. fixed salary, taxable benefits and payment in lieu of pension contributions, 2 UGLQDULO UHPXQHUDWLRQ IRU D QHZ H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRU with no bonus pay-out: will be in line with the policy set out in the table.
on-target performance, fixed pay plus bonus payments 3 T he maximum level of variable pay that may be assuming a 50% pay-out of each of the discretionary, awarded to a new director on recruitment or on 2neHDU DQG RQJ 7HUP %RQXVHV DQG SURPRWLRQ WR WKH %RDUG VKDOO EH OLPLWHG WR 70% of base salary calculated at the date of grant, excluding any maximum performance, fixed pay plus bonus payments buy-out awards see below.
assuming 100% pay-out of each of the discretionary, 2neHDU DQG RQJ 7HUP %RQXVHV 4 The Committee may, where it considers it to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders, offer an additional cash payment to an executive director in Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 55
