Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Company does not have an internal audit function.
7KH %RDUG HQFRXUDJHV WKH &RPSDQ oV DSSRLQWHG LQYHVWPHQW Through WIS, the AIFM, it delegates to third parties the managers to engage with companies and to vote shares, management of its investments and most of its other in the best long-term interest of Witan shareholders but operations and employs only a small staff.
The investment in accordance with their own investment philosophies.
managers and certain other key contractors are subject to Where applicable, it monitors the policies of the investment external regulation and most have compliance and internal managers in respect of the UK Stewardship Code.
Elsewhere audit functions of their own.
The Companys investments in the world it can be more difficult to vote shares as each are held on its behalf by a global custodian appointed by the country has its own rules and practices regarding shareholder depositary.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and notification, voting restrictions, registration conditions and administrators is responsible for investment administration, share blocking, including, for example, dealing constraints.
for maintaining accounting records and for preparing Therefore, whilst the Companys investment managers are financial accounts, management accounts and other apprised of the Companys approach to the stewardship of its management information.
Their work is reviewed by an assets and the importance of sound corporate governance, independent accountant who also carries out some of the they use their discretion according to their knowledge of work that an internal audit function would cover.
In addition, the relevant circumstances.
The investment managers WKH %RDUG UHFHLYHV IURP WKH LQYHVWPHQW DGPLQLVWUDWRU DQ report their compliance with the UK Stewardship Code, or annual report on its internal controls, including a report equivalent legislation, to the Audit Committee each year.
from its auditor on the control policies and procedures in operation.
The investment performance of the investment In respect of the direct investments held, the Companys managers, both individually and collectively, is measured for Executive management maintains regular touch with the Witan by a company that is independent of all the investment management of the investee holdings and engages when managers.
The corporate Company Secretary is a company issues arise that are controversial or potentially prejudicial with well-established experience in servicing investment to the interests of Witans shareholders.
An annual report is trusts.
provided to the Audit Committee in compliance with the UK Stewardship Code.
The appointment of these and other professional contractors provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of Approval LQWHUQDO FRQWUROV WKDW LV EDODQFHG DQG UREXVW 7KH %RDUG 7KLV UHSRUW ZDV DSSURYHG E WKH %RDUG RI GLUHFWRUV RQ and the AIFM will continue to monitor its system of internal 8{0DUFK DQG LV VLJQHG RQ LWV EHKDOI E control in order to provide assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will review at least annually H M Henderson whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
Chairman Stewardship and the exercise of voting powers 8 March 2016, W LV WKH %RDUGoV YLHZ WKDW LQ RUGHU WR DFKLHYH ORQJ WHUP success, companies need to maintain high standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Therefore Witan expects the companies in which it is invested to comply with best practice in corporate governance matters, or to provide adequate explanation of any areas in which they fail to comply, whilst recognising that a different approach may be justified in special circumstances.
In respect of UK companies, current best practice in corporate governance matters is set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 43
