Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Strategy and business model shareholders, together with an income that rises faster than Companies are required to publish a Strategic WKH UDWH RI LQDWLRQ Report, which should provide a description of The Company employs an active multi-manager approach, the objectives which its strategy is designed to allocating funds for investment by selected managers with deliver for shareholders, the business model and GLHULQJ VW OHV DQG VSHFLDOLVDWLRQV 7KH DLP LV WR DFFHVV WKH the outlook for the year ahead.
It should also best available managers, including those not accessible on include analysis of the Companys performance the same terms or at all to UK investors.
during the year, relative to the key elements of its Witans multi-manager approach was adopted in 2004, in business strategy.
This Strategic Report has been the belief that no single manager was likely to excel in all prepared solely to provide additional information markets and at all points in the economic cycle.
Employing to shareholders to assess the Companys strategies managers to invest in their areas of greatest competence has and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
the potential to improve returns and to reduce risk relative to The Strategic Report contains certain forward using a single manager across the investment waterfront.
These statements are made by 2XU DSSURDFK LV WR EDODQFH GLHUHQW IDFWRUV VXFK DV TXDOLW the directors in good faith based on the information value or growth approaches and geographical exposure, available to them up to the time of their approval of DLPLQJ WR SURW IURP DVVHW DOORFDWLRQ DQG IURP PDQDJHUVo this report and such statements should be treated combined ability to outperform over time.
We seek managers with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, who can capture the longer term growth rewards from equity including both economic and business risk factors, investment by focusing on fundamental share values rather underlying any such forward-looking information.
This report falls into four main sections: 1.
Strategy 2. Business model 2. Business model The Company has appointed Witan Investment Services Limited as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager under 3.
Performance and principal developments the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive in 2015 AIFMD.
As AIFM, WIS has responsibility for operating the 4.
Corporate and operational structure Companys portfolio and risk management processes.
WIS delegates certain portfolio management responsibilities to Witan is an Investment Trust, which was founded external portfolio managers.
In addition, the Company uses in 1909 and has been listed on the London an outsourced model for other corporate functions, such Stock Exchange since 1924.
It is managed by the as fund accounting, custody and specialist professional Executive team of its Alternative Investment services.
These activities are overseen by the WIS and Witan Executive team, covering Investment, Operations and Fund Manager AIFM, Witan Investment Services 0DUNHWLQJ KHDGHG E WKH &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2FHU ZKR LV D Limited WIS, under the control and supervision of Director of the Company.
the Companys Board of Directors.
Whilst the external managers appointed are responsible for stock selection in their individual portfolios, WIS and the 1.
Strategy Companys Board are responsible for the overall delivery of performance to shareholders, through the following means: The Companys strategy is to create value for shareholders, by addressing its investment objective, by adding value in Setting the overall investment objective: SXUVXLQJ WKDW REMHFWLYH DQG E FRPPXQLFDWLQJ HHFWLYHO Selecting competent managers, who are expected with existing and potential shareholders.
to outperform a suitable benchmark relating to the investment remit set by the Company: The Company invests its shareholders funds primarily in a broad spread of global equity markets.
The objective is Operating appropriate portfolio, corporate governance WR SURW IURP RSSRUWXQLWies created by global economic DQG ULVN PDQDJHPHQW DUUDQJHPHQWV IRU HHFWLYH growth and to outperform a representative equity corporate management and to meet the requirements of benchmark, thereby generating long-term capital growth for the AIFMD: Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 09 Strategic Report Strategy and business model continued A proportion, up to 10%, of the portfolio at the time of Adjusting asset allocation according to opportunities that investment may be invested in collective funds selected by WIS, arise: with the objective of outperforming Witans equity benchmark.
The judicious use of borrowings with the aim of adding to This portfolio is managed subject to limits set by the Board, performance: and in accordance with portfolio and risk management processes established by Witan and the Companys AIFM.
Direct investment in funds exposed to specialist asset These investments may represent asset categories that are categories: temporarily undervalued or funds which are viewed as attractive Controlled and selective use of exchange-traded longer-term generators of superior returns.
derivatives to adjust asset allocation: and The WIS Executive, overseen by and working within clear Clear communication of Witans objective and its results parameters set by the Board, seeks to add to performance by to shareholders and potential investors.
adjusting the level of gearing employed, by the selective use of exchange-traded derivatives to alter the asset allocation The Boards and the Executives role and by the use of specialist funds to gain exposure to areas under-represented in the rest of the portfolio.
In essence, in investment management WKH &RPSDQ VHHNV WR KDYH VXFLHQW OHYHUV WR SXOO WR WDNH As noted above, the Company has appointed its whollyadvantage of investment opportunities that may arise, in owned subsidiary WIS as its AIFM.
As such, WIS has addition to the total returns arising from the investment responsibility for ensuring that portfolio and risk managers portfolios, which are expected to be the most management of the Company are properly carried out, VLJQLFDQW GULYHU RI the Companys performance.
with appropriate safeguards to ensure the functional and hierarchical independence of those with portfolio and risk Our selected benchmark management responsibilities.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, policy and guidelines of The Companys benchmark, used as a reference point for the Company and the AIFM operates within these.
comparing performance, is a combination of global equity PDUNHWV ZKLFK UHHFW WKH LQYHVWPHQW XQLYHUVH IURP ZKLFK The selection of individual investments is largely delegated most of the portfolio holdings are chosen.
Since October 2007 to external managers, subject to investment limits and the benchmark based on the FTSE All-World indices has been: JXLGHOLQHV ZKLFK UHHFW WKH SDUWLFXODU PDQGDWH H J 8.
RU JOREDO HTXLWLHV DQG WKH VSHFLF LQYHVWPHQW DSSURDFK ZKLFK 40% UK the Company and its AIFM have selected e. g. value, higher 20% North America dividend yield, special situations.
The managers are chosen 20% Europe ex-UK $VLD 3DFLF by the Witan and WIS Boards after a disciplined selection process focused on the managers scope to add value and 7KLV UHHFWV DQ LQYHVWPHQW SROLF WKDW LV GHVLJQHG WR DFFHVV WKHLU W ZLWK WKH RYHUDOO EDODQFH RI WKH SRUWIROLR a comprehensive range of investment opportunities in the The overwhelming majority of the portfolio is managed in JOREDO HFRQRP 7KH FRPSRQHQW ZHLJKWLQJV UHHFW WKH %RDUGoV segregated accounts, held by the Companys depositary belief that the opportunities are related to the importance via the custodian to whom it delegates safekeeping of economic regions more than the market capitalisation of responsibilities.
This enables the Company to analyse the risks regional equity markets.
The high weighting in the UK which and opportunities of the portfolio as a whole as well as of each declined from 60% to 50% in 2004 and to 40% in 2007 managers portfolio.
The operations of the custodian and the UHHFWV WKH JOREDO H[SRVXUH RI WKH 8.
PDUNHW ZKLFK GHULYHV D safeguarding of the Companys assets are further supervised VLJQLFDQW PDMRULW RI LWV HDUQLQJV IURP RYHUVHDV by the depositary, appointed by Witan and its AIFM, in It should be emphasised that the portfolio is actively accordance with the requirements set out in the AIFMD.
managed and not designed to track any index or combination At the end of 2015, the Company and its AIFM had 11 external of market indices.
Performance can be expected to vary, investment managers, covering a range of investment remits.
sometimes considerably, from that of the benchmark, while Information regarding the proportion of Witans assets aiming for outperformance in the longer term.
managed by each and of their performance during the year is Performance information for other commonly used indices set out on page 13. is also given in the key performance indicators summary section on page 11.
10 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015
