Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Strategy and business model shareholders, together with an income that rises faster than Companies are required to publish a Strategic WKH UDWH RI LQDWLRQ Report, which should provide a description of The Company employs an active multi-manager approach, the objectives which its strategy is designed to allocating funds for investment by selected managers with deliver for shareholders, the business model and GLHULQJ VW OHV DQG VSHFLDOLVDWLRQV 7KH DLP LV WR DFFHVV WKH the outlook for the year ahead.
It should also best available managers, including those not accessible on include analysis of the Companys performance the same terms or at all to UK investors.
during the year, relative to the key elements of its Witans multi-manager approach was adopted in 2004, in business strategy.
This Strategic Report has been the belief that no single manager was likely to excel in all prepared solely to provide additional information markets and at all points in the economic cycle.
Employing to shareholders to assess the Companys strategies managers to invest in their areas of greatest competence has and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
the potential to improve returns and to reduce risk relative to The Strategic Report contains certain forward using a single manager across the investment waterfront.
These statements are made by 2XU DSSURDFK LV WR EDODQFH GLHUHQW IDFWRUV VXFK DV TXDOLW the directors in good faith based on the information value or growth approaches and geographical exposure, available to them up to the time of their approval of DLPLQJ WR SURW IURP DVVHW DOORFDWLRQ DQG IURP PDQDJHUVo this report and such statements should be treated combined ability to outperform over time.
We seek managers with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, who can capture the longer term growth rewards from equity including both economic and business risk factors, investment by focusing on fundamental share values rather underlying any such forward-looking information.
This report falls into four main sections: 1.
Strategy 2. Business model 2. Business model The Company has appointed Witan Investment Services Limited as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager under 3.
Performance and principal developments the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive in 2015 AIFMD.
As AIFM, WIS has responsibility for operating the 4.
Corporate and operational structure Companys portfolio and risk management processes.
WIS delegates certain portfolio management responsibilities to Witan is an Investment Trust, which was founded external portfolio managers.
In addition, the Company uses in 1909 and has been listed on the London an outsourced model for other corporate functions, such Stock Exchange since 1924.
It is managed by the as fund accounting, custody and specialist professional Executive team of its Alternative Investment services.
These activities are overseen by the WIS and Witan Executive team, covering Investment, Operations and Fund Manager AIFM, Witan Investment Services 0DUNHWLQJ KHDGHG E WKH &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2FHU ZKR LV D Limited WIS, under the control and supervision of Director of the Company.
the Companys Board of Directors.
Whilst the external managers appointed are responsible for stock selection in their individual portfolios, WIS and the 1.
Strategy Companys Board are responsible for the overall delivery of performance to shareholders, through the following means: The Companys strategy is to create value for shareholders, by addressing its investment objective, by adding value in Setting the overall investment objective: SXUVXLQJ WKDW REMHFWLYH DQG E FRPPXQLFDWLQJ HHFWLYHO Selecting competent managers, who are expected with existing and potential shareholders.
to outperform a suitable benchmark relating to the investment remit set by the Company: The Company invests its shareholders funds primarily in a broad spread of global equity markets.
The objective is Operating appropriate portfolio, corporate governance WR SURW IURP RSSRUWXQLWies created by global economic DQG ULVN PDQDJHPHQW DUUDQJHPHQWV IRU HHFWLYH growth and to outperform a representative equity corporate management and to meet the requirements of benchmark, thereby generating long-term capital growth for the AIFMD: Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 09
