Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Witan Investment Trust plc is an alternative investment fund Remuneration AIF for the purposes of the EU Alternative Investment Fund During the year ended 31 December 2015, WIS had 11 members Managers Directive Directive 2011 61 EU the AIFMD and of staff and directors.
The total remuneration paid during this the Company has appointed its subsidiary, Witan Investment period was: Services Limited WIS, to act as its AIFM.
WIS is authorised Senior Management Staff and regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct 9 2 Authority as a full scope UK AIFM.
000 000 Fixed remuneration 871 176 The Company is required to make certain disclosures Variable remuneration 305 17 available to investors in accordance with the AIFMD.
Those Total 1,176 193 disclosures that are required to be made pre-investment are included within the Investor Disclosure Document WIS has only one AIF, the Company.
Further details of the IDD which can be found on the Companys website Companys Remuneration Policy for its directors are set out in www.
There have not been any material the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 56.
FKDQJHV{WR WKH GLVFORVXUHV FRQWDLQHG ZLWKLQ WKH, '' VLQFH{LWV{SXEOLFDWLRQ LQXO Leverage Circumstances when the Company may use leverage The Company and AIFM also wish to make the following The purpose of using leverage, through borrowing, known disclosures to investors: DV JHDULQJ LV WR LPSURYH RU pJHDUq UHWXUQV IRU VKDUHKROGHUV by achieving investment returns higher than the interest the investment strategy, geographic and sector cost of the borrowings.
Accordingly, attention is paid to investment focus and principal stock exposures are using a level of gearing appropriate for market conditions included in the Strategic Report.
A list of the top 50 put simply, borrowing more when markets are attractively portfolio holdings is included on page 26: valued and borrowing less at times when returns are expected to be poorer.
In addition, a blend of long-term and n one of the Companys assets is subject to special short-term borrowings is used, to balance the certainty of arrangements arising from their illiquid nature: cost associated with locking in fixed rates for longer periods with the flexibility of using short-term facilities which can be t he Strategic Report and note 14 to the accounts set readily repaid when they are not required.
out the risk profile and risk management systems in place.
There have been no changes to the risk In a rising market, gearing will tend to enhance returns management systems in place in the period under because of the investment funds increased exposure to the review and no breaches of any of the risk limits set, with market.
% the same token, however, it will tend to increase no breach expected: losses triggered by a falling market.
the re are no new arrangements for managing the Types and sources of leverage permitted liquidity of the Company or any material changes to The Company has 185 million of long-term debt, consisting the liquidity management systems and procedures of debenture, secured bonds, fixed rate loan notes and employed by the Company: and preference share capital but this will reduce to 140 million when the debentuUH LV UHSDLG LQ 2FWREHU.
The Company all authorised Alternative Investment Fund Managers also has a 50 million one-year facility, providing additional are required to comply with the AIFMD Remuneration flexibility over the level of gearing, as well as enabling Code.
The relevant disclosures required are set out the Company to borrow in other currencies than sterling, below.
The Company may either invest its borrowings fully, or neutralise their effect with cash balances or the sale of equity index futures according to its assessment of the markets.
Restrictions on the use of leverage The Companys delegated investment managers are not permitted to borrow within their portfolios but may hold cash if deemed appropriate.
58 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The maximum level of leverage which the AIFM is entitled to employ on behalf of the Company The Company has the legal power under its Articles of Association to borrow up to 100% of the adjusted total of shareholders funds and WIS has agreed to set the maximum leverage level at that 100% level.
This is subject to practical constraints including a test of prudence and the long-standing policy is not to allow gearing to rise to more than 20%, other than temporarily in exceptional FLUFXPVWDQFHV 2YHU WKH SDVW ILYH HDUV LW KDV JHQHUDOO varied between 5% and 15% and where appropriate the Company may hold a small net cash position.
Under AIFMD the Company is required to calculate leverage under the two methodologies specified by the Directive, the Gross Method and the Commitment Method, the difference being that the Commitment Method allows certain exposures to be offset or netted.
The table below sets out the current maximum permitted limit and the actual level of leverage for the Company, as a percentage of adjusted shareholders funds: Gross Commitment method method % % Maximum level 100 100 Actual level at 31 December 2015 10.7 14.3 The current difference between the two methods is that the Commitment Method allows certain exposures to be netted off for example hedging, although currently this is not applicable and projects what gearing would be if cash held at the year end were to be invested.
The Gross Method produces a level in line with our own calculation, consistent with the actual historical numbers for gearing as defined on page 3.
There have not been any changes to the maximum level of leverage that the AIFM may employ on behalf of the Company or any changes to the right of reuse of collateral or any guarantee granted under the leveraging arrangements.
It is the Companys policy that leveraging arrangements are not collateralised.
Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 59
