Woodford Patient Capital Trust Annual Report 2015 Portfolio managers review Since Aprils launch, we have been actively building the Woodford Patient Capital Trust portfolio, a process which was completed just before year end.
Initially, our activity was focused towards building exposure to the quoted element of the portfolio, with positions in the more liquid mid-to-large capitalisation companies completed quite quickly.
Some of the less liquid positions took longer to build, but placings by the likes of allergy and asthma business Circassia in June, clinical-stage stem-cell research company ReNeuron in August and aquaculture technology business Benchmark in December allowed us to gain the exposure we had sought to these exciting young businesses, some of which can have limited liquidity in the secondary market.
At the Companys interim period end, the portfolio was more than 75% invested.
Since then, our focus has been on building out the portfolios unquoted exposure.
At launch, we mentioned that we had a strong pipeline of opportunities under due diligence and many of these are now represented in the portfolio.
The majority of these opportunities have been introduced to us through our network of trusted partners, such as Allied Minds, Arthurian Life Sciences, Imperial Innovations, IP Group and Malin.
These established evergreen investors do much of the painstaking work that is required to nurture a nascent company through the very early stages of its life.
Our long-standing relationship with them provides us with the opportunity to co-invest once those companies have started to prove themselves and need more capital to progress on the long journey towards fulfilling their long-term commercial potential.
This often involves several funding rounds, allowing us to increase the amount of capital we deploy as the business fide-risks.
Among the largest unquoted positions are Immunocore, a UK-based clinical-stage immuno-oncology business, gene sequencing company Oxford Nanopore and Proton Partners, which plans to introduce proton beam cancer therapy to the UK by 2017.
We look forward to updating investors on the progress of these, and other, promising early-stage businesses in future reports.
Turning to performance, the Companys net asset value ended the year at 97.38p per share on a cum income basis, a slight decline on the issue price of 100p per share.
Clearly, we would prefer to be reporting on a period of positive progress for the portfolio in net asset value terms, but it is still very early days for this long-term strategy and performance should be viewed in the context of the overall market environment since launch.
The performance of the trust should not correlate closely to that of the broader UK stock market in the long term, but the quoted element of the portfolio and, in particular, our large cap positions are exposed to the slings and arrows of market sentiment which, in the period under review, turned increasingly negative.
From launch on 21 April 2015 to year end, the FTSE All Share Index declined by -7.5% in total return terms.
We would be concerned if the share price performance of our investee businesses had been prompted by disappointing operational progress.
In most instances, in fact, the opposite is true we have been very pleased by the fundamental performance of the vast majority of our holdings, many of which have actually exceeded our initial expectations.
There are, of course, one or two exceptions.
It is the nature of investing in early-stage companies that not all of them will progress in the way that was envisaged when the investment was first committed.
If problems are encountered, we do our best to help the company overcome them.
RM2 International is a good example of a company that hit a bump in the road during the period under review.
RM2 has a high performance composite pallet product which has the potential to significantly disrupt the global goods transportation industry.
The company announced some very positive contract wins during the period but also needed to make minor modifications to the coating it applies to its pallets, resulting in delays to its production upswing.
We participated in its September share placing and remain very confident that the company will arrive at a successful destination, albeit somewhat later than previously anticipated.
Northwest Biotherapeutics, meanwhile, was the largest negative contributor to performance.
We were attracted to Northwest by its technology, which looks to harness the power of the bodys immune system to fight cancer.
Its a broad-based technology for a range of solid tumours and is being trialled in patients who have exhausted all other avenues of cancer treatment.
Since we first invested, however, allegations of financial improprieties and regulatory failure have been published by at least one anonymous source.
We have engaged with the board on this matter and in a public filing to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, we called for the appointment of an independent non-executive director and the convening 14 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc of a special committee to investigate the allegations.
Accordingly, the company has initiated an investigation and we await its findings.
More positively, our other US biotech holdings provided a strong positive contribution to performance.
In particular, the portfolios largest position, Prothena, which is developing immuno-therapies in central nervous system and chronic inflammatory disorders, performed very strongly.
This is a business we have known for several years it was originally spun out of Elan in 2012 and has since established a growing analytical following in the US biotechnology industry, supported by positive clinical data in its lead candidate, a potential treatment for AL amyloidosis.
The company is also developing a treatment for Parkinsons disease in collaboration with Roche, which has reported highly encouraging, albeit early-stage, clinical data.
Both assets have enormous commercial long-term potential and increasing awareness of the companys progress drove significant share price gains in 2015.
Elsewhere, our holding in Vernalis performed well, having received FDA approval for the first of its extended release cough cold products, Tuzistra, in April 2015, shortly after the position was purchased.
Investors continue to significantly undervalue the potential of Vernalis cough cold franchise, in our view.
It has four further products in development, alongside a portfolio of central nervous system and oncology programmes currently in the clinic.
Meanwhile, Norwegian fingerprint imaging technology business Idex was rewarded for its continued operational progress.
Several mobile phone manufacturers are evaluating the companys product capabilities and towards the end of the year, it announced that a tier-one mobile phone manufacturer had selected its technology for use in a new device, representing a landmark design win.
We are increasingly confident that Idex can continue to convert these opportunities to build a meaningful position in the fast-growing fingerprint sensor industry, which represents a multi-billion dollar market opportunity.
With regard to unquoted holdings, most of them continue to be held at the original price we paid.
It may take several years for these businesses and indeed many of their quoted counterparts to fully realise their potential but there have been a couple of early successes.
Immunocore, the clinical-stage immuno-oncology company, saw an independent revaluation, reflecting the continued positive progress being made by the business.
Its well-validated ImmTAC technology platform has already demonstrated proof of concept with good clinical data in melanoma patients and the company continues to make progress on multiple partnered programmes with major pharmaceutical companies.
Meanwhile, Stratified Medical was also upwardly revalued as a result of a further funding round.
The company has already identified and out-licensed two potential targets for Alzheimers disease and is now further developing its powerful algorithm-based technology platform towards self-learning.
We continue to see considerable long-term growth potential in Stratified Medical as it continues to develop and commercialise its very impressive intellectual property.
Looking ahead, 2016 is shaping up to be another challenging year for financial markets but we are tremendously excited about the long-term potential in the portfolio that we have built.
The realisation of future long-term value will be determined by the fundamental progress made by the companies in which we have invested, not by market sentiment.
We have invested in some incredible businesses with massively disruptive technologies and high-growth potential.
Some of these businesses may take a long time to fulfil their potential but the stock market is not well endowed with patience, particularly in volatile conditions.
Periodically, this manifests itself in share price weakness, especially in businesses with no earnings or dividends and relatively limited market liquidity.
Share price weakness in listed early-stage businesses tends, therefore, to reflect this lack of patience from investors, rather than a lack of fundamental progress by the companies.
Therein lies the opportunity for patient capital to exploit.
The portfolio is in excellent shape and we continue to view the future with great confidence.
Neil Woodford 21 March 2016 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 15
