Investment team Neil Woodford Paul Lamacraft Saku Saha Head of Investment Fund Manager Fund Manager Neil Woodford is one of the most respected An experienced finance industry professional, Sakus previous role was as Analyst and fund managers in the UK.
His disciplined, Paul began his career at Ernst & Young Investment Director for the Invesco valuation-oriented approach has and his most recent role, prior to joining Perpetual UK Equities team.
In this role, consistently delivered outstanding long-term Woodford, was as a fund manager on the he was responsible for analysing investment performance to his clients.
UK Equities team at Invesco Perpetual.
opportunities and assisting Neil Woodford, He was a pivotal part of the UK equities His private equity and corporate finance with a specific focus on early-stage and team at Invesco Perpetual for more than background provides our team with early-growth companies.
His many years 26 years, fine-tuning his distinctive approach invaluable expertise.
Paul is focused on at a senior level in the British Army, stationed and making his mark on the investment comprehensive and diligent analysis of at home and abroad, have equipped industry.
He was appointed a Commander fundamentals to deliver positive long-term him with exceptional discipline and rigour of the Order of the British Empire CBE in outcomes and has a particular specialism in his analysis and interpretation of 2013 for services to the economy.
in the early-stage and early-growth market intelligence.
Neil announced he was leaving Invesco components of the portfolios.
Perpetual in October 2013 to set up his own fund management business.
He joined the company on 1 May 2014.
Woodford Investment Management's first fund was launched on 2 June 2014.
34 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Stephen Lamacraft Lucinda Crabtree Richard Lockington Fund Manager Senior Investment Analyst Investment Analyst For the six years prior to joining Woodford Lucinda brings invaluable expertise and Richard joined Woodford in 2015 from Investment Management, Stephen made knowledge to the Woodford investment Duff & Phelps, the global valuations adviser, his mark at Invesco Perpetual as a UK Fund team.
Over the past decade, she has worked where he was Senior Associate working on Manager.
Responsible for 120m of assets, in various analyst roles covering the valuations of intangible assets and his strategy focused on fundamental pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors businesses.
Richards extensive skills and analysis, an approach inspired by his mentor at a number of investment banks, including experience help the team evaluate and colleague Neil Woodford.
Lucinda also investment opportunities and performance, An intensely competitive addition to the has significant experience working within with responsibilities including due diligence, Woodford team, Stephen is highly focused the industry itself, having worked at company valuation modelling, performance on performance and has a naturally AstraZeneca and Grnenthal Group.
challenging mind that endeavours to Lucinda graduated from University College, A qualified Chartered Accountant ACA, enhance the businesss collective London in 2004, with a BSc first class in Richard gained previous audit and due understanding of investment opportunities.
Physiology and Pharmacology and a PhD diligence experience during three years at He has a particular focus on the mature, in Pharmacology.
Shipleys, the accountant and advisory firm.
blue-chip elements of the portfolios.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 35 Investment team Harry Raikes Grant Wentzel Mohammad Sohail Investment Analyst Head of Trading Trading and Trade Operations Harry joined Woodford as an early-stage Grant has held a number of significant roles Mohammed joined as trading and dealing investment analyst in 2015 from Envestors, including Senior Vice President at JPMorgan specialist in 2015 from Ruffer LLP, where he an FCA-regulated corporate finance adviser, London and Director at Lehman Brothers had worked for the previous four years.
He where he evaluated business proposals London and Tokyo.
Before joining Woodford began his career as a relationship manager and conducted due diligence research for in May 2014, he had been a Director at at Fidelity before moving to Ruffer where he high-growth unquoted companies seeking Barclays London for five years.
Grant is became a dealer in 2013, responsible for all up to 10m in equity funding.
While studying an exceptionally experienced trader, areas of executions, including global equities, for a BSc in Economics and Finance at Bristol dedicated to making sure the fund fixed income and FX.
University, Harry completed internships at management team can execute its Mohammad graduated from Kingston Kite Lake Capital and Fidelity Biosciences investment strategy successfully.
The nature University in 2008 with a BA in Financial Venture Capital.
of his role at Woodford demands that he Economics and in 2010 completed an MSc understands and interprets short-term in Investment Management at Londons market influences, enabling him to keep the Cass Business School.
He also holds the fund managers informed with intra-day Investment Management Certificate.
market developments and changes in sentiment, thereby allowing them to focus on long-term fundamentals.
36 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc The directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2015.
38 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
