Top ten holdings Quoted holdings Prothena 6.3% Alkermes 3.7% Listed on NASDAQ Listed on NASDAQ A US biotechnology company focused on developing A US-listed biotech company with a diversified on-market immuno-therapies in central nervous system and chronic portfolio and substantial clinical pipeline of product inflammatory disorders.
Since we invested, the shares have candidates for chronic diseases such as schizophrenia, performed very well, on the back of data for its treatment depression, addiction and multiple sclerosis.
News flow for AL amyloidosis.
Meanwhile, PRX002, the Parkinsons during the year confirmed positive progress in its drug candidate that the company is developing in collaboration pipeline.
Meanwhile, its on-market products continue to with Roche, reported highly encouraging early clinical data.
perform well and Aristada recently received approval A relatively unknown US-listed company 12 months ago, from the FDA as a new extended release injection to its profile has been transformed by this data, attracting treat adults with schizophrenia.
the attention of the analyst community and investors.
Both assets have enormous commercial potential addressing Cost: 22.9m areas of high unmet clinical need.
Value as at year end: 30.2m Cost: 26.1m Value as at year end: 51.2mVernalis 3.4% Listed on AIM A UK biotechnology business with a rapidly maturing Circassia 4.0% extended release cough cold franchise.
Its lead product Listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange Tuzistra was approved by the FDA in April 2015 and is An allergy and asthma specialist, with its novel asthma commercially available for the first time this winter.
It also has diagnosis and management products sold direct in the another four cough cold products in development, a portfolio US and Germany and its lead immunotherapy targeting cat of central nervous system and oncology programmes in allergy in phase III.
House dust mite, grass and ragweed clinical trials and the company recently acquired the rights to allergy therapies have also completed phase IIb a once-a-day formulation of the antibiotic amoxicillin.
Recent strategic acquisitions have strengthened the investment case.
Aerocrine brings the Cost: 18.5m companys first approved product in the respiratory sector Value as at year end: 27.4m and provides commercial infrastructure in major markets for the entire company portfolio.
Meanwhile, Prosonix is a respiratory technology that provides additional product Idex 2.9% for that infrastructure.
Its first product was approved Listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange towards the end of 2015.
A Norwegian fingerprint imaging and recognition technology business.
The company continues to make positive progress Cost: 29.6m in its discussions with several mobile phone manufacturers Value as at year end: 32.7m which are evaluating the companys product capabilities.
Towards the end of the year, Idex announced that a tier-one mobile phone manufacturer had selected its technology for Verseon 3.9% use in a new device, representing a landmark design win and Listed on AIM further validation of Idexs technology.
We are increasingly A US-based but UK-listed platform drug development confident that the company can build a meaningful position business.
Verseons proprietary platform uses computerised in the fast-growing fingerprint sensor industry, which molecular modelling techniques to engineer novel drugs represents a multi-billion dollar market opportunity.
The company continues to advance its three drug programmes in Cost: 15.9m anti-coagulation, treatment of diabetic macular oedema Value as at year end: 23.4m and treatment of solid tumour cancers and is building the infrastructure to support further growth in its pipeline.
Cost: 31.7m Value as at year end: 32.1m 16 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Unquoted holdings Immunocore 5.0% Proton Partners 3.7% A UK clinical-stage biotechnology company which is the Proton Partners plans to introduce the UKs first private culmination of decades of research and development cancer centres offering high energy proton beam therapy around technology originally developed at Oxford University.
The introduction of new compact The company operates in the field of immuno-oncology equipment at lower cost is driving wider adoption of proton and is developing drugs that target cancer cells and redirect therapy, which represents a substitute for conventional the immune system to kill them.
Its well-validated platform radiotherapy with the potential to reduce damage to has already demonstrated proof of concept with good peripheral tissue and organs.
The business aims to be clinical data in melanoma patients and continues to make operational by 2017 and offer full-service cancer care.
progress on multiple partnered programmes with major pharmaceutical companies.
With funding now in place to Cost: 30.0m develop its lead candidates through the clinic and to market, Value as at year end: 30.0m the company has the potential to become a leading global % capital owned 49.18% commercial biotech company.
Turnover N A Pre-tax profit loss N A Cost: 35.3m Net assets attributable to shareholders N A Value as at year end: 40.9m Last financial year end N A % capital owned 7.20% Turnover 6.4m Pre-tax loss -7.2m Oxford Sciences Innovation 2.8% Net liabilities attributable to shareholders -2.1m A new company formed earlier this year as Oxford Last financial year end 30 Sept 2014 Universitys preferred partner for the provision of capital for spinout companies, based on research from its science and medical divisions.
The company represents a critical Oxford Nanopore 4.2% new link in Oxfords science innovation infrastructure and A business backed through its technology development an important part of the UKs burgeoning technology phase and now beginning commercialisation, Oxford commercialisation industry.
Nanopore is developing next generation technology for molecular diagnostics, with DNA sequencing being the first Cost: 23.0m application.
The company continues to make great progress Value as at year end: 23.0m with its technology, with its London Calling conference % capital owned 6.80% in May marking the commercial launch of its portable Turnover 0m MinION DNA sequencing device.
Academic validation of Pre-tax profit 0m the technology over the past 6-9 months has surpassed Net assets attributable to shareholders 0m any prior innovation in this field.
Combined with the Last financial year end 31 Dec 2014 functionality of a portable, low-cost, real-time sequencer, the MinION has potential across huge markets including the diagnosis of infectious diseases, food and crop monitoring and academic research.
We took part in the companys latest fundraising to support further product development, scale-up and commercial launch.
Cost: 34.4m Value as at year end: 34.3m % capital owned 3.53% Turnover N A Pre-tax loss -41.7m Net assets attributable to shareholders 65.6m Last financial year end 31 Dec 2014 % of total portfolio assets Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 17
