Key performance indicators KPIs The Board monitors success in Performance against its peers at each board meeting to implementing the Companys strategy Performance is measured against the ensure that the Company remains against a range of key performance Companys objective of 10% growth per year.
It is not indicators KPIs, which are viewed as During the period to 31 December 2015 expected that the ongoing charges will significant measures of success over the Company's net asset value declined by exceed 0.2%, which compares favourably the longer term.
A more detailed explanation of the with the Companys peers who operate with relative to the KPIs is also monitored Companys performance can be found in an average ongoing charges level of 0.47%.
over shorter periods, it is success over the chairman's statement and manager's As at 31 December 2015 the Companys the long term that is viewed as more review on pages 13 to 24. ongoing charge was 0.1%.
important, given the inherent volatility of short-term investment returns.
Performance against the Companys Gearing The principle KPIs are set out here: peers The Board reviews the Companys gearing The Company is positioned within the against its peers at each board meeting.
Association of Investment Companies AIC UK As at 31 December 2015 the Company had All Companies sector and the Board reviews no gearing whilst the average level of gearing the Companys performance against its peers amongst its peers was 7.0%.
For the period 21 April 2015 to 31 December 2015 the Portfolio diversification Companys net asset value At each board meeting the Board reviews underperformed the average net asset value the Companys portfolio to monitor the amongst its peers with a total return of Companys exposure to various sectors, -1.83% compared to the average net asset geographical areas, investment split between value return of 3.85% return amongst the listed and unlisted equities and early-growth, Companys peers.
early stage and mid-large companies to ensure there is sufficient diversification of Share price premium discount to net the Companys portfolio.
asset value per share The Board closely monitors the Companys For and on behalf of the Board of discount or premium to net asset value per directors by share.
Since the date the Company was admitted to the UK Official List 21 April 2015 Capita Company Secretarial Services to 31 December 2015 the Company issued Limited a total of 27,000,000 ordinary shares in Secretary order to meet natural market demand.
The 21 March 2016 Companys shares traded at an average premium of 8.46% to its net asset value cum income throughout the period under review.
Ongoing charges Woodford will not receive a fee for managing this investment trust, unless it delivers cumulative annual returns in excess of 10%.
The ongoing charges cover the general administrative and management costs associated with running the trust.
The Company calculates the ongoing charges ratio as a percentage of average shareholders funds and using expenses, excluding finance costs, performance fees and taxation in accordance with AIC guidelines.
This gives an indication as to the Companys expenses to its shareholders and potential investors.
The Board monitors the Companys estimated ongoing charges 28 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 29 30 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
