Board of directors Susan Searle Steven Harris Scott Brown Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Management Engagement Committee and member of the Management Engagement and Audit Committees and a member of the Audit Committee Engagement Committee Scott is Chief Executive of Nexeon, an Susan served as the Chief Executive of Steven is Chief Executive, co-founder Imperial College spin-out focused on Imperial Innovations from January 2002 to and shareholder of Circassia developing silicon anode technology for next July 2013, where she led funding rounds Pharmaceuticals plc.
He is a bioscience generation Li-ion battery technology.
During her tenure entrepreneur with extensive experience of his tenure, he has led the change in the Imperial Innovations invested 121m in a founding and leading specialty pharmaceutical companys strategy to successfully move portfolio of healthcare, engineering and companies.
Prior to co-founding Circassia from an IP licensing business model to one software businesses linked to major in 2006, he was a founding member of the of material production and supply.
team that grew Zeneus Pharma Ltd into a Scott was Executive Vice President at Previously she worked at Montech in leading specialty pharmaceuticals company.
Cambridge Display Technology CDT, Australia science commercialisation, Prior to Zeneus, he spent seven years at responsible for commercial and IP activities Signet Group plc, Bank of Nova Scotia and PowderJect Pharmaceuticals plc as Chief of the company.
Prior to CDT, Scott was Shell Chemicals in a variety of business Financial Officer, where he was a key Global R&D Director for the Electronic development and commercial roles.
member of the team that grew the private Materials Business at Dow Corning, a Susan currently serves as non-executive biotechnology organisation into an US-headquartered multinational corporation director of Horizon Discovery Group plc, integrated, profitable public company, which with over US$6 billion in annual revenues.
Benchmark Holdings PLC, QinetiQ Group became the worlds fifth largest vaccines Scott holds a PhD in Chemistry and is a plc and is a trustee of UK charity Fight for business before being acquired by Chiron Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
She is also Deputy Chair, and chair of Corporation in 2003.
Steven holds a BSc the Audit Committee, of Mercia from Southampton University and is a Technologies plc, an investment business Chartered Accountant, and a member of that invests in high growth technology the Institute of Chartered Accountants of businesses with a focus on the Midlands, England and Wales.
Susan has an MA in Chemistry from Oxford University.
32 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Dame Louise Makin Member of the Management Engagement and Audit Committees Louise joined BTG plc, a growing international specialist healthcare company in the FTSE 250, as Chief Executive in October 2004.
During her time with the company, Louise has overseen a strategic business review leading to a focus on life sciences, expansion into the US and a series of acquisitions.
Prior to joining BTG, Louise was with Baxter Healthcare initially as Vice President, Strategy & Business Development Europe and then as President, Biopharmaceuticals Europe, where she was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Louises previous roles include Director of Global Ceramics at English China Clay and a variety of positions at ICI between 1985 and 1998.
Louise is a non-executive director of Intertek Group, a trustee of the Outward Bound Trust.
Louise holds an MA and PhD in Materials Science and is an Honorary Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge.
Appointed 13 February 2015 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 33
