Statutory information Board members, and directors and officers insurance The names and biographical details of the Board members who served on the Board as at the period end can be found on pages 32 to 33.
Alexander Haynes and Nicholas Horton were appointed the Company's initial directors at the Company's inception on 26 January 2015.
Both Alexander Haynes and Nicholas Horton resigned from the Board on 13 February 2015 at which point the current Board members were appointed.
During the year under review the Company purchased and maintained directors' and officers' liability insurance for its directors and officers as permitted by Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company acquired specific Public Offering and Securities Insurance which commenced on 24 February 2015 with a five-year run-off period.
Status of the Company The Company is an investment company within the meaning of section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company operates as an investment trust in accordance with Sections 1158-1159 of the Corporation and Taxes Act 2010 and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs approved the Company as an investment trust upon its listing on 21 April 2015.
In the opinion of the directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so that it is able to maintain its status as an investment trust.
The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the provisions of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and has no employees.
The Company was incorporated in England & Wales on 26 January 2015 and started trading on 21 April 2015, immediately upon the Companys listing.
Internal controls and risk management The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risk on behalf of the Company.
Further details of the Companys principal risks can be found on pages to 26 to 27 and internal controls can be found on page 51.
Share capital voting and dividend As at 31 December 2015 the Company had 827 million ordinary shares in issue.
There are no other classes of shares in issue and no shares are held in Treasury.
On 23 February 2015 the Board was granted authority to issue up to an additional 80,000,000 ordinary shares at listing equating to a nominal value of 800,00, which equates to 10% of the shares issued at listing on 21 April 2015.
The directors are seeking to renew this authority which will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2016.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 39 The ordinary shares carry the right to receive dividends and have one voting right per ordinary share.
There are no shares which carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company.
The shares are freely transferable.
There are no restrictions or agreements between shareholders on the voting rights of any of the ordinary shares or the transfer of shares.
The Company does not have a fixed life nor is the Company subject to a continuation vote as can sometimes be required of investment companies in accordance with their Articles of Association.
On wind up, the ordinary shareholders are entitled to the capital of the Company.
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend in respect of the period end of 0.16 pence per share, payable on 10 June 2016 to shareholders who appear on the register on 20 May 2016.
Substantial share interest During the period to 31 December 2015, the Company received notification in accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital.
Holder Ordinary Securities Percentage Date notified shares lending of total voting rights BlackRock, Inc. 101,095,630 6,140,007 12.22% 17 December 2015 Following the year end, the company received a further notification from BlackRock, Inc. Holder Ordinary Securities Percentage Date notified shares lending of total voting rights BlackRock, Inc. 100,943,682 6,315,023 12.96% 11 March 2016 Securities lending is the act of loaning a stock, derivative or other security to an investor or firm.
Independent auditor The Companys independent auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, has expressed willingness to continue to act as the Companys auditor for the forthcoming financial year.
The Audit Committee has carefully considered the auditors appointment, as required in accordance with its Terms of Reference, and, having regard to its effectiveness and the services it has provided the Company during the period under review, has recommended to the Board that the independent auditor be appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
At the first Annual General Meeting resolutions are therefore to be proposed for its appointment and to authorise the directors to agree its remuneration for the forthcoming financial year.
In reaching its decision, the Audit Committee considered the points detailed on pages 53 to 55 of the Audit Committees report.
Audit information As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors who held office at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each director has taken all the steps required of a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Articles of Association Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be made by special resolution.
Global greenhouse gas emissions for the period from incorporation 26 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
40 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Going concern The company secretarial agreement can be terminated The financial statements have been prepared on a going by either party by providing six months written notice.
Having had regard to the Companys projected income and expenses, the directors consider that going Administrator concern is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable Northern Trust Global Services Limited the administrator, expectation that, with in excess of 805m of total assets, a company authorised and regulated by the FCA, has been 64% of which is realisable, the Company has adequate appointed as the administrator of the Company.
The administrator provides the day-to-day administration of the resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12-month period.
The directors shall continue to Company.
The administrator is also responsible for the adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing Companys general administrative functions, such as the calculation of the net asset value and maintenance of the the financial statements.
Companys accounting records, and ensures that the Company Viability statement complies with its continuing obligations as an investment In accordance with Principle 21 of the Association of trust other than monitoring close company status.
Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance published in February 2015 the AIC Code and provision The fee payable to the administrator is based on the C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published Companys net assets.
The fees for the period under review equated to 0.01% of the Companys net assets exclusive of by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the 'Code', the directors have assessed the prospects of the VAT and out of pocket expenses.
The administrator Company over the five-year period to 31 December 2020. agreement can be terminated by either party by providing six months written notice.
The directors consider that a period of at least five years is required to assess the viability of an investment company that holds predominantly young unquoted or small to Manager medium sized companies, as they believe this to be a Capita Financial Managers Limited the manager, a UK-based Company authorised and regulated by the FCA, reasonable period of time for such young companies to make meaningful progress on the journey towards fulfilling has been appointed the Companys manager for the their long-term potential.
The manager monitors the portfolio manager of the Company and ensures that the Companys In its assessment of the viability of the Company, the directors assets are valued appropriately in accordance with the have considered each of the Companys principal risks and relevant regulations and guidance.
The fees payable to the manager are on a sliding scale based on the Companys uncertainties detailed on pages 26 to 27 and in particular the proportion of Woodford Investment Management LLPs impact of the total collapse of one or more of the Companys significant holdings.
The Board has considered the gross assets.
Throughout the period the fees payable were Companys likely income and expenditure.
The Board is based on 0.0125% of the Companys total assets.
The managers agreement can be terminated by either party particularly mindful that a significant proportion of the Companys portfolio comprises cash and equity assets providing three months written notice.
traded on public markets 64% as at 31 December 2015, Portfolio manager which are easily realisable and that can be sold to meet funding requirements if required.
The Companys portfolio manager is Woodford Investment Management LLP the portfolio manager, an investment management firm authorised and regulated The Board has given careful consideration to the Companys by the FCA.
Neil Woodford has primary responsibility for estimated annual expenditure on operating costs, the Companys risks and internal controls, the Companys asset management of the Companys portfolio.
Further details allocation and diversification, portfolio risk, financial controls, of how the portfolio manager is remunerated can be found in note 4 on page 75.
The portfolio managers agreement and the restrictions set to the Companys level of gearing.
Following the Boards detailed analysis, it has concluded may be terminated after the Companys third anniversary that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will following its listing by either party providing three months written notice.
be able to continue to operate and to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period to 31 December 2020.
Depositary The Companys depositary is Northern Trust Global Services Management and administration Limited the depositary, a company authorised and Company secretary Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited the company regulated by the FCA.
The depositary provides custody secretary has been appointed as the corporate company services to the Company.
The fee payable to the depositary is based on the Companys net assets.
The fees throughout secretary of the Company on the basis of a fee of 45,000 per annum exclusive of VAT and out of pocket expenses the period under review equated to 0.01% of the Companys plus any additional ad hoc expenses that may fall outside the net assets exclusive of VAT and out of pocket expenses.
The depositary agreement can be terminated by either scope of their agreement that are normally charged on a time-spent basis unless otherwise agreed with the Board, party by providing six months written notice.
rising to 55,000 in the second year of its engagement.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 41 Change of control There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might be affected by a change of control of the Company.
Post-year end events Save as otherwise disclosed, there have been no important events to disclose since the period end under review.
Regulatory disclosures information to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 The disclosures below are made in compliance with the requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
42 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Listing rule 9.8.
4 1 The Company has not capitalised any interest in the period under review.
4 2 unaudited The Company has not published any unaudited financial information in financial information either a class 1 circular or a prospectus or in respect of any profit forecast or profit estimate in accordance with listing rule 9.2.
4 3 - deleted This provision has been deleted.
4 4 incentive The Company has no incentive schemes in operation.
4 5 and 6 - waiver No director of the Company has waived or agreed to waive any current or future emoluments from the Company.
4 7, 8 and 9 During the period under review, the Company issued a total of 27,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 270,000 and an average price of 112.82 pence per share for a total consideration of 32,744,768.75 including commission and issue costs.
Further details can be found on page 39.
4 9 The Company is not part of a group of companies.
These Listing Rules relate to companies therefore do not apply.
that are part of a group of companies 9.8.
4 10 During the period under review, there were no contracts of significance subsisting to which the Company is a party and in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested or between the Company and a controlling shareholder.
4 11 This provision is not applicable to the Company.
4 12 and 13 During the period under review, there were no arrangements under waiving dividends which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends or future dividends.
4 14 This provision is not applicable to the Company.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 43 Annual General Meeting AGM Resolution 12: authority to disapply The minimum price which may be paid is The Companys AGM will be held on 9 May pre-emption rights 1 pence per share, being the nominal price 2016 at 11am at Sad Business School, Prior to the Companys listing, the Board per share.
was authorised to issue shares for cash up to 10% following the placing and offer for The decision as to whether to buy back any The following information to be discussed subscription on a non-pre-emptive basis.
ordinary shares will be at the discretion at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting This authority is due to expire at the of the Board.
Ordinary shares bought back is important and requires your immediate conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2016. in accordance with the authority granted to attention.
If you are in any doubt about the Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of AGM the Board will either be held in treasury or action you should take, you should seek is a special resolution and will, if passed, cancelled.
If the shares are held in treasury, advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, authorise the directors for a period of 15 they may be reissued from treasury but will solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser months from the date on which the only be reissued at a price that is in excess authorised under the Financial Services and Resolution is passed or until the following of the Companys then prevailing net asset Markets Act 2000 as amended.
AGM to be held in 2017, if earlier to allot up value.
The Company will fund any buy back to 82,699,999 ordinary shares of 1p each, by using the Companys cash resources or If you have sold or transferred all of your or 10% of the Companys shares in issue with utilising the Companys loan facility.
ordinary shares in the Company, you should a nominal value of 826,999.99 for cash on pass this document, together with any other a non-pre-emptive basis, which will replace Resolution 14 accompanying documents including the the current authority granted to the directors Resolution 14 set out in the Notice of AGM form of proxy, at once to the purchaser prior to the Companys listing.
is a special resolution and will, if passed, or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank allow the Company to hold General Meetings or other agent through whom the sale or The directors intend to use this authority other than Annual General Meetings on transfer was effected, for onward at a time when they believe it to be in the a minimum notice period of 14 clear days, transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
best interest of the shareholders as a whole rather than 21 clear days as required by Resolutions relating to the following items and to satisfy demand for the Companys the Companies Act 2006.
The approval will of special business will be proposed at the shares.
The shares will only be issued at be effective until the Companys next AGM forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
par or at a premium to net asset value at to be held in 2017.
The directors will only call the time of issue.
General Meetings on 14 clear days notice Resolution 11: authority to allot shares when they consider it to be in the best Prior to the Companys listing, the Board Resolution 13: authority to buy back shares interest of the Companys shareholders was authorised to issue shares up to 10% of Prior to the Companys listing, the Board and will only do so if the Company offers shares in issue following the placing and offer was authorised to buy back shares for facilities for all shareholders to vote by for subscription.
This authority is due to cancellation of up to 14.99% following the electronic means.
expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be placing and open offer.
This authority is due held in 2016.
Resolution 11 set out in the to expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be The full text of the resolutions being Notice of AGM is an ordinary resolution and held in 2016.
Resolution 13 set out in the proposed at the AGM can be found on will, if passed, authorise the directors for a Notice of AGM is a special resolution and pages 93 to 97. period of 15 months from the date on which will, if passed, authorise the directors for the Resolution is passed or until the a period of 15 months from the date on The Board considers that all of the following AGM to be held in 2017, if earlier which the resolution is passed or until the resolutions described above and disclosed to allot up to 82,699,999 ordinary shares or following AGM to be held in 2017, if earlier on pages 93 to 97 are in the best interest 10% of the Companys shares in issue, with to buy back up to 123,967,300 ordinary of the Companys shareholders and are likely a nominal value of 826,999.99, which will shares of 1p each, or 14.99% of the to promote the success of the Company.
replace the current authority granted to the Companys shares in issue with a nominal The Board recommends that you vote in directors prior to the Companys listing.
value of 1,239,673, which will replace the favour of the resolutions as they intend to current authority granted to the directors do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Since the initial authority was granted prior to the Companys listing.
By order of the Board The maximum price exclusive of expenses The shares will only be issued at par or at which may be paid by the Company in relation Capita Company Secretarial Services a premium to net asset value at the time of to any such purchase is the higher of: Limited issue and at a time when the directors i 5% above the average of the market Company secretary believe it to be in the best interest of the value of shares for the five business 21 March 2016 Companys shareholders.
days before the day of purchase: or ii The higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
44 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 45
