235876 Finsbury WWH pp23-pp29new 03 07 2015 12:33 Page 23 2 Governance Board of Directors The Board of Directors, all of whom are non-executive, supervise the management of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC and look after the interests of shareholders.
Sir Martin Smith Sarah Bates Jo Dixon Sarah Bates joined the Board in 2013.
She is Jo Dixon joined the Board in 2004.
She is Chairman currently Chairman of JPMorgan American Chairman of the Audit and Nominations Sir Martin Smith joined the Board in 2007.
He Investment Trust plc, St Jamess Place plc and Committees and also the Senior Independent has been involved in the financial services of Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc.
Jo is currently a non-executive sector for more than 30 years.
He was a also a non-executive Director of Polar Capital Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee founder and senior partner of Phoenix Technology Trust plc and Development of Standard Life Equity Income Trust PLC.
She Securities, becoming Chairman of European Securities plc and is a former Chairman of the is also a non-executive Director of JPMorgan Investment Banking for Donaldson, Lufkin & Association of Investment Companies.
She is European Investment Trust plc, Strategic Jenrette DLJ following the acquisition of a member of the Universities Superannuation Equity Capital plc, F&C Global Smaller Phoenix by DLJ.
He was subsequently a Fund Investment Committee and an adviser to Companies PLC and Plutus Resources plc.
founder of New Star Asset Management Ltd. the East Riding Pension Fund and has a Jo is a graduate Chartered Accountant having and has a number of other directorships with number of voluntary appointments on charity trained with Touche Ross in London.
Her and business interests, including Chairman of or pension fund investment committees career has spanned strategic development, GP Bullhound, and directorships with Oxford including that of the Cancer Research UK finance and commercial management at a Capital Partners and Episode 1.
She attended Cambridge number of companies including The Eden His pro-bono interests include serving as University and has an MBA from London Project, Serco Group plc and Newcastle United Chairman of the Orchestra of the Age of Business School.
PLC and also within the Investment Bank and Enlightenment and serving on the boards of a main group of NatWest.
number of other arts organisations including the Royal Academy of Music and the Glyndebourne Arts Trust.
He chaired the English National Opera.
He is a Governor of the Ditchley Foundation.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations and Management Engagement & Remuneration Committees Meeting Attendance The number of scheduled meetings held during the year of the Board and its Committees, and each Directors attendance level, is shown below: Management Engagement & Nominations Remuneration Type and number of meetings Board Audit Committee Committee Committee held in 2014 15 4 2 1 1 Sir Martin Smith 4 2 1 1 Sarah Bates 4 2 1 1 Jo Dixon 4 2 1 1 Dr David Holbrook 4 2 1 1 Samuel D. Isaly 3 Doug McCutcheon 4 2 1 1 All of the serving Directors attended the Annual General Meeting held on 14 July 2014.
In addition to the above, a number of adhoc special purpose Board and committee meetings were held during the year for the approval of documents, the allotment of new shares and the approval of regulatory announcements.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 23 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp23-pp29new 03 07 2015 12:33 Page 24 Dr David Holbrook Samuel D. Isaly Doug McCutcheon Dr David Holbrook joined the Board in 2007.
Sam Isaly joined the Board at launch in Doug McCutcheon joined the Board in 2012.
He is a qualified physician and a Director of 1995.
Sam is Managing Partner of OrbiMed Based in Toronto, Canada, Doug is the MTI Partners Limited, a leading technology Capital LLC, the Companys Portfolio President of Longview Asset Management venture capital investor.
He attended Manager, and has been a worldwide Ltd. and Gormley Limited, independent London and Oxford Universities, and has an healthcare investment specialist for more investment firms.
Until 2012, Doug was an MBA from Harvard Business School.
He has than 30 years having worked in New York investment banker at S. G. Warburg and then held senior positions in a number of blue and Europe with Chase Manhattan, Socit UBS for 25 years, most recently as the head chip biopharmaceutical organisations Gnrale, Crdit Suisse and UBS Warburg.
of Healthcare Investment Banking for including GlaxoSmithKline and Roche.
Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific.
Doug is involved in several philanthropic organisations with a focus on healthcare and education.
He attended Queens University, Canada.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations and Management Engagement & Remuneration Committees DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND INTERESTS The Directors remuneration, their beneficial interests and those of their families are set out below.
Further information on the remuneration received by the Directors can be found on pages 40 and 41.
Samuel D. Isaly is a partner in OrbiMed Capital LLC which is party to the Portfolio Management Agreement with the Company and receives fees as described on pages 26 and 27.
A number of the partners at OrbiMed Capital LLC have a minority financial interest totalling 20% in Frostrow Capital LLP, the Companys AIFM.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 24
