235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:31 Page 12 Portfolio Managers All of the healthcare sub-sectors in Review which the Company invests were Samuel D. Isaly positive contributors to performance.
All of the healthcare sub-sectors in which the Company Review of Investments invests were positive contributors to performance.
Leading the Performance Review way was biotechnology, owing to a mix of sector allocation Despite some fears of share price retracement, or even a stock specifically overweight and stock picking.
This sector market crash, global equity markets moved higher over the contributed nearly 24% of positive returns during the year year ended 31 March 2015.
That said, increased volatility was through a roughly equal combination of both large evident during the year as market jitters over a host of macro capitalisation companies, profitably biotechnology companies concerns were observed.
Geopolitical unrest, uncertain and emerging, speculative biotechnology companies.
economic growth, oil prices, and central bank policy all Pharmaceutical companies were second, contributing nearly created headwinds over the period.
However, none of these 20%, from a mix of large capitalisation companies, specialty issues were able to fully derail global equity markets and pharmaceutical companies and generic pharmaceutical major indices were all able to post record highs during the companies.
Rounding out the top three in terms of sub-sector year.
The MSCI World Index had a total return of c. 20% in contribution was healthcare services with almost 7%.
Here, sterling terms c. 6.7% in U. S. dollar terms.
the mix was equal from both healthcare facilities and With regard to the healthcare sector, equity returns continued managed care.
their multi-year trends of outperformance versus the broader Geographically speaking, over 75% of the Companys returns markets.
Historically, a defensive sector, it is unusual for over the past 12 months were from U. S. domiciled securities healthcare to outperform during periods in which the broad while 17 other countries represented the remainder, with market is posting positive returns, let alone for multiple years India, China, and Japan making the most notable impact.
However, the fundamentals of this sector are undeniably positive as an unprecedented run of innovation has The top contributor in 2015 was the specialty pharmaceutical fostered an environment of new product flow, in particular new company Actavis PLC.
The companys operations are based in drugs, which has not been seen in decades.
The Companys the U. S. but the corporation is domiciled in Ireland, allowing for benchmark, the MSCI World Healthcare Index, measured on a a lower than normal corporate tax rate.
Smart management net total return, sterling adjusted basis, was 35.9% 20.9% in used this leverage to execute numerous accretive acquisitions U. S. dollar terms during the year.
during the year, including the mega-acquisitions of Forest Laboratories, Inc. for U. S$25 billion and Allergan, Inc. for The Company performed even better, with a net asset value U. S. $70.5 billion.
Combined with operational excellence and per share total return of 53.0% and a share price total return deft succession at the CEO level, the companys share price of 49.8% during the year.
climbed over 60% in sterling terms over the year.
Since the Companys inception in 1995 to 28 April 2015, its 20th Medivation Inc. a California-based biotechnology company, has anniversary, the total return of the Companys net asset value become a global leader in the treatment of prostate cancer.
The per share is 2,103.8%, equivalent to a compound annual return stock was a close second in terms of contribution in the year.
This compares to the blended benchmark rise of First launched in 2012, Xtandi enzalutamide has become the 947.7%, equivalent to a compound annual return of 11.9%.
standard of care in the treatment of prostate cancer.
During See page 2 for further information 2015, the company was able to expand the original indication for the drug to earlier lines of therapy and also demonstrate Contribution to Performance proof-of-concept efficacy in breast cancer as well as superiority Sources of positive contribution in 2015 were emblematic of over an incumbent therapy.
Most importantly, the company has the positive fundamentals of the group merger and been able to post quarterly Xtandi sales that continue to meet acquisition M&A, new product launches, strong product or exceed investor expectations.
This combination of positive pipelines, and the net positive impact of the Affordable Care data and outstanding sales yielded a stock that more than Act in the U. S. doubled in the year.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 12 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:31 Page 13 1 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review continued addition, the new CEO presented initial 2015 guidance well Another growing biotechnology company, Regeneron below expectations.
The stock fell sharply in January and was Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was a top contributor to performance down 20% in sterling terms in the year.
Given the sell-off in for the year.
Led by the blockbuster sales of the injectable the stock, with expectations reset, and new management on blindness treatment, Eyelea aflibercept, the New York-based board, we held our position.
company did not rest on its laurels.
Rather, investments in Research and Development R&D have created one of the Vocera Communications Inc. is a provider of voice industrys best pipelines with late stage product candidates for communication systems, secure messaging applications, and the treatment of high cholesterol, rheumatoid arthritis, and care transition solutions for hospitals and healthcare facilities.
atopic dermatitis, each with blockbuster potential.
The result Importantly, system purchases are typically considered part of was an increase of nearly 70% in sterling terms in the a facilitys capital budget.
As a result, when U. S. hospital companys share price in the year.
budgets tightened in early 2014 and available capital dollars The acquisition of InterMune Inc. by Swiss-pharma giant, were allocated toward other healthcare information Roche Holding AG, represents another top contributor in the technology initiatives such as electronic health records, Vocera period.
InterMune was the leader in the treatment of a severe posted a sizable sales miss and reduced its annual guidance.
lung disease known as pulmonary fibrosis, a chronic condition Shares declined materially post-announcement, down over that typically results in the need for a lung transplant and or 30% in sterling terms over the fiscal year.
The companys lead product, Esbriet pirfenidone, has Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Company Ltd. or shown impressive efficacy and survival data for this serious simply Weigao, is a leading medical technology company in disease.
Roche was clearly attracted by Esbriet: a high margin, China, with the largest market share in single-use medical best-in-class, specialty care product, with survival data and consumables, orthopaedic and dialysis products.
In August 2014, Roche acquired experienced a volatile 2014, as a result of sales channel InterMune for nearly U. S. $8 billion, representing greater than restructuring and increasing competition in single-use a 50% premium to the share price.
As a result, revenues and earnings fell HCA Holdings Inc. is the largest public hospital operator in the short of expectations with company management cutting U. S. Company fundamentals strengthened significantly guidance for two consecutive quarters during the year.
The throughout the year, benefiting from accelerating admissions stock ended the year down 13% in sterling terms.
growth as more individuals gain health insurance coverage Biosensors International Group Ltd. is a Singapore-based under the Affordable Care Act.
Additionally, bad debt expense drug-eluting stent company, with sales footprints in China, is improving as fewer uninsured patients are being treated and Europe, and Japan.
Biosensors experienced significant decline thus fewer patient bills go unpaid.
Finally, the stock was added in profits in 2014, as a result of new competitive product to the S&P 500 Index in January 2015.
The combination of entrance in Japan and rising operating costs.
New executives stronger revenue and profitability propelled HCAs shares over have been employed including a replacement for the CEO 60% in sterling terms during the year.
in an effort to turn around the operation.
The stock closed Detractors from performance were modest, especially relative down 16% in sterling terms over the year.
Medical devices and emerging Ophthotech is an emerging biotechnology company that markets were most noteworthy.
Stock picking, rather than focuses on developing novel therapies for indications in the allocation, was the main reason for the negative contribution.
The companys lead drug, Fovista anti-PDGF therapy, is Insulet manufactures the OmniPod insulin pump system, being tested for the treatment for a type of blindness called which is a wireless, tubing-free alternative to traditional pump age-related macula edema.
The negative contribution from the therapy, primarily targeting Type I diabetics.
Last autumn, stock was due to timing.
The original purchase of the stock Insulet announced a CEO change which was viewed favourably coincided with a short-term broad sell off in biotechnology by investors.
However, after a thorough review of the business stocks.
There was no company specific news that led to the the new CEO announced that the prior management team had weakness in the stock.
The stock sold off 10% in sterling been misleading investors.
Prior management claimed that terms from our purchase price.
the increase in the number of new OmniPod patients was growing in double digits, when in fact it was declining.
In Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 13 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
