235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:31 Page 15 1 Strategic Report Portfolio Focus Immuno-oncology We are in the midst of a revolution in the treatment of cancer.
PD-1 receptor, rendering the T-cell inactive and keep them An old oncology target, the human immune system, has from attacking the tumor.
A PD-1 inhibitor blocks that been resurrected from the scrap heap of drug development interaction, preventing the signal from transferring from the disappointments.
The immune system has been of interest to tumour cell, allowing the T-cell to do its job, namely researchers for decades and the notion of coercing it to fight destroying the cancer.
disease was spectacular in its simplicity: boost a persons own innate immunity to destroy foreign tumour cells.
However, multiple attempts in manipulating or drugging the bodys own immune system to ward off invading cancer all shared the same result: abject failure.
Things changed during the last decade, however, when Source: www.
com investigators from a New Jersey-based biotechnology company, Medarex, first showed that targeting a specific The lead antibody that targets PD-1, now known as receptor on T-cells part of the immune system could in fact Opdivo nivolumab, was discovered by Japan-based destroy cancer cells.
Normally functioning T-cells are critical Ono Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and was licensed to Medarex in in recognising and destroying tumour cells.
Opdivo has pushed the efficacy bar even higher, in terms cancer, however, a stopping mechanism in the T-cell may be of both the number of patients who respond to treatment as turned on, compromising the immune system, thereby well as the durability of that response.
Data in the treatment of allowing tumour cells to divide and proliferate.
Medarex metastatic melanoma showed that the level of patients alive showed that by inhibiting that stopping mechanism by after 2 years of therapy was approximately 40%.
Moreover, the targeting the CTLA-4 receptor, through a so called same data set showed, incredibly, that after 3 years, 40% of checkpoint inhibitor, one could restore normal function.
patients were still alive source: CHECKMATE-003 ASCO 2014.
This flattening of the curve is further evidence of the curative Yervoy ipilimumab is a CTLA-4 inhibitor discovered and nature of this therapy.
Opdivo received its first global approval developed by Medarex.
The antibody turns off this inhibitory in 2014 in Japan and U. S. for the treatment of melanoma.
mechanism and allows T-cells to continue to destroy cancer cells.
Bristol-Myers Squibb acquired the company in 2009 and The revolution will likely not end with the single agent therapy Yervoy was approved in 2011 by the U. S. Food and Drug described above.
Rather, proof-of-concept data has been Administration FDA for the treatment of metastatic generated in combination therapy in a host of cancers, melanoma a deadly form of skin cancer after pivotal clinical including melanoma.
Specifically, when taken together, the trial data showed unprecedented durability of efficacy in the combination of Yervoy and Opdivo increased the percentage of patients who responded to therapy.
In other words, the drug patients alive after 2 years to 88% source: CHECKMATE-004 proved to be a putative cure, at least in some patients.
This type of long term survival, essentially a data showed that nearly 25% of patients were alive after 2 years.
doubling of single agent therapy, is truly ground breaking and will set a new standard of care in the treatment of melanoma.
com Today, this therapeutic field is known as immuno-oncology or IO and researchers are using immunotherapies to treat and potentially cure many types of cancers.
The next checkpoint inhibitor is proving to be more provocative than the first.
PD-1 or programmed death-1 is another receptor found on T-cells in the human body.
Some cancer cells have the ability to produce a ligand or molecule that binds to the Source: Merck Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 15 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:32 Page 16 In addition to melanoma, Opdivo is now approved for the continues to be the engine of discovery in immunotherapy, treatment of specific types of lung cancer.
Pivotal data for this now within the walls of its acquirer.
Novel immuno-oncology indication was so provocative, that the clinical trial was targets such as LAG3, TIM3, KIR and others are likely to stopped early due to overwhelming positive efficacy.
The FDA be the checkpoint inhibitors of the future and Bristol-Myers was so impressed with the survival benefit generated by Squibb has already commenced early phase clinical trials to Opdivo that within a two-month span, the trial results were explore their potential.
disclosed to the FDA and reviewed and approved.
This is an unprecedented timeline for a drug approval, which is typically at least 6 months even for the most important lifesaving drugs.
The list of potential cancer types in which Opdivo may provide increased survival benefit is long, including but not limited to kidney, ovarian, gastric, head & neck, breast, brain, pancreatic, colon, and bladder.
The efficacy of checkpoint inhibitors is not likely to be just for solid tumours.
In fact, early data has been generated for haematological tumours, or blood cancers, such as Hodgkins Lymphoma.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Source: Five Prime Bristol-Myers Squibb is at the forefront of this immunotherapy revolution.
Thanks to their prescient Ono Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Ono acquisition of Medarex, the company possesses rights to Yervoy, Opdivo, and a host of next generation antibodies Antibodies against PD-1 are in fact, a distinctly Japanese targeting a host of other immune cell receptors.
Collaboration between scientists from both Ono and Kyoto University leveraged the work of Dr. Tasuko Honjo The market opportunity for these drugs is immense.
Yervoy who has been credited in discovering Opdivo.
for example, which launched in 2011, reached blockbuster status in only two years with sales of nearly U. S. $1 billion in 2013.
If Yervoy becomes a staple of combination therapy in other tumour types, the sales potential rises to U. S. $5 billion and above.
The implications for the companys financials from Opdivo are even more significant.
Opdivo could be become the backbone of immunotherapy for a dozen tumour types.
If so, the sales potential could eclipse U. S. $10 billion.
To put the opportunity into better perspective, the sales base Source: Kyoto University for Bristol-Myers Squibb is estimated to be U. S. $15 billion.
In May 2005, Ono entered into a collaborative research Thus, the company has the potential to double its revenues by agreement with Medarex acquired by Bristol-Myers Squibb in the end of the decade.
This cannot be said of any other large 2009 to research and develop a fully human anti-PD-1 antibody capitalisation pharmaceutical company on the planet.
drug with a novel mechanism of action with promising potential for the treatment of cancer.
The companies have conducted Opdivo and Yervoy are the present opportunity for the successful clinical trials with Opdivo on malignant tumours in company.
But the immuno-oncology revolution will likely not the U. S. and Japan, respectively, which culminated in the first end there.
Rather, we see additional immuno-oncology ever approval of a PD-1 inhibitor.
Fittingly, Japan regulatory targets which may offer additional efficacy and or safety authorities were the first to approve the drug in July 2014. advantages, likely in combination with already approved immuno-oncology therapies.
Critically, Bristol-Myers Squibb is at the forefront of these efforts, as well as Medarex which Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 16 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:32 Page 17 1 Strategic Report Portfolio Focus continued Source: Ono Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.
com In order to accelerate the global development of Opdivo, the companies entered into an agreement in September 2011 to expand the territory of Bristol-Myers Squibb for development and marketing into the world except Japan, Korea and Taiwan.
Ono retained the right to exclusively develop and market Opdivo in Japan, Korea and Taiwan.
Thus, the opportunity for Ono is twofold: a highly profitable, double-digit royalty stream from ex-Asia end user sales from Bristol-Myers Squibb and domestic sales generated from the second largest pharmaceutical market in the world.
Samuel D. Isaly OrbiMed Capital LLC Portfolio Manager 24 June 2015 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 17 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
