235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:31 Page 11 1 Strategic Report OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed was founded in 1989 and has evolved over time to be trading, finance, and compliance.
This includes over 20 degree the largest dedicated healthcare investment firm in the holders with MD and or PhD credentials, healthcare industry world.
OrbiMed has managed the Companys portfolio since veterans, and finance professionals with over 20 years of its launch in 1995.
Strong returns and many investment experience.
awards signify the aggregate talents of this exceptional team.
The firm has a global investment horizon and the OrbiMed OrbiMed had over U. S. $14 billion in assets under footprint now spans three continents with offices in New York, management as of 31 March 2015, across a range of funds, San Francisco, Herzliya, Shanghai, and Mumbai.
including investment trusts, hedge funds, mutual funds, The team that manages the Companys and private equity funds.
portfolio is as follows: Samuel D. Isaly, is the Managing Partner at Investment Strategy and Process OrbiMed and also a Director of the Company.
Within the guidelines set by the Board, the OrbiMed team Mr Islays biographical details can be found on work constantly to identify sources of outperformance, or page 24 of this Annual Report.
alpha, with a focus on fundamental research.
In healthcare, there are many primary sources of alpha generation, especially in therapeutics.
Clinical events such as the Sven H. Borho, CFA, is a founding Partner of publication of new clinical trial data is a prominent example OrbiMed.
He heads the public equity team and historically has been the largest source of share price and he is the portfolio manager for OrbiMed's volatility.
Regulatory events, such as new drug approvals by public equity and hedge funds.
Sven has U. S. European, or Japanese regulatory authorities are also played an integral role in the growth of OrbiMed's asset stock moving events.
Subsequent new product launches are management activities.
He started his career in 1991 when carefully tracked and forecasted.
Other sources include legal he joined OrbiMed's predecessor firm as a Senior Analyst events and, of course, merger and acquisition activity.
covering European pharmaceutical firms and biotechnology The team has a global focus with a universe of coverage that companies worldwide.
In 1993, Sven was promoted to covers the entire spectrum of companies, from early stage portfolio manager.
He studied business administration at companies with pre-clinical assets to full integrated Bayreuth University in Germany and received a M. Sc.
The universe of actively Econs.
Accounting and Finance, from The London School covered companies is approaching 1,000. of Economics: he is a citizen of both Germany and Sweden.
OrbiMed emphasises investments in companies with underappreciated products in the pipeline, high quality Trevor M. Polischuk, Ph.
D. is a Public Equity management teams, and adequate financial resources.
A Partner focused on the global pharmaceutical disciplined portfolio construction process is utilised to ensure industry.
Previously, he worked at Lehman the portfolio is focused on high conviction positions.
Finally, Brothers as a Senior Research Analyst the portfolio is subject to a rigorous risk management covering the U. S. pharmaceutical industry.
Trevor began his process to moderate portfolio volatility.
career at Warner Lambert as a member of the Pharmaceutical Global Marketing Planning team.
In this role, The Team he coordinated marketing activities for the second generation gabapentinoid product, Pregabalin.
Trevor holds a Doctorate The OrbiMed Public Equity Investment Team continues to in Neuropharmacology & Gross Human Anatomy and an expand.
Led by founding partner, Samuel D. Isaly, now over M. B.
A. from Queen's University, Canada.
80 investment professionals cover all aspects of research, Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 11 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
