Strategic Report Our Strategy and Business Model Strategic Report The discusses the following areas: Our strategy and business model Operational and marketing review Store performance Financial review Going concern basis Principal risks and uncertainties Corporate social responsibility Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by: James Gibson John Trotman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Our Strategy assets are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger urban conurbations, Our strategy from the outset has been to develop Big Yellow into the particularly London, drive higher revenues and higher operating margins.
market leading self storage brand, which we have achieved with We continue to believe that the medium term opportunity to create unprompted awareness of over seven times that of our nearest shareholder value will be principally achieved by leasing up existing competitor source: YouGov survey, May 2015.
We concentrate stores to drive revenue, the majority of which flows through to the on developing our stores in main road locations with high visibility, bottom line given that our operating and central overhead costs are where our distinctive branding generates high awareness of Big Yellow.
already largely fixed and embedded.
Self storage demand from businesses and individuals at any given Our key objectives remain: store is linked in part to local economic activity, consumer and leveraging our market leading brand position to generate new business confidence, all of which are inter-related.
Fluctuations in prospects, principally from our online mobile and desktop housing activity whether in the rented or owner occupied sector are platforms: also a factor and in our view influence the top slice of demand over focusing on training, selling skills, and customer satisfaction to and above a core occupancy.
This has been demonstrated by the maximise prospect conversion and referrals: resilience of our like-for-like stores since September 2007 despite a growing occupancy and net rent so as to drive revenue collapse in housing activity and GDP over the period 2007 to 2009. optimally at each store: Local GDP and hence business and housing activity are greatest in maintaining a focus on cost control, so revenue growth is the larger urban conurbations and in particular London and the South transmitted through to earnings growth: maintaining a conservative capital structure in the business East.
Furthermore, people and businesses are space constrained in with Group pre-interest cash flow cover of a minimum of five these more expensive areas.
Barriers to entry in terms of times annual interest expense: and competition for land and difficulty around obtaining planning are producing sustainable returns for shareholders through a low also highest in more urbanised locations.
leverage, low volatility, high distribution REIT.
Over the last 16 years we have created a portfolio of 70 purpose built In the fifteen years since flotation in May 2000, Big Yellow has prime Big Yellow self storage centres, largely freehold and focussed delivered a Total Shareholder Return TSR, including dividends on London, the South East and large metropolitan cities.
61% of our reinvested, of 15.2% per annum, in aggregate 740% at the closing current store revenue derives from within the M25: for London and price of 647.5p on 31 March 2015.
This compares to 7.8% per annum the South East, the proportion of current store revenue is 80%.
for the FTSE Real Estate Index and 4.8% per annum for the FTSE All The REVPAF performance of our stores in London was more resilient Share index over the same period.
This demonstrates the power of over the downturn than in the regions.
compounding over the longer term.
Our Big Yellow stores are on average 63,000 sq ft, compared to an industry average of 41,000 sq ft source: The Self Storage Association 2015 UK Annual Survey.
The upside from filling our larger than average sized stores is, in our view, only possible in large metropolitan markets, where self storage demand from domestic and business customers is the highest.
As the operating costs of our 18 Business Model Our.
Attractive market dynamics UK self storage penetration in key urban conurbations remains relatively low.
Very limited new supply coming onto the market.
Sector growth is positive, with increasing domestic demand.
Our competitive advantage Industrys most recognised brand.
Prominent stores on arterial or main roads, with extensive frontage and high visibility.
Largest share of web traffic from mobile and desktop platforms.
Excellent customer service, customer feedback programme with store level customer satisfaction surveys.
Largest UK self storage footprint by Maximum Lettable Area MLA capacity.
Primarily freehold estate concentrated in London and South East and other large metropolitan cities.
Larger average store capacity economies of scale, higher operating margins.
Secure financing structure with strong balance sheet.
Average length of stay for existing customers of 22 months.
29% of customers in stores two year length of stay.
Low bad debt expense 0.15% of revenue in the year.
Strong growth opportunities Driving REVPAF with a focus on occupancy growth.
Yield management as occupancy increases.
Demand increasing with improving economic activity.
Growth in national accounts and business customer base.
Increasing the platform from the Groups resources.
Continuing investment in our 20% Armadillo joint ventures.
Conversion into Freehold assets for high operating margins and operational advantage quality earnings.
Low technology & obsolescence product, maintenance capex fully expensed.
Annual compound adjusted eps growth of 17% since 2004 5.
Annual compound cash flow growth of 16% since 2004 5 19 Strategic Report continued Our Strategy and Business Model continued The self storage market It has decreased this year by 3.5%, principally reflecting the In the recently published 2015 Self Storage Association UK Survey, acquisition of the Big Yellow Limited Partnership stores at a lower only 45% of those surveyed had a reasonable or good awareness of average net rent per sq ft, being a regional portfolio.
On a like for like self storage, in line with findings from our own research.
Furthermore, basis, net rent has grown by 2.4% this year.
Our key focus is on only 6% of the 2,151 adults surveyed were currently using self continuing to grow occupancy, with rental yield growth following storage or were thinking of using self storage in the next year.
once the stores have reached higher occupancy levels.
This indicates a continued opportunity for growth and with Adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and distributions increasing use, together with the ongoing marketing efforts of to shareholders are our other KPIs.
We have delivered compound everyone in the industry, we anticipate awareness to grow.
eps growth of 15% over the past five years, and compound dividend Growth in new facilities across the industry has been limited to regional growth of 24% over the same period.
Compound adjusted eps growth areas of the UK, particularly in the north, whereas in London, there since 2004 5 is 17%.
We have illustrated the Groups performance in were very few new openings last year and indeed capacity is expected these measures over the past five years on page 15. to fall in the next twelve months with the closures of stores for Capital structure redevelopment into alternative uses.
Between 2010 and 2014 average In November 2013, the Company carried out a study of debt leverage industry openings have been approximately nine per year, which and its impact on the long-term share performance of businesses, compares to an average of 34 per year in the preceding four years.
with the help of an external consultant.
The study covered 40 quoted 78% of respondents to the survey expected an improvement in companies in the REIT space together with other consumer facing profits this year, compared to 79% last year, and 84% expect rents businesses for the period from 2000 to 2013.
The main objective was for new customers to rise in 2015 compared to 87% last year.
to see if the results supported our long held view that lower geared The Self Storage Association SSA estimate that the UK industry businesses outperform in the long-term.
is made up of approximately 1,022 self storage facilities of which Different business models with varying operating margins might, 159 are purely container operations, providing 35.7 million sq ft of at the margin, have different optimum levels of debt.
However a self storage space, equating to 0.56 sq ft per person in the UK.
This consistent theme emerged that excessive levels of debt have compares to 7.3 sq ft per person in the US, 1.6 sq ft per person in been universally value destructive.
In a narrow window between Australia and 0.1 sq ft for mainland Europe, where the roll-out of self 2003 and 2006 higher levels of debt would have delivered higher storage is a more recent phenomenon source: Self Storage Association returns, but even during that period optimum levels of debt were 2015 UK Annual Survey.
346 self storage facilities in the UK are held lower than might be expected, and would have required pinpoint by large operators defined as those managing 10 facilities or more accuracy in timing.
Transmission of this value destruction did result which represents 40% of the total number of self storage centres, in significant underperformance and marked increases in share but we would estimate approximately 50 to 60% of total capacity.
Awareness of self storage will continue to grow as more businesses Optimum levels of LTV gearing expressed as net debt to gross asset and individuals use the product at a time when the supply side is value ranged from 10% in moments of extreme fear 2008 to 2009 restricted, with very few store openings expected in the calendar year.
to 43% in periods of exuberance 2003 to 2006.
Using 2009 to 2013 Big Yellow is well placed to benefit from the growing self storage market, as a base, which is more representative of the long-term norm, albeit given the strength of our brand, and online platform which delivers on a conservative basis, the optimum level of LTV was found to be 23%.
approximately 86% of our prospect enquiries.
Our portfolio is We have previously said that we believe that the Group would benefit strategically focussed on London, the South East and large metropolitan from lower leverage and the Board has a long-term target of Group cities, where barriers to entry and economic activity are at their highest.
income cover of over 5 times.
The relationship of this metric to capital leverage is not perfectly correlated but making long-term KPIs assumptions on values and interest is reasonably correlated.
The key performance indicators of our stores are occupancy and rental We believe that the optimum level of LTV is 20% to 30% with a target yield, which together drive the revenue of the business.
These are three of mid 20s from the current level of 27%.
Given the subjective nature key measures which are focussed on by the Board, and are reported of valuations we prefer to express this target as net operating on a weekly basis.
Over the course of past five years, both occupancy income over debt costs.
and revenue have grown significantly.
Rental yield was relatively stable between 2010 and 2012, reduced following the introduction of VAT in 2013 and grew by 6.1% in the year to 31 March 2014.
80% 15.2% 17% of revenue from London and per annum TSR since floatation compound EPS growth the South East since 2004 2005 20
