O D E W T A H O U W R R E S Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL Places People Prefer is at the HEART of WHAT WE DO Customer Orientation Right Places Putting our customers at the heart of everything Making the right choices about we do and investing in resources which help us the sectors and assets we invest in.
get closer to the people who work, shop and live Focusing on assets which will endure around our spaces.
and keeping our portfolio modern through profitable development.
Places People Prefer Capital Efficiency Expert People Making the most efficient use of our Nurturing and developing our capital by having the right mix of debt talent and ensuring we have the and equity: using strategic partnerships right mix of capabilities.
Supporting to access property deals and manage the communities who live around risk: and selling mature assets.
All our activities are underpinned by our values Do what is right, Work efficiently Make commercial Make things not what is easy as one team decisions that create happen long term value 14 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 O U R H C E C S A O R P P A R U O OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES WHAT sets us APART Customer insight Placemaking skills Attractive retail Guiding how and where Creating environments which environments we do business support todays work and leisure lifestyles Well positioned for future omni-channel expansion High quality Mixed use Ability to source and London office space development experience execute complex deals Focused on transport infrastructure Combining offices, retail, Focused on opportunities and growth areas residential and leisure where we can add value Strong network Sustainability of relationships credentials Spanning occupiers, planners, community Award winning energy efficiency leaders, strategic partners and investors and community programmes British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED We focus on four key areas to create long term sustainable value Customer Orientation We focus not just on the people who lease resources to help us get closer to the people our properties but also our end customers who visit and live around our spaces.
In the people who work, shop and live in our Retail, our regular surveys now cover over buildings and the local communities who 98% of multi-tenanted assets, with over live around them.
Expectations are rising 55,000 shoppers interviewed in the last and the overlap between work and home lives 12 months, providing valuable insights is increasing, driving demand for working into their expectations which we share environments with shops and restaurants, with our retailers.
and shopping environments, which span multiple delivery platforms and offer a broad We undertake extensive customer satisfaction mix of leisure and entertainment options.
surveys across the business, enabling us 55,000 to work with occupiers to identify areas for We recognise the importance of balancing improvement.
Across the portfolio, we are shoppers have been interviewed the expectations of the people who use our increasingly working with industry experts to over the last 12 months as part of our consumer research assets with the needs of local communities.
develop measures to evaluate the wellbeing Properties which are closely integrated with of both workers and shoppers.
the people who live around them which create jobs and opportunities to develop Technology plays an important role in skills, provide amenities and places to meet our strategy.
Not only is it used to capture and are in keeping with local surroundings, consumer preference data, but increasingly ultimately provide the most welcoming it shapes our response.
In retail, a single places to work or shop.
consumer journey can span multiple platforms items can be viewed, compared, We are positioning our assets around all tried on and purchased either from the store, these demands and we are investing in or online and we are positioning our portfolio 64% of our Click and Collect visitors purchase further items on site.
16 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99,000 People work or live in our properties to complement these trends and be the location of choice for retailers and shoppers alike.
Our portfolio is tailored to the way people shop.
The majority of assets offer free wi-fi and Click and Collect facilities and free car parking is widely available.
We aim to drive preference for our assets by providing a broad range of high quality services.
We undertake the day-to-day management of our office properties through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Broadgate Estates.
Broadgate Estates is one of the UKs leading property management companies and is active across retail, offices and residential.
Its client portfolio includes some of the most prestigious properties in the UK.
We leverage Broadgate Estates scale and expertise across the wider market to provide best in class service.
Having proved highly successful at managing our office properties, we have recently awarded Broadgate Estates contracts to manage a number of our Retail assets.
Over time we expect to transition the management of additional assets.
We create Places People Prefer by orientating our business around the end customer.
Their preference means we are able to attract some of the highest quality Regents Place occupiers to our properties.
The quality and diversity of our occupiers, high occupancy At Regents Place, we have let all available space, sold all the residential units and refreshed levels and long leases provide security of the retail and food offering with an exciting line up of new brands.
income, which enhances the quality of our portfolio.
No single occupier accounts for www.
com more than 7% of our revenues.
For major occupiers see table on page 185 In Residential, we work closely with prospective purchasers to deliver the product they want.
Apartments are extensively marketed prior to completion, enabling us to fide-risk developments significantly through pre-sales.
For further detail on our residential developments see table on page 188 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED CONTINUED Right Places Right Places is about making the right investing in public realm improvements, investment choices in terms of the sectors providing food, beverage and leisure options, and assets we invest in.
and infrastructure facilities that are in line with todays omni-channel marketplace.
3bn We focus on two principal areas of the UK property market retail around the A key priority for our end customers across of our assets are located UK and offices in London.
We also invest both our Retail and Office assets is ease close to Crossrail stations in complementary sectors.
The expansion of transport Retail portfolio, we are investing in food, infrastructure, in particular Crossrail, the beverage and leisure and in London, our office high speed rail link for London and the South environments are increasingly mixed use with East is improving connectivity and helping residential assets alongside retail and leisure.
to re-generate areas of London outside the City and West End.
Around 3 billion of our Our focus across the portfolio is to create assets are located near Crossrail stations.
attractive environments this means assets which are fully integrated, which reflect the In London, our focus on developments which lifestyles of the people who use them, and are mixed use, which combine retail, office, develop a vibrancy of their own.
We call residential and leisure, is in line with our this placemaking.
commitment to create Places People Prefer.
It gives us greater control over the wider In Offices, London is our key area of focus.
environment, enabling us to provide retail, It continues to be the city of choice to work, leisure and entertainment options as well as live and visit, underpinning long term attractive, landscaped surroundings, places demand for property assets.
Londons to meet and convenient access routes.
workforce is educated, entrepreneurial and increasingly diverse in its skill set, making Development is an important part of our it a highly attractive place to do business.
Its business and a key driver of returns.
It is emergence as a leading tech hub is a good inherently risky due to the time delay between example of this and is driving demand for commitment to a project and its completion, office space.
Pressure on residential housing so we have a self-imposed limit of 15% of is also increasing, with 10 million people our standing investment portfolio, and we expected to live in London by mid-2030s, have created optionality throughout our and in recognition of this, local authorities development programme enabling us to Our development have become more supportive of higher progress the pipeline at an appropriate pace.
For detail on our development pipeline focused on mixed In Retail, we are focused on assets that see tables on pages 187 to 188 are compatible with the internet, which use opportunities are resilient, reflecting the strength of their Development performance see pages location and catchment.
We are investing in 38 to 39 in London.
these assets to provide customers with the best possible overall experience.
This means 18 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Road Old Surrey Deal Porters Way Renforth Street Rotherhithe Swan Road Grove Street Lower Road Quays Road Silwood Street Raymouth Road Lagado Mews Quebec Way Marlow Way Quays Road Surrey RUSSIA DOCK WOODLAND ECOLOGICAL PARK SURREY WATER Our focus is to create vibrant, attractive environments.
Actively managing our assets plays a central Canada Water role in creating preference for our properties.
Our asset management specialists work with We are working with Southwark Council on the regeneration of 46 acres of land in Canada a broader team of experts on a wide range Water.
The site is well located in Zone 2, with excellent transport links to Canary Wharf, the of activities from taking strategic decisions City, Shoreditch and the West End via the Overground and Jubilee Line.
Our plans include up on the occupier mix to altering planning to 7m sq ft of gross floor space, with retail, office, residential, leisure and community uses.
consent and delivering reconfigurations, refurbishments and extensions.
These British Land Canada Water site activities and the strength of our service provision help to drive rental income and valuation growth.
ROTHERHITHE STATION Local stakeholders make an important contribution to creating the right place, and engaging with them is a key part of how we do business.
We build trust by supporting integrated local communities and work with them to strengthen our understanding of local challenges and aspirations.
By making it easier for local people to influence decisions relating to our assets, we can CANADA WATER STATION deliver places which they are pleased to live and work around.
British Land Canada Water site 3m sq ft GREENLAND DOCK Under construction or in the near term pipeline SURREY QUAYS STATION over 1m sq ft TIME TO CANADA WATER: Planning applications submitted in the year CANARY WHARF 2 MINS BANK 10 MINS BOND STREET 12 MINS SOUTH BERMONDSEY STATION British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 SOUTHWARK PARK CANADA WATER Salter Road SOUTH DOCK MARINA Poolmans Downtown Road Jamaica Road Archangel St Rotherhithe New Road Rope Street Plough Way Street Brunel Road Albion Street Surrey Quays Road Redriff Road Rotherhithe Street Salter Road Hawkstone Road Needleman Street Roberts Close Road Street Neptune Street Canada Pond Rotherhithe Street Salter Road Timber Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED CONTINUED We use strategic partnerships to leverage our investments, achieve benefits of scale and spread risk.
Capital Efficiency 4.2bn We are focused on allocating capital to ensure the Group and its joint ventures invested into our assets efficiently both in terms of the sectors are appropriately financed.
We also maintain over the last five years and assets we invest in and how we fund significant undrawn loan facilities to provide that investment between equity and flexibility and support current and future debt financing.
2.4bn We allocate capital to sectors and assets We use strategic partnerships to leverage which we believe will generate good our investments, achieve benefits of scale and of mature assets sold returns and where we have a competitive spread risk.
Around one third of our owned over the last five years advantage.
Over the last five years, we have assets by value are in joint ventures, including sold 2.4 billion of assets which are mature our two largest single assets, Broadgate and or are not in line with our strategy.
This approach has enabled us reinvested the proceeds in high quality to undertake more ambitious development income generating assets and developments.
projects, including the Leadenhall Building where we worked with Oxford Properties.
For further details on our acquisitions and Within these structures, we typically disposals please see the table on page 186 provide asset management, development, corporate and finance services, for which We manage our mix of equity and debt we earn management and performance financing to achieve the right balance fees, enhancing our overall returns and between enhancing returns for shareholders strengthening our relationships with and the risk of higher leverage.
Our primary partners, key customers and suppliers.
measure of leverage is loan to value LTV on a proportionally consolidated basis which We are also proactively managing our assets includes the Groups share of joint ventures to promote their long term sustainability.
Our and funds and excludes non-controlling resource efficiency programme is improving interests in the Groups subsidiaries.
We aim operational efficiency and reducing occupier to manage our LTV through the property costs: it is innovative in its use of materials cycle such that our financial position would to lower costs and secure supply.
We are remain robust in the event of a significant fall evaluating plans to increase on site energy in property values.
This means we will not generation, which can enhance revenues and increase our leverage solely on the basis of continue our efforts to minimise flood risk.
an improvement in market yields.
At this point in the cycle and at todays yields our Financial policies and principles LTV will not be taken above 38% on a see pages 53 to 55 proportionally consolidated basis.
For detail on our carbon reduction We have access to a broad range of debt programme see page 48 finance on attractive terms, reflecting the scale of our business, combined with the quality and stability of our rental income stream.
We raise debt from a variety of sources across a spread of maturities 20 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Meetings allowed me to see the thought processes and amazing minds behind British Lands developments and site visits allowed me to see how it all came and comes together.
Jumana, British Land work experience student Expert People We are a small team of 488 individuals, split As at 31 March 2015, 48% of employees broadly evenly between the core team at across British Land and Broadgate Estates British Land and our subsidiary property were female.
We operate through small, flexible teams, To secure the workforce of tomorrow, we focused on areas where we can create support a range of initiatives which make most value.
young people of all backgrounds aware of career opportunities within real estate and Our knowledge of the market enables us to help them develop the skills they need to identify and invest in the best opportunities progress.
Ours is a long term plan, starting and we are able to react quickly to execute with school children and continuing beyond complex deals.
Our scale across the university.
Initiatives include Pathways to market means we have a broad network Property, Budding Brunels and Design of relationships, across occupiers, property Engineer Construct!
as well as internships specialists, local communities, government, through the Sociable Surveyors scheme.
domestic and international investors and We are also developing local skills and capital providers.
This gives us access to opportunities around our properties and a wide range of investment opportunities, developments, supporting local communities including development and partnering and securing the skills our business needs to and funding opportunities.
Initiatives include greater focus on apprenticeships, increasing 48% Our people strategy is focused on developing the proportion of local suppliers and workers a talent base which is aligned to our corporate at our assets and partnering with occupiers of employees across British Land purpose of creating Places People Prefer.
We and suppliers on fair working practices.
and Broadgate Estates are female operate a range of online resources to help employees develop their skills and work with Report of the Nomination Committee Cambridge University to run a Leadership in see pages 82 to 85 Real Estate programme.
We seek to promote 40% internally and are pleased that the two most Board of Directors see pages 64 to 67 recent appointees to our Executive Committee of our senior executives were internal candidates.
Our recruitment Employees see pages 32 to 33 and page 76 were internal appointees.
processes include a commitment to diversity and gender equality.
co. uk British Land is to employ the best candidates available in every position regardless of sex, race ethnic origin, nationality, colour, age, religion or philosophical belief, sexual orientation, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy, maternity, gender reassignment or disability.
We currently have three female Directors on the Board, Lucinda Bell, Chief Financial Officer and Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery, both Non-Executive Directors.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
