Governance and remuneration BOARD OF DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Non-Executive Chairman Executive Directors John Gildersleeve Chris Grigg Chief Executive Skills and experience: John is a non-executive director of Dixons Skills and experience: Chris was chief executive of Barclays Carphone plc, deputy chairman and senior independent director Commercial Bank until November 2008, having joined the bank of Spire Healthcare Group plc, and deputy chairman of TalkTalk in 2005.
Prior to Barclays, he was partner of Goldman Sachs, Telecom Group PLC.
He is also a non-executive director of where his career spanned 20 years.
John was formerly chairman of New Look Retail Committee membership: Executive Chairman, Investment Group, EMI Group, Gallaher Group and Carphone Warehouse Chairman, Risk.
Group, a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Bank PLC and Vodafone Group, and an executive director of Tesco plc.
External appointments: non-executive director of BAE Systems plc, member of the executive board of the European Public Real Committee membership: Nomination Chairman.
Estate Association EPRA and board member of the British Property Federation.
Lucinda Bell Chief Financial Officer Skills and experience: A chartered accountant with over 20 years of industry experience.
In 2006 she was a member of the HM Treasury appointed working party which designed the implementation of the REIT regime.
Committee membership: Risk Chairman, Sustainability Chairman, Health and Safety Chairman, Executive, Investment.
Executive Directors appointments External appointments: non-executive director of Rotork plc and Appointed internally 50% chairman of the reporting and accounting committee of EPRA.
Appointed externally 50% Charles Maudsley Head of Retail and Leisure Skills and experience: Charles joined British Land from LaSalle Investment Management.
He had also been with AXA Real Estate Investment Managers for seven years.
Committee membership: Executive, Investment, Risk.
Tim Roberts Head of Offices and Residential Skills and experience: Before joining British Land in 1997 Tim was a partner at Drivers Jonas, in the Investment Agency team.
External appointments: trustee and board member of LandAid.
66 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Non-Executive Directors Aubrey Adams Laura Wade-Gery Skills and experience: Aubrey is chair-designate of L&Q, the housing Skills and experience: Laura is executive director, Multi Channel of association and residential developer.
He is also chairman of the Marks and Spencer Group plc and a trustee of both the Royal Opera board of trustees of Wigmore Hall.
Aubrey was formerly head of House and Aldeburgh Music.
Prior to July 2011, she had served in a property within RBSs Restructuring Division, a non-executive variety of senior roles at Tesco PLC.
Laura was also a non-executive director of Pinnacle Regeneration Group Limited, senior independent director of Trinity Mirror plc until 2012. director of Associated British Ports PLC, non-executive chairman of Committee membership: Remuneration.
Unitech Corporate Parks PLC, non-executive chairman of Air Partner PLC, chief executive of Savills PLC and non-executive chairman of Max Property Group PLC.
Tim Score Committee membership: Audit.
Skills and experience: Tim is chief financial officer of ARM Holdings PLC and a non-executive director of Pearson plc.
He held senior financial positions at Rebus Group Limited, William Baird plc, Simon Borrows LucasVarity plc and BTR plc.
From 2005 to 2014, he was a nonSkills and experience: Simon is the chief executive of 3i Group plc and executive director of National Express Group PLC, where he served a member of the supervisory board of Peer Holdings BV, the Dutch in various roles.
holding company for 3is investment in Action the non-food discount Committee membership: Audit Chairman.
He worked for 28 years in the banking and finance industry, most recently as chairman of Greenhill & Co. International LLP.
He had also held the position of chief executive officer of Baring Brothers Lord Turnbull International Limited, the corporate finance division of ING Barings Senior Independent Director and was a non-executive director of Inchcape plc until May 2015.
Skills and experience: Andrew is a non-executive director of Committee membership: Audit.
He entered the House of Lords in 2005 as a Crossbench Life Peer.
Andrew retired as Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service in July 2005.
He had previously Lynn Gladden held the positions of Permanent Secretary of HM Treasury and Permanent Secretary at the Department of the Environment.
Skills and experience: Lynn is pro-vice-chancellor for research He was a non-executive director of the Arup Group, chairman and Shell Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of of BH Global Limited and a non-executive of Prudential PLC from Cambridge.
She is also non-executive director of IP Group plc: fellow 2006 until May 2015. of the Royal Society and Royal Academy of Engineering: fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, Royal Society of Chemistry Committee membership: Remuneration Chairman, Nomination.
She was appointed Professor, Chemical Engineering Science, at the University of Cambridge in 1999, and from 1 Length of Non-Executive Directors tenures 1995 to 2008 was a consultant at Unilever plc.
She is a former Council Under 3 years 29% member of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
3 to 6 year s 29% Committee membership: Remuneration.
Over 6 years 42% William Jackson Skills and experience: William is managing partner of Bridgepoint, chairman of Pret A Manger and president of Dorna Sports SL.
He began his career in NatWests investment banking arm, before working extensively on private equity transactions in Europe.
1 As at 31 March 2015 Committee membership: Remuneration, Nomination.
Company Secretary Charles Middleton Charles was appointed Interim Company Secretary on 8 May 2015.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67
