FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES We focus on having an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding which enables us to deliver our property strategy Leverage Monitoring and controlling our debt We manage our mix of equity and debt financing to achieve the right We monitor our projected LTV and our debt requirement using balance between enhancing returns for shareholders and the risk several key internally generated reports focused principally on of higher leverage.
We use a loan to value ratio debt as a percentage borrowing levels, debt maturity, available facilities, covenant of the gross value of our assets, LTV to measure our leverage, headroom and interest rate exposure.
We also undertake sensitivity primarily on a proportionally consolidated basis including our share analysis to assess the impact of proposed transactions, movements of joint ventures and funds.
in interest rates and changes in property values on the key balance sheet, liquidity and profitability ratios.
We seek to manage our leverage such that our LTV should not exceed a maximum threshold if market yields were to rise to In assessing our ongoing debt requirements, including those of previous peak levels.
This means we will not increase our LTV our development programme, we consider potential downside if asset values increase as a result of market yield improvement.
scenarios such as a fall in valuations and the effect that might Consequently our maximum LTV will be higher in the low point have on our covenants.
in the cycle and will trend downwards as market yields tighten.
At this point in the cycle and at todays yields our current maximum Based on our current commitments and our current available LTV is 38% on a proportionally consolidated basis a lower level facilities, we have no requirement to refinance prior to March 2019. than the range in which we operated in previous years.
British Lands current committed undrawn bank facilities are 1.2billion.
We leverage our equity and achieve benefits of scale while spreading risk through joint ventures and funds which are typically partly Managing interest rate exposure financed with debt without recourse to British Land.
The debt in joint We manage our interest rate risk independently from our debt.
ventures and funds is included in the proportionally consolidated LTV The Board sets an appropriate maximum level of sensitivity of of 35% which is higher than the Group measure for our unsecured underlying earnings and cash flows to movements in market rates lenders, which is around 28%.
of interest over a rolling five-year period.
The proportion of fixed rate debt required to remain within the target sensitivity has Debt finance decreased as a result of our lower levels of leverage and The scale of our business combined with the quality of our assets increased interest cover.
and rental income means that we are attractive to a broad range of debt providers and able to arrange finance on favourable terms.
Our debt finance is raised at both fixed and variable rates.
Derivatives Good access to the capital and debt markets is a competitive primarily interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired advantage, allowing us to take opportunities when they arise.
interest rate profile across proportionally consolidated net debt.
Currently 64% of projected net debt including our share of joint The groups approach to debt financing for British Land is to raise ventures and funds is fixed over the next five years, and we expect funds predominantly on an unsecured basis with our standard this percentage to decrease over the forthcoming year.
The use of financial covenants set out on page 55.
This provides the greatest derivatives is managed by a Derivatives Committee.
The interest rate flexibility and low operational cost.
Our joint ventures and funds are management of joint ventures and funds is addressed by each entity each financed in ring-fenced structures without recourse to British for its business.
Land for repayment and are secured on the relevant assets.
Counterparties Presented opposite are the five guiding principles that govern the We monitor the credit standing of our counterparties to minimise way we structure and manage our debt.
our risk exposure in respect of placing cash deposits and derivatives.
Regular reviews are made of the external credit ratings of the Debt financing involves risk from adverse changes in the property counterparties.
In arranging and monitoring our financing we include important risk disciplines, ensuring that relevant risks Foreign currency are fully evaluated and managed.
Our policy is to have no material unhedged net assets or liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
Managing risk in delivering our strategy see pages 56 to 61 When attractive terms are available, the Group may choose to borrow in freely available currencies other than sterling, and will fully hedge the foreign currency exposure.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Strategic Report FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES CONTINUED Our five guiding principles Diversify We monitor the finance markets and seek to access different types of finance when the relevant market conditions are our sources favourable to meet the needs of our business and, where appropriate, those of our joint ventures and funds.
The scale of finance and quality of the Groups business enables us to access a broad range of unsecured and secured, recourse and non-recourse debt.
We enjoy and encourage long term relationships with banks and debt investors.
We aim to avoid reliance on particular sources of funds and borrow from a large number of lenders from different sectors in the market and a range of geographical areas, with a total of 41 debt providers of bank facilities and private placements alone.
We also aim to ensure that debt providers understand our business: we adopt a transparent approach to provide sufficient disclosures so that lenders can evaluate their exposure within the overall context of the Group.
These factors increase our attractiveness to debt providers, and in the last five years we have arranged 5.4 billion British Land share 4.5 billion of new finance in unsecured and secured bank loan facilities, US Private Placements and convertible bonds.
6.4bn Total debt portfolio Phase The maturity profile of our debt is managed with a spread of repayment dates.
We monitor the various debt markets so maturity that we have the ability to act quickly to arrange new finance as opportunities arise.
Maturities of different types of debt of debt are well spread, taking into account term debt and revolving facilities reducing our refinancing risk in respect of timing portfolio and market conditions.
As a result of our financing activity, we are comfortably ahead of our preferred two year refinancing date horizon.
The current range of debt maturities is one to 20 years.
8.7Yrs Average debt maturity Maintain In addition to our drawn term debt, we aim always to have a good level of undrawn, committed, unsecured revolving bank liquidity facilities.
These facilities provide financial liquidity, reduce the need to hold resources in cash and deposits, and minimise costs arising from the difference between borrowing and deposit rates while reducing credit exposure.
We arrange these revolving credit facilities in excess of our committed and expected requirements to ensure we have adequate financing availability to support business requirements and opportunities.
1.2bn Undrawn committed facilities Maintain Our facilities are structured to provide valuable flexibility for investment deal execution, whether sales or purchases, flexibility developments or asset management.
Our bank revolving credit facilities provide full flexibility of drawing and repayment and cancellation if we require at short notice without additional cost.
These are arranged with standard terms and financial covenants and generally have maturities of five years.
Flexibility is maintained with our combination of this unsecured revolving debt and secured term debt in debentures with good substitution rights, where we have the ability to move assets in and out of the security.
1.9bn Revolving credit facilities Maintain We actively manage our mix of equity and debt financing to achieve a balance between our ability to generate an attractive strong balance return for shareholders with the risks of having more debt.
sheet metrics Our capital strategy has evolved and is responsive to the need to manage our exposure throughout the property cycle such that we aim not to exceed a maximum proportionally consolidated LTV threshold in an economic downturn.
35% A- 2.6 LTV proportionally consolidated credit rating interest cover proportionally consolidated 54 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group borrowings Borrowings in our joint ventures and funds Unsecured financing for the Group is raised through: bilateral and External debt for our joint ventures and funds has been arranged syndicated unsecured revolving bank facilities, with initial terms of through long dated securitisations or bank debt, according to the five years often extendable : US Private Placements with maturities requirements of the business of each venture.
up to 2027: and the convertible bond maturing in 2017.
Hercules Unit Trust has term loan facilities maturing in 2017 Secured debt is provided by debentures with longer maturities up and 2020 arranged for its business and secured on its property to 2035 at fixed rates of interest and a bank term loan acquired portfolios, without recourse to British Land.
These loans include in the year.
value and income based covenants.
Unsecured borrowings The securitisations of the Broadgate Estate 1,717 million, The same financial covenants apply across each of the Groups Meadowhall 723 million and the Sainsburys Superstores unsecured facilities.
These covenants, which have been consistently portfolio 479 million, have weighted average maturities of agreed with all unsecured lenders since 2003, are: 12.7 years, 11.0 years, and 7.3 years respectively.
The only net Borrowings not to exceed 175% of Adjusted Capital and financial covenant applicable is that income must cover interest Reserves: and and scheduled amortisation 1 times : there are no loan to value net Unsecured Borrowings not to exceed 70% of Unencumbered covenants.
These securitisations provide for quarterly principal Assets.
repayments with the balance outstanding reducing to approximately 20% to 30% of the original amount raised by expected final maturity, Covenant ratio thus mitigating renancing risk.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Other debt arrangements with banks and other lenders include loan At 31 March % % % % % to value ratio covenants with maximum levels ranging from 40% to Net borrowings 65%, and most have rental income to interest or debt service cover to adjusted requirements.
1 capital and reserves 36 44 31 40 38 Net unsecured There is no obligation on British Land to remedy any breach of these borrowings covenants and any remedy needed would be considered by the 2 to unencumbered assets 25 34 23 31 28 parties on a case-by-case basis.
Highest during the year to 31 March 2015: 1 2 40%: and 32% No income interest cover ratios apply to these facilities, and there are no other unsecured debt financial covenants in the Group.
The Unencumbered Assets of the Group, not subject to any security, stood at 5.6 billion as at 31 March 2015.
Although secured assets are excluded from Unencumbered Assets for the covenant calculations, unsecured lenders benefit from the surplus value of these assets above the related debt and the free cash ow from them.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, these assets generated 40 million of surplus cash after payment of interest.
In addition, while investments in joint ventures do not form part of Unencumbered Assets, our share of profits generated by these ventures are regularly passed up to the Group.
Secured borrowings Secured debt with recourse to British Land is provided by debentures at fixed interest rates with long maturities and no amortisation.
These are secured against a single combined pool of assets with common covenants: the value of those assets is required to cover the amount of these debentures by a minimum of 1.5 times and net rental income must cover the interest at least once.
We use our rights under the debentures to withdraw, substitute or add properties or cash collateral in the security pool, in order to manage these cover ratios effectively and deal with any asset sales.
Secured debt without recourse to British Land comprises the following, each of which is secured on a specific portfolio of properties: a fixed rate debenture of 30 million for BLD Property Holdings Ltd to 2020: and a bank loan of 325 million for TBL Properties Limited and its subsidiaries to 2019.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
