Chief Executives Review Our strategy remains unchanged, and we are convinced that we are taking the right actions to fundamentally improve our business and its prospects.
Over the course of the past year we have worked hard in three areas.
Firstly, the group has always had a number of important strengths.
These include our customer demographics, our extensive customer file, our product fit capabilities, CRM and our credit book.
We have been very careful to maintain these strengths.
Secondly, however, we had a number of weaknesses, namely: merchandising, the value for money of some of our products, our digital marketing capability, low brand awareness and an in the second half and, whilst further drive service enhancements.
encouraged by these small gains, On infrastructure, this is the key We have made progress in all of these we believe there is significantly implementation year for our systems areas, and will continue to focus on more growth potential here.
transformation programme, which we them going forward.
Our online penetration has stepped call Fit 4 the Future, and we are also Finally, we have a business with up strongly again, up over 2ppts to building a major warehouse extension significant growth opportunities.
59%, and we exited the year with Q4 to support our growth.
Finally, we These include, but are not limited to, penetration of 62%, up 3ppts.
are working hard on improving our capitalising on our attractive market processes, rationalising our product Our homewares strategy, to focus on niches, broadening our appeal and line count and completing a store Famous Five categories bedding, growing scale.
We have therefore been efficiency review.
home dcor, homewares, outdoor investing behind these opportunities living and family gifts, is working Customer metrics improving product quality and well, with sales in these categories investing in price, introducing cash Our active customer file increased by up 7% yoy.
payment options to allow us to gain 2.4% and 23% of demand came from incremental customers, expanding We have seen a pleasing new customers.
Online we have seen internationally and in stores.
international performance, albeit we particularly encouraging metrics, deliberately constrained our growth with online demand up 3% and active Our performance against the KPIs we as we bedded in a third-party credit customer numbers up 4% for the year.
use to assess long-term progress has offering.
USA demand was up 13% Q4 online demand was up 10% and been mixed this year: for the year.
online active customer numbers up We have delivered an excellent 11%.
We also continue to see very Operating margin was 11.5%, down performance in customer encouraging conversion rates, up 150bps yoy.
satisfaction, and we are now ranked to 5.5% at the year-end which is well Looking ahead, we have a number of third of all UK multi-channel ahead of the industry average.
standpoint we will continue to build We continue to see very strong In market share terms we have the profile of our Power Brands, target demand from mobile devices, with seen gains of 20bps in 16-plus increased share of wallet and loyalty these now accounting for over half Ladieswear and 10bps in Menswear from our existing customers, and of our online traffic.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 09
