T U TO BE THE UNIVERSALLY LOVED EXPERTS IN FASHION THAT FITS WELL DO THIS BY HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS LOOK AND FEEL AMAZING THROUGH OUR TRUSTED FAMILY OF FASHION BRANDS PRODUCT PRICE PEOPLE Fantastic quality Great prices Obsessed with and t fashion, and exible customers, enriched home ranges and ways to pay with data, powered relevant financial by technology services PL PLA ACE CE Wh What atev ever y er yo ou w u want, ant, w wh her erev ever y er yo ou ar u are e, w wh hen enev ever y er yo ou w u want ant it, w it, we m e ma ak ke it e e it ea as sy y S G O Financial Services We are very pleased with the performance of our Financial Services business over the past year.
Whilst revenue from services declined by 2.9%, this was driven by a number of policy changes we chose to make: the gross profit contribution increased year-on-year.
Credit arrears are now OUR VISION Where we at the lowest level on record.
are going Financial Services remain an important part of our business.
Our focus is on three areas: maintaining our credit customer base, growing the number of incremental cash OUR MISSION What we do every customers buying from us, and day to achieve modernising our Financial Services our vision offer.
This latter target is enabled by our systems transformation project Fit 4 the Future, which will give us the tools to charge variable APRs, offer promotional interest free periods and allow us to make credit decisions OUR STRATEGIC at a product level.
FOUNDATIONS The drivers of It is early days in our experience of success to sustain dealing with cash customers, although profitable growth we are pleased with our initial results.
The introduction of cash customers has not resulted in a decline in the population of our credit customers OUR VALUES who roll a balance.
Instead, cash The power behind customers are either incremental or at our everyday actions the expense of credit customers who immediately paid off their balance, not incurring interest charges.
Product drivers Cash customers share similar average structure we have also improved the Over the past year we have made order values and order frequencies as ranging of our unique and premium significant improvements to our this latter group.
What is encouraging product, with occasionwear being a product quality, further improving our from a profitability perspective, good example.
fit and size consistency and improving however, is that cash customers have For Spring 2015, we also moved JD fabric quality.
We are also developing a 6ppts lower returns rate than either Williams to All Sizes One Price, unique and innovative products, group of our credit customers.
in line with our other brands.
This which build upon our considerable In common with the wider industry, was following positive results from a skills and expertise.
we are now regulated by the FCA, number of trials in Autumn 2014, and From a price perspective, we decided having historically being regulated by based on our experience of making to make a number of investments to the OFT.
We are progressing with our the same change in Marisota last year.
These changes led in both cases to We have rebalanced our pricing a percentage margin reduction but Systems investment Fit 4 the Future architecture, with clearer definition importantly, cash margin increased between good, better and best Our systems transformation project, after three to six months.
We introduced a small called Fit 4 the Future, is now led in JD Williams are in line with our number of key value lines, to highlight by our new CIO Andy Haywood.
expectations following past experience our good value credentials to our He and his team have carried out with Marisota, and customer feedback customers.
At the top of our pricing a comprehensive review of the has been very positive.
10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
