Directors Remuneration Report Committee discretions payments or awards crystallising after the external assessment of the companys effective date of this policy but arising from performance against its peers and aligns The committee operates the groups commitments entered into at a time when rewards received by the executives with variable incentive plans according to their the relevant individual was not a director the returns received by shareholders.
respective rules and in accordance with at the company.
Details of any payments The committee determines from time HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the to former directors will be set out in the to time which companies are to be efficient administration of these plans and Annual Report on Remuneration.
added or removed from this comparator to be consistent with market practice, the group, including the treatment of any committee will retain certain operational Selection of performance metrics company which ceases trading during any and targets discretions.
All incentives are subject to the individual selecting plan participants: The committee considers the groups review and scrutiny of the committee, performance on environmental, social and determining the timing of grants of particularly in the case of share incentives, governance ESG issues when setting awards and or payment: both at award and vesting to ensure the remuneration of any executive director that performance has been correctly determining the quantum of awards and and is of the opinion that the incentive adjudicated and to safeguard against or payments within the limits set out in arrangements for senior managers do excessive overall reward.
Variable the policy table above : not raise ESG risks by inadvertently pay and remuneration is linked to both motivating irresponsible behaviour or the determining the extent of vesting based corporate and individual performance and taking of undue risks with the business.
on the assessment of performance: is benchmarked to attract and retain the highest quality people.
Shareholding guidelines making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances It is the board's policy that executive The annual bonus is designed to e. g. change of control, rights issues, thoroughly stretch the performance of the directors build and retain a minimum corporate restructuring events, and executive and is linked to absolute growth shareholding in the company.
Under these special dividends : in annual group profit, the achievement guidelines the chief executive and the of certain business targets and of finance director are respectively required determining good leaver status for personal objectives.
These targets are to hold company shares equal in value at incentive plan purposes and applying reviewed and agreed by the committee the time of acquisition to 200% and 100% the appropriate treatment: and at the beginning of each financial year to of their base salary, respectively and to ensure that they are appropriate to the have met this guideline within 5 years undertaking the annual review of current market conditions and the longof appointment.
Details of the current weighting of performance measures, term strategy of the company, and that shareholdings of the executive directors and setting targets for the annual bonus they continue to remain stretching and are provided later in this report.
plan and LTIP from year to year.
The targets are linked to KPIs How shareholders views are taken If an event occurs which results in the which are drawn from, and relate to, the into account Annual Bonus Plan, Deferred Share achievement of milestones contained in Bonus Plan or LTIP performance the companys strategic long-term plan.
The committee considers shareholder conditions and or targets being deemed This ensures they are aligned to the feedback received regarding the directors no longer appropriate e. g. a material strategic objectives of the company and remuneration report and guidance from acquisition or divestment, the committee designed to increase shareholder value, shareholder representative bodies more will have the ability to adjust appropriately whilst being prudent and safeguarding the generally.
As appropriate, the committee the measures and or targets and alter long-term future of the company.
also seeks feedback from shareholders weightings, provided that the revised on specific matters.
These views are key The committee has decided to apply a conditions or targets are not materially inputs when shaping remuneration policy.
condition based on growth in adjusted less difficult to satisfy.
EPS alongside the existing measure: Any use of the above discretions would, TSR to awards made under the PSP.
where relevant, be explained in the Annual Adjusted EPS is considered appropriate Report on Remuneration and may, as as it is easily understood, is a key appropriate, be the subject of consultation measure of financial performance and with the companys major shareholders.
closely aligned to the companys objectives of driving profitable growth.
Legacy arrangements The measure takes account of fair value In approving the remuneration policy, adjustments to financial instruments net authority is given to the company to of tax as well as other non-recurring honour any commitments previously items such as unplanned investments entered into with the current or former in IT infrastructure, acquisitions and or directors in accordance with the relevant disposals.
As the targets are set as a rate plan rules, where applicable.
It is also part of growth in excess of RPI it also takes of this policy that the company will honour into account inflation.
TSR provides an N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37
