2.4% ACTIVE CUSTOMER BASE project, with a focus on priorities, Until this platform is live in middeliverability and, importantly, risk 2016, we will remain in cautious minimisation.
The number of systems expansion mode in the USA, with a releases have been streamlined and focus on further improving customer the project length reduced.
loyalty, building brand awareness and minimising operating losses.
The project is primarily focused on customer facing improvements.
Simply Be and Jacamo stores In association with the significant Sales from our Simply Be and systems change, we are also running Jacamo stores were up 64% to 13m.
in parallel an organisational change The operating loss increased slightly, programme to ensure that we maximise from 1.6m to 1.8m, which we view the benefits of our investment.
as a strong performance against The overall project has been the backdrop of a significant store re-scoped by the new team and opening programme.
the business case reviewed, with Today we have 15 stores, of which our latest projections for costs and 14 are dual-fascia.
This includes five benefits shown below.
The benefits stores we opened during FY14 15, case remains compelling.
The together with our Exeter store which benefit types include cost reductions, opened in March 2015.
Exeter is our increased demand, improved margin best performing new store to date.
Some of these benefits will be reinvested back into Our long-term strategy here is the business.
The benefits case now unchanged we plan to open a total reflects a higher level of investment of 25 stores, covering 85% of the in systems development, even post population.
We continue to see a implementation, due to the pace of positive halo effect from our store industry change.
portfolio and they are also important in terms of serving customers and The costs and expected benefits for building brand awareness.
This year the three release streams of the project we are carrying out an efficiency are as follows: review, focused on logistics, because m Cost Benefits we believe our operations could be Global multi-channel further optimised in this area.
We will transformation 41 24 update the market on this review at Credit transformation 9 12 International & stores update the interim results in October.
Planning transformation 15 9 USA Total 65 45 Our performance in the USA was pleasing, with product demand We expect these annual benefits to growth of 13%.
We reduced the start to ramp up from H2 FY16 17 operating loss significantly, from onwards, with the full impact from 4.7m to 2.5m.
Revenue growth was somewhat Fit 4 the Future will give us a constrained by our decision to considerable number of tools in order dial-down our recruitment activity to drive future growth and improve as we bedded in our third-party efficiency, allowing us to trade with credit provider.
This credit offer far more agility going forwards.
has performed strongly and has The benefits of the programme significantly improved customer include significantly improved speed loyalty, with credit customers seeing to market, cloud-hosted technology, a 250% uplift in second order rates a new international web platform, versus cash customers.
new financial products, improved personalisation, a new customer Our systems transformation contact centre system and a real-time programme includes the launch of single customer view.
