Senior management team Ben Chambers Hugh Morgan James Mitchell Investment Director Head of Asset Management Head of Investment Management BSc, MRICS MA, MRICS BSc Hons, MRICS Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group as Investment Manager in Joined the Group in November 2003 as Joined the Group in September 2007 as August 2002.
Appointed Investment Director AssetManager and appointed Head of Asset Investment Manager and appointed Head of in2009.
Experience and responsibilities: Experience and responsibilities: Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Partner at Fineman Ross.
Formerly an Associate withCushman & Formerly aDirector with Savills and previously Previously with Nelson Bakewell and Gooch Wakeeld, and previously withMEPC and with Nelson Bakewell.
Responsible for the Investment Weatherall, Smith & Green.
Responsible for generating and executing asset strategies for management team looking at both sales and the net income return of the portfolio across existing assets within the Groups portfolio acquisitions, sourcing new acquisitions and the Group.
maximising opportunities from within the A member of the GHS Limited Partnership Groups investment portfolio.
A director of The Great Victoria Partnership, TheGreat Wigmore Partnership and The Great Ropemaker Partnership.
Janine Cole Stephen Burrows Martin Leighton Head of Sustainability Head of Financial Reporting and IR Head of Corporate Finance MIOSH, AIEMA BA Hons, MA, ACA LLB, ACA, CTA Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in November 1998 as Joined the Group in September 2003 as Joined the Group in January 2003 as Health andSafety Administrator.
Promoted to Financial Accountant and appointed Head of Corporate Finance Manager and appointed Safety, Healthand Environmental Manager in Financial Reporting and Investor Relations in Head of Corporate Finance in 2011.
2002 andappointed Head of Sustainability in 2011.
Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Corporate Finance Assistant Experience and responsibilities: Formerlyan Audit Manager in Ernst and Director with Ernst & Young.
Responsible for Formerly a Professional Services Youngs Real Estate Group and previously the day-to-day management of all tax affairs, Administrator with National Britannia.
with the National Audit Ofce.
Responsible transaction structuring, raising debt finance Responsible for environment and health and for financial reporting, forecasting and and interest rate risk management across the safety management across the Group.
A member of the British Property Federation A member of the British Property Federation Sustainability Committee.
Technical Accounting Group and the EPRA IRCommittee.
52 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review James Pellatt Andrew White Marc Wilder Head of Projects Head of Development Head of Leasing BSc Hons, MRICS BSc Hons, Dip IPF, MRICS BSc Hons, MRICS Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in March 2011 as Head Joined the Group in March 2013 as Head of Joined the Group in June 2005 as Leasing ofProjects.
Manager and appointed Head of Leasing in2009.
Experience and responsibilities: Experience and responsibilities: Formerly a Senior Director with Formerly a Divisional Director at Kier Property Experience and responsibilities: Tishman Speyer and previously with and previously with BAA Lynton and Formerly Head of Leasing atBenchmark plc, More London Development and EC Harris.
Responsible for the and previously with Threadneedle Asset Responsible for setting procurement total return of the development portfolio Management and Hemingway Properties strategy and ensuring capital expenditure including the successful delivery of all Limited.
Responsible for leasing across the on all projects is completed in accordance development projects across the Group.
Groupsinvestment portfolio and with individual asset business plans across developmentprogramme.
A member of the GHS Limited Partnership the Group.
A director of The Great Star Partnership.
Desna Martin Sally Learoyd Company Secretary Head of Human Resources BCom, FCA Aust, ACIS MBA, FCIPD Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group as Company Secretary Joined the Group in 2015 as Head of inOctober 1998.
Experience and responsibilities: Experience and responsibilities: Formerly an Audit Senior Manager with Formerly HR Director forKing & Wood Ernst& Young.
Responsible for corporate Mallesons and previously with Hammerson.
Responsible for human resource management and development across Company Secretary for all joint venture theGroup.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 53
