12 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 St Strategic rategic Repor Report t O Ov five er rv viie ew w Unlocking potential by crystallising development profits The sale pre-completion of our prime With the construction works progressing ofce scheme at 12 14 New Fetter Lane, on timeand on budget under a xed price EC4 crystallised the significant value contract, we sold our 151 year leasehold created through our development and interest to TIAA-CREF in December 2014, leasing activities.
taking advantage of strong investment market conditions.
The purchaser acquired the site In May 2013, we committed to build our from GPE for 96.3 million and is now funding 142,500sq ft development in the heart of all development costs up to a maximum of Midtown having secured an attractive planning 165.8 million, reecting a yield of 4.5%.
We also permission, re-geared the headlease with the expect to receive a final payment of around City Corporation and signicantly fide-risked 5.0 million on practical completion in late 2015. the development through pre-letting the entire scheme to law rm Bird & Bird for 20 years at The sale crystallised a return on capital since anannual rent of8.3 million.
committing to the development of 82.7% and anunlevered IRR of 55.1%.
For more on our sales activity see Investment management on pages 30 and 31 profitable development Although we sold d a p a pa ar rt tlly y constructed buildi din ng g, we we will deliver a prime e, 1 10 00 0% % let ofce scheme e t to o the the purchaser later th his ye is yea ar r hav haviin ng g already crystallised ed m ma at te er riia all surpluses for oursha shar re eh ho olld fide er rs s.. T his sale continues our strategy of recycling capital out of assets where we have created significant value and back into our exciting development programme.
Ben Chambers, Investment Director, GPE On behalf of TIAA-C REF, we are extremely pleased to enter this partnership with one of the UKs best developers.
Geoff Harris, Head of Development, TH Real Estate Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 13 With quality ofce and retail space in short Unlocking potential supply, we repositioned Walmar House, 288 300 Regent Street, W1, by modernising thebuilding to capture rental growth.
by delivering Following the off-market purchase of Walmar House from our GCP joint venture, we have transformed this well located property, only well-designed 100 yards from Oxford Circus, through a comprehensive refurbishment of the existing space in a grade B mixed-use space.
We improved the size and quality of the oorplates through the inll of light wells and the creation of a new supply constrained single core to deliver 37,700 sq ft of modern open plan ofce space, whilst also remodelling the ofce reception and enhancing the retail West End space conguration.
Shortly after completion of the 60,100 sq ft refurbishment in October 2014, we leased all theofce accommodation to luxury goods retailer Richemont for 15 years at an annual rentof 2.6 million.
At 69.00 per sq ft, the ofce rent is 91.1% higher than the average passing rent prior to refurbishment.
We have alsolet four of the five retail units 11,100 sq ft for 1.1 million p. a.
The scheme has delivered GPE a profit on cost of 53.8% to date.
14 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 St Strategic rategic Repor Report t O Ov five er rv viie ew w Our team has delivered modern W e chose Walmar House and efficient space at this forour UK headquarters well-located property to maximise because it provides us with tenant appeal and capture the rstclass ofce space in rental growth opportunity.
Andrew White, Head of Development, GPE Richemont, Our ofce tenant Enhanced space Before After Transforming space with improved ofce oorplates and an enhanced retail conguration to drive rentalgrowth.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 15 Unlocking potential by regenerating the East End of Oxford Street Our development activitiesaredriving We subsequently pre-let a new 31,800 sq ft  shareholders.
agship retail store at the scheme to fast-fashion brand New Look on a 20 year lease at an annual With more than 600,000 sq ft of development rent of 3.65 million, reecting a record zone schemes at the East End of Oxford Street, A rent in the area of around 600 per sqft.
weare at the forefront of regenerating Our pre-letting helped to delivered valuation the building stock and upgrading the local growth of 53% in the financial year.
environment ahead of the opening of the new Tottenham Court Road tube station in 2016 With completion of the scheme anticipated in andCrossrail in 2018.
Together they will create spring 2017, we are also progressing our letting one of Europes busiest public transport hubs.
initiatives for the second agship retail store of 15,300 sq ft and 43,600 sq ft of Grade A ofces.
Our schemes include our 90,700 sq ft new-build development at 73 89 Oxford Street, Following the strong valuation uplift prior to W1, directly opposite the Dean Street entrance commitment, the scheme is expected to deliver to the Tottenham Court Road Crossrail station.
We committed to the development in January 2015 having secured planning consent and For more on our development activity see Development management on pages 32 to35 vacant possession in the preceding 12 months.
Zone A retail rents per sq ft Record retail rent Our New Look letting was at 600 a record Zone A rent in the area, asignicant increase on thepassing retail rent of 238 per sq ft at the property on purchase in 450 2011 and well ahead of the previous record in the area of approximately 450at 350 the adjoining recently 238 redeveloped property.
Passing rent Market rent Previous record New Look on purchase on purchase rent in area deal T he terms of our pre-letting W ere very excited to be with New Look reect the working with GPE to deliver strong retail prospects in this a world class New Look part of Oxford Street and are agship store.
This store, in positive for our ongoing and what is going to be a prime future developments.
retail location, strengthens our Marc Wilder, Head of Leasing, GPE position as we continue to grow the New Look brand both in the UK and internationally.
Danny Barrasso, UK Managing Director, New Look 16 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 St Strategic rategic Repor Report t O Ov five er rv viie ew w Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 17 Our forward sale of the majority of the Unlocking potential residential apartments at Rathbone Square, W1 commenced fide-risking of the delivery ofour largest ever development.
by creating profitable Following receipt of planning approval for our 408,800 sq ft mixed-used scheme, we launched the pre-sales marketing programme, first in developments whilst the UK and then overseas, of the 142 private apartments on the commencement of the development in July 2014.
To date, we have managing risk exchanged contracts to sell 132 apartments at an average capital value of 1,886 per sq ft and ahead of our expectations.
The total contracted residential sales proceeds of 228.9 million exceeds the expected remaining total construction costs for the entire scheme, which also includes 20 affordable residential units onsite.
With construction works ongoing and expected to complete in spring 2017, we will shortly be launching the pre-letting campaign for the 214,900 sq ft of modern ofces, along with 40,000 sq ft of unique retail space on the ground oor.
The scheme is expected to deliver GPE a profit on cost of 19.2%.
See how we are working with our key suppliers atRathbone Square on page 35 18 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 St Strategic rategic Repor Report t O Ov five er rv viie ew w Newman Street Rathbone Place The right mix T he quality of our residential Our scheme will deliver retail apartments has allowed us to space on the ground oor forward-sell the majority of the around a landscaped public square with residential and units early in the construction ofce space on the upper phase and begin the process oors of the northern and of fide-risking the delivery of southern elevation buildings respectively.
Helen Hare, Project Manager, GPE z Residential z Ofce T he successful sales campaign reects the high quality residential accommodation that GPE is creating.
The seamless transition from exterior to interior, the appeal of the apartments and the attractive new garden square will deliver a first rate development in a premierWestEnd location.
Ken Shuttleworth, Founding Partner, Make Architects Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 19 Oxford Street Public square
