Our approach to risk The successful management of risk is essential for the Grouptodeliver its strategic priorities.
Whilst the ultimate  rests with the Board,  management of risk  and the cultureofour team.
Our at organisational structure, with close involvement of senior How the Board monitors the Groups management in all significant decisions combined with our prudent principalrisks and analytical approach, is designed to align the Groups interests The Groups principal risks and the processes through which the with those of shareholders.
Company aims to manage these risks are outlined on pages 66 to 73.
Ongoing monitoring of our principal risks and controls by the Setting and monitoring our risk appetite Board is undertaken by: The Groups overarching risk appetite is set in the context that relatively low levels of authority for transactions requiring Board we focus on only one market that we know inside out central approval see pages 76 and 77, with investment transactions London.
However, because our market is cyclical, we apply a and development approvals requiring, amongst others, disciplined approach to managing our operational risk, in particular consideration of impact on financial leverage, interest cover and our development exposure, in tune with market conditions portfolio risk composition: whilst always maintaining low financial risk through conservative the Executive Directors oversight of all day-to-day significant financial leverage.
decisions with a copy of the weekly Executive Committee minutes provided to the Non-Executive Directors: We use a suite of key operational parameters as an important tool the Chief Executive reporting on the market conditions to set and then measure the Groups risk prole.
These parameters dashboard, operational parameters and people at each of the consider, amongst others, the Groups size, financial gearing, scheduled Board meetings: interest cover, level of speculative and total development exposure, the Portfolio Director providing a review on the development and single asset concentration risk.
These parameters are revisited programme, occupational markets, key property matters and annually as part of the Groups Strategy Review and reviewed at health and safety at each of the scheduled Board meetings: each Board meeting.
Both the Groups actual and forecast position the Finance Director reporting on the Group forecasts including over the next five years against these parameters are monitored.
actual and prospective leverage metrics, the tenant watch list and delinquencies at each of the scheduled Board meetings: How we manage our risks review of the Groups principal risks, the controls in place to We believe that effective management of risk is based on mitigate them and how the key controls have operated in the a top down and bottom-up approach outlined on page 65 preceding six months by the Executive Committee, the Audit which includes: Committee and the Board at the half year and year end: and our strategy setting process: the Audit Committee meeting with the valuers twice a year to better understand market conditions and challenge the the quality of our people and culture: assumptions underlying the valuation.
established procedures and internal controls: policies for highlighting and controlling risks: regular oversight by the relevant Committees: and a clear reading of market conditions and the cycle.
64 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Board oversight Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Operational Committees perational Committe Executive Committee weekly Development Investment Strategy update Corporate Asset management management management quarterly responsibility review weekly weekly quarterly quarterly Asset management Financial Development Environmental policy weekly management management review quarterly weekly quarterly P Policies olicies for highlighting and contr for highlighting and controlling risk olling risk Investment return Regular review of business plans, Development appraisal benchmarks dashboard lead indicators and parameters operational parameters Debt leverage, covenant Leasing objectives and tenant compliance and liquidity limits Occupancy targets covenant testing Procedures and internal controls High level risk Extensive documentation to Dened performance indicators assessment framework support decisions with sensitivity analysis Strict approval Formal policies and procedures External review of requirements consistently applied key controls People and culture Focused market expertise Integrity in business conduct Conservative attitude to capital deployment Open communication Interests aligned with shareholders Analytical rigour Transparent disclosure Qualied and experienced with stakeholders personnel with specic roles Business risk Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 65 Our approach to risk How we manage risk Market risk Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Central London real estate market Reduced The execution of the Groups strategy covering the key areas of underperforms otherUKproperty performance.
investment, development and asset management is adjusted and sectors.
updated throughout theyear, informed by regular research into the economy, the investment and occupational markets.
The Groups strategic priorities and transactions are considered in light of regular review of dashboard lead indicators and operational parameters.
The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the property cycle.
Worse than expected Regular economic updates are received and scenario planning is performance undertaken for different economic cycles.
Investment management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Poor investment decisions Not sufciently The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is toconstantly andmis-timed recycling ofcapital.
capitalising on market research each of the sub-markets within central London seeking the investment conditions.
right balance of investment and development opportunities suitable for current andanticipated market conditions.
Regular review of property cycle by reference todashboard of lead indicators.
Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions prior to purchase to ensure appropriate returns.
Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to ensure the appropriate rotation of those buildings with limited relative potential performance.
Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans with joint venturepartners.
Inappropriate asset concentration, Reduced liquidity Regular review of portfolio mix and asset concentration.
and relative property the portfolio as appropriate through undertaking acquisitions and or performance.
Asset management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Poor management of voids, rental Failure to maximise The Groups in-house asset management and leasing teams mis-pricing, low tenant retention, subincome from proactively manage tenants to ensure changing needs are met with a optimal rent reviews, tenant failures investment properties.
focus on retaining income in light of vacant possession requirements and inappropriate refurbishments.
for refurbishments anddevelopments and liaise regularly with external advisers toensure correct pricing of lease transactions.
The Group has a diverse tenant base with its ten largest tenants representing only 31.2% of rent roll.
Tenants covenants are analysed and security sought as appropriate as part of the lease approval process.
Regular contact with tenants is maintained to identify if tenants are suffering financial difficulties and their proposed actions.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth 66 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The central London real estate market continued to outperform the wider UK market during the year ended 31March2015, demonstrated by IPDs central London TPR exceeding IPDs universe by 6.8 percentage points on an absolutebasis and the outlookcontinues to be favourable.
Our market on pages 24 to 27 Over the past 12 months, the outlook for the London economy has improved.
However, uncertainties around the economic outlook persist given a possible referendum on UK membership of the EU along with an uncertain outlook forthe Eurozone and UK interest rates.
Our market on pages 24 to 27 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has continued to invest and recycle capital against abackdrop ofstrong capital value growth in central London andasurfeit of buyers tosellers in the investment market.
Lack of available stock mitigated by depth of opportunity in currentportfolio.
During the year, three acquisitions totalling 37.1 million were made together with disposals of 343.6 million atpremium to book value of11.0%.
Our market on pages 24 to 27 Investment management on pages 30 and 31 Case study on pages 12 and 13 The Group continues to monitor its portfolio mix and asset concentration risk.
Our largest asset is only 9.5% of the total portfolioand 23.4% of the portfolio was held in joint ventures at 31 March 2015.
Valuation on pages 28 and 29 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group continues to monitor a low void rate which was 2.0% at 31March2015.
Tenant delinquencies were 0.7% of the rent roll for theyearto 31 March 2015.
The Group continues to actively manage the portfolio to maximise occupancy and drive rental growth.
During the year, we secured 21.5 million of new rental income including 13.3million of development lettings.
Asset management on pages 36 and 37 Case studies on pages 14 to 17 Our approach to sustainability on pages 54 to 56 Sustainability targets on pages 60 to 63 2014 2015 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 67 Our approach to risk How we manage risk Development management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Poor execution of development Poor development See Market risk on page 66. programme through: returns.
Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts a detailed incorrect reading Financial and Operational appraisal process which evaluates the of the property cycle: expected returns from a development in light of likely risks.
During the course ofadevelopment, the actual costs and estimated returns inappropriate location: are regularly monitored to signpost prompt decisionsonproject failure to gain viable management, leasing and ownership.
planningconsents: Early engagement and strong relationships with planning authorities.
failure to reach agreement with Early engagement with adjoining owners.
adjoining owners on acceptable terms: In-house Project Management team utilise appropriate procurement methods to optimise thebalance of price certainty and risk.
level of speculative development: Internal and external resourcing requirements regularly reviewed by the construction cost ination: Executive Committee, Head of Development and Headof Projects.
contractor availability Third party resource expertise used to support in-house teams, where andinsolvency risk: appropriate.
insufficient human resources: Due diligence is undertaken of the financial stability of demolition, main a building being inappropriate to contractors and material sub-contractors prior to awarding of contracts.
tenant demand: Working with agents, potential occupiers and purchasers needs and weak demand for residential aspirations are identied during the planning application and design apartments: stages.
quality and benchmarks ofthe In-house Leasing Marketing team liaise with external advisers on a completed buildings: regular basis and marketing timetables designed in accordance with leasing marketing objectives.
construction and procurementdelays: All our major developments are subject to BREEAM ratings with a target to achieve a rating of VeryGood onmajor refurbishments and Excellent ineffective marketing to prospective on new build properties.
tenants: and Pro-active liaison with existing tenants before and during poor development management.
Selection of contractors and suppliers based on track record of delivery and credit worthiness.
In-house Project Management team closely monitor construction and manage contractors to ensure adequate resourcing to meet programme.
Post-completion reviews undertaken on all developments toidentify best practice and areas forimprovement.
An inappropriate level of development Underperformance Regular review of the level of development undertaken as a percentage undertaken as a percentage ofthe againstKPIs.
of portfolio, including the impact on the Groups income prole and portfolio.
financial gearing, amongst other metrics.
Developments only committed to when pre-lets obtained and or market supply considered to besufciently constrained.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth 68 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has increased its development commitments over the last year with six schemes currently on-site with a gross development value of 1,096.2 million, against a backdrop of increasing construction costs and tightening contractor capacity.
However the Group has continued to fide-risk its development programme and, as a result, the risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged over the year.
Key initiatives during the year included: the successful sales programme of the residential element ofRathbone Square, W1, securing 228.9 million of the gross development value since 1 April 2014: the forward sale of 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 crystallising an83% return on capital employed: successful letting on newly completed schemes with 13.3 million ofdevelopment lettings secured since 1 April 2014: placing construction contracts on four schemes since 31 March 2014 providing cost certainty across all of our committed schemes albeit Rathbone Square, W1, was ahead of our anticipated cost plan: and the Group secured 375,300 planning permissions during the year including 148 Old Street, EC1 and Hanover Square, W1, where revised planning has delivered a much improved building design.
Development management on pages 32 to 35 Case studies on pages 12 to 19 Our approach to sustainability on pages 54 and 57 to 59 Sustainability targets on pages 60 to 63 With forecasted supply of central London ofce space expected to be scarce in the near to medium term, the Group has expanded its development exposure to capitalise on the expected resulting rental growth given improving tenant demand.
Our increased development activity has increased the potential impact of this risk.
However, 30% of income or gross development value of the committed developments has already been secured and, given the level of current development commitments, the Group has maintained its conservative approach to financial leverage.
At 31 March 2015 LTV remained low at21.8%.
Our market on pages 24 to 27 Development management on pages 32 to 35 2014 2015 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 69 Our approach to risk How we manage risk Financial risks Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Limited availability offurthercapital.
Growth of business Cash ow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure isconstrained or sufficient undrawn facilities are in place.
unable toexecute Funding maturities are managed across the short, medium and long business plans.
The Groups funding measures are diversied across a range of bank and bond markets.
Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
Increased interest rates and or afall Adverse market Regular review of current and forecast debt levels andnancing ratios.
movements negatively Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure by having ahigh impact on debt proportion of debt with xed or capped interest rates through covenants.
significant headroom over all financial covenants at 31March 2015.
We estimate that values could fall by 56.7% from their 31March 2015 levels before Group debt covenants couldbeendangered.
Sub-optimal NAV Regular review of current and forecast capital requirements and persharegrowth.
gearing levels and nancing ratios.
People Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Incorrect level and mix retention of Strategic priorities Regular review is undertaken of the Groups resource requirements people to execute our business plan, not achieved.
combined with inability to attract, The Company has a remuneration system that is strongly linked to develop, motivate and retain talented performance and a formal six-monthly appraisal system to provide employees.
regular assessment of individual performance and identication of training and development needs.
Benchmarking of remuneration packages ofallemployees isundertaken annually.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth 70 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The likelihood of this risk has reduced over the year given the increased availability and improved pricing of both equity and debt capital.
Moreover, the Group has continued to extend the maturity ladder of its debt nancing and maintain diverse funding sources.
In October 2014, the Company replaced two revolving credit facilities totalling 500 million due to mature in November 2015 and January 2017 with a new 450 million five year revolving credit facility, which can be extended to a maximum of seven years.
Cash and undrawn credit facilities were 442 million at 31 March 2015.
Financial management on pages 38 and 39 Our financial results on pages 41 to 43 Notes 17 and 18 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 142 to 146 Whilst investment yields are at cyclical lows, central London property values are expected to benefit from rental value growth and continued strong investment demand.
Short-term interest rates have remained at or near historical lows over the last 12 months, although there is a growing expectation of increases in the medium term as the economy grows.
However, this risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged given our headroom against debt covenants and 96% of the Groups debt being at xed or hedged interest rates.
Financial management on pages 38 and 39 Our financial results on pages 41 to 43 Notes 17 and 18 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 142 to 146 The Groups existing capital structure is well placed to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and to deliver our development programme.
Financial management on pages 38 and 39 Our financial results on pages 41 to 43 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary With the Group rmly in the execution phase of the cycle and increased levels of development activity, the motivation of our people remains fundamental to the delivery ofourstrategic priorities.
When combined with a more active and competitive recruitment market, the likelihood of this risk has marginally increased over the year.
Staff retention is high at 87% against a backdrop of an increasingly competitive employment market.
A new Head of Human Resources was recruited in early 2015 to further enhance the development of our people.
From 1 April 2015, the corporate measures under the Employee Annual Bonus Plan have been changed to mirror the Executive Annual Bonus Plan.
Our people on pages 44 to 49 Remuneration report on pages 92 to 107 2014 2015 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 71 Our approach to risk How we manage risk Regulatory Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Adverse regulatory risk including tax, Reduces exibility Senior Group representatives spend considerable time, using planning, environmental legislation and may influence experienced advisers as appropriate, to ensure compliance with current and EUdirectives increases potential investor and and potential future regulations.
occupier interest Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active in buildings.
participation of the Executive Directors through relevant industry bodies.
Environmental Policy Committee meets at least quarterly toconsider strategy in respect of .
Resultant reputational The Group has dedicated Health and Safety personnel to oversee the damage.
Groups management systems which include regular risk assessments Loss of life or injury to employees, andannual audits to proactively address key Health and Safety contractors, members of the public areasincluding employee, contractor, members of the public and ortenants.
On developments, the Group operates a pre-qualication process to ensure selection of competent consultants and contractors which includes a Health and Safety assessment.
Contractors responses to accidents and near misses are actively monitored and followed-up by our Project Managers and Head of Sustainability.
1 Business interruption risk Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation An external event such as a significant damage, The Group has a Business Continuity Plan with predetermined power shortage, extreme weather, disruption and or processes and escalation for the Crisis Management Team.
Asset environmental incident, civil unrest reputational damage emergency plans exist for individual properties.
or terrorist or cyber attack that to the Groups Physical security measures are in place at properties and security signicantly affects the Groups portfolio threats are regularly assessed through links with security agencies.
operations, particularly given our and operations.
Regular testing of IT security is undertaken.
portfolio concentration in central London.
The Groups insurance policies include cover for catastrophic events including re, storm, riots and terrorism.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth 72 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary In 2015, Minimum Energy efficiency Standards came into force whichwill impact the ability to let less energy efficient buildings from 2018.
A watch list of all buildings EPC ratings and proposed actions is, therefore, maintained.
Uncertainty remains as to the taxation and regulatory environment.
Property industry representation on pages 50, 51 and 55 Sustainability on pages 56 and 57 With heightened levels of development activity, the likelihood of this risk marginally increased over the year, although remains unchanged after mitigation.
The Group had one reportable accident and one reportable incident during the year.
Health and safety on page 59 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary Whilst the likelihood of a major incident remains low, the UK Government increased the UKs external terrorism threat to severeduring the year.
2014 2015 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 73
