Why London A truly global city that we know inside out.
The centralLondon commercial property market hasenduring appeal for occupiers and investors.
London continues to thrive The West End is the historic heartland of London With the largest economy of any city in Europe and generating around 22% of UK GDP, London is one of the worlds leading With more than 315 million visitors a year, the West End provides commercial, creative and financial centres.
Its combination a unique mix of commercial, retail, residential, cultural and tourist of a strong legal system, time zone advantages, international attractions, attracting businesses from a diverse range of industries connectivity, high calibre labour pool, world-class universities and to locate here.
We own one of the largest commercial property a welcoming attitude to international businesses has resulted in portfolios in the core West End.
With no two properties the same, over a third of Fortune 500 companies now having their global our deep local knowledge remains a key competitive advantage headquarters in London.
See our market section on pages 24 to 27 See our properties and tenants on pages 160 to 162 with a deep and liquid commercial and with the barriers to entry remaining high property market With tenant demand strengthening but 70% of the core West Central London has one of the worlds largest commercial real End in a conservation area and the planning environment estate markets, with more than 230 million sq ft of ofce and continuing to tighten, available space remains in short supply.
retail property attracting a deep and diverse mix of occupiers and Successfully navigating these barriers to development whilst property investors, many from overseas.
With our 3.6 millionsqft delivering efficient and sustainable properties in attractive portfolio, our total market share is less than 2%, giving us ample locations that meet tenants needs remains critical to profitable scope to pursue attractive opportunities to buy and sell at favourable realestate activities.
Investment market activity continues to be strong See our case study on pages 14 and 15 with transactions reaching 19 billion in 2014, providing good liquidity for us when looking to sell properties.
See our case study on pages 12 and 13 that will always be cyclical.
we are driving regeneration and rental growth.
Notwithstanding these attractions, the Capitals commercial The combination of our teams expertise, strong relationships property markets will always be cyclical.
However, with our 100% and local experience are central to unlocking development central London focus and disciplined approach, we are well potential and our activities are contributing to major regeneration, positioned to capture the opportunities that this cyclicality creates particularly at the east end of Oxford Street.
Ahead of infrastructure through exing our operational risk in tune with market conditions.
improvements at Tottenham Court Road, including tube station upgrades and the delivery of Crossrail in 2018, we have increased See our business model on pages 8 and 9 our development commitments and are already capturing the strong rental growth that this regeneration is bringing to the area.
strong re Moreover Moreove, our development programme in the core West End represents around 25% of prospective market speculative supply represen over the ne over the xt four years.
S Se ee o e our case study on pages 16 and 17 No other central L ondon ofce focused REIT has as much exposure to Crossrail as we do with 86% of our portfolio within 800 metres of a Crossrail station.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive 6 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 15 Strategic Report Overview 22% Londons share of UK GDP Image: The East End of Oxford Street Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 7
