The Board Non-Executive Director Executive Directors Martin Scicluna Toby Courtauld Nick Sanderson Neil Thompson Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Portfolio Director BCom MA, MRICS BA Hons, ACA BSc Hons, MRICS Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Executive Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Date appointed to the Board: Chairman of Environmental Date appointed to the Board: Chairman of Health and Safety, October 2008 Policy Committee July 2011 Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Working Group Independent: Yes Date appointed to the Board: Independent: No April 2002 Date appointed to the Board: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: August 2006 Chairman of RSA.
Formerly Independent: No Joined the Group in July 2011 Non-Executive Directorand asFinance Director.
Formerly Independent: No Skills and experience: Chairman of the Audit Partner, Head of Real Estate Joined the Group in April 2002 Skills and experience: Committee ofLloyds Banking Corporate Finance Advisory at as Chief Executive.
Previously Joined the Group in December Group following 34 years at Deloitte, following ten years of with the property company 2002 and was appointed to the Deloitte, including Chairman real estate investment banking MEPC for 11 years, hegained Board as Development Director from 1995 to 2007. experience in Europe and Asia broadexperience ranging from inAugust 2006, becoming Age 64. with Nomura, Lehman Brothers portfolio management through Portfolio Director in September and UBS Investment Bank.
Current external tocorporate transactions and 2010.
He has worked for more Age 42. commitments: general management as a than 20years in the central Chairman of RSA plc, member of the Group Current external London commercial property Non-Executive Director ExecutiveCommittee.
Formerly with Derwent andChairman of the Audit Age47.
Member of the Finance Valley and Legal & General Committee of WorldPay Committee of the British Investment Management.
Current external Property Federation, Member Age 47. commitments: ofthe Reporting & Accounting Member of the British Property Current external Committee of EPRA Federation Boardand Policy commitments: Committee, Member of the Vice Chairman and Member of Management Board of the theManagement Board of the Investment Property Forum, BritishCouncil ofOfces, Director of The New West End Member ofthe Operations Company, Non-Executive Working Group of the Director of Liv-Ex Limited Westminster Property Association 50 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Nicholls Jonathan Short Elizabeth Holden Charles Philipps BA Hons, ACA, FCT BSc, ACIB, FRICS MA Hons ACA Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Senior Independent Director Chairman of the Remuneration Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Committee from 1July 2014 Chairman of the Audit Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Committee Member of the Nomination Committee from 1July 2014 Member of the Remuneration Member of the Nomination Member of the Nomination Committee Committee from 1April 2014 Committee from 1April 2014 Date appointed to the Board: April 2014 Member of the Date appointed to the Board: Date appointed to the Board: NominationCommittee March 2007 September 2012 Independent: Yes Date appointed to the Board: Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: July 2009 Chief Executive officer of Amlin Skills and experience: Skills and experience: plc and formerly a director of Independent: Yes Founding Partner of Internos Formerly a corporate partner at NatWest Markets.
Global Investors LLP, apanSlaughter and Mayspecialising Skills and experience: Age 56.
European real estate investment in mergers and acquisitions, Formerly Group Finance Director management business.
corporate advisory and Current external of Old Mutual plc and Hanson PreviouslyCEO of Pramericas governance matters.
commitments: plc, and previously Nonreal estate private equity Age 47.
Chief Executive officer of Amlin Executive Director of Man business following 16 years in plc, Trustee of the Outward Group Plc.
Current external investment banking at Lazard, Bound Trust and Director of Age 57. commitments: Barings and SG Warburg.
Outward Bound Oman UK Non-Executive Director of Current external Formerly a Non-Executive Centra Living commitments: Director of Big Yellow Group plc.
Chairman of theAudit Current external Committee of SIG Plc, commitments: Non-Executive Director, Senior Executive Chairman of Independent Director and InternosGlobal Investors LLP, Chairman of theAudit Independent Director to the Committee of DSSmithPlc Grosvenor Shopping Centre Fund, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee of Gatehouse Bank Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 51
