Business model The Group buys undervalued portfolios, often with high levels of vacancy or other tangible opportunities to add value, applies an intensive programme of improvement using its local management teams, and sells to realise the value added.
Buy Manage Sell 1 2 3 Disciplined investment Local expertise Realise value We pick our investments We have 16 oces with Returns come from rental based on a thorough experienced management income and selling at assessment of the teams across the UK increased value.
opportunities in and our regions in order to create a high continental Europe.
yielding portfolio with potential to add value.
We work hard at creating We supplement our buy, the right relationships with manage, sell business model our stakeholders so that we with other opportunity types Our balance sheet is strong are in the prime position to where we think good profits and we remain committed to react when opportunities can be made, including deals nancing on a prudent basis.
We apply an active in other sectors, especially asset management strategy land where we believe we to our properties in order can make planning gains.
to improve occupancy and drive rental income which should lead to See the AIF case study See our strategy increased values.
on pages 14 and 15 on pages 12 and 13 Strengths of our industrial property portfolio Industrial property is the most flexible The fundamental Opportunities and economical commercial property type value dynamics exist for adding with the widest occupational audience are strong value Our properties appeal to a huge range of occupiers Our properties are Even in a low growth which means we have an extremely diverse tenant valued at significantly environment, we have base without reliance on any particular tenants or below replacement cost opportunities to add value.
Occupational demand in all three core which limits new supply.
We have a material vacant regions is currently strong.
With over 40 million sq ft element of the portfolio of predominantly industrial property, we have a wide that can be let and we have range of space to meet the requirements of a diverse a significant bank of land mix of tenants.
that can be potentially developed.
16 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
