Board of Directors The Board currently comprises six independent Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and three Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for the strategy and future development of the Group and the efficient management of its resources.
24 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6 2 4 1 5 3 8 7 9 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1 2 3 I an Watson Morgan Jones Richard Lowes Joint Chief Executive Joint Chief Executive Finance Director Qualified as a solicitor with Gouldens.
Qualified as a Chartered Accountant Joined Hansteen on 1 January 2006 Founder Director and Joint Chief with Touche Ross.
Founder Director as Chief Financial Officer and was Executive of Ashtenne from 1989 and Joint Chief Executive of Ashtenne appointed Finance Director in October to 2005.
Founder Director of from 1989 to 2005.
Prior to this he worked in a Hansteen.
Member of the of Hansteen.
Member of the similar role for Ashtenne Holdings plc Nomination Committee.
between 1997 and 2005 and as Finance Director of Trafalgar House Property Limited and a Director of Ideal Homes Holdings PLC from 1988 to 1995.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 4 5 6 James Hambro Humphrey Price Melvyn Egglenton Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed Non-Executive Chairman of Appointed to the Board in October Appointed to the Board in June 2014.
Previously a Non-Executive Currently also Chairman of Pendragon also Chairman of J O Hambro Capital Director of LondonMetric Property PLC, Trustee of the James Family Management Group Limited, James PLC, Finance Director of Pillar Property Trusts, Non-Executive Director of Soho Hambro & Partners, Director of PLC and Finance Director of Arlington Estates Holdings Limited and NonPrimary Health Properties PLC, a Securities PLC.
Executive Director of Irwin Mitchell Non-Executive Director of Circle Chair of the Audit Committee and a Holdings Limited.
Formerly Regional Property PLC and Chairman of member of the Nomination Committee.
Fellow of Guide Dogs for the Blind.
Senior Independent Nomination Committee and member Director, Chair of the Remuneration of the Remuneration Committee.
Committee and a member of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
7 8 9 Rebecca Worthington Margaret Young David Rough Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in June 2014.
Appointed to the Board in October Appointed to the Board in October Currently also Chief Financial Officer 2015.
A Non-Executive Director and of Countryside Properties PLC.
BlackRock Group Limited and Senior Independent Director at John Formerly Founder and Chief Executive formerly a Non-Executive Director of Laing Group PLC.
Previously a NonOfficer of Lodestone Capital Partners BNY Mellon International Asset Executive Director at Land Securities LLP, a Non-Executive Director of Management Limited and AA PLC.
Member of the Aga Rangemaster PLC and Finance Member of the Audit Committee.
Director and Deputy Chief Executive of Quintain Estates and Development PLC.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
