Annual report on remuneration continued Non-Audited information including annual bonus.
The Company reserves the right External directorships to require him to take any outstanding holiday during The Executive Directors are permitted, subject to the prior any notice period or to make payment in lieu thereof.
written consent of the Board to accept appointments as Non-Executive Directors on other boards so long as none of The Company may terminate Richard Lowes such interests prejudice the business interests of the employment by giving less than twelve months Company or of any Group Company.
None of the Executive notice and may require that he mitigates his losses Directors have any fee paying external directorships.
The Company shall assess his mitigation prospects in determining Executive Directors service contracts the amount of any payment in lieu of notice.
The dates of the service agreements with the Company of each Director who served as an Executive Director during The Company also has the right to terminate Richard the year and their unexpired term, are stated below: Lowes service agreement summarily without notice or payment in lieu of notice for cause.
Date of service agreement Unexpired term New Executive Directors loss of office Morgan Jones 22 November 2005 12 months Notice Periods for new Executive Directors will be limited to Richard Lowes 18 October 2010 12 months a maximum of 12 months.
Ian Watson 22 November 2005 12 months Once notice has been given by either party, the Company will reserve the right to terminate the Executive Directors Existing Directors loss of office employment at any time during the applicable notice period The contracts remain in force at the date of this report, are by making a payment in lieu of the remaining period of on a full-time basis and provide for 12 months notice of notice.
Consistent with best practice, any payment in lieu of termination by either party.
If the Company gives notice to notice will consist solely of the Executive Directors base the relevant Executive except where termination is for salary and the cost to the Company of providing all other cause, the Company must make a payment in lieu of notice contractual benefits under his her service agreement for of the Executives base salary plus an amount equal to the the remaining period of notice, net of tax, but will exclude cost to the Company of providing all other contractual annual bonus and other entitlements or benefits referable benefits over the immediately preceding twelve-month to his her employment.
period including any contractual bonus payment made in that period, other than any payment under the Founder The Company will also reserve the right to give less than LTIP, net of tax.
The Company reserves the right to require 12 months notice and require the Executive Director to the Executive to take any outstanding holiday during any mitigate his her losses by seeking alternative employment, notice period or to make payment in lieu thereof.
and will assess the Executive Directors mitigation prospects in determining the amount of any payment in lieu of notice.
The Company also has the right to terminate each of the Joint Chief Executives service agreements summarily Performance Share Plan without notice or payment in lieu of notice for material The PSP rules incorporating leaver provisions were breach by the Executive of the relevant agreement that is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for cause e. g. gross misconduct.
in 2012: Under the Founder LTIP, if either of the Joint Chief For good leavers e. g. on death or for ill health, disability, Executives is a good leaver including termination by the retirement or redundancy prior to the end of the Company in breach of contract or unfair dismissal, awards relevant performance period, awards will vest over the are still subject to performance but the performance period number of shares reasonably determined by the is shortened to the date of cessation of employment.
Committee taking account of factors that the Committee Awards are forfeited where cessation of employment is for reasonably considers relevant including, but not limited another reason, such as termination for cause.
to, the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed and the extent to which any performance Richard Lowes service agreement is terminable by either conditions have been or would have been satisfied if party giving not less than 12 months notice.
Once notice pro-rated to the date of cessation of employment.
has been given by either party, the Company may, in its For good leavers after the end of the performance period absolute discretion, terminate his employment at any time but before the vesting date of an award or a proportion during the applicable notice period by making a payment in of the award, awards will vest over the number of lieu of the remaining period of notice consisting of his base shares reasonably determined by the Committee, but salary and the cost to the Company of providing all other the only factor the Committee must take into account in contractual benefits under his service agreement for the that determination is the proportion of the vesting remaining period of notice, net of tax but excluding any period which has elapsed.
other entitlements or benefits referable to his employment, 46 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
