Strategic report Governance Financial statements Awards are generally forfeited where departure is for had the Non-Executive Director continued in office until another reason, such as resignation or termination for the date of expiry of the Non-Executive Directors cause, although the Committee has discretion to permit appointment, whether of the initial appointment or any vesting up to a level not exceeding the good leaver level extension thereof.
Vesting occurs on the date of the Committees The following table sets out dates of the Non-Executive determination on early vesting as described above, and Directors letters of appointment and the date on which the exercise of options if appropriate is permitted from that Non-Executive Director is next subject to re-appointment or date for a period determined by the Committee but not re-election.
exceeding 12 months from the date of cessation of Date on which employment.
next subject to re-appointment or Effective date of engagement re-election Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not James Hambro 15 November 2005 6 June 2016 have Service or Employment contracts with the Company.
Melvyn Egglenton 9 June 2014 6 June 2016 Each Non-Executive Director has a Letter of Appointment Humphrey Price 13 October 2010 6 June 2016 which provides, subject to the Articles of Association and to David Rough 1 October 2015 6 June 2016 retirement by rotation, that Directors appointments can be Rebecca Worthington 9 June 2014 6 June 2016 terminated upon either party giving not less than three Margaret Young 1 October 2015 6 June 2016 months prior written notice.
However in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code B.
7.1 all Directors are Performance graph and table subject to annual re-election and are not eligible for The following graphs compare the Companys total payment in lieu of notice or any other payment on shareholder return TSR to two FTSE Real Estate termination except in the following circumstances: indices.
TSR measures share price growth, with dividends deemed to be reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
Prior to When an offer for the entire issued share capital of the 6 October 2009 for the graph detailing the performance Company becomes wholly unconditional unless since flotation, the index used for comparison is the FTSE requested to continue in office by the Board, except All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Index which up where an offer is wholly unconditional from the outset in until that point the Company would have been a constituent which case the appointment will terminate at the end of member of.
From 6 October 2009, the index used for the offer period and the Non-Executive Director will be comparison is the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment entitled to a payment of a quarter of the annual fee.
Trusts Index, to reflect the Companys conversion into If the Non-Executive Director resigns voluntarily but a REIT with effect from that date.
The seven-year solely because of having a reasonable objection to, or performance graph compares solely against the FTSE Allreasonable disagreement with, a Board decision on a Share Real Estate Investment Trusts Index.
These indices material matter of policy or a material commercial matter have been chosen by the Committee as they are considered affecting the Company or the Group.
In this case, the the most appropriate benchmarks against which to assess Non-Executive Director will be entitled to a severance the relative performance of the Company for this purpose payment equivalent to a quarter of the annual fee or, if and for these time periods.
The graphs are based on less, the total amount of fees that would have been paid underlying data provided by Thomson Reuters Datastream.
