20 The intu difference UK development momentum Our investment in our UK assets creates the stylish and sought-after shopping destinations retailers and customers want, revitalises city centres and brings economic benets to communities intu Bromley Insight means we can deliver dramatic changes through small investments.
The 3 million transformation of intu Bromley saw retailers competing for space in the newly rebranded centre, intu Eldon Square digital connectivity, new stores and vying to get a share of the valuable customer service points.
New tenants catchment 88 per cent of intu Bromleys Over the last ten years we have include Thomas Sabo, Skechers and customers are in the most affluent effectively rebuilt intu Eldon Square to Smiggle, altogether generating over ABC1 category.
create a dynamic shopping experience 3 million per annum in new rents.
in the heart of Newcastle.
This includes New retailers over the past two years a stylish 400,000 sq ft extension and a New rents include White Stuff, Thomas Sabo, 22 million investment to refurbish the Smiggle, Hema, Carluccios, YO!
Sushi, mall, which have attracted new highEcco, Jo Malone, Timberland and Fat Face.
quality tenants and increased revenues.
3m Occupancy is nearly 100 per cent, with Refurbishment and the revitalised mix of just two stores available to let.
tenants has tempted back affluent local The next phase is the 25 million shoppers who are choosing to use their Occupancy is nearly restaurant development at Greys local centre once again.
The result has Quarter which, on completion in 2016, been around 20 new lettings.
will bring 20 new restaurant brands to 100% central Newcastle.
The opening of the restaurant terrace at Queens Garden in 2016 will further enhance the aspirational offer and The mall overhaul has all the features of will be the catalyst for introducing a an intu reinvention updating the centre longer trading day in the centre, to make and infrastructure from the technical to intu Bromley one of south east Londons the technological, reducing operating most compelling destinations.
costs with energy efficient lighting and ventilation, and attracting customers through the top-quality redesign, full Cost of the refurbishment 22m
