co. uk The intu difference 19 Optimising asset performance Our distinctive asset management approach combines expertise and experience with the intu difference to make our centres vibrant places for leisure and shopping that draw in customers and help retailers ourish National Kiko roll-out Investing in our centres, understanding what retailers need and knowing our customers are characteristics of intu that are helping retailers ourish.
European beauty brand Kiko has been so impressed that since testing the water with its first intu store at intu Victoria Centre where sales exceeded all targets it expanded into seven more in 2015, with plans for further openings in our centres.
intu Victoria Centre Retailers have seen the difference, with shops reporting a Saturday afternoon Our vision for Nottingham, which level of crowds on Thursday mornings sees the city centre anchored by two and spend rising by 14 per cent year complementary centres intu Victoria on year CACI 2015.
Zone A rents have Centre and intu Broadmarsh, has started risen from 210 in 2013, before the to become a reality with our 42 million development, to 250 in December 2015. investment at intu Victoria Centre.
December 2015 saw the muchThe transformation created a modern anticipated opening of the restaurant and contemporary retail space that has quarter, which is helping to generate a enticed new and exciting brands such as vibrant night-time culture that benets Kiko see right, Swatch and Superdry to all retailers through longer opening hours.
the city of Nottingham for the first time.
It is what intu is known for creating the Many existing tenants, such as JD Sports spaces and experiences both retailers and Vision Express, are upsizing.
Only intu can It has been 18 months since intu took over at intu Derby and intu Merry Hill in the heart of England: but what a difference we have made: We are excited to be able to build on our success 115% 17% 11% at intu Victoria Centre rise in net Zone A rent rise in valuations and to work with intu to promoter score increase further expand in the UK These gures show what intus active asset management is all about: driving improvement across a spectrum of KPIs, through an understanding of what works for the modern retailer Kiko and creating the environment that attracts customers and tempts them to stay.
