12 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Investment case Our investment case sets out how we use our marketleading position and unique insight to implement our strategy and deliver shareholder returns UKs largest owner, developer and manager of prime shopping centres Market-leading only UK nationwide shopping centre brand position providing in centre and online customer experience talented, motivated and empowered employees focused on delivering exceptional customer experience robust capital structure with access to a wide range of funding sources See business model page 28 pure play focused shopping centre owner Unique insight dynamic operator at the forefront of an evolving retail environment, understanding the multichannel requirements of retailers unique insight into customer trends and demands for the perfect shopping and leisure experience connecting retailer requirements with customer demands to deliver compelling shopping experiences See key market trends page 16 combining our scale, expertise and insight Strategy creating compelling experiences for our customers delivering results for our retailers adding value for our investors See strategy overview page 32 and 33 aim to deliver long-term total property returns from our prime properties, Shareholder an attractive asset returns strong, stable income streams from long-term lease structures development potential and capital appreciation The intu difference What makes intu different?
We create compelling experiences that surprise and delight our customers, delivering success for our retailers, enhancing our communities and driving value for our investors Optimising asset UK development Making the Seizing the growth performance momentum brand count opportunity in Spain page 19 page 20 page 23 page 24 With 2 3 of the UKs shopping population within 45 minutes of an intu centre, and our unrivalled website, weve got the country covered intugroup.
co. uk The intu difference 15 The intu difference is driving our success 400m 35m 24m 2m customer visits in 2015 customers website visits marketing database The gures are impressive but it is Signature experiences what we do with them that really makes the difference.
Our in-house teams are always thinking up new signature experiences that With the whole business centred around express our brand proposition of world our customer, we bring together our class service, digital connectivity and scale, experience and expertise to create events with a difference.
Joy jars, the new compelling experiences, in centre and customer lounges, the intu app just online, which deliver real results for our some of the ways we provide moments retailers, caterers and leisure operators.
And it works stores at intu centres are very often among the top performers in their businesses.
A culture of success Our unique insight and research programmes help us understand what How we behave is an important part motivates customers to visit their local of the intu difference and a big reason intu centre, stay longer and return often.
We encourage We then combine the power of our and equip all our employees to look brand with our scale to attract the best at things differently and creatively, retailers, the most sought-after brands to consider carefully and then to act and exciting immersive experiences to boldly and genuinely.
Our values Creative We look at the familiar and we see something different: we are insightful and imaginative, but not for their own sake, Our aim is to put a for we never lose sight of what is important and relevant.
smile on the face of our customers.
We want Bold We act condently and decisively, always them to be happier knowingly, perhaps at times controversially, when they leave our but never rashly or without consideration.
centres than when they Genuine walked through the We are true to ourselves, act fairly and communicate clearly: we say what door.
Happy shoppers we mean and we mean what we say.
mean happy retailers We recognise our obligations to our stakeholders and the wider society, David Fischel and commit to put our utmost into everything we do.
