co. uk The intu difference 27 A national company with a local face As a major employer in most of the UK towns and cities we operate in, we have an important role in supporting our communities Contributing to our communities intus contribution to Watford intu centres are vibrant hubs for the community, providing places for people to meet, eat, socialise and be entertained while making a significant economic contribution to communities through employment, taxation and investment.
6,000 Each year we report on our contribution through calculating the gross value added, or GVA, to the local and national economy.
local people employed 1,575 Our enduring relationships in Watford are creating new direct and indirect community and prosperity jobs from extension Opened in 1992, intu Watford is at the heart of the town, physically and 20,000 guratively.
With over 6,000 local people working there, it is a major employer community contributions and the extension and mall upgrade in 2015, with 260 intu staff will increase that role further.
The panel participating in community activity on the right shows a snapshot of intus contribution to the local area.
With almost 25 years in the town we invest in long-term partnerships such 16m as the Peace Hospice.
Our community business rates programme reects the communitys needs, from training young people, regenerating open spaces, and helping improve local health and wellbeing.
Our partnership with The Conservation Volunteers, in the Colne River Park, has attracted significant buy-in from local people and strong endorsement from 100% 50% the elected Mayor of Watford.
decrease in energy waste diverted The relationships we nurture over the use 2010 2015 from landll long term make us an integral part of the community and help us understand Our annual economic contribution a range of local needs and when it came to Watford to our plans for the development we got the thumbs-up from the community, with a 91 per cent approval rating.
296m Supporting local causes in Watford Top: collecting for the local food bank.
GVA 91% Bottom: students try out their retail skills approval rating for the development on one of our employability programmes
