co. uk The intu difference 23 Making the brand count Three years on from creating the new brand our customers and retailers are starting to understand the intu difference and what it means: a way of doing things that guarantees world class service, compelling events and the best digital connectivity in the business Five ways we are using technology to improve customers experience Bridging the divide between online and in store and creating the perfect personalised customer experience intu has embraced the digital revolution by putting the customer first to benefit retailers 1.
Two million database A valuable bank of information of customers digital interactions which allows our customers to benefit from an unrivalled online Student Nights Quotes from retailers bear out and in-centre relationship the events success: with retailers Student nights are a regular part of any shopping centres event We thought wed take 8k, 2.
Innovative waynding app calendar, but intu Student Nights we took 72k.
Our app gives customers access really are events with a difference to special offers based on their for both students and retailers.
Achieved 686 per cent against location in centre, and enables our target took 20,000 in retailers to boost sales through four hours.
personalised real-time offers 128,000 Can I just say how AMAZING students attended events in 2015 the student event on Wednesday was for us.
Affiliate website in Scotland & Ireland.
Less than 18 months after 21% rise from 2014 launch intu.
co. uk is one By leveraging the intu consumer From the events we signed up of the countrys top-10 brand and our national presence, 120,000 students to our database, affiliate websites.
intu is the more retailers took part in the giving retailers access to a coveted only UK-wide shopping 2015 events than ever before and hard-to-reach group of centre brand to have a 1,045 across our portfolio, shoppers.
We are planning a spring transactional website 17 per cent more than last year.
event for 2016, giving retailers and students another great opportunity.
Customer lounges Bringing all intus digital Sponsorships and partnerships and physical services together in one stylish With a million people coming into an intu centre every day, and over lounge, improving customer two million customers accessible via our marketing database, intus scale satisfaction scores and national presence make us an unbeatable partner for global brands looking for access to a UK-wide audience.
In 2015 more brands than ever before paid to promote their brands to the unmatched 5.
Unrivalled connectivit ty y customer base provided by intu.
These include Free wi and 4G across most t 20th Century Fox who have toured their lms of our centres makes them Home and The Peanuts Movie in every intugo-to destinations for todays s branded centre, which have in turn provided digital natives compelling half-term experiences for families, leading to higher net promoter scores during holiday periods.
24 The intu difference Seizing the growth opportunity in Spain In Spain we are building a platform of the best centres through acquisition and development and we are creating a new class of regional destination centre the retail resort intu reigns in Spain In Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza, the second of Spains top-10 shopping centres that we own, footfall is up 4 per cent and retailer Our successful brand sales are up by 13 per cent, reecting rise in net improving economic conditions and the goes international at 38% promoter score work we have done on retail mix.
intu Asturias Our next step is to rebrand Puerto Venecia Since Tell intu was introduced in March and then get on site with intu Costa del Sol 2015 was the year we proved that the 2015, we have seen net promoter score near Mlaga.
The quality of what weve intu brand, with its distinctive approach rise by 38 per cent in the first quarter achieved is already lending confidence to to asset management, customer after the rebrand.
the pre-letting of our next big venture.
experience and digital connectivity, We also have options on three key sites could be as successful in the Spanish in Valencia, Vigo and Palma.
6% rise in footfall In June our first Spanish acquisition, Parque Principado, completed its first The effect on sales and footfall has been stage of rebrand to intu Asturias after just as striking the first quarter after a modernisation programme that saw rebranding saw a 6 per cent uplift in the centre upgraded with decorative footfall leading to a 13 per cent rise in and lighting enhancements, new signage retailer sales.
and seating, free wi and the customer experience that bears the hallmark of the intu brand.
13% rise in retailer sales The brand has proved eminently transferable, adapting to the local culture These gures, along with the near 100 per and community in much the same way it cent occupancy, show how much more does in the UK.
The high level of digital attractive intu Asturias now is to retailers connectivity, compelling events and and customers alike.
It is also increasing in the world class service for which intu value, rising from 162m at purchase to is already well-known, are proving as 242m in December 2015. popular with Spanish customers as they are with British shoppers.
I n the first quarter after rebranding, July-September 2015.
Delivering the same brand experience in Spain and the UK
