022 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 We fide-risk developments by seeking substantial Increasing consumer demand for great shopping OUR STRATEGY pre-lettings before we start construction, so we, and experiences is a fundamental driver within our our customers, are both committed to the scheme.
market, so we are managing our portfolio to ensure IN ACTION 201415 We use our close relationships with retailers to ensure our assets provide a great day out.
We are also seeing we understand their changing needs.
We help them rising demand for convenience from shoppers and Retail Portfolio strategy to pursue multi-channel strategies and ensure our new formats from retailers, so we are evolving We create value by providing customers with new or retail environments use new technology to enhance our edge-of-town and out of town assets.
more efficient space that helps drive their business.
And we develop good Geographically, we are focusing our activity in We operate across the UK but focus on assets in relationships with local communities and contribute to the south east and the best regional destinations.
thriving locations that are a destination or the social and economic fabric of the local area, which For more information about our Retail Portfolio convenient for shoppers.
helps to make our centres busy and well regarded.
go to: pages 3031 BUY DEVELOP MANAGE SELL Our focus on dominance, experience BISHOP CENTRE and convenience has driven our disposals Taplow Construction of this 105,000 sq ft strategy.
edge-of-town scheme completed THE BRIDGES in July last year, and the centre is now Sunderland 100% let.
We sold this 550,000 sq ft shopping centre for 152.3m.
We took advantage of strong market conditions for retail assets to crystallise value from this asset which BLUEWATER was no longer part of our strategic focus.
BLUEWATER Kent Kent At Bluewater we see opportunities to We acquired a 30% stake in Bluewater, reformat space to better meet the needs Kent for 657.0m.
In addition, we of customers.
We have already enabled acquired the full asset management of Next to increase its presence by turning the centre and 110 acres of surrounding three separate units into a new flagship land for 40.0m.
We are also upgrading the quality part of the strategic shift of our Retail WESTGATE and mix of catering at the centre.
Portfolio towards dominance, experience Oxford In February, we committed to proceed and convenience and brings with it management of the UKs pre-eminent with work on the re-development of CABOT CIRCUS Westgate, Oxford, together with our shopping centre outside London.
Bristol partners The Crown Estate.
This 800,000 BUCHANAN GALLERIES We demonstrated the pace at which we sq ft centre will provide a world-class Glasgow are reshaping the Retail Portfolio to focus retail and leisure destination in Oxford, We increased our interest in Buchanan on the very best shopping environments with around 100 stores, 25 restaurants, Galleries, Glasgow to 100% by buying with the disposal of our 50% stake in Cabot cafes and bars, a boutique cinema, roof the remaining 50% stake for 137.5m.
Circus shopping centre, Quakers Friars and top terrace dining, new public spaces surrounding shops in Bristol for 267.8m.
GUNWHARF QUAYS The centre is now 29% pre-let, and Portsmouth will be anchored by John Lewis.
We are continuing to see healthy sales growth as we focus our asset management plans on premium brands taking new space at the centre.
We have begun works to relocate Polo Ralph Lauren to a new 16,500 sq ft store which will be their largest standalone outlet store in the UK.
PRINCESSHAY ST DAVIDS Exeter Cardiff In line with our strategy of focusing on Our focus is on bringing new retail and shopping centres which are dominant catering brands to Cardiff and highlights in their location, we sold our 50% stake BUCHANAN GALLERIES include the first Wahaca in the south in Princesshay shopping centre and Glasgow west, Scotts, a leading branded surrounding properties in Exeter for Following our acquisition of the menswear offer and Discovery Adventure 127.9m, as part of a swap for 50% remaining 50% and close liaison with Golf, a new indoor leisure destination.
local partners, we achieved planning consent for a major extension to BLACKPOOL RETAIL PARK THE CENTRE AND ALMONDVALE Buchanan Galleries, Glasgow, and we Blackpool WEST RETAIL PARK are currently progressing contractual Work has commenced to reconfigure Livingston arrangements.
a number of units allowing the We sold these two assets in Livingston for introduction of new occupiers to the 224.1m.
With this sale, we completed park.
We have submitted a planning the disposal of our last secondary application for a convenience food store shopping centre and our shopping centre on some redundant industrial units portfolio now consists of dominant adjoining the park.
regional and Greater London assets.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our strategy in action Land Securities Annual Report 2015 023 to deliver greater returns at this point in the cycle.
to placemaking, so that the public realm and facilities London Portfolio strategy We generally develop speculatively, which requires in and around our buildings make the area more We create value by developing office, retail, leisure us to have a very clear understanding of customers attractive and enjoyable for everyone.
and residential space: strengthening income through changing needs and the likely balance between supply smart, rigorous asset management: and recycling and demand on completion.
Our current development our capital through well-timed disposals and programme is well matched to market conditions.
We operate in central London in areas Everything we do is driven by the need to we know well.
understand our customers, partners and We manage the balance between development communities.
We respond to peoples ever-evolving and property investment carefully, with a current expectations in the way we plan, design, build and For more information about our London Portfolio emphasis on development as it has the potential manage our buildings.
We give particular attention go to: pages 3233 BUY DEVELOP MANAGE SELL We strengthened our pipeline of future 20 FENCHURCH STREET opportunities by making two key EC3 acquisitions in the year: We started construction in 2010 and completed the office space last year with the Sky Garden opening to the public in 21 MOORFIELDS January 2015.
The scheme is now 92% let, EC2 achieving longer leases and higher rents This development opportunity sits over than anticipated.
As a result, this new the future western entrance to Liverpool addition to the London City skyline Street Crossrail station and will deliver TIMES SQUARE delivered a valuation surplus of over 90% over 500,000 sq ft of commercial space.
EC4 since the start of the scheme.
We acquired this asset at an attractive We successfully lengthened the income 1 & 2 NEW LUDGATE price, and are working up our plans for by restructuring two leases.
This enabled EC4 the future development.
us to maximise value prior to disposal.
Our mixed-use development at 1 & 2 New 47 MARK LANE THOMAS MORE SQUARE Ludgate, EC4, has created two exceptional EC3 E1 buildings near the planned Crossrail We sold 47 Mark Lane, EC3 for 73.2m, We secured our partners 50% interest Thameslink interchange.
The offices are taking advantage of the strong in Thomas More Square, E1.
The now 71% let with average lease lengths of investment market to crystallise the 19 years again, reflecting the supply acquisition will enable us to capture valuation gain created by letting and constrained nature of this part of the City.
greater value as we refurbish the main lease re-gearing activity.
The development completed in April 2015. office tower, add new retail space and enhance the public realm.
KINGS GATE SW1 This 100 apartment scheme will complete DASHWOOD HOUSE in July 2015.
EC2 Over 81% of the income at Dashwood THE ZIG ZAG BUILDING SW1 House, EC2, is subject to rent review by Construction of this commercial office March 2016.
Ahead of these reviews, and retail scheme is now due to complete we have achieved a new benchmark in July 2015.
The office space is already rent through some surrender and 32% pre-let and 52% of the retail space re-leasing activity.
at The Zig Zag Building, SW1, and Kings 130 WOOD STREET Gate, SW1, is now pre-let to Jamies TIMES SQUARE EC4 Italian, Iberica and Mango.
EC4 Through agreeing a surrender of a lease Following the recent asset initiative to 1 NEW STREET SQUARE of the top floor, and subsequently lengthen the income, and maximise EC4 re-letting to the majority occupier for value, we exchanged contracts to sell This 275,000 sq ft scheme was pre-let in 10 years, we increased the ERV and our 95% stake in Times Square, EC4, its entirety to Deloitte in March on a 20 weighted average unexpired lease for 268.4m.
The development is located term on this building.
within a ten minute walk of Blackfriars ORIANA and Farringdon, where Crossrail meets Void rate and lease length W1 Thameslink.
The letting success, some Our like-for-like void rate increased to Following a lease extension to Primark, 15 months ahead of project completion, 4.3% at 31 March 2015 compared to we have sold Phase I of Oriana for reflects the product and supply- 1.6%.
The main contributors were a digital 126.8m our share and agreed a constrained conditions into which we sign at Piccadilly Lights, W1, where the forward sale of Phase II on completion.
lease expired before the year end, Thomas More Square, EC1, New Street Square, NOVA, VICTORIA EC4, Holborn Gate, EC4, where we are SW1 Phase I refurbishing the space, and Portland Construction of this 726,000 sq ft office, retail and residential scheme is progressing House, SW1, a pre-development well.
12% of the office space is in property.
Lease extensions and renewals solicitors hands and we have sold 133 of in the portfolio have maintained the the 170 apartments.
Seven of the 18 retail weighted average unexpired office lease units are pre-let with a further six in length at 9.2 years.
solicitors hands, creating Londons newest and most exciting restaurant quarter.
