0 042 42 L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Robert Noel Colette OShea Scott Parsons Diana Breeze Miles Webber Chief Executive Managing Director, Managing Director, Group Human Resources Director of Corporate London Portfolio Retail Portfolio Director Affairs and Sustainability Robert was appointed to the Colette joined Land Securities Scott re-joined Land Securities in Diana joined Land Securities in Miles joined Land Securities on Board in January 2010 as in 2003 and was Head of 2010 and was Head of Property, June 2013 as Group Human 6 May 2015.
Managing Director, London Development, London Portfolio, London Portfolio, before being Resources Director.
Portfolio, and became Chief Age: 46 before being appointed its appointed as Managing Director, Executive in April 2012.
Age: 47 Career Managing Director in April 2014.
His full biography appears on Career Miles was, until recently, Head Age: 47 Age: 45 page 40.
Diana has over 20 years HR of External Affairs, UK & Ireland, Career Career and organisational consulting for General Electric, having Colette has over 20 years Scotts career to date includes experience, and she has previously held other senior property experience in London, three years as Managing Partner previously held a number of external affairs and relations operating in investment, asset of Brookfield Asset Management, senior HR roles at J Sainsbury plc, positions with them since he management and development.
where he led their European where she led many peoplejoined in 2005.
Prior to that, Prior to joining Land Securities, business, more than 10 years at focused change initiatives.
Prior he spent six years with Merrill she was Head of Estates at the GE Capital Real Estate, latterly as to that, she was a senior manager Lynch, his first two years as Mercers Company where she led Head of Business Development, in the Human Capital practice Vice President, Corporate the property team whilst also and three years as Business of Accenture.
Communications, followed by gaining extensive retail and Development Director at Land four years as Director of Public Responsibilities residential experience.
Securities in his first position with Affairs, EMEA.
In her current role, Diana has the Company.
Responsibilities end-to-end responsibility for the Responsibilities Martin Greenslade In her current role, Colette has Responsibilities articulation and delivery of a Miles broad responsibilities Chief Financial Officer responsibility for Land Securities In his current role, Scott has clear people strategy for Land cover sustainability, public 7.8bn London Portfolio responsibility for Land Securities Securities, including talent, relations both financial and Martin joined the Board as Chief comprising some nine million sq ft 6.3bn Retail Portfolio of reward, organisational design and business-to-business, internal Financial Officer in September of London offices, leisure, retail shopping centres, retail parks and engagement.
Since joining the communications, public affairs, 2005. and residential property both in leisure properties throughout the Company, Diana has led the investor relations and corporate His full biography appears on development and asset UK comprising some 20 million redesign of the Land Securities marketing including brand and page 40. management.
She is leading the sq ft of accommodation.
organisation at both Group and reputational management.
London business through a major Previously, as Head of Property business unit level, and has He is a Board Director of the development programme in the for Land Securities London implemented a number of key Foreign Policy Centre and the City and West End, including Portfolio, he led the investment, HR initiatives, most notably in Westminster Forum.
the delivery of buildings such asset and property management the areas of leadership Committees as 20 Fenchurch Street and the teams for the Groups office and development and reward.
A member of the Groups transformation of Victoria.
retail space in central London.
Diana is a member of the Executive and Sustainability Colette is President of the Scott is a Strategic Board International Advisory Board for Committees.
Attends British Council for Offices and member of the New West End Executive Education at the Sad Investment Committee a non-executive director of Company and was previously Business School, University of meetings.
Vice President of the City Oxford.
Committees Committees A member of the Groups Committees A member of the Groups Executive, Asset and Liability Executive and Sustainability A member of the Groups and Investment Committees.
Executive, Asset and Liability Committees.
Attends Chairman of the London Investment Committee meetings and Investment Committees.
Chairman of the Retail Executive and both the Remuneration and Nominations Committee Committee.
meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairmen.
The Executive Committee also comprises the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
This combined role is currently vacant with a new appointee set to take up the position in September 2015.
