010 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Our goal is to outperform our peer group in terms of total OUR BUSINESS MODEL shareholder return through the property cycles.
In everything we do we aim to shape the future for good.
Sources of capital Activity Finance capital This includes the different types of funds we use to invest in our business, from shareholder capital to borrowings.
SELL BUY Social capital This includes the relationships we MANAGE DEVELOP have with customers, communities and partners and the capabilities of our employees.
Sources and uses of Primary Supporting financial capital activity activity Shareholder capital Our purpose is to provide the right space to our Finance We can raise additional capital by issuing more customers and the wider community.
We secure funds for acquisitions and shares and can return capital to shareholders development at key points in the cycle.
We Buy through dividends or buying-back shares.
also use debt to enhance shareholder value.
We create value by acquiring buildings or land Debt that will generate returns above our cost of Planning This is the capital lent to the Company primarily capital through the application of our expertise.
We foster relationships with local authorities through bank loans and corporate bonds.
The and communities so we can create successful, Develop majority of debt has to be repaid at a specific revenue-generating developments that benefit We create value by building successful spaces point in the future, and the Company pays local communities.
and vibrant places well matched to the interest coupons on the debt.
changing needs of customers and communities.
Risk management Gearing We anticipate and mitigate potential threats Manage This is the ratio of our debt to the current to value creation, with a focus on ensuring We create value by improving buildings to value of our investment and trading properties assets are well let through the cycle.
meet our customers and communities needs, recalculated every six months.
running them efficiently and considerately, Technology Capital reinvestment and keeping them occupied.
We acquire, develop and deploy technologies Reinvesting capital from disposals and that help to maximise the performance of our Sell undistributed earnings back into the business buildings and our business.
We create value by holding or improving assets in order to create further value.
then selling when greater returns can be gained Advisers, suppliers and contractors Generating returns over time through investment elsewhere.
We work with the best partners, gaining Shareholders receive a return on capital through competitive advantage from their expertise.
the movement in share price and the dividends they are paid over time.
C A P I T A T L N R E E M I N T S V E E V S T N I M E E R N L T A T I P A C Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our business model Land Securities Annual Report 2015 011 Financial aims Outcome Measure Influences Goal Growth Dividend Total Market Total The quarterly in income business return sentiment shareholder payments we make The total rent paid to Dividend External responses to: return to our shareholders.
The quarterly Economic conditions Dividend payments payments we make Property market The financial value to our shareholders.
conditions Capital Growth in of the payments we Our reputation Plus return make to shareholders.
Our management team asset value Change in net The overall change in Our portfolio of assets Plus The increase in the value of asset value value of our p ortfolio.
Our levels of gearing Share price growth our portfolio generated by The overall change in The increase in the our actions and market value of our net assets.
Non-financial aims Customers Reputation Provide the right space at the right time, The external trust and and in the right place at the right price.
understanding we need in order to do business.
Environment Sustainable Improve the built environment while minimising environmental impact.
future The prospects we have as Communities a company that is valued Help local areas thrive economically, by its stakeholders.
Employees Attract, recruit and develop smart, skilled and commercially astute people.
We also think about the changing needs and This long-term perspective informs our Creating sustainable, expectations of our communities our sustainability commitments tangible actions long-term value neighbours and those who live and or work we are taking to ensure the company helps to in the areas we do business.
We consider shape the future for good.
These include a We aim to create reliable returns through the everything from the socio-economic commitment that all new developments will market cycle.
This requires us to anticipate and contribution property development and meet or exceed best practice for energy use, respond quickly to market dynamics, adjusting management can make to a neighbourhood water and materials.
We aim to send zero the way we buy, develop, manage and sell through to the impact such activity may have waste to landfill, recycle more and maximise the assets.
But we also look beyond current on the natural environment.
biodiversity potential on all our sites.
In terms conditions, responding now to how our And we consider how a changing world may of socio-economic commitments, we want a markets and the wider world might develop influence our employees and our partners more appropriately diverse employee mix over time.
This is essential if we are to ensure those who have a direct working or contractual within the company in terms of background, our portfolios evolve in the right way and we relationship with Land Securities, and those gender, ethnicity and disability.
We have continue to create value.
who share a mutual interest with us so we also set out commitments to ensure our For example, we think about changing can be sure we have the capabilities needed to working environments are safe, healthy and political, economic, social, technological and do what we do best.
And we aim to help 1,200 disadvantaged environmental conditions, and what these people secure jobs.
might mean for our assets and for the Our vision is to be the best property customers who occupy or visit our properties.
company in the UK in the eyes of our customers, our communities, our employees and our partners.
You can read about our progress on these commitments on pages: pages 144145
