Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 079 Directors interests Substantial shareholders REPORT OF THE Details of Directors interests in the ordinary shares As at 12 May 2015, the Company had been notified of the Company, including those that derive from under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 DIRECTORS their employment, are set out in the Directors of the following holdings of voting rights in its issued Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 78. shared capital: Save as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration The Directors present their report together with the Report, none of the Directors, nor any person connected audited accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Shareholders holding 3% or Table 56 with them, has any interest in the share or loan capital As permitted by legislation, some of the matters more of the Companys issued of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
At no time normally included in this report have instead been share capital during the year ended 31 March 2015 did any Director included in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 36 % of total hold a material interest, directly or indirectly, in any as the Board considers them to be of strategic voting rights contract of significance with the Company or any attaching to importance.
Specifically, these relate to the Number of issued share subsidiary undertaking other than the Executive Companys business model and strategy, future Shareholder name ordinary shares capital Directors in relation to their Service Agreements.
business developments and risk management.
BlackRock, Inc. 72,444,546 9.2 The Governance report on pages 37 to 78 is Directors indemnities and insurance Norges Bank 46,089,481 5.8 incorporated in this report by reference.
The Company has agreed to indemnify each Director APG Asset Management against any liability incurred in relation to acts or Company status N. V. 27,224,112 3.4 omissions arising in the ordinary course of their duties.
Land Securities Group PLC is a public limited liability Total voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company The indemnity applies only to the extent permitted by company.
It holds a premium listing on the London comprised 790,544,038 ordinary shares.
A copy of the deed of indemnity is available for Stock Exchange main market for listed securities The above shareholder levels are unchanged from inspection at the Companys registered office and will LON:LAND and is a constituent member of the 31 March 2015. be available at the 2015 AGM.
The Company has in FTSE 100 Index.
The Company is a Real Estate place appropriate Directors & Officers Liability Investment Trust REIT.
It is expected that the Voting rights and restrictions on transfer insurance cover in respect of potential legal action Company, which has no branches, will continue to of shares against its Directors.
operate as the holding company of the Group.
All of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of the Company have equal voting rights, with one vote Share capital Board membership per share.
There are no special control rights attaching The Company has a single class of share capital which The membership of the current Board and to them save that the control rights of ordinary shares is divided into ordinary shares of nominal value 10 biographical details of the Directors are given on held in the EBT can be directed by the Company to pence each, all ranking pari passu.
No other securities pages 40 and 41.
David Rough stepped down from satisfy the vesting of outstanding awards under its have been issued by the Company.
At 31 March 2015, the Board on 18 July 2014. various employee share plans.
In relation to the EBT there were 801,032,763 ordinary shares in issue and The Service Agreements of the Executive Directors and any unallocated Company shares held in it, the fully paid.
Further details relating to share capital, and the Letters of Appointment of the Non-executive power to vote or not vote is at the absolute discretion including movements during the year, are set out in Directors are available for inspection at the Companys of the trustee.
The Company is not aware of any note 36 to the financial statements.
Brief details are also included in the agreements or control rights between existing At the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 78. shareholders that may result in restrictions on the held on 18 July 2014, shareholders authorised the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Appointment and removal of Directors Company to make market purchases of ordinary The rights, including full details relating to voting The appointment and replacement of Directors shares representing up to 10% of its issued share of shareholders and any restrictions on transfer is governed by the Companys Articles of Association capital at that time and to allot shares within certain relating to the Companys ordinary shares, are set out Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, limits approved by shareholders.
These authorities in the Articles and in the explanatory notes that the Companies Act 2006 Act and related legislation.
will expire at the 2015 AGM see below and a renewal accompany the Notice of the 2015 AGM.
These The Board may appoint a Director either to fill a casual will be sought.
documents are available on the Companys website vacancy or as an addition to the Board so long as the The Company did not purchase any of its ordinary at www.
total number of Directors does not exceed the limit shares during the year and hence the number of prescribed in the Articles.
An appointed Director must ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 March 2015 Change of control retire and seek election to office at the next AGM of remained unchanged at 10,495,131.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, the Company.
In addition to any power of removal The Companys offshore discretionary Employee alter or terminate upon a change of control of the conferred by the Act, the Company may by ordinary Benefit Trust EBT is used to purchase Land Securities Company following a takeover bid.
None of these are resolution remove any Director before the expiry of his shares in the market on behalf of the Company for considered significant.
The Companys share plans period of office and may, subject to the Articles, by the benefit of employees, including for satisfying contain provisions that take effect in such an event but ordinary resolution appoint another person who is outstanding awards made under its employee share do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the willing to act as a Director in his place.
The EBT has waived its entitlement to receive all shares of the Company than created by the initial grant Codes recommendations and the Boards policy, all dividends paid by the Company on shares held in the or award under the relevant plan.
There are no Directors are required to stand for re-election at EBT.
As at 31 March 2015, there were 1,012,983 shares agreements between the Company and its Directors each AGM.
held in the EBT with 1,069,330 shares having been or employees providing for compensation for loss of released from it during the year to satisfy vested office or employment that occurs specifically because Directors powers awards under the Companys employee share plans.
The Board manages the business of the Company Further details regarding the EBT, and of shares issued under the powers set out in the Articles.
These powers Going concern pursuant to the Companys various employee share include the Directors ability to issue or buy back The Directors confirm they have a reasonable plans during the year, are set out in note 36 to the shares.
Shareholders authority to empower the expectation that the Company has adequate resources financial statements.
Directors to make market purchases of up to 10% to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of its own ordinary shares is sought at the AGM each future.
This confirmation is made after having reviewed year.
The Articles can only be amended, or new assumptions about future trading performance, Articles adopted, by a resolution passed by valuation projections, capital expenditure, asset sales shareholders in general meeting by at least threeand debt requirements contained within the Groups quarters of the votes cast.
The Directors also considered 080 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 potential risks and uncertainties, in the business, Scope 3 emissions have increased marginally, up 1%.
You will find more on our carbon reporting, and on credit, market and liquidity risk, including the This increase, which is mainly related to the carbon our corporate responsibility activity generally, in our availability and repayment profile of bank facilities, associated with demised customer energy within our 2015 Sustainability Report which can be found at as well as forecast covenant compliance.
Based on assets, is due to the change in conversion factors www.
the above, together with available market information caused by a more carbon intensive UK fuel mix.
Additional disclosures and the Directors knowledge and experience of the For a detailed breakdown of absolute emissions Additional information that is relevant to this report, Groups property portfolio and markets, the Directors across the portfolio and conversion factors used see and which is incorporated by reference into this report, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing www.
including information required in accordance with the the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015.
While we are obliged to report on absolute UK Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, can emissions by scope, as above, we believe our Equal opportunities be located as follows: performance is best understood by monitoring the Land Securities is an equal opportunities employer performance of our like-for-like portfolio against and our range of employment policies and guidelines Table 59 EPRA performance indicators, which are tailored for reflects legal and employment requirements in the UK Credit, market and liquidity risks pages 1011 relevance to our industry on page 147.
We achieved and safeguards the interests of employees, potential our 2020 target at the end of last year and have Employee involvement and engagement pages 1921 employees and other workers.
We do not condone therefore rebased our new 2020 targets from a 2014 Capitalised interest page 106 unfair treatment of any kind and offer equal starting point.
opportunities in all aspects of employment and Financial instruments page 120 advancement regardless of race, nationality, gender, Related party transactions page 132 Scope 1 and 2 mandatory reporting Table 57 age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, 2014 2015 religious or political beliefs.
Auditors and disclosure of information to The Company recognises that it has clear obligations Emissions the auditor towards all its employees and the community at large Scope 1 tCO e 13,047 13,926 So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant 2 to ensure that people with disabilities are afforded audit information that has not been brought to the Scope 2 tCO e 53,355 64,095 2 equal opportunities to enter employment and progress.
attention of the Companys auditor.
Each Director 66,402 78,020 The Company has therefore established procedures has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or designed to provide fair consideration and selection herself aware of any relevant audit information and of disabled applicants and to satisfy their training and Intensity to establish that such information was provided to career development needs.
If an employee becomes 2 Scope 1 and 2 tCO e m 0.026 0.026 the auditor.
2 disabled, wherever possible Land Securities takes steps 2 A resolution to confirm the reappointment kgCO e m 26.25 25.53 2 to accommodate the disability by making adjustments of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company will to their existing employment, or by redeployment and be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
The confirmation providing appropriate retraining to enable continued Scope 3 voluntary reporting has been recommended to the Board by its Audit employment with the Group.
Emissions Committee and Ernst & Young LLP have indicated Information regarding the Companys their willingness to remain in office.
Scope 3 tCO e 64,954 65,602 2 safeguarding of human rights forms part of the Our people strategy section on page 19.
Intensity 2015 Annual General Meeting This years AGM will be held at 11.00am on Thursday, 2 Scope 3 tCO e m 0.026 0.021 Greenhouse gas emissions 2 23 July 2015 at the QEII Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Reporting framework Scope definitions: Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
A separate circular, Scope 1: Covers direct GHG emissions from controlled operations such as Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions combustion in owned boilers.
comprising a letter from the Chairman, Notice of GHG became mandatory under the Act last year.
Scope 2: Covers indirect GHG emissions from the use of purchased electricity, Meeting and explanatory notes in respect of the heat or steam.
As well as fulfilling its mandatory carbon reporting Scope 3: Covers other indirect emissions, such as business travel, waste resolutions proposed, accompanies this Annual Report.
requirements, the Company is committed to EPRA When calculated using DEFRA 201314 conversion factors, our Scope 1 and 2 The Report of the Directors was approved by the Best Practice Recommendations for Sustainability tCO e emissions have increased by 6% whilst the emissions intensity has 2 decreased by 13%.
Scope 3 tCO e emissions have decreased by 8%.
Board on 18 May 2015. reporting, and also to making further disclosures as 2 2014 figures have been restated where material changes were identified.
recommended by DEFRA Environmental Reporting By Order of the Board Guidance 2013 and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and Chart 58 Michael Arnaouti The date we report relates to all our properties over intensity across the absolute Group Company Secretary which we have management control.
portfolio in 2014 and 2015 A detailed description of our methodology can be Land Securities Group PLC 80 0.028 found at www.
4369054 70 0.027 Absolute performance 60 0.026 In order to satisfy the mandatory carbon reporting 50 0.025 requirements, we report our absolute Scope 1 and 40 0.024 2 emissions and their intensity based on floor area.
30 0.023 We also voluntarily report the Scope 3 emissions 20 0.022 that are material to our business and can be reliably 10 0.021 measured, for example, where we supply the energy to customers demises.
0 0.020 As illustrated in chart 57, total Scope 1 and 2 tCO e 2 emissions have risen by 17% since last year, which is 2014 2015 primarily due to changes to the conversion factors Scope 1 and 2 intensity Scope 1 emissions issued by DEFRA for use in our 2014 15 financial Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 intensity Scope 3 emissions year, as well as an increase in the size of our portfolio.
However, the increased floor area has offset the increase in emissions to give a 3% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity.
Thousand tCO e 2 2 tCO e m 2 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic re rep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn nanc ance e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l s st ta at te eme men nt ts s A Ad dd di itio tion na al l in inf fo or rm ma atio tion n Land Securities Annual Report 2015 081 Financial statements Our primary financial statements and supporting notes.
FINANCIAL 082 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 083 Independent Auditors Report STATEMENTS 086 Income statement 086 Statement of comprehensive income 087 Balance sheets 088 Statement of changes in equity INCOME STATEMENT 090 Statement of cash flows Earnings per share, Group revenue, costs 091 Notes to the financial statements and other important financial information.
For more information go to: page 86 BALANCE SHEETS The Groups balance sheets at 31 March 2015.
For more information go to: page 87 NOTES Accounting policies, segmental information and other helpful guidance.
For more information go to: pages 91136 082 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors responsibility statement under the The Statement of Directors Responsibilities was Annual Report and the financial statements in Disclosure and Transparency Rules approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions and signed on its behalf by: Company law requires the Directors to prepare are listed below, confirm that: financial statements for each financial year.
Under to the best of their knowledge, the Group financial Michael Arnaouti that law the Directors have prepared the Group and statements, which have been prepared in Group Company Secretary parent company financial statements in accordance accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a with International Financial Reporting Standards true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Directors position and profit of the Group: and must not approve the financial statements unless to the best of their knowledge, the Company they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view financial statements, prepared in accordance with of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view and of the profit and loss of the Group and the of the assets, liabilities, financial position, Company for that period.
performance and cash flows of the Company: and In preparing these financial statements the to the best of their knowledge, the Strategic Report Directors are required to: contained in the Annual Report includes a fair select suitable accounting policies in accordance review of the development and performance of the with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in business and the position of the Group and the Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply Company together with a description of the them consistently: principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group make judgements and accounting estimates that and Company.
are reasonable and prudent: Directors statement under the UK Corporate present information, including accounting policies, Governance Code in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, Each of the Directors confirm that: comparable and understandable information: to the best of their knowledge, the Annual Report state that the Group and Company has complied taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, understandable and provides the information subject to any material departures disclosed and necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups explained in the financial statements: and Companys performance, business model and provide additional disclosures when compliance strategy.
with the specific requirements of IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the A copy of the financial statements of the Group is impact of particular transactions, other events and placed on the Companys website.
The Directors are conditions on the Groups and Companys financial responsible for the maintenance and integrity of position and performance: statutory and audited information on the Companys prepare the Groups and Companys financial website at www.
Information statements on a going concern basis, unless it is published on the internet is accessible in many inappropriate to do so.
countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate preparation and dissemination of financial accounting records that are sufficient to show and statements may differ from legislation in other explain the Groups and Companys transactions and jurisdictions.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Directors of Land Securities Group PLC as at financial position of the Group and the Company, the date of this Annual Report are as set out below: and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report complies with the Companies Act 2006 and, as Dame Alison Carnwath, Chairman regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 Robert Noel, Chief Executive of the IAS regulation.
They are also responsible Martin Greenslade, Chief Financial Officer for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Kevin OByrne, Senior Independent Director Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Chris Bartram for the prevention and detection of fraud and Simon Palley other irregularities.
Stacey Rauch Edward Bonham Carter Cressida Hogg CBE Non-executive Directors
