018 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 ADDING VALUE THROUGH THE LIFECYCLE We aim to buy, develop, manage and sell assets in a way that benefits those closest to the company our customers, communities, partners and employees.
We believe that responding to peoples needs and Where we acquire or develop, we work closely with hear their views.
So we gain a strong sense of what giving careful consideration to the environment, our customers and communities to ensure the new people really want from a particular building.
And, economy and community helps us to create enduring space meets their needs and expectations.
We because we have control, we can then take decisive value over the long term.
Or put another way, if we manage most of the buildings we own which means action to improve things for the better.
look after our cities, our cities will look after us.
we get to see how people interact with them and Adding value through the lifecycle Diagram 5 The diagram below illustrates some of the ways in which we work to create value through the lifecycle of a typical asset.
REFURBISH OR RETROFIT TO RE-LET INVEST REINVEST CAPITAL CAPITAL BUY DEVELOP MANAGE SELL Develop Manage Sell Buy Sustainability impact Sustainability impact Our development activity Sustainability impact Sustainability impact We acquire an asset if it has We develop when we see supports economic prosperity We work with customers and We sell an asset when we the potential to meet the an opportunity to create by helping to create job the community to ensure a see an opportunity to deploy evolving needs of our space that will appeal to opportunities, both through building operates as it was our capital more effectively customers and communities, customers, enhance the area construction and the ongoing designed to.
As a result of our can be acquired at the right and create financial value for use of the space.
We work refurbish space if we spot an investment and activity, we price, and is likely to generate us.
We design for safety, with the local authority to opportunity to make it more will sell a better performing value for us over time.
With health and wellbeing, identify areas of social need, attractive, useful and valued.
This an eye on sustainable value, considering things such as air help people access We work with occupiers to should make it more valuable, our investment manager quality and natural lighting.
opportunities and collaborate manage energy, water and which is good news for our will assess physical and And we design for efficiency with our partners to address waste as cost efficiency and shareholders.
environmental due diligence and productivity behind the key issues.
In particular, our environmental factors, which We aim to build a positive information on the state of scenes, considering areas such activity enables young people helps to protect the building legacy, leaving a place in a the building.
This will include as reception, loading bays, lift to raise their aspirations, from external risks such as better state than when we details on physical risks that service and power supply, improve their skills and price volatility, changing arrived.
By helping to make could decrease the value of with an emphasis on their educational standards, and regulation, supply issues and peoples lives better, we the property and legislative effect on the customers stand a better chance of premature obsolescence.
strengthen our reputation risk that may affect its experience, operational getting a job.
In this stage of the buildings and add value to our asset.
For more on our approach lifecycle our activities are the When we commit to We also design to improve to development and same as the development buying a property, we bring the public realm around our sustainability see page 144. phase, from working with local long-term economic buildings, with health and authorities and groups to investment to that area.
And we helping to increase aspirations consider the place within its and prosperity.
context, including transport For more on our approach and communication to asset management and connectivity, urban sustainability see page 144. biodiversity and wider infrastructure.
