Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 057 assets, including 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, New Debt investors programme Street Square, EC4 and One New Change, EC2 Credit side institutional investors and analysts RELATIONS WITH Meetings were held with our treasury team after We conducted 11 sales team meetings during the SHAREHOLDERS the half year and full year results.
year providing Executive Directors with the opportunity to present our strategy and Approach to Investor Relations Banks performance directly to the sales teams of the The Board is committed to maintaining an open Regular dialogue was maintained with our key major investment banks.
dialogue with shareholders and recognises the relationship Banks and Trustee, including at least importance of that relationship in the governance Industry conferences bi-annual meetings with our treasury team and process.
The Chairman, supported by the Executive Industry conferences provide Executive Directors in-house dinners with the Executive and NonDirectors, has overall responsibility for ensuring with a chance to meet a large number of investors executive Directors effective communication with shareholders.
on a formal and informal basis.
Conferences Our treasury team also actively engaged with The Company has a comprehensive investor attended this year included the UBS Global potential lenders.
relations programme which aims to help existing Property, JP Morgan and Bank of America Merrill and potential investors understand the Group.
Credit rating agencies Lynch conferences in London, Citi CEO conference The programme is designed for institutional in Florida, Merrill Lynch conference in New York, During the year, updates and meetings were held investors, private shareholders and debt investors.
and the Kempen conferences in Amsterdam and by our treasury team and senior management with Shareholder feedback is provided to the Board to New York.
Standard & Poors, Fitch ratings and Moodys ensure that they understand the objectives and Other initiatives Further information on our debt investors can views of major investors.
During the year, the be found at www.
com investors programme of investor events included: The Chairman and Chief Executive held a dinner for debt-investors.
the senior heads of equities from UK institutions.
Institutional shareholders programme Annual General Meeting AGM Private shareholders programme Meetings with principal shareholders The 2014 AGM provided all shareholders with an Private shareholders are encouraged to give feedback Meetings with the Executive and the Chairman opportunity to question the Board and the Chairmen to and communicate with the Directors through the were offered throughout the year of the Board Committees on matters put to the Group Company Secretary.
During the year they The Chairman maintained contact with principal meeting, including the Annual Report.
Shareholders were also able to meet Directors at the United shareholders and kept the Board informed of their who attended the AGM were given a presentation by Kingdom Shareholders Association meeting, held views.
An investor tour was undertaken in June and the Chief Executive on the activities and performance annually at our head office, and at the Annual July 2014 which enabled the Chairman to meet of the Group over the preceding year.
The results of General Meeting.
investors in the UK and the Netherlands.
Investors voting at general meetings are published on the found the meetings valuable and we will continue Companys website, www.
com to hold these biennially investors  Our investor relations programme covered Europe, .
North America and the Far East Independent feedback on investor relations As well as Non-executive Directors, the Senior The Board receives feedback on investor relations from an independent adviser on a biennial basis.
Last year, Independent Director was available to meet with Makinson Cowell undertook a comprehensive investor relations audit on investor perceptions of the Company, shareholders its management, strategy, governance and the investor relations programme.
This year, their recommendations Institutional shareholders were invited to attend continued to be implemented with the following progress being made: the Companys full year and half year results presentations.
Investor Relations Table 28 Action Progress made Investor conference Communicating the long-term vision for The long-term vision has been communicated throughout the year The investor conference is held annually and focuses the Retail business to investors and the transformation of our Retail Portfolio is being well received.
on the Retail and London portfolios in alternate years.
This year, the conference was held in London and Improving the visibility of new members Scott Parsons and Colette OShea met with investors at investor focused on the London Portfolio with a short Retail of the Executive Committee to investors roadshows, conferences and meetings throughout the year.
Senior management from Providing more guidance on the Groups The London cycle and development opportunities beyond the the London Portfolio presented updates on all longer-term strategy and plans post the existing cycle were discussed throughout the year including at the aspects of its business and progress on the London current phase of development investor conference in September 2014. developments.
This was followed by a tour of 20 Maintaining the Chairmans high standing The Chairman maintained contact with principal shareholders and Fenchurch Street, EC3 and our major assets in with investors through periodic engagement undertook an investor tour in June and July 2014.
The conference also provided an opportunity for attendees to meet the The investor relations department received feedback from analysts and investors during the year through management teams in the business the Groups corporate advisers.
The department was recognised for its performance and service by winning The presentations and an audio recording of the a number of prestigious awards, including three Thomson Reuters Extel 2014 awards.
The Group Company conference were made available on our corporate Secretary also received feedback on governance matters directly from investors and shareholder bodies.
website to enable those investors who could not The information was shared with the Board to help members develop their understanding of shareholders attend to access the information provided.
Investor tours and presentations Other disclosures In addition to our annual investor conference, we Other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Companies hosted various presentations and tours of some Act 2006 are set out in the Report of the Directors on pages 79 and 80. of our major assets in the Retail and London The Governance report was approved by the Board on 18 May 2015. portfolios.
These tours were conducted at By Order of the Board Bluewater, Kent, key properties in Victoria, SW1, Michael Arnaouti Thomas More Square, E1 and certain London City Group Company Secretary
