0 04 40 0 L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 Non-executive Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS We have a highly experienced Board of Directors.
The Executive Directors Non-executives represent a robust and independent element Dame Alison Carnwath of the Board bringing Chairman of the Board Dame Alison was appointed to the sound judgement Board as a Non-executive Director in September 2004 and became Chairman and objectivity to our in November 2008. deliberations and the Age: 62 Career decision-making Dame Alison worked in investment Robert Noel Martin Greenslade process.
banking and corporate finance for 20 years Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer before pursuing a portfolio career.
During Robert was appointed to the Board in Martin joined the Board as Chief Financial Dame Alison Carnwath, Chairman her banking career, she became the first January 2010 as Managing Director, Officer in September 2005. female director of J. Henry Schroder Wagg London Portfolio, and became Chief Age: 50 & Co. Dame Alison was also a Senior Executive in April 2012.
Partner at Phoenix Securities and a Career Age: 51 Managing Director at Donaldson, A chartered accountant, having trained Lufkin & Jenrette.
She has served as a Career with Coopers & Lybrand, Martin was non-executive director of Friends A chartered surveyor and graduate of previously Group Finance Director of Alvis Provident plc, Gallaher Group plc, Glas the University of Reading, Robert was plc.
He has also worked in corporate Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Water, Property Director at Great Portland finance serving as a member of the Barclays plc and Man Group plc.
Estates plc between August 2002 and executive committee of Nordeas Dame Alison is currently chairman of September 2009.
Prior to that, he was a investment banking division and Managing the UK private equity firm Livingbridge director of the property services group, Director of its UK business.
formerly known as ISIS Equity Partners, a Nelson Bakewell.
He is a former director Martin is a trustee of International non-executive director of Zurich Insurance of the New West End Company and the Justice Mission UK.
Group Limited and Paccar Inc a Fortune Central London Business Improvement Skills, competencies and experience 500 company, and a senior advisor to District and former Chairman of the Martin brings extensive and wide-ranging Evercore Partners.
She is also a supervisory Westminster Property Association.
financial experience to the Group from the board member and the audit committee Robert is a trustee of the property property, engineering and financial sectors chair of the Frankfurt listed chemicals industry charity, LandAid.
He also has company, BASF SE.
Skills, competencies and experience extensive financial expertise, particularly Dame Alison is a trustee of The British Robert has nearly 30 years experience in in relation to corporate finance and Library Trust and undertakes a variety of a number of sectors within the property investment arrangements, and significant mentoring activities in the UK and market and extensive knowledge of the listed company experience at board level.
She was appointed a Dame in London commercial property market in His oversight responsibilities cover the 2014 for her services to business.
He has substantial executive Groups finance, tax, treasury, risk Skills, competencies and experience leadership and listed company experience.
management and internal audit, insurance Dame Alison has very significant board and information technology teams.
Committees level experience gained across a range of Chairman of the Groups Executive, Committees industries and countries.
This enables her Asset and Liability, Health and Safety, A member of the Groups Executive, Asset to create the optimal Board environment Investment and Sustainability and Liability and Investment Committees.
and get the best out of Board members Committees.
He attends the Audit, He attends Audit Committee meetings at both during and outside meetings.
Remuneration and Nominations the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
She has expertise in alternative asset Committees at the invitation of the management, banking and global Committee Chairmen.
Committees Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Go Gov five er rn nan anc ce e L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 0 04 41 1 Non-executive Directors served as Managing Director of Haslemere Managing Partner in 2009, and led the NV, Chairman of Jones Lang Wooton Fund team which acted as Investment Adviser Management, President of the British to 3i Infrastructure plc, a FTSE 250 Property Federation and Chairman investment company.
She advised on all of of the Bank of England Property Forum.
3i Infrastructures transactions since its Chris is currently a Board Counsellor of flotation in 2007.
Cressida was previously The Crown Estate having previously a member of the advisory board for been a board member, a Wilkins Fellow Infrastructure UK, the HM Treasury unit of Downing College, University of that works on the UKs long-term Cambridge, and an advisory board infrastructure priorities.
She is currently member to certain overseas entities within Managing Director, Head of Infrastructure, the Brack Capital Real Estate Group.
of the Canada Pension Plan Investment Kevin OByrne Simon Palley Board and a non-executive director of Skills, competencies and experience Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Anglian Water Group Limited.
Chris is a scion of the property industry, Kevin was appointed to the Board as a Simon was appointed to the Board as a Cressida received a CBE in 2014 for with decades of property investment, Non-executive Director in April 2008 Non-executive Director in August 2010. services to infrastructure investment fund management and capital allocation and was appointed Senior Independent and policy.
Age: 57 experience gained across a range of Director in April 2012. businesses and disciplines within the Skills, competencies and experience Career Age: 50 real estate sector.
He has significant Cressida has a deep understanding of A senior figure within the private equity experience of general management as a large, long-term infrastructure projects Career industry, Simon has had a successful and former Chief Executive and Chairman of and businesses.
She has considerable Kevin is a chartered accountant who trained broad ranging career in investment significant businesses.
experience of investment returns, general with Arthur Andersen.
He has held several banking, consulting and private equity.
senior finance positions and was Group He started his career at Chase Manhattan Committees Finance Director of Kingfisher plc from before moving to Bain & Company.
He left A member of the Nominations and Committees 2008 until 2012 when he was appointed there in 1988 to join Bankers Trust as a Remuneration Committees.
A member of the Audit Committee.
CEO of its B&Q and Kota businesses in Vice President and moved to BC Partners, China, Turkey, Germany and the UK, until a private equity firm, in 1990 where he he left that business in May 2015.
His worked for 17 years, rising to the position previous roles include Group Finance of Managing Partner.
Simon then became Director of Dixons Retail plc and European Chairman of the private equity firm Finance Director of The Quaker Oats Centerbridge Partners Europe, a post he Company.
held until 2013, and is now a Senior Adviser to TowerBrook Capital Partners and an Skills, competencies and experience adviser to the private equity arm of GIC.
Kevin has extensive understanding of retail He is an MBA graduate of The Wharton trends, operations and insights gained School, Pennsylvania.
during a number of senior financial and Simon is a Trustee of the University of general management positions at large Pennsylvania and The Tate Foundation.
He is a long-standing Stacey Rauch Edward Bonham Carter Non-executive Director and Chairman of Skills, competencies and experience Non-executive Director Non-executive Director the Audit Committee who is able to use Simon has a deep understanding of Stacey joined the Board as a Edward joined the Board as a Nonthis experience gained across a property portfolio management, financial metrics Non-executive Director in January 2012. executive Director in January 2014. cycle to bring additional challenge and the impact of interest rates on the to management.
He has expertise in Age: 57 Age: 54 private equity and capital markets and Committees Career Career considerable experience managing highly Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Stacey is a Director Emeritus of McKinsey Edward started his career at Schroders talented professionals.
member of the Nominations Committee.
& Company where she served clients in the in 1982 as an investment analyst before US and internationally for 24 years.
Whilst Committees moving to Electra Investment Trust in there, she co-founded the New Jersey office Chairman of the Remuneration 1986 where he was a fund manager.
and was the first woman to be appointed as Committee and a member of the He joined Jupiter in 1994 as a UK fund an industry practice leader.
She was a leader Nominations Committee.
manager and held the position of Chief in the firms Retail and Consumer Goods Investment Officer from 1999 to 2010.
Practices, served as the head of the North Edward led the company through a American Retail and Apparel Practice management buy-out from its previous and acted as the Global Retail Practice owners, Commerzbank, in 2007, and Convener.
She retired from McKinsey & oversaw the firms listing on the London Company in September 2010 and has Stock Exchange in 2010.
He was appointed since then pursued a portfolio career.
Group Chief Executive of Jupiter Fund Stacey is currently a non-executive Management plc in June 2007 and became director of ANN Inc, a NYSE listed its Vice Chairman in March 2014.
Chris Bartram womens speciality apparel retailer, the Non-executive Director Skills, competencies and experience Fiesta Restaurant Group Inc, a NASDAQ Edward has significant experience of Chris was appointed to the Board as a listed company and CEB a NYSE listed general management as a former CEO of Non-executive Director in August 2009. member-based advisory company.
Cressida Hogg CBE a private equity backed and a large listed Age: 66 Skills, competencies and experience company.
Having been a fund manager Non-executive Director Stacey brings deep analytical thought to Career for many years, he also has a deep Cressida joined the Board as a the Board, with considerable expertise of Chris is a chartered surveyor and was until understanding of stock markets and Non-executive Director in January 2014. retail trends and insights gained at a leading recently Chairman and Partner of Orchard investor expectations.
Age: 45 Street Investment Management LLP, a Committees She has significant board level experience leading commercial property investment Career A member of the Remuneration gained through non-executive positions manager focused on the UK market.
Cressida spent almost 20 years with Committee.
held in retail and other industries.
He stepped down from those positions 3i Group plc having joined them in 1995 on 31 March 2015 though he continues as Committees from JP Morgan.
She co-founded 3is an adviser to that firm.
He has previously A member of the Audit Committee.
infrastructure business in 2005, becoming Independent as per the UK Corporate Governance Code.
