008 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 OUR MARKET UK commercial property market Retail Portfolio market The commercial property market provides built infrastructure for business and offers We invest in and develop retail and leisure space, an alternative to other investment markets, in town and out of town.
Historically, the Dynamics markets performance has broadly tracked Supply and demand in the sector are GDP growth.
Interest rates also influence influenced by a range of economic factors the market.
For example, rising interest and ongoing structural changes in retailing.
First and foremost, economic conditions rates tend to put downward pressure on determine consumers confidence and property values.
This may be balanced by spending power.
This translates into retailers growth in rental values if higher interest appetite for expansion and ability to finance rates are accompanied by a higher level new space.
We are seeing demand from a often, travel further, expect greater choice, broad range of retail businesses for locations of inflation.
stay longer and want to be entertained.
Landlords offering the full shopping Due to low interest rates, increasing The market is cyclical, particularly the London office experience can benefit.
consumer confidence and improvements in market which currently accounts for 45.1% of our Catering and leisure offer is becoming ever the economy, there is broad-based interest assets by value.
The balance between supply and more important.
According to a recent from investors across most types of retail demand is the single most powerful driver of survey CACI, shoppers who also use property.
There is strong interest from property values see page 17 for more on the market catering facilities spend 26% more on retail investors for retail assets that can consistently cycle.
Structural changes in a sector for example, than non-catering users, so those centres attract consumers and retailers.
the change in retail consumer shopping habits with the right retail and leisure mix can profit.
also influence market behaviour and values.
Click and collect seeing increased usage.
Opportunities To enhance returns, property companies use Users of click and collect are more valuable Changes in the sector are creating a range of financial gearing, for example through bonds and than non-users, as they often purchase opportunities for those best able to understand bank debt.
They also use operational gearing by additional items to those being collected.
the changing requirements of retailers and developing or refurbishing properties, which Centres which are able to facilitate click and consumers.
These dynamics include: carries more risk than investing in completed or let collect are ideally positioned to benefit from Shift in shopper mindset to the Considered assets.
Access to finance varies according to the additional spend.
Consumer people who tend to shop less market cycle, and buying and selling property has significant friction costs compared to buying stocks and bonds.
Due to the cyclical nature of the property market, London Portfolio market the timing of investment is critical to future returns.
Timing is also important in developments, and in We invest in and develop office, retail, leisure addition, capacity in the construction market is particularly key to property companies margins.
and residential space in central London.
Land Securities prefers to be an early cycle developer, Dynamics acting when others find it harder to access finance, The market in London is cyclical, with and when construction contracts can be secured on pronounced fluctuations in property values in relatively favourable terms.
response to changing levels of supply and Across investment and development, costs and demand.
We are currently in supplyrisk can also be affected by a range of other factors constrained conditions, with a relatively such as changing customer requirements, the needs healthy level of occupiers looking to move and views of local residents and the wider community, in a market that has a relatively low level of the availability of natural resources used in new building completions.
construction and the effects of climate change on Enduring appeal The market is also driven by the evolution buildings, together with new regulation.
Property Central London has enduring appeal for in the needs and expectations of customers companies are also increasingly expected to investors and occupiers offering: and communities around areas such as open generate wider social benefits.
The capabilities and opportunities of a plan space: occupation density: energy global financial centre efficiency: high quality design and facilities: A deep and liquid property investment and imaginative improvements to the market environment around buildings, including the An international gateway public realm.
In addition, local authorities are Reasonable and relatively stable tax rates increasingly requiring developers to take a Strong business infrastructure mixed-use approach, incorporating retail and A diverse community sometimes residential space into their English-speaking population schemes.
Excellent quality of life Access to top universities.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our market Land Securities Annual Report 2015 009 Chart 1 Retail sales growth Customers have a greater appetite for Market during the year Online vs. Bricks & Mortar personalisation and are more prepared Consumer confidence increased steadily 30 to share their personal data in exchange.
throughout the year due to low interest 25 Greater understanding of your consumers rates and wage increases resulting in greater means centres can tailor their offer to disposable incomes.
In March 2015, the GfK 20 shoppers needs.
NOP UK Consumer Confidence poll stood 15 at 4, up from -5 in March 2014 the highest Challenges 10 in 13 years.
Significant challenges in the sector include: Omni-channel retailing continues to 5 Growing segmentation of the types of evolve at pace, although the rate of growth 0 stores required experiential stores in online sales is expected to reduce, based require large units in dominant locations, -5 on data from Verdict see chart 1 opposite.
while convenience stores are smaller and 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Sales growth in traditional bricks and Year often located near transport hubs.
mortar stores will remain low, and Landlords unable to offer space meeting Retail sales Bricks & Mortar growth % concentrated in dominant shopping centres Forecast for retail sales Bricks & Mortar growth % one of these criteria will struggle.
and areas of dense population.
Retail sales Online growth % Black Friday distorted the pattern of Forecast for retail sales Online growth % Christmas spending and retailers saw mixed Outlook Source: Verdict success.
For some, early sales meant longer We expect occupier demand and property periods of discounting and reduced margins, values for the best locations to improve.
For more information about our Retail Portfolio, while others held out for the traditional Shopping habits will continue to evolve and go to: pages 3031 sales periods and tended to fare better.
retailers will respond with new approaches Increasing use of digital technology, which to space and services.
Online sales growth is is influencing around a third of in-store likely to further impact all retail property, retail sales in the UK, equivalent to almost but prospects remain positive for those who 100 billion.
Consumers now have instant are able to seamlessly integrate with digital access to comparable data, and can find technology and establish a role within the where to buy cheaper better products multichannel customer journey.
The most online while in store.
successful retail property owners will be those who provide the right trading environments for retailers to respond to consumer trends in smart, efficient and innovative ways.
Central London supply Chart 2 Strengths At 31 March 2015 the vacancy rate stood Development completions and vacancy 32.2 Londons strengths are attracting a large at 3.3% compared to a long-term trend 18 18 and diverse mix of property investors, many of 4.8% 16 16 14 14 from overseas.
This is currently helping us Over the 12 months to 31 March 2015 12 12 when selling assets but it is increasing our prime headline office rents grew by 11.1% 10 10 8 8 competition when buying.
in the city and by 11.9% in the West End.
6 6 Following the introduction of increased 4 4 Challenges 2 2 taxation on residential property 0 0 Challenges for London include: transactions, and uncertainty in the Limitations on economic growth due to lead-up to the General Election, the restrictions on immigration Completed Proposed volume of high value residential sales Under construction RHS Vacancy rate all grades The impact of a growing population decreased markedly during the year.
Potential Fringe London Average completions leading to high costs, both for businesses Source: CBRE, Knight Frank, Land Securities and residents Outlook Lack of housing at affordable or We expect supply-constrained conditions Active demand in Central London Chart 3 attractive prices to continue for the foreseeable future.
Sector and location requirement Pressure on an ageing infrastructure, Although the volume of new development sq ft including power and sewerage has picked up considerably, schemes 2.25m Lack of clarity around airport expansion projected to complete over the next 24 2.00m Total: 8.8m sq ft 1.75m Uncertainty over residual property taxes months are not expected to satisfy the 1.50m Uncertainty around the UKs relationship forecast level of demand for new space.
In the absence of an external event which 0.75m severely impacts demand, rental values 0.50m Market during the year 0.25m are set to continue their upward path as Take-up of office space in central London 0.00m competition for available space remains.
Financial Professional Insurance Media Corporates IT & Public Misc for the 12 months to 31 March 2015 Telecoms Sector In the prime residential market, we expect totalled 15.2m sq ft compared to the West End City Docklands Flexible Source: Knight Frank volumes to improve over last year.
