016 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 We work hard to anticipate and respond to changes in our markets.
OUR STRATEGY We make understanding our customers needs our top priority, so we provide the space businesses and people need to thrive.
AND PERFORMANCE We also look beyond our buildings, shaping the future for good by ensuring our activities meet the expectations of our customers, communities, partners and employees.
Our approach is to buy assets and start development early in the cycle: manage assets actively to ensure they generate strong income: and sell at the right time to maximise profit and recycle capital.
We are risk aware, not risk averse.
Across the portfolio we have a clear plan for every asset.
You can read more about our strategic choices below.
You can see our strategy in action across the Retail Portfolio and London Portfolio on pages 2223.
And you can see the progress against our KPIs for the year on pages 2425.
Our strategic choices Locations Relationships We choose to buy and develop in OUR STRATEGY We aim to create and protect value thriving locations, or places with by being the company people prefer excellent potential, where an underIS DESIGNED TO to work with and for.
To succeed, we performing building or plot of land can need our communities and partners be transformed to generate income to trust that our activity benefits their and value.
Placemaking the long-term ENSURE WE ARE area.
We need our customers and regeneration of an area into a thriving investment partners to trust us to location is an increasingly important deliver space on time and to plan.
A SUSTAINABLE And we need the public to trust that Finance our sites are safe and we use natural We have been following a net debt BUSINESS THROUGH resources carefully.
Acting with neutral financial approach as we move integrity in this way helps us to attract through the cycle.
So we have broadly and retain great people.
It also makes THE MARKET CYCLE.
balanced the proceeds we received sound commercial sense.
from disposals with outgoings on Market acquisitions and capital expenditure for We focus on two geographically developments.
This approach creates defined sectors of the UK commercial strong competition for capital within property market offices, retail, the Group, so only the best options are leisure and residential in central pursued and financial gearing reduces London, and retail and leisure assets steadily as values rise as we move located outside London.
We believe through the cycle.
being active in these two sectors Risk rather than one provides us with We are risk aware, not risk averse.
greater financial stability as they Our main risk is that space in our Our strategic objectives work to different cycles.
developments will be left unlet Timing or let at low rents if the market turns To deliver our strategy we have set clear We aim to own high quality assets unexpectedly and supply outstrips objectives that relate to specific financial with enduring appeal to customers demand.
We mitigate this through the and operational outcomes: that can generate strong income quality of our new buildings, developing through the cycle.
And we carefully early in the cycle, and using our Deliver sustainable long-term time our development, buying and excellent market knowledge and selling activities in line with the cycle.
We also respond shareholder returns See the Q&A opposite for more on to the long-term risks affecting our Maximise the returns from the market timing.
industry, including climate change, investment portfolio environmental regulation and resource Scale constraints, including energy supply.
Manage our balance sheet effectively We are currently the UKs largest Real Estate Investment Trust REIT on the Long-term Maximise development performance basis of equity market capitalisation.
We aim to make sound, long-term Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction Scale enables us to make large investments in our buildings so Attract, develop, retain and motivate acquisitions and develop a number of their performance meets changing major assets at the appropriate time.
regulation, they continue to attract high performance individuals We can acquire sites then wait to strong demand from customers and Continually improve our sustainability deploy our capital at the most they generate sustainable returns in performance.
advantageous point in the cycle.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information PRO P E R T Y V A L U E S Our strategy and performance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 017 Market cycle Diagram 4 How we aim to match our activity to the movements of the market.
SELL Selling some assets at the right point in a rising market means value can BUY be crystallised and the Falling values portfolio can be biased bring opportunities towards high quality to buy assets at assets with long lease attractive prices.
DEVELOP Starting schemes at the right point in a rising market helps maximise value and minimise risk.
MANAGE Active management of assets through the cycle helps to reduce voids and ensure space meets occupiers changing needs.
Q&A Do the cycles in the London offices the cycle turns.
We aim to buy assets How do you know where you Why is there a property market and the retail market differ?
when values are falling or low.
The London offices market sees to develop early in the cycle so we Being an active player at the heart of If demand for space is greater than marked periods of overand underbenefit from lower construction costs, the market enables us to see whats supply rents tend to rise, leading to supply, and demand can move from and we aim to deliver completed changing and assess the likely impact higher property values.
In turn this one phase to another quite quickly.
schemes while demand from on future supply and demand.
We get encourages developers to create more We usually develop speculatively in customers is rising and levels of out and about to talk to people, and we supply.
At a certain point the supply of London that is, without available space are low.
We monitor analyse new data carefully, particularly new space is likely to outstrip demand commitments from customers to take changing conditions carefully and aim information on lease expiries, particularly if economic and financial space.
Our decision to move ahead is to stop our speculative development customer intentions, construction factors also serve to limit demand.
based on confidence in our ability to programme well ahead of over supply costs and new development starts.
Rents and property values may then read the supply demand balance.
We also look closely at changing fall quickly.
Speculative development is necessary patterns in rental values and their likely How do you manage gearing as potential occupiers generally start to effect on investment in development.
What challenges are created by through the cycle?
look for space up to two years before the cycle?
Our gearing is a measure of our debt moving, while large schemes can take Given that large properties take time relative to the value of our assets.
more than two years to complete.
The to build, the main challenge for It has a multiplier effect, with high retail market is less volatile as it is developers is to secure lower gearing generating higher returns in a fundamentally driven by long-term construction costs and then time rising market and greater losses in a structural changes within the sector, construction so that buildings shrinking market.
Our objective is to such as the effect of the economy on complete in a rising market, while have higher gearing at the bottom of consumers or the impact of online demand for space is strong.
In terms the market cycle and then to keep debt retailing.
It is harder to predict demand of investment owning property, relatively constant, so that rising or create competition for space within companies must understand property values then reduce gearing as a new retail scheme, so we reduce risk customers changing needs so their the market improves.
As the market by achieving significant pre-lettings space attracts occupiers and produces nears the top of the cycle we may before commencing construction.
good income through the cycle, even also sell further assets to reduce debt when supply is high and demand low.
What is your strategic response so we can take advantage of buying to the cycle?
opportunities when values have fallen.
We manage assets actively through Selling quickly at scale can be the entire cycle, ensuring voids are kept challenging so it is important we read low and lease lengths are maintained the market well and act decisively.
so we maximise rental income.
We sell assets when we see better opportunities to use the proceeds to create value elsewhere, particularly if an asset may not perform so well when For more information on our markets go to: pages 89 P R O P E R T Y V A L U S E
