Board of Directors From left: Andrew Varley, Mark Stirling, Rosalyn Wilton, Valentine Beresford, Patrick Vaughan, Andrew Jones, Martin McGann, PhilipWatson, AlecPelmore, JamesDean, Charles Cayzer and Humphrey Price retired 31 March 2015 Patrick Vaughan Andrew Jones Martin McGann Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Appointed 13 January 2010 Appointed 25 January 2013 Appointed 13 January 2010 Skills and experience Patrick has been involved Skills and experience Andrew was a Skills and experience Martin joined London & in the UK property market since 1970.
He was co-founder and CEO of Metric from its inception Stamford as Finance Director in September 2008 a co-founder and CEO of Arlington, of Pillar, in March 2010 until its merger with London & until its merger with Metric in January 2013, when and of London & Stamford, leading all three Stamford in January 2013.
On completion of the he became Finance Director of LondonMetric.
of the companies to successful listings on the merger, Andrew became Chief Executive of Between 2005 and 2008, Martin was a FTSE main market.
Upon completion of London LondonMetric.
Andrew was previously Executive Director of Kandahar Real Estate.
From 2002 to & Stamfords merger with Metric in January Director and Head of Retail at British Land.
2005 Martin worked for Pillar, latterly as Finance 2013, he was appointed Chairman, becoming Andrew joined British Land in 2005 following Director.
Prior to joining Pillar, Martin was Finance Non-Executive Chairman on 1 October 2014. the acquisition of Pillar and served on the main Director of the Strategic Rail Authority.
Martin is a Patrick also served as an Executive Director of Board with responsibilities for shopping centres, qualied Chartered Accountant, having trained British Land 2005 to 2006, following its acquisition retail park investment and asset management.
Other appointments Andrew is a Non-Executive Other appointments None Other appointments None Director of The Unite Group Plc Board Committees Executive Committee Board Committees Nomination Committee Board Committees Executive Committee Charles Cayzer Valentine Beresford Mark Stirling Senior Independent Director Investment Director Asset Director Appointed 29 July 2010 Appointed 3 June 2014 Appointed 3 June 2014 Skills and experience Charles has considerable Skills and experience Valentine was co-founder Skills and experience Mark was co-founder experience of merchant banking, commercial and Investment Director of Metric from its and Asset Management Director of Metric from banking and corporate and project finance inception in March 2010 until its merger with its inception in March 2010 until its merger with from his career at Baring Brothers, Cayzer Irvine London & Stamford in January 2013.
He joined London & Stamford in January 2013.
He joined and Cayzer Limited and was appointed a the Board of LondonMetric on 3 June 2014 as the Board of LondonMetric on 3 June 2014 Director of Caledonia Investments in 1985.
Prior to setting up Metric as Asset Management Director.
Prior to the Other appointments Charles is Chairman of The Valentine was on the Executive Committee setting up of Metric, Mark was on the Executive Cayzer Trust Company Ltd and The Sloane Club, of British Land and was responsible for all their Committee of British Land and as Asset and a Non-Executive Director of Quintain Estates European retail developments and investments.
Management Director and was responsible & Development Plc Valentine joined British Land in July 2005, for the planning, development and asset following the acquisition of Pillar, where he also management of the retail portfolio.
Mark joined Board Committees Nomination Committee served on the Board as Investment Director.
British Land in July 2005 following the acquisition Chairman, Audit Committee and of Pillar where he was Managing Director of Remuneration Committee Other appointments None PillarRetail Parks Limited from 2002 until 2005.
Board Committees Executive Committee Other appointments None Board Committees Executive Committee LondonMetric Property Plc 58 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Alec Pelmore Rosalyn Wilton James Dean Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Appointed 25 January 2013 Appointed 25 March 2014 Appointed 29 July 2010 Skills and experience Alec joined the Board of Skills and experience Rosalyn is a Non-Executive Skills and experience James is a Chartered Metric at the Companys inception in March Director of Axa UK Ltd where she acts as Surveyor and has worked with Savills plc since 2010.
He has been a member of the Supervisory Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Board of Unibail-Rodamco SE, Europes largest she was Chairman of Ipreo Holdings LLC, the Other appointments James is a Non-Executive property company, since 2008 and is currently US-based financial data and solutions group Director of Branston Holdings and Chairman of a member of its Audit Committee.
Alec held formed following the merger of i Deal LLC and Pearlcrown Ltd, London & Lincoln Properties Ltd positions as an equity investment analyst Hemscott Group Ltd. Before the merger, Rosalyn and Patrick Dean Ltd specialising in property companies from 1981 to was Chief Executive Officer of Hemscott plc.
The majority of his career as an investment Prior to this, she worked for Reuters Group, Board Committees Remuneration Committee analyst was spent at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson leaving the Company as Managing Director, Chairman and Merrill Lynch, where his teams were voted Reuters Information in 1999.
Rosalyn has held number one for property in Europe by the Non-Executive Directorship positions with Institutional Investor European Property Research Scottish Widows, the London International Survey for 12 out of 13 years from 1995 to 2007.
Financial Futures Exchange and Optos Plc.
She has previously served as a Senior Advisor to Other appointments Member of the Supervisory 3i Investments and Providence Equity Partners.
Board of Unibail-Rodamco SE Other appointments Non-Executive Director Board Committees Nomination Committee ofAXA UK Ltd andAudit Committee Board Committees Audit Committee Chairman Andrew Varley Philip Watson Independent Director Independent Director Appointed 25 January 2013 Appointed 25 January 2013 Skills and experience Andrew joined the Board of Metric at the Companys inception in March Skills and experience Philip joined the Board 2010.
He was Group Property Director and an of Metric at the Companys inception in Executive Director of NEXT from 1990 until his March 2010.
He is the Chief Investment Officer retirement in May 2014, with the responsibility of Mirabaud Asset Management Limited.
for property, franchise, corporate responsibility Philip joined Hill Samuel in 1971 and then and code of practice related issues.
His previous Robert Fleming in 1972 on the UK desk, where experience includes 12 years in retail and he worked as an investment analyst and fund commercial property.
Philip left Robert Fleming in 1982 to was a non-executive member of the British Heart found TWH Asset Management Limited now Foundations Shops Committee.
Mirabaud Asset Management Limited in which he and hispartners sold a controlling interest to Other appointments None Mirabaud Pereire Holdings Limited in 1991.
Board Committees Audit Committee Other appointments Chief Investment Officer andRemuneration Committee ofMirabaud Asset Management Limited Board Committees Nomination Committee andRemuneration Committee LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 59
