Accountability This year the Committee has heightened its review of the procedures in place to ensure Audit that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, Committee balanced and understandable and has considered the amendments to the Code report governing the ongoing monitoring and management of risk which will become mandatory next year.
The Board asked the Committee to advise Rosalyn Wilton Chairman of Audit Committee on the statement by the Directors that the annual report, when read as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the requisite information for shareholders to assess the Groups The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor performance and business strategy.
andreport to the Board on financial reporting, the To provide additional support to the Board system of internal controls and risk management in making this statement the Committee and the performance, independence and monitored an enhanced review and effectiveness of the external audit process.
verification process of the Annual Report TheCommittee follows an annual programme and Accounts undertaken by senior toensure it gives thorough consideration to management and provided confirmation matters of particular importance.
to the Board that this process was both followed and effective.
Further details of this process are provided on page 73.
Achievements The Committee was satisfied that taken as Appointed Rosalyn Wilton as Chairman of the awhole the 2015 report is fair, balanced Committee in November 2014 following the andunderstandable and confirmed this retirement of Humphrey Price, the former Chairman tothe Board, whose statement in this regard Heightened its review of the procedures inplace is set out on page 94. toensure that the Annual Report isfair, balanced and understandable Membership Considered amendments to the Code governing The Committee currently comprises four the ongoing monitoring and management of risk Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Rosalyn Wilton.
Humphrey Price was Members of Committee an additional member and chaired the Committee until his resignation in Meetings November 2014.
Members Date appointed attended 1 Humphrey Price 1 October 2010 4 4 Members have no day to day involvement with the Company or links with the Charles Cayzer 1 October 2010 5 5 external auditor.
Andrew Varley 25 January 2013 5 5 The Board is satisfied that Rosalyn Wilton Alec Pelmore 25 January 2013 5 5 brings recent and relevant financial Rosalyn Wilton 25 March 2014 5 5 experience as required by the UK Corporate 1 Retired on 18 November 2014 Governance code as Chairman of the Risk Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member waseligible to attend.
Committee at AXA UK Limited and former Remuneration Committee Chairman of Optos Plc.
Humphrey Price was the nominated member during his time as Chairman of the Committee.
Biographies of the Committee members which set out the relevant knowledge and experience they bring can be found on pages 58 to 59.
Biographies of Committee members seepage 58 Directors responsibilities statement see page 94 LondonMetric Property Plc 70 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Activities during the year The Committee met five times last year, with During the year, the work undertaken by the Committee has included the following: meetings aligned to the Considered and discussed with the Reviewed the performance of the Companys financial external auditors at the audit planning external auditor and recommended their reporting timetable meeting the key accounting treatments reappointment to the Board and significant reporting judgements Monitored the level of non audit fees and inadvance of the preparation of interim the scope of non audit services provided and annual results in the year Reviewed interim and annual financial Considered the need for an internal statements prior to submission to the audit function and concluded it was Board, including consideration of key unnecessary at present, given the accounting issues and areas of significant size andcomplexity of the business, judgement, compliance with statutory but agreed to keep the matter under obligations and accounting standards regular review and consistency throughout the report Reviewed and challenged the Groups Reviewed management systems in internal controls and risk management place to ensure the integrity of the systems, whistle-blowing arrangements financial information and procedures for detecting and Reviewed the processes undertaken to preventing fraud and bribery ensure that the Board is able to confirm Considered the appropriateness of that the annual financial statements are thegoing concern assumption fair, balanced and understandable Reviewed its own effectiveness, Terms of Met the independent property valuers to Reference, constitution and performance discuss the interim and annual portfolio Reviewed and approved the Audit valuations on a property by property basis Committee Report Assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor which included reviewing their independence, objectivity, terms of engagement, the scope of their audit, remuneration, tenure and effectiveness ofthe audit process The May and November meetings are Meetings scheduled to precede the approval and The Committee met five times last year, issue of the full and half year financial with meetings aligned to the Companys reports.
Separate meetings are held, without financial reporting timetable.
Meetings are management present, with the Companys attended by the Committee members and, property valuers to challenge the valuation by invitation, the Groups external auditor, process and review their independence.
independent property valuers CBRE Ltd At the March meeting the Committee and Savills Advisory Services Limited, the reviewed risk management and internal Finance Director and senior management.
control processes and considered the Time is allocated for the Committee to meet year-end audit plan.
the external auditor and property valuers The Committee is satisfied that it receives without management present.
In addition, sufficient, reliable and timely information the Committee Chairman has separate from management to allow it to fulfil andad hoc meetings with the audit partner.
Members attendance at meetings is set out in the table on page 70.
Audit Committee attendance seepage 70 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 71 Accountability continued 2 Property transactions Financial reporting and The Committee significant judgements Significant property acquisitions and monitors the integrity of disposals were reviewed to the extent that the financial information The Committee monitors the integrity of the there were unusual terms and conditions of published in the interim financial information published in the interim judgement in relation to timing.
and annual statements and annual statements and considers and considers the the extent to which suitable accounting The accounting treatment for corporate extent to which policies have been adopted, presented acquisitions was considered to ensure suitable accounting and disclosed.
It pays particular attention to compliance with IFRS 3 Business policies have been matters it considers to be important by virtue Combinations in relation to the purchase adopted, presented of their size, complexity, level of judgement of the Eddie Stobart Distribution Unit at anddisclosed and potential impact on the financial Goresbrook Park in Dagenham and the statements.
The significant areas of focus Newark Distribution Unit and the sale of considered by the Committee, discussed OneCarter Lane in London.
The transactions with the external auditor and addressed were considered to be property acquisitions during the year were as follows: and disposals in accordance with IFRS 3.
1 Property valuations 3 Investments in joint ventures All of the Groups investment properties Following the adoption of new and are externally valued by independent revised accounting standards IFRS 10 property valuers.
The property valuation is Consolidated Financial Statements, a critical and significant part of the Groups IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 reported performance and is therefore a Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, key area of focus.
Property valuations are the Committee considered the existing inherently subjective and require significant accounting treatment for the Groups joint judgement.
The Committee met twice with venture arrangements and concluded the property valuers without management that the equity method of accounting present to discuss the interim and annual remained appropriate given the degree of valuations and to assess the integrity of joint control and influence demonstrated the valuation process.
The key judgements by the investment partners within each applied to individual valuations and any arrangement at Board meetings and issues raised with management were throughout the decision making process.
4 Going concern The ERV growth and yield compression The Committee reviewed the assumptions on individual buildings were appropriateness of the going concern challenged and supporting market assumption in the preparation of these evidence was provided to enable results.
It considered the Groups threethe Committee to conclude that the year profit and cash flow forecasts, the assumptions applied were appropriate.
availability of committed debt facilities They also discussed current market and anticipated compliance with lenders conditions and recent market transactions financial covenants.
All of this information that had an impact on the valuation.
is presented to the Board at each meeting As part of their audit work, Deloitte use as part of the Finance Directors review.
valuation specialists and also met with the In light of this review, the Committee made valuers without management present.
a recommendation to the Board that it was An open dialogue and exchange of appropriate for the financial statements to information between the independent be prepared on a going concern basis.
advisors took place in the year before the publication of both the interim and annual accounts.
A summary of this review is provided as part of their report to the Audit Committee.
LondonMetric Property Plc 72 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 5 Revenue recognition Risk Management and Internal controls The Committee is The Committee considered the timing of The Board is responsible for establishing satisfied that the key recognising rental income arising on assets and maintaining the Groups system of risk financial judgements under development and concluded that management and internal control and and estimates have income is appropriately recognised on for ensuring risk is effectively managed.
been appropriately and completion of each development phase.
It recognises that effective risk management adequately addressed The Group is currently building a distribution is critical to the achievement of the Groups by the Executive warehouse in Thrapston and a retail park at strategic objectives.
Directors, reviewed by Kirkstall, Leeds, both of which were under the external auditor The principal risks and uncertainties development at the year-end and as such and reported in these identified by the Board and the processes no rental income has been reflected in financial statements in place to manage and mitigate such risks these financial statements.
are summarised in the Risk Management The Group is funding a development in section on page 43.
Warrington that accrues a return throughout The system is designed to give the Board the development phase which has been confidence that the risks are managed reflected as interest receivable.
or mitigated as far as possible.
However, A number of other judgements made it should be noted that no system can by management were considered eliminate the risk of failure to achieve appropriate, including the recoverability the Groups objectives entirely and can of financial assets and the presentation only provide reasonable but not absolute of recurring and exceptional items in the assurance against material mis-statement income statement.
Management confirmed that they were The key elements of the internal control notaware of any material mis-statements framework are as follows: and the auditor confirmed they had not A defined schedule of matters reserved found any material mis-statements in the forthe Boards attention course oftheir work.
A comprehensive system of financial After reviewing reports from management budgeting and forecasting and following its discussions with the auditor Short-term cash flow forecasting that and valuers, the Committee is satisfied that is updated, reviewed and considered the key financial judgements and estimates weekly in light of investment and have been appropriately and adequately development opportunities addressed by the Executive Directors, A formal whistle-blowing policy reviewed by the external auditor and An organisational structure with clearly reported in these financial statements.
defined roles, responsibilities and limits The Committee is also satisfied that the of authority that enable effective and processes used for determining the value efficient decision making of the assets and liabilities have been Close involvement of the Executive appropriately reviewed, challenged and Directors in day to day operations are sufficiently robust.
including regular meetings with senior management on all operational aspects of the business Monthly meetings of the Executive, Investment, Asset Management and Finance Committees, which assess and monitor strategic and operational risk The maintenance of a risk register and a financial reporting procedures memorandum, both of which identify key financial and other internal controls A documented appraisal and approval process for all significant Risk management capital expenditure seepage 43 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 73 Accountability continued The Board has delegated responsibility Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk has considered the At the request of the Board, the Audit management framework and internal proposed amendments Committee considered whether the control to the Audit Committee.
to the Code which will 2015 Annual Report and Accounts was The Company has established processes become mandatory fair, balanced and understandable and procedures to identify, assess and next year and whether it provided the necessary manage the significant risks it faces.
information for shareholders to assess the The Executive Directors and Senior Groups performance, business model and Management review and document the strategy.
The Audit Committee is satisfied key strategic, economic, transactional and that the Annual Report and Accounts financial risks facing the business in a risk meet this requirement.
In reaching this register which identifies the likelihood and decision the Committee assessed the well impact of the risk along with movements in established and robust reporting process the Groups exposure to the risk since the last which consisted of the following: review.
The key controls in place to manage Clear guidance was issued to all and minimise such risks are reviewed contributors at the start of the process and documented.
Regulatory updates were provided by and The Committee conducted its review discussed with the external auditor as part in March 2015 and considered reports of a technical briefing workshop attended provided by the Finance Director, senior by relevant staff in January management and the external auditor.
Individual sections of the annual report were drafted by appropriate senior A detailed internal control evaluation management, who met regularly to questionnaire and risk assessment matrix review consistency was completed by management and reviewed by the Committee.
The risk register Draft sections were reviewed by the identified key risks and the management relevant Executive Directors who and operational framework in place to were closely involved in the initial address, monitor and minimise the key risks.
drafting process The Committee reported their findings to A full verification exercise to ensure factual the Board.
accuracy was undertaken The requirement for a dedicated internal The final draft report was reviewed by control function was reviewed by the Audit the Audit Committee and discussed Committee during the year and was not felt with the Finance Director and Senior to be necessary or appropriate given the Management before being presented size and structure of the Group and close forBoard approval day to day involvement of the Executive Final sign off was given by the Board Directors.
This is kept under regular review.
of Directors The Audit Committee is satisfied that there are no material weaknesses in the Groups internal control structure and an effective risk management system is in place.
The Committee has considered the proposed amendments to the Code which will become mandatory next year relating to the monitoring of risk and has recommended the introduction of a standing agenda item at future Board meetings to consider the principal risks facing the business and review the risk dashboard.
LondonMetric Property Plc 74 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Audit and non-audit fees to Deloitte External audit The relationship Deloitte LLP was appointed as external with the auditor 2015 2014 Year to 31 March 000 000 auditor following a formal tender process in works well, the audit 2013.
Current UK regulations require rotation Audit fees including process is effective relatedassurance services 183 203 of the lead audit partner every five years and the auditor and a formal tender of the auditor every remains independent Non-audit fees 2 20 tenyears.
The Committee is supportive of andobjective Total 185 223 these regulatory requirements.
The Companys policy governing the The Committee has assessed the provision of non-audit services considers performance, independence and each appointment on a case by case objectivity of the external auditor through basis.
Taxation, valuation, due diligence discussions with the Finance Director and and remuneration services are generally senior management team and through provided by other agencies but other areview of the audit deliverables.
advisory services, including but not In making this assessment the Committee limited to taxation, REIT compliance and considers the qualifications, expertise regulatory and shareholder circulars, may and resources of the audit partner and be undertaken by the external auditor given team as well as the quality of the audit their knowledge of the Groups business.
It reviewed the extent to The Executive Directors can authorise an which the audit plan was met, the level of engagement up to a fee limit of 100,000, independent challenge provided and the above which the engagement is referred depth of understanding and review of key to the Audit Committee for review and accounting judgements.
Deloitte LLP has confirmed to also considered the interaction with senior the Audit Committee that they remain management in the audit process, focusing independent and have maintained internal on the early identification and resolution safeguards to ensure the objectivity of the of issues and judgements and the quality engagement partner and audit staff is and timely provision of draft accounts for not impaired.
It recognises the importance of Having undertaken its review, in theopinion auditor objectivity and has reviewed the of the Audit Committee, the relationship level of non audit fees as noted in the table with the auditor works well, the audit below to ensure their independence was process is effective and the auditor not compromised.
It took into account the remains independent and objective.
fact that taxation services and advice is It has recommended to the Board that a provided separately by PwC and corporate resolution is proposed at the forthcoming due diligence work is undertaken by AGM to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the BDO LLP.
Rosalyn Wilton Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 June 2015 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 75
