We own, create and build desirable real estate.
In a rapidly evolving retail environment.
Our strong retailer relationships shape our decision making.
We specialise in retailer-led distribution, out of town and convenience retail with a focus on strong income, asset management initiatives and short-cycle development opportunities.
Our portfolio is broadly split between distribution and retail across the UK with a total of 10.7 million sq ft under management.
1 Bristol retail park 1 2 2 Croydon last mile distribution centre 3 Sheffield distribution centre 4 4 Luton retail park 3 5 6 5 Doncaster distribution centre 6 Sheffield distribution centre 7 7 Dagenham distribution centre 9 8 Newark distribution centre 8 9 Rotherham distribution centre LondonMetric Property Plc 2 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 3 We own, create and build desirable real estate.
We focus on real estate that reflects occupiers modern-day requirements and reflects societys needs.
We work with retailers, logistics providers and leisure operators.
Our top ten occupiers include Primark, Dixons Carphone, DFS, M&S and The Hut Group, and 80% of contracted rental income from our core sectors comes from retailers.
We work with key stakeholders to provide space that is fit for purpose, meeting occupiersdemands.
LondonMetric Property Plc 4 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 5 We own, create and build desirable real estate.
Retail has evolved significantly since the economic downturn and the rise of eCommerce.
Consumer shopping habits are changing with spending patterns continuing to migrate away frommore traditional modes of shopping.
We believethese trends will continue and will affect real estate decisions made by leading retailers.
LondonMetric Property Plc 6 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report BUYING DELIVERY LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 7 BROWSING We own, create and build desirable real estate.
We are a customer-focused business and aim to be the partner of choice across the retail and distribution sector.
We employ an occupier-led approach to property investment, asset management initiatives and short-cycle developments.
Our relationships with retailers provides us with market intelligence and allows us to better understand future trends and make the right asset decisions to improve both rental values and the security longevity ofincome to generate asuperior return.
LondonMetric Property Plc 8 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report By working closely with the team atLondonMetric they take the time tounderstand our real estate needs and through working in partnership we find mutually beneficial solutions to optimise our property holdings.
Head of Property Our strong Marks & Spencer plc retailer We have a longstanding relationship with LondonMetric.
relationships They actively engage with us and work collaboratively to enhance and find solutions to our respective property portfolios.
Group Property Director We have a close working relationship shape our Dixons Carphone Group with the management team at LMP with whom we have worked inpartnership for many years across the retail market.
They have built upastrong understanding of decision making.
our business and deliver creative solutionswith honesty and integrity.
Group Property Director Travis Perkins plc LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 9
