Effectiveness Professional development All Directors will stand Governance in action: for re-election at the Training and information updates in relation Boardstrategy away day forthcoming Annual to the Groups business and regulatory In March 2015 the Directors and General Meeting responsibilities is provided to the Directors certain key advisors held an off-site through Board briefing papers, reports strategy away day to consider and and seminars from advisors, presentations develop the Groups longer term by senior executives and property visits.
It was also Each Director is expected to maintain his or an opportunity to address succession her professional skills and take responsibility planning and development of the senior for identifying their individual training needs management team below Board level.
to ensure they are adequately informed about the Groups strategy, business and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged Information flow to familiarise themselves with the Groups The Chairman, together with the Company business through regular communications Secretary, ensure that the Directors receive with the Executive Directors and clear information on all relevant matters on senior management.
Comprehensive reports and briefing papers are circulated one week Re-election of Directors prior to Board and Committee meetings to All Directors are subject to election by the give the Directors time to thoroughly digest shareholders at the first Annual General the information provided and promote an Meeting following their appointment and informed Boardroom debate.
in accordance with the Code and on The Board papers contain property, the recommendation of the Nomination financial and risk updates as well as other Committee all Directors will stand for specific papers relating to agenda items.
re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board receives other ad hoc papers of a transactional nature at other times, circulated by e-mail, for their review and approval.
Key events throughout the year June September October November December January March 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 Mark Stirling Investor The Chairman Rosalyn Wilton Investor Externally Humphrey Price andValentine perception study became a appointed presentations facilitated Board retired as a NonBeresford undertaken by Non-Executive Chairman of androadshows and Committee Executive Director promoted to the an independent Director of the Audit Committee, follow Half Year performance Board strategy Executive Board research Company succeeding results evaluation away day organisation Humphrey Price Investor onbehalf of Considered Fair, presentations theCompany Balanced and and roadshow Under standable following full year assertion results Full review of RiskMatrix and Internal Controls LondonMetric Property Plc 64 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance In September 2014, an investor perception Independent advice During the past financial study was undertaken by an independent All Directors have access at all times to year the Company research organisation on behalf of the the advice and services of the Company held meetings with 125 Company.
A select number of key investors Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring shareholders, analysts and analysts were interviewed and that Board procedures are followed and and potential investors feedback from the survey was considered that applicable rules and governance positive and consistent with other regulations are complied with.
may, in the furtherance of their duties, take Shareholders are kept informed of the independent professional advice at the Companys progress through results expense of the Company.
None of the statements and other announcements Directors sought such advice in the year.
released through the London Stock Exchange.
Company announcements are Relations with shareholders made available on the website affording Communication with investors is given very all shareholders full access to material high priority and the Company undertakes information.
The website is an important regular dialogue with its shareholders, source of information for shareholders and institutional fund managers and private includes a comprehensive investor relations wealth managers and brokers.
The Chief section containing all RNS announcements, Executive and Finance Director are the share price information, investor Companys principal representatives presentations and annual reports available and hold meetings with institutional for downloading.
investors, analysts, fund managers and Individual shareholders can raise questions other interested parties throughout the directly with the Company at any time year.
These include results presentations, through a facility on the website and are roadshows, one to one meetings, panel encouraged to participate in the Annual discussions and investor tours.
The Senior General Meeting of the Company.
Independent Director is available for shareholders to contact if other channels The whole Board attends and is available ofcommunication with the Company to answer shareholder questions at the arenot available or appropriate.
Companys Annual General Meeting, whichprovides a forum for communication During the past financial year theCompany with both private and institutional held meetings with 125 shareholders, shareholders alike.
The annual report is analysts and potential investors sent to all shareholders at least 20 working predominantly as part of its full and half days before the AGM and details of the year results roadshows.
The meetings resolutions to be proposed can be found comprised one to one and group meetings in the Notice of Meeting on page 136. and included investors seen at five Details of the number of proxy votes for, investor conferences.
against and withheld for each resolution Feedback from meetings is provided to willbe disclosed at the meeting and in the the Board, together with any published AGM RNS announcement.
Notice of Annual General Meeting seepage 136 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 65 Effectiveness continued The main area of focus for the Committee this year has been the externally facilitated Nomination Board evaluation process which took place Committee in January 2015. report The Committee considers succession planning for Directors and other senior executive positions and reviews the leadership of the Company.
It is responsible for identifying and approving candidates Charles Cayzer Chairman, to fill Board vacancies using external search Nomination Committee consultants where appropriate and for ensuring that the process is formal, rigorous and transparent.
Recommendations on Committee membership changes are The Committee is responsible for reviewing made to the Board.
the size, structure and composition On appointment, the Company arranges of the Board, including the balance a tailored induction programme for all of skills, knowledge, experience and new Directors to help them develop an .
understanding of the business including its strategy, processes, people, assets, finances, risks and controls.
The induction includes Achievements the provision of a detailed Company Appointment of Patrick Vaughan information pack, site visits and introductions asaNon-Executive Chairman to and meetings with Senior Management Considered the reappointment of Directors and advisors.
at the 2015 AGM Principal responsibilities of the Externally facilitated Board and Committee Nomination Committee: performance evaluation in January 2015 Review and evaluation of the size, structure and composition of the Board Meetings Member Date appointed attended Make recommendations to the Board regarding Board and Committee Patrick Vaughan 1 November 2012 2 2 membership changes Charles Cayzer 1 November 2012 2 2 Succession planning for Directors Alec Pelmore 25 January 2013 2 2 andother Senior Executives Philip Watson 25 January 2013 2 2 Identify candidates to fill Board Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member was vacanciesas they arise eligible to attend.
Assess the time commitment required fromNon-Executive Directors Consider the annual re-election ofDirectors to the Board LondonMetric Property Plc 66 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Composition of the Committee Diversity Gender diversity employees Throughout the year the Committee The Nomination Committee acknowledges comprised the Chairman and three all aspects of diversity including gender, Female independent Non-Executive Directors ethnic origin, age, business skills and 41% andwas chaired by Charles Cayzer.
experience throughout the Company atevery level of recruitment.
Male Meetings and activities during the year 59% The Board is committed to a culture that The Committee met twice during the year attracts and retains talented individuals to consider and make recommendations to deliver outstanding results and as part tothe Board in respect of the following: of this it promotes diversity across a range of criteria including skills, knowledge, Independence and the appointment experience, gender and ethnicity.
of Patrick Vaughan as a NonGender diversity senior management Executive Chairman All appointments to the Board and Female Composition of the Board Senior Management team are made 30% onmerit alone.
The Board believes that The results of the externally facilitated an appointment on any other basis would Board evaluation not be in the best long-term interests of The reappointment of Directors at the the Company.
2015 AGM Male It supports the Davies Report Its own effectiveness, Terms of Reference, 70% recommendations to promote greater constitution and performance female representation.
It does not Succession planning consider, given the size of the Company and Board, that diversity quotas are Gender diversity Last year the Committee recommended appropriate in determining its composition directors Female the appointment of one new Non-Executive and has not set targets.
However, there is 9% Director and two internally promoted an ongoing commitment to strengthen Executive Directors to the Board.
female representation at Board level Following the appointment of Patrick which will be kept under review in light Vaughan as Non-Executive Chairman of the requirements for Board succession and the retirement of Humphrey Price as and development.
a Non Executive Director, the Committee Male The Company supports flexible working considered and discussed the size of 91% practices for employees on a case by the Board, the balance of skills and case basis, as utilised by 5 of the total split of Executive and Non-Executive 34employees at the year end excluding Directors.
It concluded that the remaining Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors had the necessary complement of skills to ensure there was appropriate debate and challenge at Board meetings and the composition metthe requirements of the Code.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 67 Effectiveness continued Board performance and evaluation The Board The process involved the Directors and commissioned Law Last year the Board committed to Company Secretary completing an online Debenture to facilitate undertake an externally facilitated questionnaire followed by a series of one its performance review evaluation of its performance and of its to one interviews and the observation of in January 2015 Committees to ensure each continues a full Board meeting.
The findings were tooperate effectively.
fed back to the Board and were tabled The Board commissioned Law Debenture to at the Nomination Committee and Board facilitate its performance review in January meetings in March 2015.
2015 following a formal tender process The questionnaire and subsequent in which three firms were short listed and discussions centred around the components made written submissions and presentations of good governance and reflected the to the Chairman and Financial Director.
following key themes and findings: Law Debenture had no former connection with the Company.
The Nomination Committee considered the submissions and recommended the appointment of Law Debenture tothe Board.
Theme Findings Board administration Agenda, time allocation, Agendas prioritise the right topics provision of information, Sufficient preparation time schedule of meetings, Comprehensive, thorough and succinct Board papers unexpected business Excellent response to ad hoc transactional issues dealt withoutside of scheduled meetings Board composition Committees, balance Appropriate size and mix of skills of skills, diversity, size, Future consideration of appropriate skills for changing appointment process, natureof business contribution of directors, Long working relationships of Directors succession, tenure Sufficient diversity, committed to promoting diversity atalllevels of recruitment Style of the Board Challenge, balance High degree of mutual respect amongst Board members of power, opinions of No inhibitions to individual contributions Directors, issues addressed, Issues tackled head on leadership of the Successful and constructive challenge by Non-Executive Chairman Directors of Executive proposals, viewed in a positive light Appropriate allocation of time to key issues Good facilitation and summation of Boardroom debatebyChairman Relationship with management Contact with and support Informal meetings with the Executive team and senior from management team, management are encouraged and seen as helpful communication between Good governance on formal decision making meetings Chairman keeps abreast of developments between Boardmeetings Board is updated on regulatory issues Relationships with shareholders Regular and open communications with shareholders Chief Executive devotes a considerable amount of time toensuring shareholders are engaged and informed LondonMetric Property Plc 68 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Overall the report produced by Law Re-election of Directors Overall the report Debenture judged the Board to be well Following the Board evaluation and produced by Law led and administered with the timely appraisal process the Committee Debenture judged the delivery of information and the necessary concluded that each of the Directors Board to be well led complementary skills required to monitor seeking re-election continues to make an andadministered performance, challenge management, effective contribution to the Board and promote debate and develop strategy.
has the necessary skills, knowledge and The Chairman was commended for good experience to enable them to discharge leadership both in and out of meetings, for their duties properly.
ensuring all Board members contributed The Committee specifically considers the to discussions and effectively summarising time commitment required and other debate and decisions.
The atmosphere in external appointments and commitments Board meetings was considered respectfully they already have.
Before taking on any constructive and appropriately challenging additional external commitments Directors of Executive proposals.
must seek prior agreement of the Board The Directors were unanimous in their to ensure possible conflicts of interest are view that the Board was operating identified and to confirm they will continue effectively, was the right size and had the to have sufficient time available to devote required balance of skills and expertise tothe business of the Company.
and operated within a climate of trust The Board, following the advice of the and transparency.
Committee, recommends the re-election Potential areas for consideration in ofeach Director at the forthcoming AGM.
2015 16 highlighted in the report included the following: Succession planning for the Chairman Consideration of skills required for new appointments given the changing nature Charles Cayzer Chairman, Nomination Committee of the business and customer base 2 June 2015 Continue to promote diversity at all levels Consider the ongoing independence ofNon-Executive Directors In addition to the Board evaluation, the Chairmans performance review was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director who concluded that the Chairmans leadership was ofahigh standard.
The Board is committed to undertake anannual internal review of its performance and an externally facilitated review every three years.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 69
