Governance Principal activities and business review Report of the The purpose of the annual report is to provide information to the members of Directors the Company which is a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
A detailed review of the Groups business and performance during the year, its principal risks and uncertainties and its Martin McGann Finance Director business model and strategy is contained in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 54 andshould be read as part of this report.
The annual report contains certain forwardlooking statements with respect The Directors present their report together with tothe operations, performance and theaudited financial statements for the year financial condition of the Group.
By their ended31 March 2015. nature, these statements involve uncertainty The principal activity of the Group continues to since future events and circumstances be property investment and development, both can cause results and developments to directly and through joint venture arrangements.
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge Annual General Meeting and information available at the date ofpreparation of this annual report.
The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company Nothing in this annual report should be willbe held at the Connaught, Carlos Place, Mayfair, construed as a profit forecast.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 136 to 140 sets out the Results and dividends proposed resolutions and voting details.
The Group reported a profit for the year The Board considers the resolutions will promote the of 159.5 million 2014: 125.3 million.
success of the Company and are in the best interests of the An interim dividend for 2015 of 3.5p per Company and its shareholders.
The Directors unanimously share was paid on 19 December 2014 and recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions the Directors propose a final dividend of as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial 3.5p per share, resulting in a total dividend of holdings which amount in aggregate to 24,006,674 shares 7.0p per share for the year to 31 March 2015 representing approximately 3.8% of the existing issued 2014: 7.0p per share.
The final dividend will ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 June 2015. be paid following approval at the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2015 to ordinary Substantial shareholders shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 June 2015.
The Directors have been notified that the following shareholders have a disclosable interest of 3% or more in the ordinary shares of the Company at the date of this report: Number of shares % Rathbones 42,929,309 6.84 Ameriprise Finance Inc 37,903,414 6.04 Blackrock Inc 37,491,384 5.97 J O Hambro Capital Management 25,149,768 4.00 Troy Asset Management 23,400,626 3.73 Aberdeen Asset Management 23,067,057 3.67 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 91 Report of the Directors continued As disclosed in note 7, 2.0p of the final value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
The Directors propose dividend payment will comprise a Property That authority expires at this years AGM and a final dividend of 3.5p Income Distribution PID which is paid, as a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
per share, resulting in required by REIT legislation, after deduction No ordinary shares were purchased under a total dividend of 7.0p of withholding tax at the basic rate of this authority during the year.
per share for the year income tax.
The balance of 1.5p will be Directors to31 March 2015 paidas an ordinary dividend which is not subject to withholding tax.
The present membership of the Board and biographical details ofDirectors are set out In addition a special dividend of 2.0p on pages 58 to 59.
In addition a special per share will be paid to share some of dividend of 2.0p per the realised gain arising following the The interests of the Directors and their share will be paid redevelopment and sale of offices at families in the shares of the Company are set to share some of Carter Lane.
out in the Remuneration Committee report the realised gain on page 87.
Both are subject to shareholder approval at arising following the AGM and will be paid on 20 July 2015.
Humphrey Price retired from the Board on theredevelopment 31 March 2015. andsale of offices Investment properties atCarter Lane In accordance with the UK Corporate A valuation of the Groups investment Governance Code, all of the Directors will properties at 31 March2015 was undertaken retire and offer themselves for reelection at by CBRE Limited and Savills Advisory Services the forthcoming AGM on 16 July 2015.
Limited on the basis of fair value which amounted to 1,164.1 million as reflected Directors and Officers innote 9 to these accounts.
liability insurance The Company has arranged Directors and Share capital Officers liability insurance cover in respect As at 31 March 2015, there were 628,043,905 of legal action against its Directors, which ordinary shares of 10p in issue, each is reviewed and renewed annually and carrying one vote and all fully paid.
There is remains in force at the date of this report.
only one class of share in issue and there are no restrictions on the size of a holding Suppliers or on the transfer of shares.
None of the The Group aims to settle supplier accounts shares carry any special rights of control in accordance with their individual terms over the Company.
There were no persons of business.
with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other than those listed as The number of creditor days outstanding substantial shareholders on page 91. for the Group at 31 March 2015 was 17 days 2014: 19 days.
There were no changes to the Companys share capital during the year or since the Provisions on change of control yearend.
Under the Groups credit facilities, the The rules governing appointments, lending banks may require repayment of replacement and powers of Directors are the outstanding amounts on any change contained in the Companys Articles of of control.
Association, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Groups Long Term Incentive Plan These include powers to authorise the issue and Deferred Share Bonus Plan contain and buy back of shares by the Company.
provisions relating to the vesting of awards The Companys Articles can be amended in the event of a change of control of by Special Resolution in accordance with the Group.
Essential contracts Purchase of own shares The Company has no contractual or other The Company was granted authority at the arrangements which are considered Annual General Meeting in 2014 to purchase essential to the business.
its own shares up to an aggregate nominal LondonMetric Property Plc 92 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Based on the results of their review, the Financial instruments Directors have a reasonable expectation Details of the financial instruments used by that the Company will be able to continue the Group and financial risk management in operation and meet its liabilities as they policies can be found in note 15 and in the fall due over the three year period of review of Risk Management on page 43. their assessment.
Charitable and political contributions Post-balance sheet events During the year, the Group made charitable Details of the Groups postbalance sheet donations of 24,820 2014: 24,080. events are reflected in note 20 to these No political donations were made during financial statements on page124.
Employees Going concern The Group currently has 41 employees.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing The Groups employment and environmental the Groups activities, future development policies are summarised in the Responsible and performance are on pages 43 to 48. Business section on pages 49 to 54.
The Groups borrowings, undrawn facilities, hedging and liquidity are described in Greenhouse gas reporting note 15 to the accounts.
The Directors In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large have reviewed the current and projected and MediumSized Companies and Groups financial position of the Group, making Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, reasonable assumptions about future information regarding the Companys trading performance.
As part of the review, greenhouse gas emissions can be found the Group has considered its cash balances, onpage 53. its debt maturity profile, including undrawn facilities, and the longterm nature of Disclosure of information to auditor tenant leases.
So far as the Directors who held office at the On the basis of this review, and after date of approval of this Directors report are making due enquiries, the Directors have a aware, there is no relevant audit information reasonable expectation that the Company of which the auditor is unaware and each and the Group have adequate resources Director has taken all steps that he or she to continue in operational existence for ought to have taken as a Director to make the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they himself or herself aware of any relevant continue to adopt the going concern audit information and to establish that the basis in preparing the annual report and auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor Viability statement Deloitte LLP is willing to be reappointed In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the as the external auditor to theCompany 2014 revision of the Code, the Directors have and Group.
Their reappointment has been assessed the prospect of the Company over considered by the Audit Committee and a longer period than the 12 months required recommended to the Board.
A resolution will by the Going Concern provision.
The Board be proposed at the AGM on 16 July 2015. conducted this review for a period of three years to coincide with its review of the On behalf of the Board Groups financial budgets and forecasts.
This period is also consistent with the short cycle nature of the Groups developments and asset management initiatives.
Martin McGann Finance Director The Board considered the Groups cash flows, income profile, loan to value and 2 June 2015 other key financial metrics as well as the level of capital recycling and reinvestment likely to occur.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 93 Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate The Directors are responsible for preparing accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the annual report and the financial the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable statements in accordance with applicable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company law and regulations.
and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company statements for each financial year.
Under that law the andhence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Directors are required to prepare the Group financial and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected integrity of the corporate and financial information included to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law theDirectors must not approve the accounts unless they Responsibility statement are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the The financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company for that period.
the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, andfair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position theDirectors are required to: and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings Select suitable accounting policies and then apply included in the consolidation taken as a whole them consistently The Strategic report includes a fair review of the Make judgements and accounting estimates that are development and performance of the business and the reasonable and prudent position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards description of the principal risks and uncertainties that have been followed, subject to any material departures theyface: and disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and The annual report and financial statements, taken as Prepare the financial statements on the going concern a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the provide the information necessary for shareholders to Company will continue in business assess the Companys performance, business model In preparing the Group financial statements, International and strategy Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: By order of the Board Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable andunderstandable information Martin McGann Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Finance Director specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 2 June 2015 users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continueas a going concern Andrew Jones Chief Executive 2 June 2015 LondonMetric Property Plc 94 Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements In this section: Auditors report 96 Group financial statements 100 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 104 Company financial statements 125 Notes forming part of the Company financial statements 126 Supplementary information 129 Definitions 135 Notice of Annual General Meeting 136 Financial calendar 141 Shareholder information 141 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 95
