o i l o f t r D o i s p t r f i o b u y t t i i o l a n u g q r e o c w n t h a h n E Strategic report Business model and strategy The Group seeks to allocate capital to assets which are expected to generate the best riskadjusted returns.
How we generate shareholder value Identify growth drivers within business segments Enable management teams to deliver growth within segments Leverage returns through use of skillsbase Birchwood Shopping Centre, Warrington DoubleTree by Hilton, Edinburgh Byron Place Shopping Centre, Seaham Bahnhof Altona, Hamburg 06 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 s n r u t R e r e d d u e s c u e c c o f o s e t m o f o c c n a i p r i o t i a r l e p u S Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Superior income Enhance quality Reduce cost Distribution focused returns of portfolio of capital growth The Group aims to provide We target property investments A lower cost of capital enables We are focused on all areas of our Shareholders with consistent which provide occupiers with well the Group to be more competitive business that contribute to bottom and growing income returns configured space of the right size in the investment market and to line income growth including rental and exposure to capital growth and specification and in locations invest in quality assets with the growth, cost reduction and efficient through asset management and which support economic rents.
potential to deliver sustainable financing costs.
We aim to create value through Through investing in well located We are disciplined in our managing our assets well, investing The ratio of net debt funding to assets that meet occupiers investment approach ensuring in our portfolio and selling mature the current market value of our requirements, we aim to generate capital is invested in assets that assets at the right point in the investments is monitored closely demand that supports sustainable can deliver returns in excess of property cycle.
to ensure an effective balance rental growth.
between the use of leverage and We consistently look to recycle By generating returns in excess reducing our overall cost of capital.
We believe that cashbased capital and reinvest into assets of our cost of capital, we seek income returns are fundamental within our business segments We carefully monitor the cost and to achieve distribution growth in to overall property returns and, in expected to provide the best maturity profile of our borrowings excess of inflation.
the long term, growth in capital riskadjusted returns.
Capital and the expected future liquidity We aim to provide Shareholders values is dependent on sustainable is reinvested into both new and cost of borrowing in the with an attractive return on capital rentalgrowth.
investments and within our existing capital markets.
Our policy is to through the regular payment of portfolio where opportunities arise.
fix the interest rates on at least dividends and the potential for 75% of overall borrowings to capital share price appreciation ensure we have visibility on future over time.
St. Georges Shopping Centre, Harrow Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 07
