Governance Board of Directors GREG CLaRkE MIkE waTTERS STEPhEn oakEnFuLL Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer age: 58 age: 56 age: 36 appointed: October 2011 appointed: December 2013 appointed: December 2013 Committee: Nominations Committee Chairman Committees: Corporate Social Responsibility Committee: Corporate Social Responsibility Chairman, Investment Committee Greg Clarke has over 30 years experience Stephen Oakenfull is a CFA charterholder with a of working for and running large international Mike Watters is a qualified engineer with a BSc Hons Degree in Construction Management.
public corporations across Europe, Australia and BSc Eng Civil Degree and an MBA.
He has Prior to joining the Redefine Group, Stephen South Africa.
Between 2002 and 2009 he was over 27 years experience in the investment worked for DTZ Corporate Finance in London Chief Executive of Lend Lease Corporation, an banking and real estate industries.
He has held and as a management consultant for Turner & ASX 50international corporation specialising directorships of some of South Africas top rated Townsend, an international construction and in property investment, development and listed property funds including Sycom Property management consultancy, both in South Africa construction.
Between 1994 and 2000 he worked Fund and Hyprop Investments Limited as well and London.
Stephen was previously COO of the for groups owned by Cable and Wireless, as the Sapphire Retail Fund in the UK.
Mike is a Investment Adviser to Redefine International.
ultimately being promoted to CEO of Cable and Nonexecutive Director of Redefine Properties Wireless Communications Plc.
He is currently and the International Hotel Group and is Chairman of The Football League, a role he Chairman of the Redefine BDL Hotel Group.
has held since 2010, and Chairman of the Meteorological Office.
MIChaEL FaRRow GavIn TIPPER SuSan FoRd Independent Nonexecutive Director Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director Independent Nonexecutive Director age: 61 age: 50 age: 55 appointed: August 2011 appointed: August 2011 appointed: December 2013 Committees: Audit and Risk Committee Committees: Audit and Risk Committee Committees: Remuneration Committee Chairman, Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Gavin Tipper is a Chartered Accountant with Michael Farrow holds an MSc in Corporate BComm and BAcc degrees and an MBA.
He has Sue Ford is a Chartered Accountant with over Governance and is a Fellow of the Chartered been involved in the financial services industry 25 years experience working within various Institute of Secretaries and Administrators.
Prior to joining the Coronation organisations overseeing finance, strategy and Heisa founder director of Consortia Partnership Group in 2001, he was a technical partner at governance matters.
Sue was a cofounder Limited, a Jersey licensed trust company: KPMG.
He is currently a director of Coronation and former finance director for Metric Property following seven years as an executive director Investments and Trading Limited and holds Investment PLC, a UKREIT, prior to its merger and trustee of a substantial family trust whose directorships in a number of listed South African with London & Stamford PLC to form London main activity was property investment and companies.
development in the UK, central Europe and California.
He currently sits on the boards of both UK listed and private property companies and funds.
From 1993 1997 he was group company secretary of Cater Allen, Jersey and, prior to that, a regular army officer.
46 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information donaLd GRanT adRIan hoRSBuRGh Chief Financial Officer Property Director age: 42 age: 53 appointed: August 2015 appointed: March 2014 Committee: None Committee: Corporate Social Responsibility Donald Grant is a Chartered Accountant having Adrian Horsburgh joined Redefine International trained at Coopers & Lybrand in New Zealand.
in March 2014 following a 30 year career with Upon moving to the UK, he had ten years working Jones Lang LaSalle JLL formerly King Sturge, within various banking and broking institutions where he most recently held the role of Retail prior to moving into the property sector.
Adrian first joined King joined the Group in 2015 from fellow FTSE 250 Sturge as a trainee surveyor in the investment constituent Capital & Counties Properties PLC department.
He qualified as a Chartered where he had spent the last seven years and held Surveyor while at the firm and was appointed an the position of financialcontroller.
On the merger of King Sturge with JLL in 2011 he was appointed an International Director of the merged company.
Adrian has worked exclusively in the investment sector with a specialisation in retail and shoppingcentres.
RoBERT oRR BERnIE naCkan MaRC waInER Nonexecutive Director Independent Nonexecutive Director Nonexecutive Director age: 56 age: 71 age: 67 appointed: April 2015 appointed: April 2014 appointed: August 2011 Committees: Investment Committee Chairman Committee: None Committee: Investment Committee Remuneration Committee Bernie Nackan was financial editor of the Rand Marc Wainer has more than 35 years experience Robert Orr is a Chartered Surveyor with Daily Mail, an Executive Director of Sage Group in the property industry in South Africa, including significant experience of the German and from 1974 until his retirement in 2003 and founding Investec Property Group, Investec European real estate markets.
He worked for was a member of the Collective Investment Banks property division.
Marc is Chairman and Jones Lang LaSalle for over 29 years, during Scheme Advisory Committee for over ten years an Executive Director of listed South African which time he was country manager for Germany which, amongst other things, investigated and property group Redefine Properties which and later the groups European CEO.
In 2005 reported or advised on any policy, administrative, hefounded.
Marc is also a Nonexecutive Robert founded the International Capital Group technical or supervisory matter concerning Director of the Cromwell Property Group, for Jones Lang LaSalle, establishing crossborder collective investment schemes in South Africa.
Fountainhead Property Trust Managers Limited relationships with international investors seeking He is currently a Nonexecutive Director of and Hyprop Investments Limited, a South African real estate investment opportunities.
Robert two companies listed on the JSE: Redefine listed retail propertyfund.
currently serves as a Nonexecutive Director Properties, which holds a significant shareholding for Tishman Speyer Properties UK Limited, in the Company: and Fountainhead Property an adviser to UK and European Investments Trust Managers Limited.
and Wainbridge Capital and a senior adviser to Canaccord Genuity Limited.
Robert is also atrustee of Dementia UK.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 47
