Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Share capital The issued share capital for the year is set out on page 155.
There is one class of share in issue and there are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to these shares or the transfer of securities in the Company, and all shares are fully paid.
The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year.
Dividends Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, a final dividend of 10.6 pence per share will be paid 2014: 10.2 pence bringing the total dividend for 2015 to 15.6 pence 2014: 15.1 pence.
The final dividend will be paid as a Property Income Distribution.
The Board proposes to offer a scrip dividend option SCRIP for the 2015 final dividend.
The ex-dividend date for the final dividend will be 24 March 2016, the record date will be 29 March 2016 and the payment date will be 5 May 2016.
Change of control Contracts and joint venture agreements There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements that could allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements are commercially confidential and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial tothe Company.
Borrowings and other financial instruments The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various lenders.
These facilities generally include provisions that may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the amendment or termination of the facilities upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
Employee share plans The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest or become exercisable on change of control of the Company, in accordance with the rules of the plans.
Employees and Directors There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs specifically because of a takeover bid, with the exception of provisions of the Companys share schemes as detailed above.
Directors authorities in relation to shares The Directors authorities in relation to issuing, allotting or buying back shares are governed by the Companys Articles of Association and the resolutions passed by shareholders at a general meeting.
These documents do not form part of this Report.
Process for appointment removal of Directors The Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation with regards to the appointment and removal of Directors.
Directors are appointed by the Board and elected by shareholders.
Directors may be removed bythe Board or shareholders as applicable.
110 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Substantial interests in the share capital of the Company At 16 February 2016, the following major interests, amounting to 3 per cent or more of the ordinary issued share capital had been notified tothe Company: Percentage of Shareholder Number of shares Issued Share Capital Blackrock Inc, and its subsidiaries 80,314,508 10.74% APG Algemene Pensioen Groupe NV and its subsidiaries 42,701,929 5.71% Artemis Investment Management LLP 38,896,853 5.20% Legal and General Group plc and its subsidiaries 24,969,665 3.34% Articles of Association Shareholders may amend the Companys Articles of Association by special resolution.
Political donations No political donations were made by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year.
Directors indemnities No Company or subsidiary company Directors were indemnified during the year.
Overseas branches The Company has a branch in Paris, France.
Directors Report disclosures Certain Directors Report disclosures have been made in the Strategic Report so as to increase their prominence.
These disclosures include those relating to: greenhouse gas emissions: financial instruments and certain financial risks: employee involvement: the employment, training and advancement of disabled persons: the review of the Groups business during the year and any future developments.
Auditor of the Company As described in the Audit Committee Report, the Audit Committee led a competitive tender process in which Deloitte LLP was not invited to take part.
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board that  LLP be appointed as external auditor for the 2016 financial year.
A resolution to appoint  LLP as auditor of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Elizabeth Blease General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 18 February 2016 111 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
