Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business Model A simple business model to deliver attractive returns We own, develop and manage warehouse and industrial properties in selected markets in the UK and Continental Europe.
We aim to generate attractive financial and social returns for our shareholders and wider stakeholders by investing in high-quality, sustainable buildings in prime locations.
What we need What we do inputs Land We aim to have sufficient land in the right locations to fuel our development pipeline without having so much that it undermines ourincome returns.
See page 27 for more information Assets We specialise in buying and building warehouse properties located on the edge of major cities and in key transport corridors and hubs.
See page 24 for more information People We employ 285 people with skills reflecting Buy all aspects of real estate ownership including asset management, development, investment, Smart marketing and financing.
See page 46 for more information Partners We join forces with other organisations where their attributes complement our own, such as through joint ventures with other landlords or capital providers.
We will buy assets and Capital land where we believe Real estate is a capital-intensive business and we we can use our particular rely on strong relationships with our shareholders skill-set to add value.
providing equity funding and our banks and bondholders providing debt.
See page 30 for more information 14 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 l e d o m s s e n i s u b e l b a n i a t s u S Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our Goal We apply our strategy Disciplined to maximise Capital Operational Allocation Excellence performance Efficient capital and corporate structure See page 19 for more information The value we create We actively manage outputs our portfolio, improving returns through High quality, sustainable buildings asset management, We aim to provide space, including space we develop refurbishment ourselves, which enables our customers to achieve and development.
Our space is used for an enormous variety of activities, from traditional warehouse uses such as parcel distribution, food manufacturing and bulk storage, to the more eclectic, including film studios and trampolining.
They are a vital piece of infrastructure Add enabling our customers to serve their own customers.
We are active managers of our properties and our Value success is measured through our annual customer feedback survey and our operating KPIs.
Attractive financial returns We aim to generate total property returns income return and capital growth ahead of our benchmark which, when combined with appropriate leverage and a lean cost base, should result in attractive total returns for our shareholders comprising growth in our net asset value or resilience in a down-cycle, earnings and dividend.
Variable compensation for all our employees is linked to these KPIs, while long-term incentive plans are linked to the longer-term performance of our shares Sell relative to our peers and of our property relative to the MSCI-IPD benchmark.
Well Investing in our communities We play an active role in the communities in which we operate.
Many of our developments are on brownfield We will sell assets sites which help to regenerate previously redundant where we believe the areas of towns and cities, creating new employment risk-adjusted returns opportunities.
We actively encourage our employees available to us are less to commit time to charitable and community activities.
We are particularly active in Slough, the birthplace of attractive than other uses SEGRO and our home for 95 years, where the Slough of our capital.
Trading Estate is a major employer and wealth generator for the area.
15 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 l e d o m s s e n i s u b e l b a n i a t s u S
