Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Market Overview Our key market drivers The performance of real estate, like all Improving asset classes, is driven by the interplay of economic environment demand and supply: investor demand for property assets and occupier demand for space, with performance dependent on GDP growth forecast for our major markets % p. a.
201517e the supply of properties to buy or lease to satisfy that demand.
1.5% 1.8% 1.4% 3.5% 2.3% 1.9% Real estate as an investment asset If investor demand increases, in the absence of additional supply, the value of real estate will rise: if demand wanes or supply increases, the value will fall.
Real estate pricing is commonly expressed as a yield which is the rent payable for a building as a percentage of its value.
Assuming rents remain static, as the value of real estate rises, its yield falls often referred to as yield compression and vice versa.
Poland UK Germany Euro France Italy Area Source: OECD 13 February 2016 Real estate as an operating necessity As occupier demand increases, in the absence of additional supply, overall lease terms will become more expensive for the occupier, Commentary: including but not exclusively an increase in rents.
If demand for Economic growth is an important driver of demand for space by space falls, or supply increases, overall lease terms, including rent, occupiers.
We are optimistic about the prospects for our geographies will become cheaper.
and markets, with economists expecting moderate and sustainable levels of economic growth, albeit stronger in the UK than in Continental Europe.
It is for this reason that the property market is considered cyclical: as Implications for SEGRO: investor or occupier demand increases, the returns from real estate improve and the supply of assets or space tends to increase to meet Continuing low vacancy rates that demand.
If supply increases too much, or demand starts to fall, Meaningful rental growth in our UK urban distribution, light supply can exceed demand and asset values and rents will fall until industrial and big box logistics warehouse portfolios such time as demand matches or exceeds supply, at which point the cycle turns.
Healthy occupier demand for newly developed space, both pre-let and speculatively built We are acutely aware of the cyclical nature of real estate and believe there are six key market factors which influence the performance of our portfolio.
06 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Structural changes Limited availability of modern, in consumer behaviour well-located warehouse buildings Rapid growth of online retail sales continues UK Grade A warehousing in short supply Volume of UK online sales bn and as % of UK retail sales Availability at year end, sq m in millions 52.7 60.4 67.0 73.7 80.3 87.0 2.8 2.4 2.1 1.5 1.1 1.4 100 25% 80 20% 60 15% 40 10% 13% 15% 16% 17% 18% 19% 20 5% 0 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 E-commerce sales % of total retail sales Source: eMarketer, September 2015 Source: JLL Commentary: Commentary: Structural changes in the nature of retailing towards e-commerce The relatively short construction time for warehousing means that and convenience shopping, combined with increasing urbanisation of rising demand can sometimes be quickly met by an increase in supply.
European populations, are forcing retailers to re-assess how they sell However, developers are currently taking a disciplined approach anddistribute their goods.
and, in the UK, tightening planning laws are restricting the supply of land.
Therefore, although warehouse development is increasing, Supply chains must be able to handle both bulk delivery of goods to larger it is not exceeding or still falling short of occupier demand and stores and individual deliveries to homes, offices, click-and-collect locations many buildings under construction are already committed pre-let and high street convenience stores.
Margin pressure means that retailers, to occupiers.
Consequently there are no signs of over-supply in any third party logistics providers and parcel delivery companies need modern ofourmajor markets.
premises in key transport corridors, logistics hubs or locations close to major conurbations.
Implications for SEGRO: Implications for SEGRO: Rental values for our UK portfolio are rising, reflecting the supply shortage and healthy occupier demand Strong occupier demand for our light industrial and urban distribution warehouses located on the edge of major European cities In Continental Europe, supply and demand are roughly in balance, although competition for build-to-suit contracts between developers 21 per cent of new rent in 2015 was from parcel delivery and third means that, in Central Europe, market rents fell during the year, party logistics companies although there are no signs of over-supply See also factors under Improving Economic Environment 07 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Market Overview Our key market drivers continued Reduction in industrial land Need for efficient, around major towns and cities sustainable buildings Commentary: Commentary: Land zoned for industrial use in and around major conurbations is With greater awareness of our impact on the environment, it is important to cater for occupiers who need to be close to population important that landlords and developers own and create buildings centres either for efficient last mile delivery or for an accessible labour which are sustainable in the long term and use natural resources source.
However, the stock of industrial land is being eroded in our major efficiently.
Likewise, occupiers demand high levels of environmental urban markets by other, higher value uses, most commonly residential.
sustainability to minimise their environmental footprint and to reduce Where land is in short supply, the potential supply response is restricted overall occupancy costs, particularly from heating and other utilities.
and, while demand remains strong, overall lease terms, including rental Implications for SEGRO: values, are rising.
All of our developments are built to high environmental standards Implications for SEGRO: A buildings sustainability is an important factor in our investment We have utilised around one-third of our land bank in development decisions, not only for potential acquisitions but also in deciding activity over the past year, particularly in and around London, creating whether to refurbish or dispose of existing properties which fall short modern warehouse space to cater for strengthening occupier demand of environmental standards In the UK, rental values for our edge-of-town portfolios increased by 5 per cent.
Rental values are stable in our edge-of-town portfolios in Continental Europe but are expected to rise over time as the land shortages seen in London are replicated in other major cities 08 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements How are we responding?
Asset recycling, taking advantage Attractive yield profile in a low 1 of strong investor demand to interest rate environment improve our portfolio quality: selling assets no longer core to our strategy and investing the proceeds Prime yields in all our markets are comfortably above risk-free rates in our development programme and selective asset acquisitions.
6.4% 6.0% 5.2% 4.5% 2.0% 0.6% Accelerated development 2 programme to take advantage of growing occupier demand and limited supply of modern, sustainable logistics and light industrial buildings, particularly in Warsaw Paris Dsseldorf London UK Germany urban locations.
risk-free risk-free Source: CBRE, Bloomberg at 31 December 2015 Actively replenishing our land 3 bank to extend our development pipeline, particularly around cities in Commentary: our major markets.
We purchased Very loose monetary policy across Europe and globally means that 67 hectares of land suitable for we are operating in a very low interest rate environment: UK gilts at 31 December 2015 yielded 2.0 per cent and German bunds yielded urban warehousing in London, 0.6per cent.
Prime industrial real estate yields in the UK and Continental Europe are 2.5 and 4.6 percentage points higher than their respective Paris, Cologne and Munich risk-free benchmarks, making industrial real estate attractive on a relative in 2015. basis.
The spread between yield and risk-free rate is also higher than the long-term historical average, meaning that industrial property yields should Active asset management: be well placed to withstand initial rises in interest rates.
4 maximising customer retention, Implications for SEGRO: portfolio occupancy, rental growth Our portfolio increased in value by 11.1 per cent in 2015, mainly due to and asset sustainability through the average yield compressing by 0.7 percentage points strong customer service and asset Greater competition for standing assets from investors has increased their prices meaning that the returns available to us from developing maintenance and refurbishment.
ourown assets are often higher than from acquiring existing assets 09 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Market Overview We own assets capable of servicing a wide variety of activities 1.
Big box logistics warehouses 2 10,000-90,000 m Typical size Located in national regional distribution hubs Demand for large warehouses for inventory storage and regional, national and international distribution is growing, particularly amongst retailers.
The cost of servicing both a store network and delivery of items direct to homes and offices has forced companies to restructure their supply chains to extract all available cost efficiencies.
A key element is being able to operate out of modern, flexible warehouses with easy access to transport networks, whether road, rail, sea or air, and a labour supply.
Examples of users of our space: Retailers Third party logistics companies Manufacturers Distributors 10 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2.
Urban distribution and light industrial warehouses 2 2,000-10,000 m Typical size Close proximity to cities Located on the edge of cities Proximity to major urban areas is of critical importance to many occupiers: retailers and parcel delivery companies must distribute goods efficiently to both store networks and homes and offices: businesses need premises which are easily accessible for both their customers and their employees: data centre operators need to be located close to users of the data particularly financial services to ensure the fastest possible data transfer speeds: and air cargo companies must be located close to major airports.
Our urban distribution and light industrial warehouses located on the edge of major cities in Europe cater for all of these requirements.
Examples of users of our space: Retailers and supermarkets Parcel delivery and third party logistics companies Food preparation companies Data centre operators Air cargo handling companies Wholesalers 11 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
