030 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Proven management strategy to create and foster distinctive, attractive and Cr eating distinctive retail and leisure destinations which appeal prosperous both to tenants and their customers locations Ownership clusters allow us to invest in, and holistically manage, areas over the long-term Creating distinctive retail and leisure destinations Acti five refurbishment Our proven management strategy creates long-term prosperity programme to improve our by establishing and fostering distinctive and attractive destinations which appeal to visitors, occupiers and residents.
buildings, grow rents, and unlock Providing our retail, restaurant and leisure tenants with an value environment where they can prosper is essential to the longterm success of our business.
Good initial r eturns and We achieve this through: compound benefits Managing the long-term tenant mix strategy for these dominant uses, including clustering similar uses, concepts and brands Encouraging new retail, restaurant and leisure formats to Pr omoting our villages as ensure our villages respond to ever-changing tastes and destinations with a wide variety expectations Managing planning uses to maximise rental and capital values of interesting, innovative and SEE PAGES 20 TO 21 FOR MORE INFORMATION, AND WHY WE FOCUS ON RETAIL, ever-changing shopping, dining RESTAURANTS AND LEISURE and leisure choices In vesting in the public realm to create safe and welcoming areas SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PROVEN MANAGEMENT STRATEGY CONTINUED 031 Ownership clusters allow holistic long-term Promoting our villages as destinations with a management wide variety of interesting, innovative and ever-changing choices Over the years, we have identified well-located areas where the footfall potential is good but rents are initially low, often because Whilst the West End attracts large numbers of visitors, we are not they have suffered from fragmented ownership, lack of complacent.
Despite the fact that our ownerships are in the investment, and the absence of a coherent strategy for uses and heart of the West End, we do not assume people will necessarily tenant mix.
visit, and spend in, our shops, restaurants, cafs and pubs.
Therefore, we work closely with our tenants to promote their We establish ownership clusters so that we can take a long-term businesses, and our areas, to the West Ends wide domestic and holistic view in our investment and management strategies.
allows us to unlock rental and capital value potential whilst Our multi-channel marketing includes: compounding the benefits of individual transactions, such as improved tenant quality and higher rental tones, across our Widely publicised initiatives such as shopping, street food and nearby holdings.
music events Dressing our areas e. g. at Christmas and for Chinese New Year Active refurbishment programme to improve An active digital strategy, including dedicated websites for our our buildings, grow rents, and unlock value villages, and an extensive social media presence We estimate that the average age of our buildings is around 150 We build on relationships with our existing tenants who are not years.
In our experience, these buildings offer much greater only a great source of new ideas from their experiences flexibility than more modern buildings.
Conservation and listed elsewhere, but also have their own promotional and digital building legislation limits wholescale development in our areas.
strategies which bring further footfall to our villages.
However, our skill is in bringing long-term sustainability to our We invest considerable resources in promoting our areas to historic buildings and areas through an active refurbishment and potential retail, restaurant and leisure operators.
This includes reconfiguration programme which improves our buildings, active engagement with the trade press, research visits to UK and enhances their rental potential and values, and extends their international cities, and attendance at trade events.
This often involves: Maximising retail, restaurant and leisure space Investing in the public realm to create safe and Reconfiguring buildings to provide occupiers with more welcoming areas efficient trading space We identify, promote and contribute to public realm improvements Maintaining and improving buildings to ensure they are capable in our villages to ensure our streetscapes provide a safe and of meeting the needs of modern occupiers welcoming environment for tenants, their customers, and Maximising environmental performance whilst maintaining residents.
In our experience, this is an important catalyst for buildings individual characters increasing footfall.
Converting under-utilised space on upper floors to introduce SEE PAGE 43 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON IMPROVING THE PUBLIC REALM more valuable uses and bring long-term economic sustainability to buildings as a whole Typically, the duration of our numerous schemes is short and the costs are modest.
Annual capital expenditure across our portfolio is normally less than 1% of portfolio value.
SEE PAGES 42 TO 43 FOR DETAILS OF INVESTMENT IN OUR PORTFOLIO DURING THE YEAR fashion forward 032 vintage inspired
