SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT MIX OF USES CONTINUED 025 1 Carnaby Covent Garden Chinatown Carnaby Covent Garden Chinatown Current income by village Restaurants, Soho Charlotte Street Soho Charlotte Street 5% cafs and 16% 8% This included introducing nineteen new concepts in our villages, seven lease renewals and twenty three rent reviews.
EPRA restaurant 1 vacancy was 0.5% at 30 September 2015, half pubs of which was under offer.
Our share of rent reviews in the Longmartin 30% joint venture was 0.2 million.
41% SEE DEMAND AND OCCUPANCY ON PAGES 46 TO 47 Opportunities to add to, or reconfigure, our accommodation Responding to the high level of demand, we Wholly-owned Increasingly becoming a continue to identify opportunities to secure footfall driver vacant possession of restaurants which, in the Restaurants, past, had been let on long leases, providing Eating out and socialising are ever-more popular.
tenants with the right to renew at the end of the Consequently, the variety and quality of cafs, and pubs term.
This allows us to improve the configuration restaurants, cafs and pubs in the West End is of space on the lower floors, attract new increasingly becoming a footfall driver in its own operators on more beneficial terms, and often right.
With 257 wholly-owned restaurants, cafs 257 release valuable upper floors for other uses.
At and pubs, we are the largest provider of food and 30 September 2015, we had 16,000 sq.
ft. of beverage space across the core West End, owning restaurant and caf space where we were either nearly one in five of the licenced premises.
ft. making, or plan to make, improvements.
Long leases, but becoming Our recently-created restaurant quarter in Carnaby includes Kingly Street, Kingly Court and 559,000 more flexible for us, as landlord Ganton Street.
It is now widely recognised as a Tenants invest considerable sums fitting out major and exciting dining hub, attracting footfall their space, sometimes spending the equivalent from a wide catchment, including Soho, Oxford Weighted average of 3-5 years rent and, therefore, we grant Street, Regent Street and Mayfair.
It complements longer leases to provide them an extended Carnabys reputation as a retail destination.
unexpired lease term period over which to amortise this cost.
Typical Having completed our large development restaurant lease terms are: scheme fronting Fouberts Place and Kingly Historic leases approximately 70%, by rent, of 11 years Street, Carnaby, two new restaurants have our leases : 25 years, five-yearly upward-only opened, anchoring the food offer at the rent reviews and security of tenure on expiry.
northern end of Kingly Street.
Importantly, Often granted over whole buildings.
Current income almost all the frontages on Kingly Street are New leases: 15 years, five-yearly upward-only now in food and beverage use.
There is no security of tenure 34.0m on expiry and we also benefit from a We have made further improvements to Kingly Court in the year, and have introduced turnover-related rental top-up.
Leases restaurants on the second floor.
This lively extend only to operational space i. e. not destination now boasts nineteen restaurants upper floors.
and cafs, four bars and clubs and over 1,200 Longmartin covers, in an alfresco setting.
Historically high demand, Our Charing Cross Road Chinatown scheme, set Restaurants, cafs with low availability of space to commence in 2016, will create improved dining Planning policy in the West End generally seeks to space by relocating restaurant and bar uses from andpubs regulate the provision of new restaurant space, in Charing Cross Road, to provide 13,500 sq.
ft. of the interests of preserving a balance of large restaurant units, fronting Newport Place commercial uses and the amenity of local and Newport Court.
This, together with reluctance by existing operators to relinquish their valuable SEE PAGES 42 TO 43 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THESE SCHEMES sites, severely limits the supply of space.
SEE PAGES 20 TO 21 FOR WHY WE FOCUS ON RETAIL, Area sq.
RESTAURANTS AND LEISURE Tenant demand continues at historically high SEE PAGES 142 TO 143 FOR RENTAL TONES ADOPTED BY levels.
In our sought-after locations, we regularly OUR VALUERS receive numerous competitive offers for available 45,000 units and pre-letting is common.
Our areas attract interest from independent operators, established street-food concepts, start-ups Weighted average seeking their first site and existing small % restaurant groups with new ideas and creative unexpired lease term partners.
With consumers keen to experience different concepts and tastes, these operators are particularly interesting and relevant to our 15 years villages, broadening our dining and leisure offer of current and bringing both customer and social media 1 interest.
income Current income 35 We have completed lettings, renewals and rent reviews with a rental value of 7.8 million in the 1.3m year, representing 23% of our current restaurant and leisure income.
