SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 057 Looking ahead The West End continues to flourish, benefiting from the long-term growth in Londons economy, population, and visitor numbers Bank facilities Long-term fixed debt Longmartin fixed debt our 50% share Our exceptional portfolio, based in the busiest Opportunities to acquire new assets and liveliest parts of the West End, is focused on The availability of assets to acquire in our locations, and which shops, restaurants, cafs and pubs.
Extending to meet our strict criteria, continues to be constrained as owners, over 1 million sq.
ft. these uses produce 70% of understandably, remain reluctant to sell.
Although the timing of 1 additions to our portfolio is impossible to predict, over the our rental income.
They have a long record of medium term, a steady flow of purchases are important in sustained demand and rental growth, unaffected extending our ownership clusters and offering new marriage value by wider economic and property market cycles.
Having secured two acquisitions since September, we continue to appraise new opportunities.
Strong demand We continue to experience strong demand in each of our Confidence in long-term prospects locations, and across all uses.
Demand is broad-based, and we The West Ends prosperity, which is not reliant on the fortunes of are seeing retailers and restaurateurs looking to secure footholds the UK economy, underpins the long-term demand for in our carefully-curated areas ahead of Crossrail opening in 2018. accommodation.
Our holdings will continue to benefit from this This demand is producing good rental growth and high demand, as well as the substantial investment the city attracts.
We have a committed team with a forensic knowledge of the West End.
Passion for this business, and the West End, is very Intensive asset management much a part of our DNA.
We remain confident that, with our Our portfolio is highly reversionary and we continue to identify innovative and successful strategy, our exceptional portfolio will and secure opportunities to take back space, often to carry out continue to deliver growth in rental income, long-term values and improvement projects, and, through re-letting, not only to returns for shareholders.
convert the potential rent into actual income but also improve The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 68 was approved by the Board rental prospects.
Our clusters of ownerships allow the benefits of on 24 November 2015. improvements we make to be compounded across our adjacent, or nearby, holdings.
We are making good progress with our major schemes at Charing Brian Bickell Cross Road Chinatown, 57 Broadwick Street, Carnaby, and Chief Executive Thomas Neals Warehouse, Seven Dials.
Works are planned to Chris Ward commence in 2016 with a view to completion over the second Finance Director half of 2017, when we expect to see a material increase in net property income from these projects.
