066 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Viability Statement The principal risks are set out on pages 61 to 63 and the most In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 relevant potential impact of these risks on viability was revision of the Code, the Board has assessed the considered to be: prospects of the Company over a longer period A substantial and sustained decrease in visitor numbers to the than the twelve months that has in practice been West End and our villages which could result in reduced the focus of the Going Concern provision.
occupier demand, rental income and or capital values, higher The Board conducted the review for a five-year period, vacancy and declining profitability corresponding with the period covered by its current forecasts.
Regulatory changes which reduce profitability and capital These forecasts are updated quarterly and reflect the Groups values established strategy of investing in Londons West End, its existing Changing economic conditions which reduce capital values, investment commitments, available financial resources and and put pressure on loan covenants long-term financing arrangements.
They consider profits, cash The Board overlaid the potential impact of the principal risks flows, funding requirements and other key financial ratios over which could affect solvency or liquidity in severe but plausible the period, as well as the headroom in the financial covenants scenarios onto the five-year forecasts and concluded that the contained in our various loan agreements.
Important assumptions business would remain viable.
As part of this, they performed underlying the forecasts include: sensitivity analyses that flexed inputs to the forecasts including reduced income, profitability and capital values, both individually Assumption Comment and in unison, to reflect these severe but plausible scenarios.
Crystallisation of the We have a long record of Based on the results of the procedures outlined above, the portfolio reversionary crystallising the  have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be potential over the period assessed ERV of our portfolio over able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall a three-to-five year period.
63% due over the five-year period of their assessment.
of the total portfolio reversion comes from shops, restaurants, cafs and pubs, the demand for which, in our locations, is not cyclical and has demonstrated sustained growth over many years.
SEE DETAILS ON THE REVERSION ON PAGE 40 The Group had undrawn The Group maintains a prudent committed loan facilities approach to gearing, with debt at 30 September 2015 facilities which are largely fixed and totalling 150.3 million, long-term in nature.
At 30 which comfortably September, our loan-to-value exceeds the Groups ratio was 22.5%.
commitments over the The facilities which mature during assessment period.
This the period of assessment represent assumes an ability to 18.8% and 15.7%, respectively, of re-finance revolving credit our total committed debt facilities.
facilities totalling 150.0 million and 125.0 million The Board has reasonable confidence which mature in 2018 and that we shall be able to refinance 2020 respectively.
these facilities and intends to do so in advance of their contractual maturities.
SEE THE FINANCE REVIEW ON PAGE 56 067 tranquil bustle 068 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT work play SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 069 Governance Directors and officers 70 Corporate governance 72 Nomination Committee report 76 Audit Committee report 78 Remuneration report 82 Remuneration policy 84 Annual Remuneration report 92 Directors report 102 Directors responsibilities 104 Independent auditors report 105
