084 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Remuneration policy Set out below is the Groups policy on directors remuneration, which will be proposed for a binding vote at the 2016 AGM.
Ifapproved, the policy will be effective from that date.
Changes to the remuneration policy The main changes to this remuneration policy, from the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and as described in the Chairmans introductory statement, are as follows: Increase in the maximum annual bonus when taken in deferred shares to 150% of salary: Incorporation of the terms of the new 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan to include a two-year post vesting holding period: and Increase to the minimum shareholding requirement from 100% to 200% of salary.
Executive directors ELEMENT LINK WITH STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND PERFORMANCE PERIODS Salary Fixed remuneration at a level appropriate to Salaries are normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 The Committee does not specify a maximum salary or None skills, experience and complexity December.
Any increases are determined with reference to maximum salary increase of the role inflation and the salary increases for other employees, unless Further details on salary levels and any increases are provided there is a change of role or responsibility or a new director is in the Annual Remuneration Report recruited see recruitment policy Sector and other relevant market data eg against constituent companies of the FTSE 350 REIT Index may be requested from remuneration advisors as required The Committee recognises the importance of setting salaries at levels in the context of market median levels in the real estate sector, but which are not excessive in relation to the Groups particular strategy and features.
The emphasis in the Groups remuneration policies is to place greater weight on performance-based rewards within the overall remuneration package Annual bonus To incentivise performance in the reporting year Annual performance targets are set by the Committee at the Directors have the choice to take a bonus in shares or cash, in Performance is assessed against a set of key financial and through the setting of targets at the beginning of beginning of the year and are linked to the Groups strategy and full or part as follows: non-financial annual measures which may vary each year the year.
These annual targets are consistent key business objectives depending on the annual priorities of the business.
Up to 150% of salary if taken entirely in shares: with the Groups long-term strategy At the end of the financial year, the Committee evaluates Performance targets are set by the Committee.
or The opportunity to defer the bonus and take it in performance against these objectives, whilst also taking into Measures will be weighted in alignment with the Groups strategy Up to 100% of salary if taken entirely in cash shares seeks to align directors interests with account overall financial performance and future prospects.
A substantial part of the total bonus will be based those of shareholders and discourage Committee also satisfies itself that short-term targets have not on quantitative KPIs.
Further details of the measures, weightings short-term decision making been met at the expense of long-term goals and targets applicable for a given period are provided in the Within the limits of the scheme, the Committee has discretion to Annual Remuneration Report for that year adjust bonus outcomes upwards or downwards as it considers appropriate, to ensure alignment of pay with overall performance and market conditions Minimum performance required for any part of the bonus to be earned is calibrated so as to be appropriately stretching and achievable Where directors take all or part of the bonus as an award of shares in the form of a conditional award of shares or a nil-cost option, these awards vest after a minimum of three years from grant under the Companys deferred bonus plan.
No further performance conditions apply.
Awards may also, at the Committees discretion, be settled in cash Malus and clawback provisions apply to all elements of the bonus as described elsewhere in this section SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE REmuNERAtiON pOLiCy CONTINUED 085 Changes to the remuneration policy The main changes to this remuneration policy, from the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and as described in the Chairmans introductory statement, are as follows: Increase in the maximum annual bonus when taken in deferred shares to 150% of salary: Incorporation of the terms of the new 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan to include a two-year post vesting holding period: and Increase to the minimum shareholding requirement from 100% to 200% of salary.
Awards may also, at the Committees discretion, be settled in cash Malus and clawback provisions apply to all elements of the bonus as described elsewhere in this section 086 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE REmuNERAtiON pOLiCy CONTINUED Executive directors continued ELEMENT LINK WITH STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND PERFORMANCE PERIODS Ltip To incentivise and reward performance over the A new LTIP is to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2016 Maximum value 150% of salary at date of grant in normal The awards will be subject to performance targets measured long-term, aligning directors interests with AGM circumstances over a three-year period.
It is intended that these performance those of shareholders and to encourage the measures are aligned to strategic objectives and shareholder Awards may be granted in the form of nil cost options, Maximum value 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances management of the Groups business in value conditional share awards or, at the Committees discretion, be such as executive recruitment this has not been used to date accordance with its long-term strategy and settled in cash The current performance measures are: goals At the end of the performance period, performance against the TSR measured relative to a relevant index of peers: and targets is calculated, and the percentage of awards that will NAV growth vest is determined Threshold vesting is 25% of the award.
The detailed targets are Unless the Committee determines otherwise, vested awards will set out in the Annual Remuneration Report then be subject to an additional holding period before participants are entitled to receive their shares.
A holding period will normally last for two years, unless the Committee determines otherwise Malus and clawback provisions apply to the LTIP as described elsewhere in this section All employee Part of overall package for all employees, Executive directors are eligible to participate in other share The limits are as defined by HMRC from time None plans encouraging share ownership plans, which are offered on similar terms to all employees, for to time example Sharesave and SIP pension Part of overall package for executive directors Contribution paid into a personal pension plan or taken as a 25% of salary None providing comprehensive remuneration cash equivalent, reduced for any resultant tax liability borne by and retirement benefits the Group Other benefits Part of overall package for executives providing Each executive director currently receives: There is no maximum value.
Benefits are set at a level which the None comprehensive remuneration Committee determines is reasonable and appropriate car allowance The value may vary depending on service provided, cost and private medical cover market conditions life insurance permanent health insurance Other benefits may be provided if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, including, but not limited to, housing allowance and relocation allowance Notes to the table: performance measures 1.
The performance measures set by the Committee for the 3.
The Committee may amend or substitute any performance annual bonus scheme reflect Group KPIs and short-term measure applicable to an LTIP award if an event occurs that measures which are consistent with, and support, the Groups causes the Committee to determine an amended, or strategic goals of long-term growth in rental income and net substituted, measure would be more appropriate and not asset value.
The Committee may make reasonable changes to materially less difficult to satisfy.
the measures each year in order to ensure continued In addition to the above elements of remuneration, the Committee alignment with strategy.
may consider it appropriate to grant an award under a different 2.
LTIP performance measures have been selected to align the structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, interests of directors with those of shareholders.
exercising the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R. Such Performance targets are set by the Committee to be discretion would only be used in the case of recruitment of an appropriately stretching and achievable taking into account executive director for the buyout of existing incentive awards the Groups strategic priorities and the economic which would be forfeited on leaving a previous employer, in line environment in which the Group operates.
with the terms of the recruitment policy.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE REmuNERAtiON pOLiCy CONTINUED 087 Executive directors continued ELEMENT LINK WITH STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND PERFORMANCE PERIODS Ltip To incentivise and reward performance over the A new LTIP is to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2016 Maximum value 150% of salary at date of grant in normal The awards will be subject to performance targets measured long-term, aligning directors interests with AGM circumstances over a three-year period.
Benefits are set at a level which the None comprehensive remuneration Committee determines is reasonable and appropriate car allowance The value may vary depending on service provided, cost and private medical cover market conditions life insurance permanent health insurance Other benefits may be provided if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, including, but not limited to, housing allowance and relocation allowance The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the payments, and payments for loss of office including exercising individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these any discretion available to it in connection with such payments, purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is 7 February 2014 the date the Companys first directors granted remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set with section 439A of the Companies Act came into effect : ii out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that purposes, or to take account of a change in legislation without the terms of the payment were consistent with the directors obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the 088 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE REmuNERAtiON pOLiCy CONTINUED Dividend equivalents for share-based awards Malus and clawback Awards granted under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus plan and In the event of a material misstatement of the financial the LTIP may incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash statements or gross misconduct, the Committee has discretion or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid on to exercise the following malus and clawback provisions in the shares that vest in the period up to vesting or, where LTIP respect of the annual bonus and the LTIP.
The Committee may: awards are made subject to a holding period, the end of the reduce a bonus prior to payment: holding period.
This amount may be calculated assuming the reduce the vesting of a deferred share award prior to vesting: dividends were reinvested in the Companys shares on a for awards granted after March 2016, require, at any time prior cumulative basis.
to the fifth anniversary of grant, a participant to return the value of the cash bonus or deferred share awards he has received: reduce the vesting of an LTIP award prior to vesting: and or for LTIP awards granted after March 2016 require, at any time prior to the fifth anniversary of grant, a participant to return the value of the LTIP awards he has received.
Non-executive directors and Chairman PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND MAXIMUM POTENTIAL PERFORMANCE ELEMENT LINK WITH STRATEGY OPERATION VALUE PERIODS Fees and To provide Fees are normally reviewed every two years.
As with the policy for Not applicable benefits market-competitive Sector and other relevant market data eg the executive director fees constituent companies in the FTSE 350 REIT directors, the policy Index may be requested from remuneration does not specify a advisors where required maximum fee or level of increase A further fee is payable to reflect the additional time commitment required for other Board duties, such as chairing Board committees or acting as Senior Independent Director The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee and fees to non-executive directors are set by the Board No director takes part in discussions regarding their own remuneration Benefits may be provided to non-executive directors if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Board As the same remuneration policy is applied to executive directors Difference between policy for directors and and all employees, the Committee did not consult employees employees when drawing up the Groups policy.
Pay and conditions throughout the Group are taken into consideration when setting remuneration policy.
The Groups 21 employees below Board level are offered the same remuneration package elements as executive directors, though not all employees are eligible for all benefits provided to executive directors.
Individual salary levels, percentage levels of awards in the annual bonus and LTIP vary according to employees level of responsibility and their contribution to the business.
The same performance criteria, where appropriate, are applied to executive directors and other employees.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE REmuNERAtiON pOLiCy CONTINUED 089 incoming director, it would only be with replacement awards Recruitment policy structured on a comparable basis eg in terms of vesting period, Executive directors performance conditions etc.
In doing so, the Committee would A newly-appointed directors remuneration would be proposed consider relevant factors when structuring such awards, including by the Committee and approved by the Board in line with the the likelihood of those pre-existing conditions being met.
The Group offers salary, benefits, annual bonus stated on page 87, the Committee has the discretion to and awards under the LTIP.
If the Group considered it appropriate implement a one-off arrangement for the purposes of buy-out to buy out any pre-existing variable pay arrangements of an awards only, in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R. External appointment MAXIMUM ANNUAL ELEMENT APPROACH GRANT VALUE Salary The salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current salary.
Where new appointees have initial salaries set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases within three years, subject to the individuals development in the role Annual bonus In line with the limits set out in the policy table.
For executive directors joining part 150% of salary way through a year, awards would be pro-rated.
The Committee may determine different performance targets for the new recruit, to reflect the shortened period in role Ltip New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP under the limits described in 200% of salary the policy table.
The Committee may amend or alter the performance targets for the new recruit, as it considers appropriate All employee share In line with the limits as described in the policy table plans, pension and other benefits excludes compensation for variable remuneration lost on leaving a former employer internal appointment In the event of appointing a new executive director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees as detailed above.
Further detail on the policy for employees below board level is set out above.
Non-executive directors Newly appointed non-executive directors are paid fees at a level consistent with existing non-executive directors.
Fees would be paid pro-rata in their first year.
Loss of office payment Provisions for payments on termination contained in executive directors service contracts are set out below: DATE OF DATE OF CURRENT APPOINTMENT CONTRACT NOTICE PERIOD TERMINATION ARRANGEMENTS B Bickell 1.10.2011 6.6.
2011 One years notice One years salary and benefits payable in event of termination without notice.
Directors duty to mitigate loss S J Quayle 1.10.1997 8.10.1997 One years notice Termination by payment of annual salary T J C Welton 1.10.1997 8.10.1997 One years notice Termination by payment of annual salary C P A Ward 9.1.
2012 3.10.2011 One years notice One years salary and benefits payable in event of termination without notice.
Directors duty to mitigate loss Any new executive director would be appointed on the same loss The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are of office terms as Brian Bickell and Christopher Ward, namely documented in letters of appointment.
Non-executive directors twelve months salary and benefits, with a duty to mitigate loss have a one-month notice period and their appointment would on termination.
terminate without compensation if not re-elected at an AGM.
All contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
090 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE REmuNERAtiON pOLiCy CONTINUED Approach to other remuneration payments on termination of employment and change of control In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment on termination set out above, the Groups incentive plans and share schemes contain provisions for termination of employment.
COMPONENT GOOD LEAVER BAD LEAVER CHANGE OF CONTROL Annual bonus May be eligible, at the discretion of the Committee, to Outstanding award At the discretion of the receive an award based on the achievement of the forfeited Committee performance targets and reduced pro-rata for time served in the year.
Paid in cash with no uplift Deferred Awards vest on the normal vesting date unless the Will receive the lower of Awards vest at date of change of Annual Share Committee determines the award should vest the value of the original control Bonus plan following cessation of employment cash bonus before any uplift for deferral or the value of any deferred shares on the date of cessation Ltip Unvested awards will vest and vested awards will be Outstanding unvested Awards vest and are released released from any holding period at the same time awards are forfeited taking into account, in the case of as if the individual had not left the Group, unless the unvested awards, the Committee determines the award should vest and be performance conditions and, released following the cessation of employment unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the The extent to which an unvested award vests will be vesting period that has elapsed determined by the Committee, taking into account normal performance conditions, and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the vesting period the participant has served All employee In line with HMRC rules In line with HMRC rules In line with HMRC rules plans Good leaver provisions relate to termination of office or employment by reason of death, disability, injury, retirement with the agreement of the Company, the participants office or employment being with a company or business which ceases to be a member of the Group or, in other exceptional circumstances, at the discretion of the Committee including redundancy.
Bad leaver provisions apply under all other circumstances.
Alternatively, on a change of control, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards of shares in a different company.
In the event of a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the Committees opinion, would materially affect the current or future value of the Companys shares, the Committee may allow awards to vest and be released early on the same basis as for a change of control.
Alternatively, in these circumstances or in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, the Committee may adjust the number of shares subject to an award.
If a participant leaves during a holding period for any reason, his award will normally be released at the same time as if he had not left the Group, unless the Committee determines it should be released following his cessation of employment.
However, if a participant is summarily dismissed, his award will immediately lapse.
The use of any discretion described above would be disclosed in the Annual Report for the relevant year.
Consideration of shareholder views Shareholding requirements Shareholders, representing almost 55% of the Companys issued Each executive director is required to build up and maintain a share capital, have been given the opportunity to comment and minimum shareholding in the Company equivalent to two years question the Committee on the remuneration policy and the salary at date of appointment to the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee was available executive directors are expected to accumulate a fixed to discuss the policy with shareholders and governance bodies.
shareholding to this value over a period of five years from the Shareholder responses were reported to, and considered by, the date of their appointment and may include shares subject to Committee.
Shares received under the LTIP and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, net of deductions for income tax and national insurance, are required to be retained until the minimum shareholding level is attained.
There are no shareholding requirements for non-executive directors.
External appointments Executive directors are permitted to accept external appointments, with the prior approval of the Board, where there is no adverse impact on their role with the Group.
Any fees arising from such appointments may be retained by the executive director where the appointment is unrelated to the Groups business.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE REmuNERAtiON pOLiCy CONTINUED 091 Potential remuneration for directors The charts below set out the potential remuneration receivable by directors for below threshold, on-target and maximum performance.
Potential reward opportunities are based on this policy and applied to salaries as at 1 December 2015.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share price movement or dividend accrual.
B Bickell 000 2,120 LTIP 35% Annual bonus 1,211 Fixed 15% 34% 665 30% 100% 55% 31% Minimum On-target Maximum SJ Quayle and TJC Welton 000 1,500 34% 859 15% 34% 474 30% 100% 55% 32% M Mini inim mu um m O On-t n-ta ar rg get et M Ma ax xi imu mum m CPA Ward 000 1,458 35% 830 15% 34% 453 30% 100% 55% 31% Minimum On-target Maximum The minimum scenario reflects salary, pension and benefits ie fixed remuneration which are the only elements of the executive directors remuneration packages not linked to future performance.
The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus bonus payout of 75% of salary and LTIP threshold vesting at 25% of maximum award.
The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives.
It assumes a maximum bonus of 150% of salary which would be receivable fully in shares.
