020 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Mix of uses, focused on retail, restaurants and leisure Shops, restaurants, cafs and pubs generate Shops, restaurants, cafs and 1 70% of current income pubs generate 70% of current We have one million sq.
ft. of retail, restaurant and leisure space 1 income in our wholly-owned portfolio, which provides 70% of our 1 current income.
It comprises 313 shops, mainly of medium or small size, and 257 restaurants, cafs and pubs.
The choice of Careful selection of tenants interesting shopping, dining and leisure concepts in our villages gives visitors an experience unmatched by competing destinations.
new concepts and independents favoured Careful selection of tenants - new concepts and independents favoured Strong demand, restricted The careful selection of retail, restaurant and leisure tenants is fundamental to our strategy.
We favour new concepts and supply and low vacancy independent operators, to ensure our areas provide a different offer to traditional high street formats and locations.
Space provided in shell form Our tenant selection focus is mid-market, innovative and accessible: our shops are neither luxury nor value-led and our so our obsolescence costs restaurants typically are neither Michelin-starred nor low-end are limited fast food.
Strong demand, restricted supply and low Growing importance of vacancy restaurants and leisure In the West End, there is a long history of occupier demand for retail, restaurant and leisure space exceeding availability, which is often restricted by planning policies.
Upper floors generally offices As a result, rental levels for these uses, in our areas, historically and residential have not been cyclical.
Even in times of major financial uncertainty, rents for these uses have not recorded declines.
Our vacancy levels are traditionally low, averaging 3.6% for retail and 1.5% for restaurants, cafs, bars and leisure over the past ten 1,2 years.
SEE PAGES 46 TO 47 FOR INFORMATION ON CURRENT DEMAND AND VACANCY SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT MIX OF USES CONTINUED 021 Limited obsolescence risk Upper floors - a mix of offices and residential An important aspect of our retail, restaurant, caf and leisure Much of the space above our shops and restaurants consists of accommodation is that we provide it in shell form.
Tenants are offices, residential, or a mix of both.
A local working population responsible for fit-out, with no capital contribution from us.
At and a residential community are essential elements of the the end of the lease, we re-let the shell of space without incurring character and economy of our areas, bringing added life and significant refurbishment costs, limiting our obsolescence risk.
vibrancy, and providing customers for our shops, restaurants, cafs, and pubs.
Growing importance of restaurants and leisure Over recent years, in response to the growing demand for residential accommodation in our lively, central locations, we Restaurants and leisure are growing in importance, reflecting have converted many of our smaller, poorer quality offices back changing lifestyles and expectations of the huge numbers who to their original residential use.
Consequently, our income from visit, work, or reside in, the West End.
This is reflected in our offices has reduced from 28% to 17% since 2005.
At the same time, portfolio, where the contribution from these uses has grown the income contribution from residential has increased from 6% to from 27% to 35% of current income since 2005.
period, the share of our income generated from retail has decreased from 39% to 35%.
SEE PAGES 26 TO 27 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR OFFICES AND APARTMENTS SEE PAGES 24 TO 25 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON OUR SHOPS, RESTAURANTS, CAFS, AND PUBS Evolution of uses over time 1 % of current income 6 Residential 13 Offices 28 17 Restaurants, cafs and pubs 35 27 Shops 35 39 2005 2015 1 Wholly-owned portfolio 2 EPRA vacancy 022 plug in chill out 023
