SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT MIX OF USES CONTINUED 027 1 Carnaby Covent Garden Chinatown Carnaby Covent Garden Chinatown Current income by village Residential Soho Charlotte Street Soho Charlotte Street 4% 11% 20% 20% 45% Reliable and growing cash flow High occupancy levels Wholly-owned With its wide variety of attractions and lively During the year, we completed 203 lettings and atmosphere, the West End is a popular place to renewals in the wholly-owned portfolio, with a Apartments live, and we see sustained demand for our rental value totalling 5.6 million, representing reasonably-priced apartments to rent.
Our 528 45% of our current income from this use.
wholly-owned flats are mainly studios and one 528 Our share of residential letting activity in the or two bedroom apartments.
Mostly, they have Longmartin joint venture was 0.3 million.
been created from the conversion of small office accommodation, which could not be Area sq.
ft. With continuing strong demand in our adapted to meet modern occupier locations, residential vacancy levels have been requirements.
We have secured a number of low throughout the year.
At 30 September 308,000 residential conversion planning consents which 2015, we had thirteen apartments available to we could implement in the future.
let, whilst a further four were under offer.
There were two vacant apartments in the Our residential accommodation, with its high Current income Longmartin joint venture.
occupancy levels, provides a reliable and growing income stream, presently representing We have a rolling refurbishment programme to 13% of our current income.
ensure the accommodation we offer matches 12.4m the standard of new-build rental flats, which Preference to lease, rather are coming to the market in greater numbers in, and around, the West End.
At year end, we than sell, apartments were constructing, or upgrading, 46 Longmartin The value of our buildings is weighted towards apartments in the wholly-owned portfolio and the retail, restaurant and leisure uses on the four flats in the Longmartin joint venture.
We prefer to retain control over SEE DEMAND AND OCCUPANCY ON PAGES 46 TO 47 whole buildings to avoid compromising the management flexibility needed to realise the 75 long-term potential in those valuable lower floors.
Therefore, we choose not to sell our apartments, where, to do so, would Area sq.
55,000 Flexible leases Our apartments, which are rented unfurnished, typically are let on three-year tenancies with Current income annual RPI rent reviews and mutual breaks on a rolling two-month basis after the first six months.
1.2m % of current 1 income 13 1 Wholly-owned portfolio 028 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT wide SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 029 narrow
