042 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Investment in our portfolio High level of activity.
Good progress has been made on our larger schemes We continue to progress a pipeline of new projects Schemes under taken during the to improve our buildings, increase income and year: 181,000 sq.
floor area in the wholly-owned Continued high level of refurbishment activity portfolio A high level of management and refurbishment activity continues across our portfolio, with schemes undertaken during the year fide velopment fronting Fouberts extending to 181,000 sq.
ft. 10.4% of floor space in the wholly- 1 owned portfolio, at a cost of 24.7 million.
With strong occupier Place and Kingly Street demand for our properties, securing vacant possession of space provides opportunities to carry out asset management initiatives completed and let above ERV to deliver growth in rental income and values.
We made 96 planning applications during the year, including those for our 1 Capital expenditure : 24.7 million Charing Cross Road Chinatown, and 57 Broadwick Street, Carnaby schemes.
SEE PAGE 31 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON HOW SCHEMES FORM AN IMPORTANT PART OF Planning consent gr anted for our OUR MANAGEMENT STRATEGY major 45,500 sq.
ft. Charing Cross Our major scheme in Carnaby, fronting Fouberts Place and Kingly Road Chinatown scheme Street, was our largest project completed in the year.
This mixed-use development, which cost 15.7 million, comprised 24,500 sq.
ft. of retail, restaurant and office space, along with Planning application made for twelve apartments.
Rents were 2.0 million above pre-scheme levels and 17.7% ahead of ERV at 30 September 2014. our scheme at 57 Broadwick Street Other larger projects underway, or completed during the year, included further improvements to Kingly Court, reconfigurations Se ven properties acquired.
of retail, restaurant and pub space, office refurbishments, residential conversions and refurbishments, and public realm Cost: 25.8m: further acquisitions improvements.
since year end SEE PAGE 47 FOR DETAILS OF SCHEMES UNDERWAY AT YEAR END 1 Wholly-owned portfolio SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTMENT IN OUR PORTFOLIO CONTINUED 043 Good progress with our important larger Investing in, and improving, the public realm schemes Investment in the public realm in and around our villages is an important catalyst for improving footfall.
Examples during the We continue to identify and progress a wide range of asset year include: management opportunities across our portfolio, and have a number of schemes at various stages from initial ideas, seeking planning Upgrading the streetscape along Upper St Martins Lane, approval, awaiting vacant possession, or under construction.
improving the entrance to St Martins Courtyard and the southern gateway to Seven Dials We are making good progress, with our important larger schemes: Resurfacing Carnaby Street and improvements to Fouberts Charing Cross Road Chinatown Place, the busiest route into Carnaby from Regent Street During the summer, we were granted planning consent to reconfigure We have also agreed to part-fund a scheme to improve our substantial retail and restaurant ownership on the eastern Wellington and Russell Streets in the Opera Quarter and boundary of Chinatown, with extensive frontages to Charing Cross discussions for improvements to Rupert Street, south of Road, Newport Court and Newport Place.
The scheme, totalling Shaftesbury Avenue, continue.
Plans are also being discussed some 45,500 sq.
ft. will create much improved space for occupiers.
with Westminster City Council to create a pedestrianised public This includes a contiguous retail frontage on Charing Cross Road square in Newport Court and improve Newport Place.
of some 330 feet, new restaurants in Newport Place and Newport Court, and a materially improved gateway into Chinatown.
As part of the infrastructure improvements connected with Crossrail, Cambridge Circus is to be improved, in 2016, to relieve pedestrian The scheme, expected to complete in mid-2017, will cost around congestion at this important and busy junction between Soho 10 million and will significantly increase net property income with Seven Dials.
We anticipate this will encourage more footfall from this property, once fully let.
Works will commence early in along Earlham Street, where we also expect to contribute to a 2016 and we have started taking back space, with a view to major public realm improvement scheme, which we are optimistic securing vacant possession by the end of 2015. will commence in 2016.
This will bring material long-term benefits to SEE PAGE 47 FOR DETAILS ON THIS SCHEMES VACANCY AT YEAR END our holdings around this important eastern gateway in to Seven Dials.
57 Broadwick Street, Carnaby We continue to identify, and encourage, further public realm We have submitted a planning application for the reconfiguration improvements across our villages.
and extension of 57 Broadwick Street, a prominent building at the eastern gateway to Carnaby from Soho.
Broadwick Street, Acquisitions already an important pedestrian route through Soho, linking We acquired seven properties during the year.
Costing 25.8 million, Carnaby and Berwick Street, is expected to benefit from the these additions to our portfolio in Soho, Charlotte Street, Covent opening of Tottenham Court Road Crossrail stations western Garden and Carnaby comprised two shops, two restaurants, two ticket hall on Dean Street, in 2018.
Other nearby schemes, cafs, a vacant pub, 4,950 sq.
ft. of office space and eight apartments.
planned or underway, will, over the next five years, bring further active retail and restaurant frontages along the street and These acquisitions, bought with an average net initial yield of 2.0%, greater footfall.
complement our existing, extensive ownerships and offer the potential for good rental and capital growth through a combination Our proposed scheme provides for: of asset management and refurbishment schemes.
Whilst we have The creation of flagship retail units, extending to 11,000 sq.
ft. longer-term asset management ambitions for these properties, in the over the lower floors: short term we have already increased the income they generate Refurbishment and extension of the remaining office space, by 20% and this will rise to approximately 40% once we have to provide 20,000 sq.
ft. of grade A accommodation: and completed and let apartments which are currently being upgraded.
ft. of residential accommodation In December 2015, we expect to complete the forward-purchase Subject to receiving consent, we expect to commence works of 6,500 sq.
ft. of new retail and restaurant space on the ground during spring 2016, with completion in phases from late 2017, and floor and basement at 19-25 Broadwick Street, Soho.
Completion at a cost currently estimated at 14 million.
In the interim, we of this purchase has been delayed by the vendor due to construction have extended the existing occupational leases to April 2016. issues.
We anticipate keen occupier interest once we have secured ownership.
Thomas Neals Warehouse, Seven Dials Having secured planning and Listed Building consents, we shall be The availability of assets to buy which meet our specific criteria reconfiguring the Thomas Neals Warehouse, to produce 21,000 continues to be limited as owners in our extremely prosperous and sq.
ft. of flagship retail space.
We expect this scheme to resilient areas, understandably, remain reluctant to sell.
The timing commence early in 2016, with completion in mid-2017.
The of acquisitions is always unpredictable.
Whilst there were no project is expected to cost 2 million.
It will also involve a loss of acquisitions in the second half of the year, since year end we have annual income, while works are carried out, of 0.8 million.
contracted to buy properties, totalling 22.1 million, which we had been investigating for some time.
