Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE DEPOSITARY STATEMENT Established in 2013, Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP is an We work with the Manager in discharging our duties, holding FCA regulated firm that works in conjunction with the Manager formal meetings with senior staff on a quarterly basis and and the Company to act as depositary.
Consisting exclusively submitting quarterly reports to the Manager and the Company, of qualified and trainee accountants and alternative specialists, which are then presented to the Board of Directors, setting out we represent net assets of US$70bn and deploy our services work performed and the corresponding findings for the period.
to 80 alternative investment funds across various jurisdictions worldwide.
Our role as depositary primarily involves oversight In the year ended 31 December 2015, our work included of the control environment of the Company, in line with UK the review of two equity and two management share issues, regulatory requirements.
eleven acquisitions, five third-party financing arrangements and four property income distributions.
Based on the work Our cash monitoring activity provides oversight of all the performed during this period, we confirm that no issues came Company held bank accounts with specific testing of bank to our attention to indicate that controls are not operating transactions triggered by share issues, property income appropriately.
distributions via dividend payments, acquisitions and thirdparty financing.
We review whether cash transactions are Rachael Lyon Head of Client Services appropriately authorised and timely.
The objective of our asset For and on behalf of Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP verification process is to perform a review of the legal title of London all properties held by the Group and shareholding of holding United Kingdom companies beneath the Company.
We test whether on an 16 March 2016 ongoing basis the Company is being operated by the Manager Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP is a limited liability partnership in line with the Companys prospectus and the internal control registered in England and Wales with registered number environment of the Manager.
This includes review of the OC388007.
Companys and its subsidiaries decision papers and minutes.
