Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL We own and manage high-quality Big Box logistics assets across the UK, using the Managers experience and expertise to assemble and grow a well diversified asset portfolio and prudently applying leverage to increase returns.
OUR OBJECTIVES OUR SOURCE OF CAPITAL QUALITY ASSETS Modern, well GROWTH IN INCOME SHAREHOLDER CAPITAL located properties Growth in rental income through rent reviews with Our Shareholders investment in the Company of importance to our in-built growth through asset management tenants DEBT FUNDING GROWTH IN ASSET VALUE Funds for investment raised through Increase in the value of bank borrowings the portfolio DIVERSIFICATION DIVESTMENT TENANT CONTENTMENT Recycling or return of capital 87% of assets built Building relationships from our non-core and since the millennium STRONG MARKET 229 MILLION EQUITY with tenants ex-growth assets with geographic Rental growth driving spread 353 MILLION DEBT progressive dividend and net of debt refinanced NAV growth raised in the year OUR GOALS An attractive total return Progressive annual dividends net asset value growth ATTRACTIVE HIGH CALIBRE DEVELOPMENT 84% BLUE CHIP ENTRY VALUES OF TENANTS Forward funded FTSE 100, 250, Pool of pre-lets fide-risk compared to S&P 500, diversified the development completed Our target DAX 302, CAC 40 covenants process investments 6.2 pence Annual dividend target for 2016 9% pa Net total return over the INVESTMENT ACTIVITY medium term Buying and selling for value SOURCE INVESTMENTS 78% OFF-MARKET ONGOING INITIATIVES Research and relationships PURCHASES FOR LEASE DRIVING YIELD Speed and certainty of AND PHYSICAL COMPRESSION TEAM execution 16.5 YEARS WAULT ENHANCEMENT AND RENTAL High calibre consistent Focused investment strategy GROWTH team delivering performance FUNDING DEVELOPMENTS PORTFOLIO ASSEMBLY Forward funding of High quality: diversified: low risk pre-let developments EXPERTISE ASSET MANAGEMENT Applying our expertise, knowledge Extensions, alterations, improvements and rent reviews STRUCTURAL and relationships to buy for value, Extending rental income period and ensuring facility CHANGE enhancing capital value works for occupier Capturing e-commerce and changes in retailing OUR EXPERTISE THE VALUE WE ADD See The Asset Management Opportunity p22-23 20 See Our Strategy and Objectives p24-25 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 The value we add The Managers relationships with developers are increasingly The starting point for value creation is our ability to source enabling us to invest in forward funded pre-let developments, investments.
This depends on the Managers extensive network through which we fund the construction of a Big Box which has of investment agency, developer and tenant contacts, built up been pre-let to a specific tenant.
For more information on this over many years.
The Manager also spends considerable time see The Opportunity in Forward Funded Development.
researching and developing relationships with asset owners, while learning of any triggers that might lead them to sell.
These Sustaining our advantage relationships allow us to source most investments off-market, As a specialist Big Box investor, we have a reputation as one of enabling us to buy at attractive prices.
Creating value can also the sub-sectors most knowledgeable, forward-thinking and be as much about the investments we do not buy.
Patience is pragmatic owners and managers.
This makes us the obvious vital and we discount numerous opportunities that do not offer choice for asset owners looking to sell Big Boxes.
The consistency value for money.
of the Managers team helps us to maintain our relationships, in a market where personnel changes are common, enabling us to The Managers expertise and market knowledge enable us to work on longer-term deals with continuity.
assess an investment opportunity rapidly and give vendors a decision promptly.
We can also complete transactions quickly, As our portfolio grows, we benefit from economies of scale, but always following thorough due diligence.
This speed and increased diversification by geography, tenant and building certainty of execution is highly attractive to vendors: the type, and a larger list of contacts, helping us to source further highest offer is not always deliverable, so price is not the only attractive investments off-market.
A larger portfolio also gives us consideration.
greater insight into market developments and more control over the evidence for rent reviews and lease renewals, as well as the We have a clear investment policy but we are also pragmatic.
potential to work up multi-asset initiatives with the same tenant.
We will buy smaller assets or assets with shorter leases, where we see an opportunity to add value for Shareholders, Delivering returns for example due to a near-term lease expiry where we believe By acquiring high-quality properties with excellent tenants and we can re-gear the lease or re-let within a short period.
Buying carefully managing our assets, we aim to deliver a robust, smaller properties reduces the risk inherent in the investment low risk and growing rental stream, which supports our target and provides building size diversity.
We buy assets directly, of paying a progressive dividend.
Our asset selection and but where possible we acquire the special purpose vehicle that management approach also adds value to our investments, owns the asset, thus reducing our acquisition costs.
allowing our Shareholders to benefit from attractive total returns.
The assets we buy are usually strategically important to our In addition, our status as a REIT helps to ensure that the value tenants.
We work with them to maximise their operational we create is not eroded for Shareholders.
For example, we are effectiveness, for example by extending buildings or adding not subject to corporation tax on profits and gains in respect mezzanine floors.
This encourages tenants to sign longer leases, of our qualifying property rental business.
We can also pay increasing the security of our revenues and increasing capital dividends that qualify as a property income distribution, which values.
Where we buy properties with the potential to add value, offers tax advantages for certain UK Shareholders.
we look to turn them into foundation assets for our portfolio through asset management.
Our intention is to hold most assets for the long term but we would consider selling if we have unlocked value and delivered the assets business plan, and we can reinvest the proceeds in a more attractive opportunity.
See Our Investment Policy p24 See The Asset Management Opportunity p22-23 21 See The Opportunity in Forward Funded Development p40-43 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT: OUR BUSINESS MODEL THE ASSET MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITY Our asset management strategy focuses on creating value throughout an assets life cycle.
When selecting assets to buy, the potential to grow income and enhance capital value through lease and physical enhancement are key considerations.
We categorise our assets into one of our three investment pillars.
In particular, 14.83% our portfolio comprise value add assets.
These are typically let to tenants with strong covenants, but offer the potential, through asset management to turn them into foundation assets.
Our tenant led approach increasing the length of our rental income and Close relationships with our tenants provide us with can increase the capital value of our investment.
market intelligence and allow us to better understand their businesses, supply chain strategy, occupational Rent reviews can provide the opportunity to open requirements and budget both now and in the future.
discussions, particularly if income is over-rented, where there is potential to agree a rent reduction or smaller rental Where a tenant occupies more than one property within increase in exchange for an extension to the lease term, our portfolio, we apply a holistic and co-ordinated approach thereby enhancing capital value.
with the potential for occupational flexibility.
Strengthening our income Apply a holistic approach where our tenant occupies more Our portfolio is 100% let, however, in the event that a tenant than one property within the portfolio, adopting a cono longer requires the property, we may be able to negotiate ordinated strategy which provides the potential for flexibility a surrender premium while simultaneously re-letting the unit in respect of their occupational property requirements.
to a new and potentially financially stronger occupier.
This can provide us with an improved investment value.
Growing our income Our portfolio offers potential for income growth from rent Growth covenant assets make up 15.02% of our portfolio reviews.
Open market rent reviews comprise 50% of our by value.
These are typically fundamentally sound assets portfolio by income, allowing us to capture the strong rental in good locations, but let to tenants we perceived were growth currently evident in the market and which we expect undervalued at the time of purchase and which have the to continue in the short to medium term.
26% is subject potential to improve their financial strength, such as young to fixed or minimum rental uplifts providing predictable e-retailers or other companies with growth prospects, increases in income.
18% have capped RPI indexed rent thereby strengthening our income.
These assets can offer reviews.
One property representing 6% is a hybrid of the value enhancement through yield compression.
Protecting value We work closely with occupational agents gathering Our regular inspections ensure that the tenant is meeting comparable market evidence from recent rental its obligations for maintaining the building in good condition transactions to cross-reference the open market rent review during the lease term and that alterations are reinstated upon knowledge held by our rent review surveyors.
We constantly monitor the financial strength of our tenants by appraising their accounts to access the 3.
Lengthening our income security of the rent receivable together with researching We typically buy assets that are strategically important to whether there have been any changes in ownership and our tenants.
Lease extensions allow our tenants to protect what impact this may have.
These procedures serve to their operations and capital investment at the site, while protect value.
22 S STR TRA ATE TE G GIC IC R REPOR EPORT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 6.
Creating value To drive operational efficiency, our tenants often look to invest significant capital expenditure via racking, automated conveying, mechanical handling systems and mezzanine levels to increase floor area capacity.
We typically acquire assets which are well configured and have low site cover in order to allow for future occupational flexibility.
A tenant may need to extend an existing building, alter the units layout or specification, add an additional unit on the same site, adjacent site or elsewhere in the UK.
Such building expansion or operational improvements can allow us to commit capital expenditure, in return for higher rent and or an extension to the lease term.
As part of our asset management strategy we also incorporate responsible business initiatives by encouraging tenants to make environmental enhancements.
Highly mechanised buildings and those with mezzanine floors can be energy hungry given the scale of heating, lighting and power requirements.
By adding roofmounted solar panels or wind turbines we can improve a propertys EPC rating as well as reduce the tenants operational costs and support their sustainability commitments.
If we are able to fund these works, this produces an additional income stream and improves the quality of the property see Responsible Business page 28.
We would consider selling an ex-growth asset if we have unlocked value and can recycle the proceeds into a more attractive opportunity or return capital to shareholders.
