Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKET We believe that the Big Box sector is currently one of the most exciting and highest performing asset classes in the UK property market.
In this section, we explain what a Big Box is and why the fundamentals of our market are so compelling.
The best of logistics Low-bay buildings are typically used for food distribution.
For Larger format industrial logistics facilities often have general merchandise non-food distribution, a tall building can characteristics not found in the rest of the sector and should allow for high racking and or mezzanine floors.
This additional be differentiated from smaller buildings.
Big Boxes are highly volume can increase efficiency and flexibility, making Big Boxes efficient distribution centres and logistics hubs, which hold very attractive to tenants not least because rents are generally finished goods for distribution to other parts of the supply chain paid on the ground floor area only, as opposed to the buildings or directly to consumers.
This large scale format did not exist volume.
in the UK before the early 1990s.
Most high-quality Big Boxes are modern facilities constructed within the past 15 years.
This To drive efficiency, occupiers increasingly invest in advanced makes Big Boxes an emerging market and we have been at the systems that allow them to stock automatically and rapidly forefront of its recent development.
The tenant will typically own the fit-out.
This capital investment in racking and automated systems within Big The Big Box format in the UK is particularly attractive for Boxes can be substantial, sometimes eclipsing the construction a number of reasons: cost of the building or value of the investment.
Such levels of commitment to a location often go hand-in-hand with either the UK has mature transport infrastructure, with excellent an initial long term lease commitment or lease extension.
This road, rail and air links, as well as numerous ports capable of can be value enhancing and so such tenant investment is highly handling the large container ships that are increasingly used attractive to landlords.
to import goods: Retail trends the rise of e-commerce the UKs relatively small size and dense population allows Big Boxes are integral to the rapid growth of e-commerce Big Box users to construct networks of regional distribution distribution.
Online retail growth has substantially outstripped centres that can cover the country efficiently and reliably.
the UKs total retail market growth for a number of years and This reduces the risk of late or missed deliveries, and also cuts is likely to be a key driver of future demand for Big Boxes see costs: and chart below.
This growth is expected to continue over the next the UK has the worlds highest internet shopping spend few years, with online sales forecast to make up around one fifth per head and is a major adopter of mobile technology, of total retail sales by 2019, a market share which suggests that an increasingly important channel for online sales.
online sales have capacity for significant long-term growth.
To respond to this online growth and to remain competitive and Operational efficiency stimulating growing occupational relevant, retailers need to have large, highly efficient distribution demand facilities that can fulfil orders quickly and accurately because Demand for Big Box assets comes from three main sources: conventional and online retailers, third-party logistics Continuing strong growth forecasted in companies 3PLs, and other companies.
UK internet sales 100 70% Big Boxes offer previously unavailable flexibility, economies 87.0 60% 65% 80.3 of scale and low cost of use.
They are often the nucleus for 80 73.7 50% distribution at a national and increasingly a regional level.
Many 67.0 60.4 companies use Big Boxes to centralise dispersed distribution 60 40% 52.7 facilities into fewer, larger facilities, helping optimise staff and 30% stock management and expand product ranges.
This allows 40 20% retailers to match store or online offerings with a full product line in a single warehouse: such an arrangement is not possible with 20 10% a collection of smaller buildings each of which would carry part 0 0% of the product line.
3PLs are also focusing on Big Box assets to 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 centralise multiple contracts, provide flexibility, and allow them Retail e-commerce sales bn Percentage of total retail sales 16 to tender more competitively.
Source: eMarketer, September 2015 Y A W R O T O M.................. Y A W R STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION O T O M... ORDERS............ Y A W... GOODS INWARDS R O T O M...... ORDERS REPLENISHMENT STORE...... GOODS INWARDS... HOME DELIVERY L Lo oc cal DC al DC........ Y A W Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 Airport Port e-commerce B2B e-retailing urban retail Rail.
17 R O T O M........ Distribution Centre Distribution Centre... GOODS INWARDS STORE REPLENISHMENT... REAL TIME ORDERING... HOME DELIVERY... ORDERS... Y A W R O... GOODS INWARDS T O M...... ORDERS.... Y A CLICK & LOCAL DEPOT......
COLLECT DELIVERY W R O T O M...... Y A W R O T O M Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 Peaks in demand are a particular STRATEGIC REPORT: challenge for online retailers.
Those OUR MARKET with the quickest, most efficient and most reliable ways of fulfilling consumer demand will be best placed to benefit as they create customer goodwill and loyalty.
customers expect ever-faster delivery, with next day and even shopping.
These stores generally have very limited storage same day delivery increasingly the norm.
Big Boxes dedicated to capacity.
Along with the rise of click-and-collect, these factors e-commerce increasingly also house the retailers data centre mean retailers need much greater control of stock and the function.
These fulfilment centres are therefore effectively timing and efficiency of deliveries to stores.
Speed and reliability acting as a quasi-retail outlet.
are crucial, which is where Big Boxes come into their own.
Pure online retailers, such as Amazon, ASOS and Ocado, Occupational supply have led the way in developing advanced facilities.
However, Building a new Big Box is relatively quick.
Once a site has traditional retailers own most of the UKs largest online detailed planning consent and is serviced with suitable operations and many are co-locating their online and offline infrastructure, a Big Box can typically take 6-12 months to operations to achieve economies of scale and ensure that construct.
Tenant fit-out can then take a further three to they can deliver efficiently and reliably to both store networks 18 months to implement, subject to the extent and complexity.
and consumers doorsteps from the same facility.
The growth in online sales means that the UK is estimated to have an Suitable land which can accommodate these Big Boxes is e-commerce warehouse space requirement of over 17 million scarce in key locations that suit the business objectives of sq ft per year to 2020, even before potential growth in demand, logistics operators usually near motorways major roads and which is nearly double that estimated for the rest of Western within reach of their target market.
This land is often situated Europe combined.
in areas which are not zoned for employment use.
The scale of Big Boxes and the extent of traffic movements they generate Growing retail demand in peak periods can present further planning challenges.
Consequently securing Changing consumer shopping habits are requiring retailers such a designation can take many years of lobbying for change to cope with surges in demand.
According to IMRG and of planning use.
As such, there is a significant supply lag of new Experian, in 2015 online orders on Black Friday were up 36% Big Box stock and developers with suitable land are currently on the previous year, to 1.1 billion.
Key shopping days before reluctant to speculatively develop buildings of over 400,000 sq Christmas 2015 also saw substantial increases in online orders, ft, preferring the pre-let, built-to-suit, route since this carries with sales on 30 November up 31% to 943 million and sales lower risk.
Consequently, the supply of Big Boxes is likely to on 7 December up 10% to 733 million.
Bank holidays are also remain constrained in the medium term.
key times for online shopping, with Christmas Day sales up 11%, Boxing Day up 22% and New Years Day 33% higher in 2015 Limited supply and strong demand mean there is now a than they were a year earlier.
shortage of Big Boxes to let and some key areas of the country currently have no new-build supply.
While there is some These peaks in demand are a particular challenge for online retailers.
Those with the quickest, most efficient and reliable The UK has the greatest e-commerce warehouse ways of fulfilling consumer demand will be best placed to space requirement in Europe sq ft benefit.
At the same time, the ability to provide a trouble-free service will protect retailers reputations from the damage The UK will require c. 17 million sq ft of additional space per year to 2020 caused by failed deliveries or long delays.
Big Boxes have a or c. 85 million sq ft in total 15k crucial role to play in supporting retailers through these peak periods.
10k Other retail trends The retail market is also developing in other ways that favour Big 5k Boxes.
Retailers want to make the most of their expensive high street store space, so they are carrying less stock and using 0 computerised sales tracking to respond rapidly to customer UK Western Turkey South East Visegrad Southern Nordics demand and spend trends.
At the same time, consumers are Ireland Europe Europe 4 Baltics Europe 18 increasingly favouring smaller convenience stores for food Source: World Bank, Colliers International, OECD, Various Annual space requirement million sq ft STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 speculative development of smaller buildings, we are not Changing investment yields aware of any properties of over 400,000 sq ft that are being The increased importance of Big Boxes to tenants has served to speculatively built, due to the difficulties described above and heighten investment demand, resulting in compressed yields in developers preferring the method with lower associated risk.
recent years, as shown in the chart below.
We have seen more tenants actively looking for built-to-suit opportunities on a pre-let basis and this is an area of increasing Historically, prime retail yields of around 4% were the norm.
opportunity for us to acquire investments.
This low yield reflected limited property fabric obsolescence and reliable rental growth from strong occupational demand.
Whilst we expect the supply of Big Boxes to respond to current Industrial property attracted yields of 6.5% or more, due to trends over time, the supply lag is considerable and these higher perceived obsolescence and abundant land supply, which dynamics mean that demand is likely to outstrip supply for some suppressed rental growth.
This creates opportunities for rising rents and increasing capital values for owners.
The relationship between retail and industrial yields has been reversing, however, with high street retail under pressure from Rising rents shopping centres and online sales, while prime logistics are The combination of strong occupier demand, current scarcity of benefiting from e-commerce sales growth, lower obsolescence suitable vacant buildings and limited new supply has produced an due to increase in size and technology, tight land supply and imbalance which is resulting in strong rental growth in most regions the cost savings delivered by scale.
As a result, prime yields in of England and around the M25 see CBRE chart below, following the two sectors are converging see graph below.
We believe similarly attractive rental growth reported by CBRE in 2014. that this change in relationship reflects a structural long-term yield repositioning.
Pre-let deals for Big Boxes are often completed at a premium to the prevailing market rent, as tenants are keen to secure Prime logistics yields have reduced from around 6.5% in January the opportunity and developers seek the benefit of growth in 2013 to 5.00% as at December 2015, compared to prime shops the period between transaction and delivery of the completed which have improved very little over the same period, from building, often around a year or so after agreeing terms.
The estimated rental value of our portfolio based on an Although yields have hardened for logistics, investors are still independent valuation by CBRE as at 31 December 2015 has able to source attractive opportunities.
In a low interest rate shown a like-for-like increase of c. 7.0% against the same assets environment, property yields remain well above the cost of debt, held at 31 December 2014. maintaining a positive yield gap.
Strong rental growth in the UK market % Prime UK investment yields: retail versus distribution % 15 8 12.5% 12 10.5% 7 9 8.1% 6 6 5.3% 4.2% 3.8% 5 3.3% 3 4 0 M25 M25 Wake eld Birmingham M1-M6 Milton M25 East North Magna Park Keynes West Source: CBRE Annual prime rental growth December 2015 Source: CBRE Prime shops Prime distribution yr lease 19 Jan 13 Apr 13 Jul 13 Oct 13 Jan 14 Apr 14 Jul 14 Oct 14 Jan 15 Apr 15 Jul 15 Oct 15
