STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT has continued to identify a pipeline of high-quality Big Box MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP assets, drawing on its market intelligence and its excellent Stephen Smith Chairman relationships with vendors, agents and developers.
These relationships allowed the Manager to source 78% of its Big Box Richard Jewson Jim Prower Mark Shaw assets off-market, thereby ensuring that the Company benefited from pricing imperfections in the market and met its growth objectives.
In the 12 month period to 30 June 2015, the Company The Management Engagement Committee met twice in the had met or exceeded all of its target investment objectives, year to 31 December 2015, to review its terms of reference, the delivering exceptional returns for Shareholders and, on this Companys relationships with its main service providers, their basis, the Management Engagement Committee concluded that performance and the terms of their appointment, and to review the Manager had performed its obligations in accordance with the Companys relationship with the Manager, the Managers the Investment Management Agreement.
The Company has performance and the terms of the Managers appointment.
continued to exceed its target investment objectives for the year ending 31 December 2015.
We have concluded, therefore, that We conducted a comprehensive review of the performance the performance of the Manager for the year 31 December 2015 of the Manager and, together with the Manager, all of the has been exceptional.
Companys corporate advisers and principal service providers.
This included an assessment of the ongoing requirement for the In addition, following an extensive review and full analysis, provision of such services, the fees paid to and the performance we agreed with the Manager that the performance of all of of such advisers and service providers and additional added the Companys current service providers for the past year value given by the Manager and the Companys service was satisfactory and in some cases exceptional and with the providers and advisers, and whether additional services were Managers recommendation that each be retained until the required.
The review was for the period ending 30 June 2015 next review.
We did not suggest any material changes to the thereby allowing the Committee to refer to figures subject to engagement terms of any of the advisers or service providers.
review from the auditor, in its assessment of performance.
Our review did not reveal any material weaknesses in the advice and support provided to the Group and we are satisfied that Under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, the Company is benefiting from added value in respect of the the Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for running services it procures.
the Company to the Manager, including sourcing of investment opportunities in line with the Companys Investment Policy, asset As part of our review, we considered the terms of the Investment management of the existing portfolio, negotiation of debt facilities Management Agreement, to ensure it continues to reflect properly within the parameters of the Companys policy on gearing and the commercial arrangements agreed between the Company and liaising with the Companys advisers on equity fundraisings.
We were satisfied that this was the case.
all of the Companys subsidiaries and therefore all of its assets are wholly owned and controlled by the Company, the Board exercises direct control in respect of the Groups holdings and Under the Investment Management Agreement, the Manager is the Manager is not required to vote on behalf of the Company.
entitled to a management fee in consideration for its services.
This is payable in cash by the Company each quarter and is calculated as a percentage of the Companys Net Asset Value To ensure open and regular communication between the NAV, disregarding cash or cash equivalents, announced Manager and the Board, the Manager is invited to attend all Board before the end of the relevant quarter.
If the Group buys or meetings to update the Board on the Companys investments sells any assets after the date at which the relevant NAV is and to discuss generally the market and the performance and calculated, the NAV is adjusted pro rata for the net purchase or strategy of the Company.
Details of the Companys performance sale price, less any third-party debt drawn or repaid.
in 2015 is set out in the Strategic Report.
The Manager 63 See Strategic Report p1-46 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE: MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT The management fee as a percentage of NAV is as set out below: cash amount, relating to the six months to 30 June 2015.
The issue price was 114.68 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to NAV RELEVANT PERCENTAGE the prevailing NAV of 116.68 pence per Ordinary Share less the Up to and including 500 million 1.0% interim dividends paid in June and August 2015 of, in aggregate, 2.0 pence per Ordinary Share.
Above 500 million and up to and 0.9% including 750 million Following these issues of Ordinary Shares, the relevant Above 750 million and up to and 0.8% members of the Manager as at the year end had the following including 1 billion beneficial interests: Above 1 billion 0.7% PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED NUMBER OF SHARES SHARE CAPITAL AS AT The management fee paid each quarter is 25% of the amount TRITAX PARTNER HELD 31 DECEMBER 2015 calculated, based on the information below.
Mark Shaw 320,094 0.05% During specified periods after publication of the Companys Colin Godfrey 248,535 0.04% annual or half year results the relevant members of the James Dunlop 248,535 0.04% Manager and or their connected parties will use 25% of the Henry Franklin 196,436 0.03% management fee net of any VAT, personal taxation liabilities and dealing costs, including stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax the net cash amount, to subscribe for Ordinary Shares in The Board has concluded that, on the basis of our assessment the Company.
The price will be equivalent to the prevailing NAV above, the continuing appointment of the Manager on the per share, adjusted for any dividend declared after the NAV per terms agreed is in the interests of the Companys Shareholders share is announced.
Where this would result in the Company as a whole.
issuing Ordinary Shares at a price below the NAV per share, the Companys broker will be instructed to acquire Ordinary Shares The Management Engagement Committee will review the in the market for those persons, to the value as near as possible continuing appointment of all of the Companys principal service equal to the net cash amount.
providers and the performance of the Manager on an annual basis and ensure they are in the best interests of Shareholders On 20 March 2015, the Company issued 175,557 Ordinary as a whole.
Shares in respect of the net cash amount, relating to the six months to 31 December 2014.
The issue price was 106.22 Stephen Smith pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to the prevailing NAV of Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee 107.02 pence per Ordinary Share less the third interim dividend 16 March 2016 of 0.8 pence per Ordinary Share.
On 21 September 2015, the Company issued 290,795 Ordinary Shares in respect of the net 64
