Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT: MANAGERS REPORT THE OPPORTUNITY IN FORWARD FUNDED DEVELOPMENT We do not undertake speculative development i. e. develop buildings without a tenant pre-let.
We do, however, forward fund development, which allows us to capture much of the benefit of development without taking on many of the risks associated with traditional speculative development projects.
Capturing value for Shareholders while mitigating development risk The Managers experience, specialist knowledge and After terms have been agreed for the purchase, we begin the key relationships: process by entering a forward funding development agreement The Manager has a long track record of funding developments, with a reputable logistics developer which is responsible for as well as acting as a developer.
This knowledge is recognised co-ordinating the entire development process this includes and valued by developers who work in the Big Box sector.
securing detailed planning consent, negotiating the terms Such experience has also given the Manager a detailed of the lease and specification of the scheme, appointing the understanding of both the structure of these investments and contractor and a team of highly experienced professionals and the physical development process, which sets it apart from subsequently overseeing the development process.
Once the legal agreements between developer, tenant and A forward funded pre-let developments main components: funder have been entered into and planning has been granted, With the current scarcity of available Big Boxes, tenants are we acquire the land on which the building is to be constructed increasingly engaging developers to design and build facilities and provide the necessary capital during the construction to meet their specific requirements.
This is creating more period.
We usually structure the arrangements such that the opportunities for knowledgeable investors in the forward funded developer pays to the Company a developers licence fee until pre-let marketplace, where quality tenants are often prepared completion.
This fee will typically equal the lease rent, meaning to commit to longer leases in return for new assets that are that the investment is fully income producing from the point at built-to-suit.
Having secured a pre-let, developers often prefer to which we purchase the land.
bring in a forward funder since this avoids the developer having to tie up valuable capital in infrastructure and construction We own the land and building as construction progresses costs when they would prefer to be deploying this capital into and make monthly payments, principally against architects new land opportunities.
Consequently, we do not make payments until the work to which they relate has been completed.
We withhold the developers profit element of the total commitment until the project has achieved practical completion, and the tenant has taken up the lease.
Pre-let forward funded development: the process during the construction phase Construction Developers licence fee contract CONTRACTOR PROJECT MONITORING DEVELOPER SURVEYOR Forward funding agreement TENANT Lease Investment price Agreement equity debt for lease 40 S STR TRA A TE TE GG IC IC R R EP E O PR O TRT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 Our Bognor Regis Big Box, let to Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd, is the first of our forward funded developments to reach practical completion.
The warehouse and distribution centre is on the Oldlands Farm Business Park and next to the new Bognor Regis Northern Relief Road.
It was constructed in 11 months and completed in September 2015.
Why undertake pre-let forward funded development?
Professional teams: The design and build is planned and overseen by highly experienced professionals including The opportunity to acquire new, high specification, engineers, architects, quantity surveyors and building surveyors institutionally attractive facilities which are designed and which all carry suitable professional indemnity insurance.
built to the latest occupational requirements.
Independent monitor: A building monitoring surveyor that The ability to influence the lease terms and therefore reports only to us and our bank s. increase the attractions of the investment if we get involved at Short construction period: Big Boxes are quick to build an early stage.
compared to other property types.
Construction typically The buildings are pre-let to quality tenants, generally among takes around nine months but the agreements will provide the strongest companies in the UK.
significant tolerance to cover any delays.
The investment can provide attractive income due to long Insurance: The building under construction is fully insured at lease lengths typically 15-30 years.
Staggered funding: We usually earn a return on our gross The Managers development experience and expertise: If the investment from land purchase, even though our full commitment developer were to become insolvent, we can typically step in is invested progressively over the construction period.
to procure completion of the development, thereby securing completion of the lease to the tenant.
Off-market: Strong, longstanding relationships with key logistic developers often enable us to source and negotiate Financial control: We retain control of the money required to such deals off-market and therefore out of competition.
complete construction and only release this to the developer in stages, principally on the basis of independent architect Attractive entry price: It is possible to acquire prime certificates.
In addition, we withhold retentions during the assets at a discount to the price of a completed and income construction process and for 12 months following practical producing logistics investment.
completion to cover snagging and any subsequent defects.
Typically, we will also hold any rent-free incentive monies Benefiting from development whilst mitigating risk: which have been granted to the tenant as part of the lease A number of factors make these developments significantly arrangements, and we also retain the developers profit which lower risk for us than speculative developments.
In particular: can be used to cover any increase in project costs or delays in achieving practical completion.
Pre-let to an appropriate tenant: The developer will already have secured a tenant, which significantly reduces our investment Tritax has established a number of key relationships with some risk and means there should be no marketing or income voids, of the most recognisable names in logistics development.
vacant rates liabilities or uncovered rent free incentives.
Those with whom we have developed buildings in the last two Reduced planning risk: We only acquire the land subject to years include: developer securing planning consent.
Income producing during construction: The developer BERICOTE typically pays us a licence fee equivalent to the rent during construction: this ensures the investment is income producing for us from the outset, supporting our Shareholder dividend.
Highly experienced contractor: The developer will engage a contractor of significant experience and financial standing that is responsible for constructing the building.
5 Big Boxes This contractor, along with significant sub-contractors under construction and consultants, will provide warranties against defective totalling 2.8 million sq ft workmanship or design: such warranties usually apply for at 41 least 10 years following practical completion.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT: MANAGERS REPORT Our forward funded developments Map location Practical Lease and tenant Acquisition date completion target length 24 20 10 Rolls-Royce October 2014 Winter 2015 10yrs l Motor Cars Ltd 22 15 Ocado May 2015 Spring 2016 30yrs l 23 20 Nice-Pak May 2015 Spring 2016 25yrs l 22 Dunelm June 2015 February 2016 10yrs l 23 Howdens October 2015 Summer 2016 30yrs l 15 24 TK Maxx September 2015 Winter 2017 20yrs l 10 Achieved practical completion 1 September 2015 Key: Foundation asset Growth covenant asset 1 Forward funded development Case study n Major port l l CASE STUDY: OCADO, ERITH A forward funded, state-of-the-art development In May 2015, the Group completed the purchase of land at Tilbury Docks and the DP World container port further to the Erith, in the London Borough of Bexley and began to forward East and central London approximately 12 miles to the West.
fund a new warehouse facility, which is pre-let to Ocado It benefits from excellent motorway connections to Greater Holdings Limited and guaranteed by Ocado Group plc.
London and the Home Counties.
The completed building will have a gross internal area of The unit is to facilitate the growth of the Ocado business by approximately 563,103 sq ft, equating to a low site cover improving the speed at which stock is picked via bespoke of c. 35%.
Construction began in May 2015, with practical mechanical handling equipment coupled with its close proximity completion of the developers base build targeted for the to Ocados core customer base in the densely populated areas spring of 2016. of London and the Home Counties of South East England.
Ocado has signed a 30-year lease, without a break.
The initial The new facility will be enormous, the biggest rent will be approximately 5.5 million per annum 9.75 per of the biggest.
Nobody else does them on sq ft, subject to five-yearly rent reviews indexed to RPI and this scale.
capped and collared at 3% and 1% per annum respectively.
During the construction phase, the Group will receive a Jon Hillary, Director of Development & Engineering, licence fee from the developer equivalent to the initial Ocado, March 2015 passing rent, providing an overall income term of c. 31 years.
The site is in a core South-East location inside the M25 Junction 1a approximately 5 miles to the South-East, with Ocados largest Big Box: 1 175 million tenant fit out Capacity for dealing with 200,000 orders 2 a week Will hold 53,000 products the average 2 supermarket holds 20,000 products Close proximity to a dense population means 35% of deliveries will be home deliveries, 2 with remaining going to regional spokes Upon full capacity expected to employ 2 3,500 people 1 The Times, January 2015, Kathryn Hopkins 42 2 B4B Economic Development, 23 March 2015, Kirsty Mcauley S STR TRA A TE TE GG IC IC R R EP E O PR O TRT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 OCADO, ERITH Acquisition price: 101.7 million Net initial yield: 5.25% GIA: 563,103 sq ft Eaves height: 10-12.75m Built: Practical completion targeted for spring 2016 Lease expiry: 30 years from practical completion On Off-market: Off-market We were looking for a logistics space and we had a lengthy list of requirements.
The Tritax Big Box team showed their in-depth understanding of our needs, underlining their expertise in the UK big box market and are delivering us a site matching our demanding requirements.
Duncan Tatton-Brown, CFO, Ocado, January 2016 43
