Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT FUND MANAGERS Q&A Fund Manager Colin Godfrey answers a range of questions posed by Shareholders during 2015. at a discount to the investment value once complete.
There are How have you performed against your investment also other cost benefits as we also only pay stamp duty land objectives in 2015?
tax on the land price, rather than the full investment value, thus We exceeded our objectives.
We have met our dividend target reducing our purchase costs.
of 6.0 pence per share, fully covered by our adjusted earnings and achieved a total return of 19.4%, one of the strongest in our sector.
As recently announced, we have increased our dividend Are you relying on capital growth to underpin your target for 2016 to 6.2 pence per share, a rise of 3.3%, in excess dividend target?
of the rate of RPI inflation from the date of our IPO in December No, dividends paid for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 2013 to 31 December 2015. fully covered by adjusted earnings.
The Company acquired 11 high-quality Big Box investments Our income is high quality and reliable, giving us confidence in 2015 for a total consideration of 580 million, further that we can continue to target an attractive and progressive diversifying the portfolio and increasing the Groups contracted dividend from rental income.
We have also structured the rental income from 36.16 million to 68.37 million up 89%.
portfolio so that we have a balanced, upward only rent review profile, to capture the occupational supply demand imbalance Despite a very competitive market for logistics investments that is driving up rents in the Big Box logistics sector, thus resulting in significant yield compression, we have maintained supporting the growth in our dividend.
an attractive purchase yield of 5.8% and increased the weighted average unexpired lease term from 13.9 to 16.5 years.
We do not, therefore, need to rely on capital growth to underpin We have also exercised strong capital discipline, standing firm our dividends.
This is important because capital profits derived on our pricing policy and turning down numerous investment from activities such as speculative development not only result opportunities.
from higher risk activities, but are more cyclical in nature and cannot be relied upon over the medium term.
What was the rationale behind the decision to Our portfolio is, however, well placed to generate capital profits increase the Companys exposure to pre-let forward through asset management activity that can be recycled to funded developments?
maintain the quality of our assets and longevity of weighted Given the imbalance between supply and demand for Big average unexpired lease term.
Box facilities, we envisaged that the forward funded route to securing pre-let developments would be a significant opportunity for the Company.
Are you concerned about the potential for rising interest rates?
We acquired five pre-let forward funded developments in 2015, The short-term answer to this question is no, as we are well with Rolls-Royce at Bognor, acquired in September 2014, the insulated with 99.95% of our drawn debt subject to hedging first to be completed, on schedule and on budget, with the tenant arrangements which co-terminate with each loan facility.
executing the lease in September 2015.
More recently, the The vast majority of this hedging has been with interest rate forward funded development let to Dunelm reached practical caps, allowing the Company to benefit from lower interest completion in February 2016, on budget, and ahead of schedule, costs while 3 month Libor rates remain low, but capping the which leaves us with 2.3 million sq ft of forward funded assets Companys exposure in the event that interest rates rise under development across four projects.
significantly and so protecting our dividend.
Due to our established relationships with developers built The longer-term answer depends upon your macroeconomic up over many years in the Big Box market, we can generally view.
To the extent that inflation and interest rates do not access these deals before they reach the market and our early uncouple, interest rate rises are likely to be the result of involvement can give us the opportunity to purchase the asset 14 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 economic growth.
This should feed through to market rental What are your longer-term growth ambitions?
growth for our assets and provide higher rental income which Our vision is to continue to grow the Company without would be expected to offset higher interest rate costs.
We compromising our dividend target, the quality of our therefore believe that our business is well positioned to counter underlying income stream and the ability to create value for the effect of longer-term interest rate rises.
Our business is eminently scalable.
Currently the portfolio comprises 25 assets, which we believe represents approximately 10% of the UK Big Box market that we would be Given the long lease profile of the portfolio, are you interested in acquiring.
Given our focused investment strategy considering longer-term debt?
and the growth in the logistics sub-sector there is capacity to Our recent debt refinance was for a term of five years with two, acquire further attractively priced assets, diversifying tenant one year extension options and we believe that the Company exposure and geographical location within our portfolio, while will be well positioned to renew this facility upon expiry, noting broadening ownership of our shares and increasing stock in particular that our lenders have demonstrated a long term liquidity.
We would also expect such growth to deliver cost commitment to UK real estate lending and the low risk, high savings for our Shareholders.
quality nature of our portfolio.
The development of the Big Box market is in its infancy, We are also exploring the potential to take on longer term debt particularly with regard to the way in which it fulfils a key role secured against some of our longer leased assets in order to in the provision of e-commerce retail sales.
Our Company has provide a balanced debt profile.
We are, however, mindful of the opportunity to influence this developing market.
Of course, the higher interest rate costs associated with longer-term debt there may come a time when we consider that there is limited and the reduced flexibility associated with a fixed rate long-term ability to generate further value from the sector and if that facility.
happens then the Company will cease to grow and consolidate its position.
Have the well reported troubles in the UK supermarket sector given you any cause for How would Brexit impact the Company?
The Company does not have a formal house view.
We are less Supermarket operators occupy a significant part of the concerned about the outcome than the event uncertainty modern UK logistics stock, so it is a development we have been is bad for investment, so the quicker we achieve certainty the watching closely.
While a number of supermarket companies better.
In the event that there is a vote for the UK to leave the now seem to be showing signs of stabilisation, we have EU the uncertainty will be extended, as the basis for withdrawal diversified away from an early core of supermarket tenanted and trade agreements are negotiated, potentially over several investments, such that by floor area this represented only 24% years.
Nonetheless, the majority of our tenants are domestically of our portfolio as at 31 December 2015.
What is important to focused and so we would expect our business to be largely us is that these companies have strong balance sheets and unaffected by Brexit.
are capable of meeting their rental obligations under their leases.
While supermarket operators have been vacating or repurposing stores and supermarkets, we are not aware of them having done so recently for their logistics facilities.
That is because each logistics facility can service a multitude of local stores and supermarkets and is therefore more integral to the structure of their business operations.
We have also sought to invest in buildings that are well located with strong potential for re-letting.
