Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES Our investment policy Our acquisition focus We follow a rigorous investment policy, targeting assets which The assets we acquire typically fall into one or more of our three offer value to our Shareholders and which usually have a geared investment pillars: yield range of approximately 5-7%.
These assets typically: Foundation The quality and sustainability of our rental are let and income producing, or are pre-let forward funded income underpins our business.
We do not invest in speculative ie unlet our core, low risk income.
They are usually let on long leases developments: to tenants with excellent covenant strength.
The buildings are commonly new or modern and in prime locations, and the have institutional-grade tenants, with sound businesses leases have regular upward-only rent reviews, often either and or good growth potential: fixed or linked to inflation indices.
are in the right strategic locations in the UK, with strong Value add These assets are typically let to tenants with transport connections and good workforce availability: strong covenants and offer the chance to grow the assets are of a size, age and specification that meet the requirements capital value or rental income, through lease engineering or of major tenants and, where possible, include expansion physical improvements to the property.
We do this using our options : asset management capabilities and understanding of tenant requirements.
These assets are usually highly re-lettable.
have  leases, with regular upward-only rent reviews and a typical unexpired lease length on purchase Growth covenants These are fundamentally sound of 12-25 years, to provide long-term and secure income flows: assets in good locations, but let to tenants we perceive and to be undervalued and who have the potential to improve their financial strength, such as young e-retailers or show evidence that the site is strategically important to other companies with growth prospects.
These assets the tenant, such as extensive investment in fitting-out the offer value enhancement through yield compression.
property or proximity to the tenants market or other key assets.
Our objectives As noted in the Chairmans Statement on page 4, we We have set clear objectives, which reflect our aim of creating amended our investment policy during the year, to remove the value for Shareholders.
In particular, we have targets for our limit on forward funded pre-let developments, increase the annual dividend and net total return dividend paid plus growth number of FTSE 350 tenants to which the Company may have in net asset values.
These targets assume we are fully invested a maximum 30% exposure from one to two, and to remove the and geared: restriction on the use of hedging to a single asset.
We achieved our 2015 target of 6.0 pence per share.
For 2016, we are targeting a total dividend of 6.2 pence per share, with the target of continued progressive dividend growth thereafter.
Our total return for 2015 of 19.4% exceeded our medium-term target of 9% pa. At the year end, our NAV was 841 million.
Subsequent to the year end and following the 200 million equity raising in February 2016, we have surpassed our original ambition of reaching 1 billion of NAV.
We have a longer-term ambition to continue to grow the Company.
This should deliver a number See Chairmans Statement p4-5 of scale-related benefits for Shareholders as well as continued See Our Business Model p20-21 diversification and risk dilution, as described in Our Business See Managers Report p32-43 24 See Responsible Business p28 Model on pages 20-21.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 Our operational strategy To help us deliver long-term and sustainable returns to our Shareholders, we focus on the following strategic areas: STRATEGIC AREA IMPLEMENTATION AND BENEFITS Management team The Manager has a team dedicated to running the Group, comprising highly Recruit and retain a knowledgeable and experienced and qualified people with a track record of success in the Big Box talented management team, committed sub-sector.
The reputation and track record of the management team in the to delivering value to Shareholders.
Big Box sub-sector has helped the Company buy 78% of its assets off market, delivering value to Shareholders.
The Managers team regularly update their expertise through continuing professional development.
During 2015, the Manager strengthened its team with the addition of a Deputy Company Secretary.
Tenants Building relationships with tenants enables us to work with them to deliver asset Develop and maintain a deep management initiatives that meet their business objectives and unlock value for understanding of the businesses that us.
Letting several properties to one tenant also creates opportunities for mutually use our space, to create long-term beneficial initiatives, for example by limiting rent increases on one property in return partnerships.
for extending the lease term on another, while still creating value enhancement to our portfolio.
In 2015, we continued to meet our tenants to discuss their business plans and completed a review of asset enhancement initiatives plus a green review to assess opportunities for environmentally beneficial initiatives such as solar panels.
Operational excellence We have a simple and transparent cost base, which largely comprises the Rigorously control costs and Management fee, the Directors fees, and accounting, audit, compliance and operational efficiencies, without regulatory fees.
This helps us to focus on efficiency and achieve one of the lowest compromising growth or reputation.
total expense ratios in our peer group.
Our success in building the portfolio, through an average of one acquisition per month since listing, also demonstrates the quality of the Managers operations and its team.
Capital risk management The Group is financed through equity and medium-term debt.
Using debt can Achieve the right risk and return increase Shareholder returns and allows us to further diversify our portfolio.
We balance of equity and debt, to finance invest the proceeds of any equity issuance before drawing down debt, to limit our our business and enhance returns.
interest expense and maximise returns on equity.
We are targeting an LTV over the medium term of 40%, which we believe is conservative given the quality and low risk nature of our investments.
The refinancing during 2015 further reduced our capital risk.
More information can be found in the Managers Report on page 32-43.
Corporate responsibility As an externally managed investment company without any employees, the Groups Strive to assume our corporate opportunities to make a significant impact in this area are minimal.
Even so, we responsibilities towards society and aim to work responsibly, by buying buildings with A, B or C Energy Performance the environment, in every part of our Certificate ratings where possible and working with tenants to help them achieve business.
More information can be found in Responsible Business 25 on page 28.
