Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT THE MANAGER The Manager provides all management and advisory services to the Company, under the Investment Management Agreement.
The FCA authorised the Manager as an AIFM on 1 July 2014.
The Manager is 100% owned by Mark Shaw, Colin Godfrey, James Dunlop and Henry Franklin.
Between them, this team of property, legal and finance professionals has more than 140 years of experience in the real estate sector.
They have a track record of creating value for their clients by procuring the right type of assets and by actively managing them.
The core management team whose details are set out below is supported by a team of other accounting, marketing, public relations, administrative and support staff.
James Dunlop BSc MRICS Colin Godfrey BSc MRICS Partner, Property Sourcing Partner, Fund Manager Colin has overall responsibility for providing investment James has overall responsibility for identifying, sourcing and management and advisory services to the Company and is the structuring investment assets for the Company.
He read Managers lead partner.
He began his career with Barclays Bank Property Valuation and Finance at City University, before before joining Conran Roche in the late 1980s.
Following this, he joining Weatherall Green & Smith now BNP Paribas Real obtained a degree in Urban Estate Management, before training Estate where, in 1991, he qualified as a chartered surveyor with Weatherall Green & Smith now BNP Paribas Real Estate.
in its Investment Development and Agency division.
In 2000, James formed SG Commercial with Colin Godfrey, After qualifying as a chartered surveyor, Colin specialised in and became a partner in the Tritax Group in 2005.
In his portfolio fund management, with particular responsibility for role with SG Commercial, James is regularly in contact with the 1 billion of assets under management of the British Gas all the leading firms of agents and is retained by foreign and Staff Pension Scheme and the property assets of the Blue domestic institutions and wealthy individuals to buy and Circle Pension Fund.
In 2000, Colin was a founding director of sell commercial property investments.
James is responsible niche investment property agent SG Commercial, along with for identifying sectors and specific properties, negotiating James Dunlop, in which capacity he worked closely with the on approved opportunities and handling the disposal of Tritax Group.
In 2004, Colin became a partner in the Tritax assets in due course.
Along with Colin, James is one of the Group and is responsible for investment selection and product Managers founding partners.
Colin is one of the Managers founding partners.
Henry Franklin BA CTA Petrina Austin BSc MRICS Partner, Structuring and Legal Partner, Asset Management and Sustainability Henry is responsible for structuring the Tritax Group funds, Petrina is responsible for strategically managing the providing general legal counsel and overseeing compliance investment portfolio, identifying and progressing value activities and product development.
He is a qualified enhancing initiatives to protect and maximise investor solicitor, who completed his articles with Ashurst LLP in returns.
She is also responsible for managing third-party 2001, specialising in taxation, mergers and acquisitions.
professionals engaged in the process of property and asset management.
Henry also qualified as a chartered tax adviser in 2004 before moving to Fladgate LLP in 2005, where he became a partner Following a degree in Estate Management from Reading in 2007.
At Fladgate LLP, Henry specialised in structuring University, Petrina joined Carter Jonas to continue her commercial property funds and advised on the formation of professional training and qualified as a chartered surveyor in funds in excess of 500 million.
Henry joined the Tritax Group 1998.
Petrina moved to King Sturge in 1999, to concentrate as a partner in 2008. on institutional portfolio management.
As a partner at Knight Frank from 2002, she was responsible for the team managing central London trophy assets.
Her remit also included development consultancy appointments, both in the UK and overseas.
Petrina joined the Tritax Group in 2007.
44 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 Bjorn Hobart MA BSc Hons MRICS Edward Plumley MBA MSc MRICS Partner, Property Assistant Fund Manager Bjorn is responsible for identifying and sourcing suitable Edward is responsible for assisting the Fund Manager investments for the Company, then financially modelling with acquisitions and disposals, transaction management, and appraising the returns, to establish their validity within debt origination, financial modelling and due diligence.
He the context of the portfolio assets.
He also manages day-tostarted his career at Knight Frank on the graduate bursary day due diligence during the acquisition process.
scheme, after completing an MSc in Estate Management at London South Bank University.
He qualified as a chartered After completing a Geography degree from the University surveyor in 2010 with Jones Lang LaSalle now JLL.
of Leeds in 2001, Bjorn started his career at Faber Maunsell now AECOM.
Having gained exposure to large scale Edwards investment career began when he joined Ereira developments, Bjorn received an MA in Property Valuation Mendoza in 2011, advising on investment and development and Law at Cass Business School, London.
He joined Tritax in May 2014, having completed his professional training at Atisreal now BNP Real Estate in an MBA with Distinction in Construction & Real Estate from London, where he qualified as a chartered surveyor in 2005. the University of Reading.
Ed has been a full member of the In 2007, Bjorn joined SG Commercial, where he advised on Investment Property Forum since 2012. large scale investment and development transactions in excess of 500 million.
During this time, Bjorn worked closely with the Tritax Group, advising on its portfolio acquisitions and disposals.
Bjorn joined the Tritax Group in 2011.
Frankie Whitehead ACA Olivia Cox Non practicing Solicitor Head of Finance Deputy Company Secretary Frankie joined Tritax in 2014 following the launch of the Olivia joined the Tritax Group in March 2015 as Deputy Company.
When reporting to the Board, he is responsible Company Secretary to the Company.
She is a nonfor the historical and strategic financial matters in relation to practising solicitor who completed her training contract the Company.
This includes interim and year end reporting, with Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP in 2003, specialising corporate compliance, budgeting forecasting, treasury in Real Estate.
She then joined Clifford Chance LLP in management and the monitoring of internal financial controls.
2007, where she continued to specialise in Real Estate Frankie also supports the Fund Manager with the Companys with a particular focus on corporate real estate and hotel capital market activity, which includes the recent equity development and management.
Prior to joining the Tritax Group, Frankie spent three years as Financial Controller at Primary Health Properties Plc PHP, a healthcare focussed REIT, which had total AUM of just under 1 billion.
He trained and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with PKF UK LLP, which subsequently merged with BDO LLP, where he acted as Assistant Manager.
Frankie has over 10 years experience working in the real estate industry.
