STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of maintaining strong Shareholders are encouraged to attend and vote at the relationships with Shareholders and the Directors place a Companys general meetings so they can discuss governance great deal of importance on communication.
The Manager, the and strategy and the Board can enhance its understanding Companys broker and the Companys joint financial adviser of Shareholders issues.
The Board makes itself available at regularly meet Shareholders and take calls from them.
The the Companys general meetings to answer any Shareholder Board also receives periodic feedback from its broker and joint questions and the Chairman makes himself available, as financial adviser on Shareholder issues.
necessary, outside of these meetings to speak to Shareholders.
The Board is currently establishing a programme of more During the year, the Manager devoted time to meeting with informal opportunities for Shareholders to meet with the existing Shareholders and prospective new investors in the UK, Directors, in particular the Chairman and senior members of the the US, and the Netherlands, in particular.
The Board has also recently appointed Jim Prower as December 2015, the Companys broker, Jefferies International the Senior Independent Director who will be an alternate point Limited Jefferies, together with Colin Godfrey, undertook a of communication for Shareholders.
The Board is contactable by specific programme of consultation with 18 of the Companys emailing the Company Secretary at bigboxcosec@tritax.
largest Shareholders, representing 53% of the share register in order to gauge their views on the Companys performance to The Company ensures that any price sensitive information is date and ascertain what, if any, concerns they had in relation to released to all Shareholders at the same time and in accordance the Companys future.
Jefferies presented a formal report to the with regulatory requirements.
The Companys Annual Report Board on the feedback received from these Shareholders, the and Interim Report are dispatched to Shareholders by mail and contents of which were discussed and noted at the December are also available to download from the Companys Website.
The feedback, which was highly positive overall, The Manager also produces a quarterly fact sheet summarising has been taken into account by the Board.
the events of the previous quarter which is available on the Companys Website.
The Manager has also hosted several Big Box site visits for existing and prospective investors during the year and will continue the initiative in 2016, with the first event having taken place in January 2016, which included a visit to the assets in Castle Donington let to Marks & Spencer and Worksop let to B&Q.
