DIRECTORS REPORT for the 52 weeks ended 26 July 2015 Directors meeting in 2014.
It is the Companys intention to renew The directors of the Company who were in office during these powers: the resolutions approving them are found in the year and up to the date of signing the financial the notice of the annual general meeting for 2015. statements are listed on page 48.
In the event of a change of control, the Company is Dividends obliged to notify its main bank lenders.
The lenders shall The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, not be obliged to fund any new borrowing requests: to pay a final dividend of 8.0p 2014: 8.0p per share, on facilities will lapse 10 days after the change of control, 26 November 2015, to those shareholders on the register if the terms on which they can continue have not been on 23 October 2015, giving a total dividend for the year agreed on.
Any borrowings, including accrued interest, of 12.0p per share.
will become immediately repayable on such lapse.
Return of capital There are no other significant agreements to which At the annual general meeting of the Company, held on the Company is party which may be subject to 13 November 2014, the Company was given authority to change-of-control provisions.
make market purchases of up to 18,432,934 of its own shares.
During the year to 26 July 2015, 3,618,827 shares There are no agreements with the Companys directors were purchased, with a nominal value of 72,377 for a or employees which provide for compensation for loss total consideration of 26.9m, including stamp duty.
of office or employment which occurs because of a This represented 2.9% of the called-up share capital.
Directors interest in contracts Statement of directors responsibilities No director has any material interest in any contractual The directors are responsible for preparing the annual agreement, other than an employment contract, report, the directors remuneration report and the subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or financial statements, in accordance with applicable law may be significant to the Company.
Takeover directive disclosures Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The Company has an authorised share capital comprising statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the 500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at 26 July 2015, directors have prepared the Company financial statements the total issued share capital comprised 122,269,948 fully in accordance with International Financial Reporting paid-up shares of 2p each.
The rights to these shares are Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
set out in the Companys articles of association.
There are Under company law, the directors must not approve the no restrictions on the transfer of these shares or their financial statements, unless they are satisfied that they attached voting rights.
give a true, fair and balanced view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company Details of significant shareholdings at year end and as at for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, 12 August 2015 are given on page 66. the directors are required to: No person holds shares with specific rights regarding n select suitable accounting policies and then control of the Company.
n make judgements and accounting estimates The Company operates an employee share incentive plan.
which are reasonable and prudent.
However, no specific rights with respect to the control of n state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the the Company are attached to these shares.
In addition, European Union have been followed, subject to any the Company operates a deferred bonus scheme, material departures disclosed and explained in the whereby, should a takeover occur, all shares held in trust financial statements.
would be transferred to the employee immediately.
n prepare the financial statements on the going-concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The Company is not aware of any agreements among Company will continue in business.
holders of securities known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or The directors are responsible for keeping adequate voting rights.
accounting records, sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and which disclose, with The Company has the power to issue and buy back shares reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the as a result of resolutions passed at the annual general Company, at any time.
The accounting records enable the ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 49 DIRECTORS REPORT directors to ensure that the financial statements and the Going concern directors remuneration report comply with the The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of Companies Act 2006 and that the Companys financial the Companys financial resources, through a review of statements comply with article 4 of the IAS regulation.
the Companys budget and medium-term financial plan, The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the including capital expenditure plans and cash flow assets of the Company and for taking reasonable forecasts: they have satisfied themselves that the steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Company will continue in operational existence for the other irregularities.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis, in preparing the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Companys financial statements.
integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Greenhouse gas GHG emissions dissemination of financial statements may differ from The table below shows the Companys annual legislation in other jurisdictions.
CO emissions 2 The directors consider that the annual report and GHG Emissions Unit Quantity accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 2015 2014 understandable and provide that information necessary Scope 1 Tonnes CO e 52,510 49,251 2 for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Scope 2 Tonnes CO e 170,048 163,930 2 business model and strategy.
Tonnes CO e 2 Intensity 147.0 151.3 Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed m revenue in the section headed directors, officers and advisers, confirms, to the best of his or her knowledge, that: n Conversion factors for electricity and gas are those published by the Department for Environment, Food and n the Companys financial statements, which have been Rural Affairs.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial n Reported data is in respect of the year ended position and profit of the Company.
31 March 2015, to align with the period under which carbon emissions are reported.
n the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the n Scope 1 emissions result from the combustion of gas: position of the Company, together with a description of scope 2 emissions result from the purchase of electricity.
the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
n Refrigerant emissions from our pubs are not reported, n so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant as they are immaterial.
audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Overseas branches The Company has an overseas branch in the Republic n he or she has taken all steps which he or she ought of Ireland.
to have taken as a director, in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and Events after the reporting period to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of The details of events after the reporting period can be that information.
Directors indemnities By order of the board As permitted by the Articles of Association, the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third-party indemnity provision, as defined by section 234 Nigel Connor of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity was in force Company Secretary throughout the last financial year and is currently in force.
10 September 2015 The Company also purchased and maintained, throughout the financial year, directors and officers liability insurance, in respect of itself and its directors.
