DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND ADVISERS Tim Martin Chairman, aged 60 Registered office Wetherspoon House Founded the business in 1979, having previously studied law at Nottingham University and Central Park qualified as a barrister.
Reeds Crescent John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 50 Watford WD24 4QL Joined in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University and previously worked with Allied Domecq.
Company number Ben Whitley Interim Finance Director, aged 37 1709784 Joined in 1999 after graduating from the University of Durham.
Appointed as interim finance director in December 2014.
Previous roles for Wetherspoon include retail auditor, Registrars cash control manager and financial controller.
Qualified as a chartered management Computershare Investor Services plc accountant in 2012.
PO Box 82 The Pavilions Su Cacioppo Personnel and Legal Director, aged 48 Bridgwater Road Joined in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 2008.
She is a graduate of South Bank Bristol University and London Guildhall University and previously worked for Courage Limited and BS99 6ZY Allied Leisure.
She worked in several operational roles in the Company, before being appointed as Independent auditors personnel director in 1999 and personnel and legal director in 2006.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Nigel Connor Company Secretary and Head of Legal, aged 46 Auditors Joined the Company in June 2009 as head of licensing and was subsequently appointed 1 Embankment Place head of legal.
He previously acted on the Companys behalf for several years while working London in private practice for McLellans Solicitors and latterly Jeffrey Green Russell Solicitors, in WC2N 6RH London.
Nigel is a graduate of Newcastle University and qualified as a solicitor in 1997.
Solicitors Elizabeth McMeikan Senior Independent Director, aged 53 Macfarlanes LLP Appointed to the board in 2005 and is a member of the audit, remuneration and 20 Cursitor Street nomination committees.
She is a graduate of Cambridge University.
She is a non-executive London director of UNITE plc, Flybe plc and chairs the Moat Housing Association.
She also sits on EC4A 1LT the board of two privately owned companies.
Elizabeth previously worked for Tesco plc for 12 years, in a wide variety of commercial and Bankers operational roles, both in the UK and overseas.
Abbey National Treasury Services plc Allied Irish Banks Debra van Gene Non-Executive Director, aged 60 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Appointed to the board in 2006 and is the remuneration committee chair and a member Barclays Bank plc of the audit and nomination committees.
BNP Paribas Debra is also a Lay Commissioner with the Judicial Appointments Commission.
She Crdit Industriel et Commercial previously held senior board positions in privately held communications companies, before HSBC Bank plc joining the executive search industry.
She was a partner at Heidrick and Struggles Inc and Lloyds Bank plc ran her own executive search firm.
She is a graduate of Oxford University.
Mediobanca International Luxembourg SA Svenska Handelsbanken AB Sir Richard Beckett Non-Executive Director, aged 71 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Appointed to the board in 2009 and is the nomination committees chair and a member of the audit and remuneration committees.
He was called to the bar in 1965 and took silk in Financial advisers 1987.
He was one of the pre-eminent practitioners in regulatory and licensing matters.
Investec Bank plc Mark Reckitt Non-Executive Director, aged 57 Stockbrokers Appointed to the board in May 2012 and is the audit committees chair and a member of Investec Bank plc the remuneration and nomination committees.
He is a non-executive director of Cranswick plc and Mitie Group plc.
He was group strategy director at Smiths Group plc from February 2011 to April 2014.
Before joining Smiths, he was chief strategy officer at Cadbury plc, during 20042010, and held a range of strategy and finance roles at Cadbury since joining in 1989, including UK finance director.
Before joining Cadbury, he spent six years in investment banking and retailing, after qualifying as a chartered accountant in 1983.
Management board The management board comprises John Hutson, Su Cacioppo, Ben Whitley and the following: David Capstick IT and Property Director, aged 54 Joined in 1998 and is a graduate of the University of Surrey.
He previously worked for Allied Domecq, as well as working in other areas of the hospitality industry, such as hotels and outside catering companies.
He was appointed to the management board in 2003.
Martin Geoghegan Operations Director, aged 46 Joined in May 1994, having previously worked for Safeway plc.
He worked in several operational roles, before being appointed as operations director in 2004.
Miles Slade Deputy Operations Director, aged 34 Joined in December 2000 as a bar associate.
He worked in several pub and operational roles, before being appointed as deputy operations director in January 2012.
