STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Employee diversity The Companys strategy is to acquire freehold and The table below shows the breakdown of directors, leasehold buildings and to obtain the necessary senior managers and employees.
permissions to convert them into Wetherspoon pubs.
The buildings are normally in or near town centres or in Male Female suburban locations.
Our aim is to increase like-for-like Directors 53 sales, profits and earnings per share.
Senior managers 809 527 Our strategy is to seek a return on capital in excess of the All employees 17,865 18,621 cost of the capital which will provide profit for new pub developments, dividends and funds for reinvestment in the existing business.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company In the course of normal business, the Company Business model continually assesses significant risks faced and takes Wetherspoon owns and operates pubs throughout the action to mitigate their potential impact.
UK and aims to sell high-quality products, at reasonable prices, in attractive and well-maintained premises.
The The following risks, while not intended to be a Company aims to make lots of small improvements to its comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of the pubs, once they are open, so that sales and profit are board the principal risks and uncertainties currently maintained or improved.
facing the Company: The Company aims to recruit and retain a high standard Strategic risks of employee, partly by allocating a considerable percentage of profit as bonuses to pub employees and Economic outlook partly through a number of training programmes which The Company aims to improve its customer offering help to achieve these objectives.
continually, so that it remains competitively placed in the market in which it operates.
Adverse economic conditions Business review and future trends can theoretically have an effect on the Companys A review of the Companys business and the key performance, although, historically, these effects have measures of its performance, sometimes called key been muted.
performance indicators KPIs, can be found in the chairmans statement under the financial performance Regulation of the sale of alcohol section.
The chairmans statement also discusses trends The pub business is highly regulated, with frequent and factors likely to affect the future development, increases in alcohol duty and other taxes a feature of performance and position of the Company.
the industry for many decades.
Environment and human rights Commercial risks As regards human rights, our policy is to observe a wide range of legislation, designed to encourage and promote Cost increases equal opportunities and protect human rights.
Inflationary pressures on the Companys costs pose a risk Wetherspoons main contribution in this area relates to to profits, although the Company has been able to creating jobs for large numbers of people, paying a achieve satisfactory arrangements with its suppliers, up reasonable percentage of its profits as bonus for those until now, in both good and difficult economic conditions.
working in our pubs and head office, training large numbers of staff and paying a significant percentage of Operational risks our sales as taxes to the government.
All of these factors help to create income for employees and the Health and safety government, contributing directly and indirectly to the The Company endeavours to ensure that all reasonable promotion of human rights.
standards of health and safety are met, by trying to identify risks and taking action to avert problems.
Further information about the Companys environmental, employee and social policies is published on the Supply chain risks Companys website: www.
co. uk It is fundamental to our operations that we should be able to supply our pubs with the required goods and services.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 41 STRATEGIC REPORT We work closely with our suppliers and central valuation of the interest-rate swaps into which the distribution partners, in order to maintain availability of Company has entered, calculated by a 1% shift of the products, at all times.
The Company considers that a 1% movement in interest rates represents a reasonable Head office and national distribution centre sensitivity to potential changes.
However, this analysis is Any disasters at the Companys head office in Watford for illustrative purposes only.
or its national distribution centre in Daventry could seriously disrupt its daily operations.
Various measures Credit risk have been undertaken by the Company, including a The Company does not have a significant concentration comprehensive disaster-recovery plan, seeking to minimise of credit risk, as the majority of its revenue is in cash.
the impact of any such incidents.
At the balance sheet date, the Company was exposed Information technology to a maximum credit risk of 1.3m, of which The Companys daily operations are increasingly reliant on 0.2m was overdue.
Any prolonged or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk to Cash deposits with financial institutions and derivative trading.
The Company seeks to minimise this risk by transactions are permitted with investment-grade ensuring that there are policies and procedures to ensure financial institutions only.
protection of hardware, software and information by various means, including a disaster-recovery plan, a The Company receives a small amount of income from system of backups and external hardware and software.
properties which it has sublet to third parties, but the sums involved from any one letting are immaterial.
Reputational risk Liquidity risk The Company is aware that, in operating in a consumerThe Company regularly monitors cash flow forecasts facing business, its business reputation, built over many and endeavours to ensure that there are enough funds, years, can be damaged in a significantly shorter including committed bank and finance lease facilities, timeframe.
The Company, therefore, in its daily business, to meet its business requirements and comply with maintains substantial efforts in this area to improve banking covenants.
The risks in this area relate to miscalculating cash flow Financial risks requirements, being unable to renew credit facilities or a substantial fall in sales and profits.
Capital risk management The Company aims to maintain reasonable levels of Foreign currency capital and debt.
Foreign exchange exposure is currently not significant to the Company.
The Company monitors the growth and risks Debt always involves risk, although the Company has associated with its overseas operations and will undertake always been able to fulfil its obligations under its loan hedging activities as and when they are required.
Sales, profitability, debt requirements and cash flow are reviewed weekly by a team which includes the chairman, chief executive, finance director and By order of the board senior finance managers.
Nigel Connor Interest-rate risk Company Secretary The Company has dealt with the risks of an increase in 10 September 2015 interest rates by swapping the majority of its floating-rate borrowings into fixed rates which expire in 2023 see note 23.
During the 52 weeks ended 26 July 2015, if the interest rates on UK-denominated borrowings had been 1% higher, with all other variables constant, pre-tax profit for the year would have been reduced by 2,471,000 and equity increased by 27,039,000.
The movement in equity arises from a change in the mark to market 42 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
