OUR STRATEGY Growth through performance Right market London is growing and changing Maximising the value of our London-based property portfolio and its wider opportunities Right for repositioning and redevelopment.
market London is growing and changing Priorities in 2014 15 Right Right brand properties Make planning applications for four Increasing Creating further schemes.
recognition modern Sell or appoint development partners WORKSPACE and growth for newly consented schemes.
UNDERSTANDS reputation environments WORK SPACE Right Right Performance in 2014 15 customers people New and Planning consent for mixed-use developments Driving growing obtained at Arches Business Centre, Enterprise performance companies House, Hayes and Wandsworth Phase 2 The Light Bulb.
Deals agreed with development partners on Poplar Business Park, Bow Enterprise and Faircharm.
Sale of 10 industrial properties supporting the repositioning of the Workspace portfolio.
Won Specialist Property Company of the Year 2014 at the Estates Gazette Awards and the UK Stock Market Award for Best Real Estate PLC.
This year we have aligned the articulation of our strategy to the strategic diagram above.
Priorities for 2015 16 Make planning applications for six further schemes.
Appoint development partners for newly consented schemes.
Opening of Grand Union Studios.
Key risks Adverse planning decisions.
Construction cost and programme overruns.
Downturn in the London property market.
Market trends Related information: Londons population continues to grow, resulting Business review p. 44 in increasing demand for office rental space.
Corporate Social Responsibility p. 34 24 24 W Workspac orkspace Gr e Group PL oup PLC C Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2015 15 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Right properties Right customers Creating modern growth environments New and growing companies Owning the right properties that are tailored to Understanding our customers and enhancing our customers needs and intensively managing our brand by responding to their needs.
these properties to drive occupancy and rents.
Priorities in 2014 15 Priorities in 2014 15 Focus on driving pricing and rent roll.
Roll out of ClubWorkspace at four Continue our refurbishment projects including further locations.
completion of Metal Box Factory.
Extend our telecoms and data product range.
Progress with further potential redevelopment refurbishment projects.
Continue with our targeted acquisitions programme.
Performance in 2014 15 Performance in 2014 15 Total rent roll up 19% in the year.
Club Workspace launched at ScreenWorks, Metal Box Factory and The Light Bulb opened Pill Box, Parkhall and Metal Box Factory, during the year and are both letting up ahead increasing the number of clubs to 10 locations.
Our platform of digital infrastructure and Major refurbishments of Linton House, services is now available throughout 30 of our Westminster Business Square and Cargo Works major business centres.
The platform offers are progressing well.
superior internet access and also a range of Acquisition of five complementary properties cloud services.
in strategic locations including 160 Fleet Street Joint venture with Generate Studio offering and Edinburgh House.
office design services and provision of furniture.
Like-for-like occupancy at 92.2% with continued We have upgraded and expanded our meeting strong growth of like-for-like rent per sq.
Pill Box in Bethnal Green won Best New Place to Work at the London Planning Awards.
Priorities for 2015 16 Priorities for 2015 16 Complete the major refurbishments at Continue to build provision of additional Cargo Works, Linton House and Westminster services to customers and integration of Business Square.
Continue with further refurbishment projects Extend our telecoms and data product range.
including Barley Mow and Hatton Square Programme of hosted events at all our business Business Centre.
centres to support networking opportunities Continue with our targeted acquisitions programme.
Continue to drive pricing and rent roll.
Key risks Key risks Failure to meet customer space and Failure to meet customer service expectations.
Poor performance of our suppliers.
External macroeconomic factors influence the demand for our accommodation.
Market trends Market trends More relevant properties in alignment with our Through our increased customer interaction we strategic priorities becoming available as churn have identified that customers want more than in the London property market increases.
These requirements are built into new refurbishments and developments.
W Workspac orkspace Gr e Group PL oup PLC C Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2015 15 25 25 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Right people Right brand Driving performance Increasing recognition and reputation Experienced teams with specialist skills creating Focused on developing our brand to drive a responsible culture of risk management and performance across the business.
performance, with all employees focused on the customer.
Interests aligned across the Company, as well as with investors.
Priorities in 2014 15 Priorities in 2014 15 Provide employees with interesting and Develop and enhance our social media profile.
Continue to ensure refurbishment and Increase number of training days and number redevelopment activity fits with our of employees undertaking training.
Overhaul training programme for customerContinue to invest in carbon reduction initiatives facing staff.
and encourage our customers to follow suit.
Performance in 2014 15 Performance in 2014 15 Encouraged further study, supporting 10 staff to Our social media activity generated 20% pursue professional and vocational qualifications.
Invested in technology and rolled out regular 15,000 enquiries during the year, an increase external training for all customer-facing staff of 15%.
in our properties, focused on social media, Launched the NGC Forum at the House of networking and sales.
65% increase in training days completed by Pill Box in Bethnal Green won Best New our employees 631 days in total.
Place to Work at the London Planning Awards.
24% increase in number of employees Worked with customers to reduce carbon undertaking training 146 people trained.
emissions in our buildings and invested in Regular presentations given by senior energy-reducing equipment.
management to all staff on business performance and Company achievements.
27 long service awards presented to staff for 5, 10, 15 and 20 years service.
Priorities for 2015 16 Priorities for 2015 16 Expand training and career development Cement Workspaces position as the home opportunities for employees.
to new and growing companies.
Build on the internal communications platform Develop our communications platform, including to ensure all staff are aligned in delivering social media and our website, to enhance brand Company objectives.
visibility and engagement with our customers.
Roll out next stage of training for customer-facing Launch the new Workspace website, integrating staff, to focus on people and stress management.
the customer, investor and social sites and enhancing the customer experience.
Key risks Key risks Ability to attract and retain talented and Failure to differentiate our brand.
Lose contact with our customer base.
Market trends Market trends People are increasingly looking for their Londons economic growth is being driven by employers to provide professional development our customer base of new and growing companies opportunities, as well as taking an active interest who want to engage with relevant brands that in the environmental impact their companies they trust.
make on the world around them.
26 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
