OUR BUSINESS MODEL Driving long-term value within our property portfolio Understand Reposition Right market Right Right brand properties WORKSPACE UNDERSTANDS WORK SPACE Redevelop Secure Right Right people customers Retain Refurbish Driving long-term value from our customer base Creating value for all our stakeholders: Customers Investors Our people Direct contact ensures better Sustainable operating income and Commitment to the constant understanding of customer needs, performance-led capital value development of our people allowing us to create a home for enhancement leads to dividend to ensure that we attract, them to grow.
growth and Total Shareholder Return.
motivate and retain talented and ambitious individuals.
Partners Communities Our partners build direct relationships We play a strong and responsible role with Londons new and growing in our local communities and they companies and, in turn, help us to benefit from our CSR strategy, which attract customers.
supports initiatives on education, employment and the environment.
22 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 How we drive long-term value within our How we drive long-term value from our property portfolio customer base Reposition Understand Workspace is enhancing both core operational income Daily interaction with our customers through our on-site and capital values by repositioning its property assets staff, customer engagement programmes and regular as home to new and growing companies.
Owning surveys ensure we build up the insights we need to the right properties in the right locations allows us truly understand the requirements of our existing and to attract the right customers and provide the right potential customers, anticipate the latest trends and services to retain those customers and help them grow.
We have the balance sheet to support this strategy.
We operate a system of real-time continuous In 2014 15, we acquired five properties in customer feedback, driven by our on-site business attractive locations where we are seeing strong centre managers.
In addition, we conduct customer satisfaction surveys During the year, we also realised 44m from twice a year and gather insights from research carried the disposal of ten non-core properties.
out by third parties, such as Cambridge Economic Associates, into the factors that help companies to grow and the economic impact of our customer base.
Redevelop We hold highly successful quarterly business insight As well as acquisitions, our strategy is to expand dinners, which provide the opportunity for our the footprint of the business and bring new space customers to network with Workspace management to London through redevelopment projects.
We use and fellow customers.
our expertise and knowledge to obtain mixed use planning consent and agree terms with a residential developer to undertake the redevelopment and Secure construction, including the provision of a new Marketing direct to both our potential and existing business centre at no cost or risk to Workspace.
Rather than relying on third parties, we are able to directly and clearly This year, we opened two new business centres communicate the benefits of Workspace as the home in Islington ScreenWorks and Wandsworth for new and growing companies.
These include the The Light Bulb at no cost to Workspace.
range of space on offer, with live availability showing on our website, the flexibility of leases, as well as a whole host of other services from fast and secure Refurbish internet connectivity, ClubWorkspace and meeting We also look to add value to our portfolio by rooms to diverse events taking place in our business refurbishing existing buildings, allowing us to upgrade centres every week.
the offices, communal areas and infrastructure, including our digital platform, making our buildings Our communications with potential and existing more attractive to our customers.
customers reflect the nimble nature of new and growing companies.
Our blog, which features We invested 18m of capital expenditure on customer profiles and relevant articles generated our refurbishment programme over the year 20% of referral traffic to our website, which in total and 7m on smaller upgrade works.
contributed over 50% of all customer enquiries during the year.
Retain We look after our customers as their businesses grow by providing the right environment to support that growth, as well as high-quality space in extremely attractive net.
Our on-site centre managers, technology Featuring customer profiles and articles that infrastructure and the flexible spaces we provide allow help generate enquiries.
our customers to focus on growing their businesses.
Our partnership with Excell, a leading provider of communications solutions, delivers business grade digital services, built around super-fast, resilient and secure internet connectivity matching the flexibility of the lease.
We hosted 300 events last year, including the launch of Informed Funding, the platform for connecting growing businesses to finance.
These events connect our customers to business experts and the latest business thinking, as well as to fellow customers within our properties, and help position Workspace as the home for new and growing companies.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
