Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS Risk management is an integral part of all our activities Protecting and is reflected in every decision we make.
We focus on key risks which could impact on the achievement of future returns our strategic goals and therefore on the performance of our business.
Risks are considered at every level of the business including when approving decisions, transactions and monitoring performance.
Risk management structure We have a structure in place to capture, document and manage risk in line with our size and business model.
The close working relationship between the Executive Main Board and Audit Committee Directors, senior management and other team members enhances the ability to efficiently capture, communicate and action any risk issues identified.
Executive Committee Our Risk Committee co-ordinates risk management activities throughout the Group and reports to the Development Operations Board and Audit Committee where appropriate.
CEO CFO Director Director The Risk Committee comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the Operations Director and Company Secretary, alongside certain senior managers and representatives from across the Company.
The Risk Committee engages with staff throughout the Risk Committee business and our small size helps to ensure a close relationship between each business area.
In addition, frequent visits by head office staff to our business centres help to ensure awareness and understanding Internal policy procedure and controls of any property-specific risks and issues.
Overall, we review risks in two strands: Review of key performance indicators and management reports 1.
Strategic risks Supported by management and staff These are identified, assessed and managed by the Executive Committee on behalf of the Main Board.
These risks are reviewed at Board level to ensure they are valid and relate to the current strategic direction and objectives of the Group.
Details of our strategic risks and the mitigating activities in place to reduce these risks are set out on the following pages.
The Board is satisfied that we continue to operate within our desired risk appetite.
Operational risks These are identified, assessed and managed by the Executive Committee.
These risks cover all areas of the business, such as Finance, Operations, Investment and Development.
Day-to-day operational risks are closely reviewed and managed by the Executive Committee and senior management, with information being reported to the Board and Audit Committee as appropriate.
Risk registers for all areas are maintained and risks are assessed against a defined scoring mechanism to ensure consistency.
High-rated risks identified in the registers are regularly reviewed by the Board, Audit and Executive Committees.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS CONTINUED Risk Mitigating activities and actions Financing We regularly review funding requirements for Reduced availability and cost of bank financing business plans and ensure we have a wide range of resulting in inability to meet business plans or options available for alternative sources of funding.
We have a broad range of funding relationships in place and regularly review our refinancing strategy.
We have also fixed or hedged 73% of our loan facilities so that our interest payment profile is stable.
Risk management in action: Market In November 2014 we successfully completed a Share Properties Placing raising proceeds of 96.5m to help extend and accelerate our refurbishment and acquisition plans.
Change in year This risk has reduced due to our additional fundraising in the year, which enhanced our headroom on facilities and provided cash to fund development and acquisition opportunities.
Loan to value Headroom on loan facilities 19% 140m Property valuation Market-related valuation risk is largely dependent on Value of our properties declining as a result of the external factors which we cannot influence.
However, macroeconomic environment, external market or we do the following to ensure we are aware of any internal management factors.
market changes, and are generating the maximum value from our portfolio: Monitor the investment market mood.
Monitor market yields and pricing of property transactions across the London market.
Alternative use opportunities pursued across the portfolio and progress made in achieving Market planning consent for mixed-use development.
Properties Change in year ScreenWorks Islington Thanks to the action taken to strengthen our balance sheet through the Share Placing and by ensuring that all our borrowings are unsecured, we currently have high levels of headroom on our facilities, protecting us from any adverse changes in the market.
28 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Risk Mitigating activities and actions Customer Every week the Executive Committee meet with Demand by businesses for our space within our Senior Management to monitor occupancy levels, properties declining as a result of social, economic pricing, demand levels and reasons for customers or competitive factors.
This ensures we react quickly to changes in any of these indicators.
Our extensive marketing programme ensures that we are in control of our own leads and pipeline of deals to business centres.
Our use of social media, backed up by a busy events programme, has further helped us to engage with customers, differentiating us as Market providing not only space but also an opportunity to Properties network with other businesses based in our portfolio.
Customers People Change in year Brand Like-for-like occupancy 92.2% 91.4% March 2014 Development For every development scheme we work hard to gain Impact on underlying income and capital a thorough understanding of the planning environment growth due to: and ensure we seek counsel from appropriate advisers.
Construction cost and timing overrun.
We undertake a detailed development analysis and Lack of demand for developments.
appraisal prior to commencing a development scheme.
Investment Committee approval and sign-off is required for every project.
Every month, a detailed review of progress against plans is presented to the Board, including post-project completion reviews.
Market Change in year Properties Customers Brand London We regularly monitor the London economy and Changes in the political, infrastructure and commission research reports.
We also hold regular environmental dynamics of London.
meetings with the GLA and the councils in the London boroughs in which we operate to ensure were aware of any changes coming through ahead of time.
Change in year Market Customers Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 17 49 58 PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS CONTINUED 83 Risk Mitigating activities and actions Investment Regular monitoring of asset performance and Underperformance due to: positioning of our portfo44 lio.
Thorough due diligence and detailed appraisals 7 29 Failure to achieve expected returns.
undertaken on all acquisitions prior to purchase.
Close monitoring of acquisition performance against ISLINGTON target returns.
71 Risk management in action: Detailed review undertaken and due consideration 68 given to the decision to dispose of a portfolio of 10 Market properties in October 2014.
These disposals were in 43 Properties line with our strategy of repositioning our portfolio Customers and brand to meet our strategic goals.
Brand 76 50 72 We have acquired five properties in the year, helping 11 KINGS to deliver against our strategic objectives.
Each of CROSS SHOREDITCH the acquisitions was reviewed and analysed in detail 160 Fleet Street prior to exchange so that any potential risks were 51 80 14 New acquisition taken into account.
21 18 BETHNAL 55 27 84 GREEN 56 12 31 OLD 23 Change in year STRATFORD 28 1 STREET 19 69 22 60 FARRINGDON 39 32 54 PADDINGTON 9 85 59 36 160 Although the level of investment activity ha 10 s increased 87 33 34 24 WEST 64 Fleet in the last year, we have maintained the level of risk as END Street we ensure that each acquisition or disposal is aligned 30 THE to our strategic goals and that appropriate approval CITY 2 47 and due diligence is undertaken for each transaction.
61 13 38 52 45 CANARY LONDON WHARF BRIDGE 46 WATERLOO 77 5 78 VICTORIA 16 73 74 EARLS COURT 70 6 25 Reputational Due diligence is undertaken on all potential new Joint ventures or other partnerships with third business ventures.
86 parties do not deliver the expected return.
KENNINGTON Business plans for any JV partners are reviewed regularly, as are the performance and progress of 41 the joint ventures.
75 37 Risk management in action: BATTERSEA We have a number of joint venture or investment 82 activities underway, including with office interior Customers design company, Generate Studio, for which we 81 Brand assess and consider risks and rewards at inception.
We monitor the performance of each at Executive level on a monthly basis to ensure they continue 53 to deliver against their plans and budgets.
79 Change in year 67 88 30 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 35 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Risk Mitigating activities and actions Regulatory REIT conditions are monitored and tested on Failure to meet regulatory requirements leading a regular basis and reported to the Board.
to fines or penalties or the introduction of new requirements that inhibit activity.
Close working relationship maintained with appropriate authorities and all relevant issues openly disclosed.
Advisers engaged to support best practice operation.
The Risk Committee provides regular updates to the Board on emerging risks and issues.
People Brand The Groups Health and Safety Manager meets regularly with the CEO.
Risk management in action: We aim to engage and inform staff on key risk areas and emerging issues.
During 2014 15, Trading Standards came into the business to present on recognising fraudulent behaviour and we held workshops on Data Protection.
In addition, we held staff training on our obligations regarding share trading and market sensitive information Change in year Data Protection workshop Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS CONTINUED Cyber security risk workshop Risk Mitigating activities and actions Business interruption Monitoring security threat target information.
Major external events result in Workspace being unable to carry out its business for Business continuity plans and procedures are in a sustained period.
place and are regularly tested and updated.
IT controls and safeguards are in place across all our systems, including a data centre back-up.
Risk management in action: During the year we focused on the potential impact of cyber security risk on the Group.
Properties A workshop was held to brainstorm areas where People we may be most at risk.
We have now developed Brand a cyber security risk action plan and are taking steps to ensure all required controls and mitigations are in place.
Change in year 32 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Risk Mitigating activities and actions Brand To ensure we understand our customers and Failure to meet customer and external their ever evolving requirements we undertake stakeholder expectations.
twice-yearly customer surveys and have a system of real-time feedback in place.
We have also recently developed a customer engagement plan to ensure we are interacting with our customers in a variety of ways, including the use of social media.
We maintain regular communication with all stakeholders, key shareholders and hold Investor Customers Day presentations and roadshows.
People Brand Risk management in action: The use of social media channels, such as Twitter, to engage with our customers and our market has proved to be very successful and helped to create business communities within our centres.
We undertake detailed monitoring of the use of these social media channels in case of any adverse information.
Change in year Customer engagement Engaging our customers using social media.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
