OUR MARKET The retail landscape 2015 was another positive year for the performance of retail real estate across Europe, driven primarily by an improving economic backdrop.
In a dynamic and evolving retail landscape, tenants continue to enhance their brand proposition by taking more space in prime retail destinations that meet consumer needs.
Chart 2 INTRODUCTION Household consumer expenditure growth % Our strategy focuses on high-quality property in prime locations across selected European retail markets.
We operate in the retail property market because it offers 15 attractive and sustainable long-term returns, with 10 lower volatility than other commercial property markets and a granular and diverse tenant mix which 5 mitigates counterparty risk.
We aim to be among the leaders in each of our market sub-sectors so as to 0 capitalise on the favourable market trends and exercise -5 scale efficiencies.
-10 ECONOMIC BACKGROUND Macroeconomic conditions drive consumer confidence -15 and spending, which translates into retailers appetite 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 for expansion and ability to finance new space.
Chart 2 United Kingdom France Ireland illustrates the relative consumer spending growth rates Source: Marketline analysis using data from Eurostat, OECD and ONS for our main geographic markets.
UK GDP growth of 2.4% for 2015 was ahead of the DEMAND FOR RETAIL REAL ESTATE Eurozone 1.5% Source: OECD.
Disposable income The continued economic recovery in Europe supported currently benefits from low interest rates, low fuel and attractive total returns from retail real estate in 2015. food costs and real wage growth.
Household consumer expenditure grew by 4.2% in 2015.
The GfK UK The UK shopping centre market saw over 4bn of consumer confidence index finished the year in positive investment 2014: 5.9bn.
With a limited number of territory suggesting 2016 will see continued spending prime shopping centres changing hands, investment growth by UK households.
transactions attracted significant competition and lifted capital valuations across this sector.
Total IPD return for French GDP growth of 1.1% in 2015 was higher than UK shopping centres was 10.0%.
last year 2014: 0.2% and unemployment was flat.
UK retail parks investment volumes were up on last year Household consumer expenditure grew by 2.0% in 2015. at 3.6bn 2014: 2.7bn.
There were signs of a divergence The government initiated changes to allow more Sunday in performance across different types of retail parks with trading, which should help future sales growth.
While fashion parks delivering better returns and some forward-looking consumer confidence finished 2015 supermarket-anchored parks seeing values fall see page higher Source: INSEE, the medium-term impact of the 16 for market sub-segments.
Total IPD return for the destabilising terrorist attacks in France is still uncertain.
whole UK retail parks sector was 6.9%.
Ireland attracts significant inward investment due to a low corporate tax rate and skilled workforce.
It is French shopping centre transaction volumes were 3.9bn Europes fastest growing economy with GDP up 5.6% 2014: 5.8bn.
Investor appetite was strong, in particular in 2015, household consumer expenditure up by 8.6% with low European interest rates, and this drove capital and sharply falling unemployment.
New car sales were value uplifts.
Total IPD returns are not yet available for up 18% in 2015 indicating households confidence in French shopping centres.
Irish retail transactions were 0.5bn 2014: 1.1bn and Despite some macroeconomic shocks in 2015, the retail property delivered a total IPD return of 20.9%, number of international tourists to Europe grew, partly driven by strong rental and capital growth.
as a result of the weakness of the Euro currency, An influx of capital into the premium outlets market from supporting the continued structural growth of the international funds and private equity firms contributed global tourism industry.
to a 15% rise in the volume of transactions total c. 600m.
The strong demand, and a lack of new supply, drove a sharp increase in valuations.
Total property returns were approximately 20% source: Cushman and Wakefield.
1 14 4 HAMMERSON PL HAMMERSON PLC ANNU C ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 201 15 5 STRATEGIC REPORT S OUR MARKET TRATEGIC REPORT C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION CONSUMER TRENDS Our assets are in the sub-sectors of prime shopping centres, retail parks and premium outlets.
We believe that these categories are best positioned to match the latest trends in shopping habits of consumers.
In a dynamic and evolving retail landscape, we see an opportunity to outperform our competitors by selecting retail assets in these categories.
Table 3 Driving demand for space in: Shopping Retail Premium Retail theme centres parks outlets Brand flagships As a growing share of consumers purchases are made online, a retailers physical space needs P P to offer the boldest brand experience to drive shopper loyalty Catering Restaurant operators recognise the opportunity afforded by a high footfall environment P P P Convenience 63% of consumers named convenience as an important factor driving their purchase decision P P in our survey by Conlumino.
Retail needs to offer quick, efficient and seamless service Global shopping-tourism Shopping is increasingly enjoyed by international tourists as part of a global luxury P P travel experience We have selected retail assets HOW DOES THE GROWTH OF ONLINE SHOPPING that match the latest trends IMPACT RETAILERS DEMAND FOR PHYSICAL SPACE?
driving demand for space in a To help us better understand the topic, we carried out research with the Investment Property Federation, CBRE and Conlumino.
Our survey found that 86% of customers use at least two channels when shopping eg both physical stores and online.
The physical store channel was identified as being important for more than just making a transaction.
Shoppers use the physical space to research products, trial and compare different brands and for transaction fulfilment eg click & collect.
In fact, despite the growing share of sales completed online, nine out of ten shopper journeys still involve a physical store for at least one step of the process.
Click & collect is a growing trend and over half of customers said they would use the service if it was offered.
For click & collect customers, the store offers a fulfilment solution, however a Verdict report found Cabot Circus, Bristol that 32% of customers went on to make additional purchases in store when collecting a click & collect package.
Retailers also recognise the role a physical store plays in creating Shoppers using at least two channels brand awareness and loyalty.
Our research showed that sales online increased in the stores catchment area by 5-6% when a new fashion 86% store opened.
Overall, our findings suggest that retailers with a successful Shoppers spending more in store when using multichannel strategy are able to drive greater sales efficiency from click & collect their physical retail space.
See page 23 for details of our click & collect initiatives.
C. COM OM 15 15 Our market continued The rents achievable at shopping centres are driven by OCCUPIER MARKETS their size, location, demographic catchment and local PRIME SHOPPING CENTRES competition.
High tenant demand and low vacancy Prime shopping centres are those which cover a drives growth in ERV estimated rental value.
In sizeable catchment, include large anchor stores and France, rental growth is driven by new lettings and offer consumers catering and entertainment as well in-place leases are also linked to a price inflation index.
With the emergence of multichannel distribution, retailers are re-evaluating the size and efficiency of their physical store footprint.
As a result, there is a polarisation in demand for space, with retailers prioritising stores in prime shopping centres and reducing space in secondary centres and high street locations.
Prime shopping centres are more likely to deliver higher footfall and dwell time given the range of leading brands, food, beverage and leisure offering, digital infrastructure and attractive surroundings.
With ownership stakes in 15 of the top shopping centres Brent Cross, London as designated by Property Market Analysis PMA, 2 and a total of 1.7 million m of retail and leisure space, RETAIL PARKS we are a leading European shopping centre owner and one of the top three in both the UK and France see Retail parks are predominantly situated in out of town Charts 4 and 5.
We have over 700 different retail and locations, which are easily accessible by car and are leisure brands across our shopping centres and 14% of well-connected to major road networks with plentiful our space is let to catering and leisure tenants.
Units are on average larger and rents are lower per square metre than in shopping centres.
Chart 4 We are the second largest direct owner of retail parks Largest owners of top 50 UK shopping centres 2 in the UK with 500,000m across 21 assets.
The total 2 Total UK space 18.1 million m 2 UK market comprises 11 million m and ownership 14 is fragmented.
As Chart 6 below shows, the retail park market is 10 categorised into five sub-segments.
We are primarily 6 focused on three of the sub-segments, being shopping 4 parks, hybrid parks and key homeware parks.
We 3 3 3 3 2 2 choose to operate in these segments because they offer the strongest occupational demand.
0 In hybrid and key homeware parks, improved economic conditions and greater consumer confidence across the regions in the UK are driving strong demand from homeware and furnishings brands.
Retailers such as ScS, Oak Furniture Land and Tapi have all been Source: PMA expanding their portfolios.
These retailers have also Note: Number of centres including JVs been absorbing space from DIY retailers such as B&Q Chart 5 and Homebase who are reducing their store numbers.
Largest owners of top 50 French shopping 2 There is also a growing trend for fashion retailers, which centres Total French space 17.6 million m traditionally locate in shopping centres, to take space 14 15 13 12 Chart 6 9 UK retail park market Hammerson retail park portfolio 5 5 6 4 4 3 3 2 2 3 Shopping park 0 Hybrid park Key homeware goods Standard homeware Solus Source: PMA Shopping park Source: Hammerson: PMA Note: Number of centres including JVs Hybrid park Key homeware goods Standard homeware Solus 1 16 6 HAMMERSON PL HAMMERSON PLC ANNU C ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 201 15 5 Unibail Intu Klpierre Hammerson Hammerson Land Securities Carrefour M&G Immochan GIC Axa CPPIB Altarea Capital & Regional Santander Standard Life Carmila Westeld Wereldhave Hermes STRATEGIC REPORT S OUR MARKET TRATEGIC REPORT C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION Chart 7 on retail parks.
Retail parks offer a cost-effective way for fashion retailers to fill in the gaps in their store European premium outlets market footprint between prime shopping centres in large Value Retail towns.
This strategy is also leading to improved unit fit-outs, more attractive surroundings and more food 30,000 INTERNATIONAL and beverage on retail parks.
FASHION AND LUXURY BRANDS PREMIUM OUTLETS Outlet centres offer a channel for retailers to distribute excess inventory by selling it at a material discount to 2,00010,000 original price.
Furthermore, premium outlets are often MAINSTREAM designed to match the store-fit of a full-price store, FASHION BRAND OUTLETS hence retailers are able to retain their brand identity VIA Outlets even with customers shopping at premium outlets.
There are approximately 200 outlet centres across the European market.
The market can be broadly 2,000 categorised according to the type of customer it serves.
LOW-END DISCOUNT OUTLETS The pyramid structure in Chart 7 represents the European premium outlets market.
Value Retail and VIA Outlets together are among the top three largest players in Europe and operate in the upper two segments.
OUTLOOK Premium outlets which provide international fashion In terms of economic backdrop, the ingredients are in and luxury brands are at the top of the market.
Value place to support continued retail sales growth in the Retail is positioned at this level, with its nine unique UK, with rising wages, low interest rates and low shopping-tourism Villages serving the international inflation expected to continue through 2016.
In France, luxury and fashion consumer.
Sales densities at Value 2 consumer confidence is more muted, in particular as a Retail villages can be as high as 30,000 m. result of recent terrorist attacks.
In Ireland, the The middle segment caters to the mainstream fashion economic picture is forecast to remain strong with customer.
VIA Outlets six centres are in this category.
continued growth in retail sales.
The strategy of improving the tenant mix at VIA Outlets In occupational markets, we expect there to be greater will raise the sales densities at these centres and lift polarisation in demand for prime retail space as a result them within this middle segment.
This will favour Hammersons The third low-end segment, which offers discounted portfolio, and help drive above-average rental growth.
high street clothes or factory surplus goods, is not Premium outlet sales growth is expected to continue, served by Value Retail or VIA Outlets.
supported by growth in the shopping-tourism market Outlet centre rents are, on the whole, directly linked to from a wide mix of global travellers.
This sales growth tenant sales.
Tenants are on shorter leases than will translate into growing rents, strong investment shopping centres.
Outlet operators also change the volumes and higher than average returns.
brand line-up at outlets more frequently to match However, since the start of 2016, stock markets have supply and demand.
been volatile, reflecting a more uncertain global Sales growth has been on average 8% p. a. in the European economic and political outlook.
Downside risks premium outlets market in the last three years.
A key associated with China, Brexit and the Middle East could driver of the market is the strong demand from impact consumer confidence and capital returns in 2016. international tourists.
International visitors, in particular We expect capital value growth in commercial property from China, the Middle East and Russia, who appreciate to slow in 2016.
However, retail property has luxury design, take advantage of the opportunity to buy traditionally lagged the cycles of other more volatile goods at a discount while travelling in Europe.
commercial property such as office assets.
Table 8 Outlook Consumer confidence Retail sales ERVs Capital values UK France Ireland European premium outlets Landquart, Zurich HAMMERSON HAMMERSON.
C. COM OM 17 17 Increasing sales densities sq m
